
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Reasonable requirements for submission of rejections.

1.A creditor may establish reasonable requirements for the submission of rejections pursuant to ยง 226.9(h)(1). For example:

i. It would be reasonable for a creditor to require that rejections be made by the primary account holder and that the consumer identify the account number.

ii. It would be reasonable for a creditor to require that rejections be made only using the toll-free telephone number disclosed pursuant to ยง 226.9(c). It would also be reasonable for a creditor to designate additional channels for the submission of rejections (such as an address for rejections submitted by mail) so long as the creditor does not require that rejections be submitted through such additional channels.

iii. It would be reasonable for a creditor to require that rejections be received before the effective date disclosed pursuant to ยง 226.9(c) and to treat the account as not subject to ยง 226.9(h) if a rejection is received on or after that date. It would not, however, be reasonable to require that rejections be submitted earlier than the day before the effective date. If a creditor is unable to process all rejections received before the effective date, the creditor may delay implementation of the change in terms until all rejections have been processed. In the alternative, the creditor could implement the change on the effective date and then, on any account for which a timely rejection was received, reverse the change and remove or credit any interest charges or fees imposed as a result of the change. For example, if the effective date for a change in terms is June 15 and the creditor cannot process all rejections received by telephone on June 14 until June 16, the creditor may delay imposition of the change until June 17. Alternatively, the creditor could implement the change for all affected accounts on June 15 and then, once all rejections have been processed, return any account for which a timely rejection was received to the prior terms and ensure that the account is not assessed any additional interest or fees as a result of the change or that the account is credited for such interest or fees.
