
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 5 - RULES, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES FOR CORPORATE ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart B - Initial Activities
##### ยง 5.20 Organizing a national bank or Federal savings association.
###### Activities.

(6)(i) Before the OCC grants final approval, a proposed national bank or Federal savings association must be established as a legal entity. A national bank becomes a legal entity after it has filed its organization certificate and articles of association with the OCC as required by law. A Federal savings association becomes a legal entity after it has filed its proposed charter and bylaws with the OCC. A proposed national bank may offer and sell securities prior to OCC preliminary approval of the proposed national bank's charter application, provided that the proposed national bank has filed articles of association, an organization certificate, and a completed charter application and the bank complies with paragraph (i)(6)(iii) of this section. A proposed Federal stock savings association may offer and sell securities prior to OCC preliminary approval of the proposed Federal stock savings association's charter application, provided that the proposed Federal stock savings association has filed a proposed charter, bylaws, and a completed charter application and the Federal stock savings association complies with paragraph (i)(6)(iii) of this section.

(ii)(A) After the OCC grants preliminary approval, the organizing group must elect a board of directors, take steps necessary to organize the proposed national bank or Federal savings association and prepare it for commencing business.

(B) A proposed national bank may not conduct the business of banking until the OCC grants final approval and issues a charter. A proposed Federal savings association may not commence business until the OCC grants final approval and issues a charter, which must be in the form provided in this part.

(iii) For all capital obtained through a public offering a proposed national bank or Federal savings association must use an offering circular that complies with the OCC's securities offering regulations, 12 CFR part 16, as applicable. All securities of a particular class in the initial offering must be sold at the same price.

(iv) A national bank or Federal savings association in organization must raise its capital before it commences business. Preliminary approval expires if the proposed national bank or Federal savings association does not raise the required capital within 12 months from the date the OCC grants preliminary approval. Preliminary approval expires if the proposed national bank or Federal savings association does not commence business within 18 months from the date of preliminary approval, unless the OCC grants an extension. If preliminary approval expires, all cash collected on subscriptions must be returned.
