
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Unauthorized transaction.

i.In conducting an investigation of a notice of billing error alleging an unauthorized transaction under ยง 226.13(a)(1), actions such as the following represent steps that a creditor may take, as appropriate, in conducting a reasonable investigation:

A. Reviewing the types or amounts of purchases made in relation to the consumer's previous purchasing pattern.

B. Reviewing where the purchases were delivered in relation to the consumer's residence or place of business.

C. Reviewing where the purchases were made in relation to where the consumer resides or has normally shopped.

D. Comparing any signature on credit slips for the purchases to the signature of the consumer (or an authorized user in the case of a credit card account) in the creditor's records, including other credit slips.

E. Requesting documentation to assist in the verification of the claim.

F. Requiring a written, signed statement from the consumer (or authorized user, in the case of a credit card account). For example, the creditor may include a signature line on a billing rights form that the consumer may send in to provide notice of the claim. However, a creditor may not require the consumer to provide an affidavit or signed statement under penalty of perjury as a part of a reasonable investigation.

G. Requesting a copy of a police report, if one was filed.

H. Requesting information regarding the consumer's knowledge of the person who allegedly obtained an extension of credit on the account or of that person's authority to do so.
