
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Directly related.

5.The segregated disclosures may, at the creditor's option, include any information that is directly related to those disclosures. The following is directly related information:

i. A description of a grace period after which a late payment charge will be imposed. For example, the disclosure given under § 226.18(l) may state that a late charge will apply to "any payment received more than 15 days after the due date."

ii. A statement that the transaction is not secured. For example, the creditor may add a category labelled "unsecured" or "not secured" to the security interest disclosures given under § 226.18(m).

iii. The basis for any estimates used in making disclosures. For example, if the maturity date of a loan depends solely on the occurrence of a future event, the creditor may indicate that the disclosures assume that event will occur at a certain time.

iv. The conditions under which a demand feature may be exercised. For example, in a loan subject to demand after five years, the disclosures may state that the loan will become payable on demand in five years.

v. An explanation of the use of pronouns or other references to the parties to the transaction. For example, the disclosures may state, "'You' refers to the customer and 'we' refers to the creditor."

vi. Instructions to the creditor or its employees on the use of a multiple-purpose form. For example, the disclosures may state, "Check box if applicable."

vii. A statement that the borrower may pay a minimum finance charge upon prepayment in a simple-interest transaction. For example, when state law prohibits penalties, but would allow a minimum finance charge in the event of prepayment, the creditor may make the § 226.18(k)(1) disclosure by stating, "You may be charged a minimum finance charge."

viii. A brief reference to negative amortization in variable-rate transactions. For example, in the variable-rate disclosure, the creditor may include a short statement such as "Unpaid interest will be added to principal." (See the commentary to § 226.18(f)(1)(iii).)

ix. A brief caption identifying the disclosures. For example, the disclosures may bear a general title such as "Federal Truth in Lending Disclosures" or a descriptive title such as "Real Estate Loan Disclosures."

x. A statement that a due-on-sale clause or other conditions on assumption are contained in the loan document. For example, the disclosure given under § 226.18(q) may state, "Someone buying your home may, subject to conditions in the due-on-sale clause contained in the loan document, assume the remainder of the mortgage on the original terms."

xi. If a state or Federal law prohibits prepayment penalties and excludes the charging of interest after prepayment from coverage as a penalty, a statement that the borrower may have to pay interest for some period after prepayment in full. The disclosure given under § 226.18(k) may state, for example, "If you prepay your loan on other than the regular installment date, you may be assessed interest charges until the end of the month."

xii. More than one hypothetical example under § 226.18(f)(1)(iv) in transactions with more than one variable-rate feature. For example, in a variable-rate transaction with an option permitting consumers to convert to a fixed-rate transaction, the disclosures may include an example illustrating the effects on the payment terms of an increase resulting from conversion in addition to the example illustrating an increase resulting from changes in the index.

xiii. The disclosures set forth under § 226.18(f)(1) for variable-rate transactions subject to § 226.18(f)(2).

xiv. A statement whether or not a subsequent purchaser of the property securing an obligation may be permitted to assume the remaining obligation on its original terms.

xv. A late-payment fee disclosure under § 226.18(l) on a single payment loan.
