
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Consumer buydowns.

4.In certain transactions, the consumer may pay an amount to the creditor to reduce the payments or obtain a lower interest rate on the transaction. Consumer buydowns must be reflected in the disclosures given for that transaction. To illustrate, in a mortgage transaction, the creditor and consumer agree to a note specifying a 14 percent interest rate. However, in a separate document, the consumer agrees to pay an amount to the creditor at consummation in return for a reduction in the interest rate to 12 percent for a portion of the mortgage term. The amount paid by the consumer may be deposited in an escrow account or may be retained by the creditor. Depending upon the buydown plan, the consumer's prepayment of the obligation may or may not result in a portion of the amount being credited or refunded to the consumer. In the disclosures given for the mortgage, the creditor must reflect the terms of the buydown agreement. For example:

- The amount paid by the consumer is a prepaid finance charge (even if deposited in an escrow account).

- A composite annual percentage rate must be calculated, taking into account both interest rates, as well as the effect of the prepaid finance charge.

- The payment schedule must reflect the multiple payment levels resulting from the buydown.

The rules regarding consumer buydowns do not apply to transactions known as "lender buydowns," In lender buydowns. a creditor pays an amount (either into an account or to the party to whom the obligation is sold) to reduce the consumer's payments or interest rate for all or a portion of the credit term. Typically, these transactions are structured as a buydown of the interest rate during an initial period of the transaction with a higher than usual rate for the remainder of the term. The disclosures for lender buydowns should be based on the terms of the legal obligation between the consumer and the creditor. (See comment 17(c)(1)-3 for the analogous rules concerning third-party buydowns.)
