
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Coverage.

1.The requirements of § 226.18(f) apply to all transactions in which the terms of the legal obligation allow the creditor to increase the rate originally disclosed to the consumer. It includes not only increases in the interest rate but also increases in other components, such as the rate of required credit life insurance. The provisions, however, do not apply to increases resulting from delinquency (including late payment), default, assumption, acceleration or transfer of the collateral. Section 226.18(f)(1) applies to variable-rate transactions that are not secured by the consumer's principal dwelling and to those that are secured by the principal dwelling but have a term of one year or less. Section 226.18(f)(2) applies to variable-rate transactions that are secured by the consumer's principal dwelling and have a term greater than one year. Moreover, transactions subject to § 226.18(f)(2) are subject to the special early disclosure requirements of § 226.19(b). (However, "shared-equity" or "shared-appreciation" mortgages are subject to the disclosure requirements of § 226.18(f)(1) and not to the requirements of §§ 226.18(f)(2) and 226.19(b) regardless of the general coverage of those sections.) Creditors are permitted under footnote 43 to substitute in any variable-rate transaction the disclosures required under § 226.19(b) for those disclosures ordinarily required under 226.18(f)(1). Creditors who provide variable-rate disclosures under § 226.19(b) must comply with all of the requirements of that section, including the timing of disclosures, and must also provide the disclosures required under § 226.18(f)(2). Creditors utilizing footnote 43 may, but need not, also provide disclosures pursuant to § 226.20(c). (Substitution of disclosures under § 226.18(f)(1) in transactions subject to § 226.19(b) is not permitted under the footnote.)
