
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 5 - RULES, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES FOR CORPORATE ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart B - Initial Activities
##### ยง 5.21 Federal mutual savings association charter and bylaws.
###### Annual meetings of members.

(i)(A) An association must provide for and conduct an annual meeting of its members for the election of directors and at which any other business of the association may be conducted. Such meeting must be held at any convenient place the board of directors may designate, and at a date and time within 150 days after the end of the association's fiscal year. The association's bylaws may provide for telephonic or electronic participation of members at an annual meeting. Members participating in an annual meeting telephonically or electronically will be deemed present in person for purposes of the quorum requirement in paragraph (j)(2)(v) of this section.

(B) At each annual meeting, the officers must make a full report of the financial condition of the association and of its progress for the preceding year and must outline a program for the succeeding year.

(C) If the association's bylaws provide for telephonic or electronic participation in member meetings, the association must follow the procedures for telephonic or electronic participation of the State corporate governance provisions it is permitted to elect pursuant to paragraph (j)(3)(ii) of this section, if those State corporate governance provisions include telephonic or electronic participation procedures; the Delaware General Corporation Law, Del. Code Ann. Tit. 8 (1991, as amended 1994, and as amended thereafter) (with "member" substituting for "stockholder"); or the Model Business Corporation Act (with "member" substituting for "shareholder"), provided, however, that such procedures are not inconsistent with applicable Federal statutes and regulations and safety and soundness. The association must indicate the use of these procedures in its bylaws.
