
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Rates for adjustable-rate mortgages.

2.The creditor must assume that interest rates rise as quickly as possible after consummation, in accordance with any interest rate caps under the legal obligation. For adjustable-rate mortgages with no rate caps except a life-time maximum, creditors must assume that the interest rate reaches the maximum at the first adjustment. For example, assume that the legal obligation provides for an interest rate at consummation of 1.5 percent. One month after consummation, the interest rate adjusts and will adjust monthly thereafter, according to changes in the index. The consumer may make payments that cover only part of the interest accrued each month, until the date the principal balance reaches 115 percent of its original balance, or until the end of the fifth year after consummation, whichever comes first. The maximum possible rate is 10.5 percent. No other limits on interest rates apply. The minimum required payment adjusts each year, and may increase by no more than 7.5 percent over the previous year's payment. The creditor should disclose the following rates and the dates when they are scheduled to occur: A rate of 1.5 percent for the first month following consummation and the minimum payment; a rate of 10.5 percent, and the corresponding minimum payment taking into account the 7.5 percent limit on payment increases, at the beginning of the second year; and a rate of 10.5 percent and the corresponding minimum payment taking into account the 7.5 percent payment increase limit, at the beginning of the third year. The creditor also must disclose the rate of 10.5 percent, the fully amortizing payment, and the date on which the consumer must first make such a payment under the terms of the legal obligation.
