
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 5 - RULES, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES FOR CORPORATE ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart B - Initial Activities
##### ยง 5.21 Federal mutual savings association charter and bylaws.
###### Officers, employees and agents.

(x)(A) The bylaws must contain provisions regarding the officers of the association, their functions, duties, and powers. The officers of the association must consist of a president, one or more vice presidents, a secretary, and a treasurer or comptroller, each of whom must be elected annually by the board of directors. Such other officers and assistant officers and agents as may be deemed necessary may be elected or appointed by the board of directors or chosen in such other manner as may be prescribed in the bylaws. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person, except the offices of president and secretary.

(B) Any officer may be removed by the board of directors with or without cause, but such removal, other than for cause, must be without prejudice to the contractual rights, if any, of the person so removed. Termination for cause, for purposes of this section and ยง 5.22, includes termination because of the person's personal dishonesty; incompetence; willful misconduct; breach of fiduciary duty involving personal profit; intentional failure to perform stated duties; willful violation of any law, rule, or regulation (other than traffic violations or similar offenses) or final cease and desist order; or material breach of any provision of an employment contract.
