
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Intermediary agent or broker.

3.In certain transactions involving an "intermediary agent or broker," a creditor may delay providing disclosures. A creditor may not delay providing disclosures in transactions involving either a legal agent (as determined by applicable law) or any other third party that is not an "intermediary agent or broker." In determining whether or not a transaction involves an "intermediary agent or broker" the following factors should be considered:

- The number of applications submitted by the broker to the creditor as compared to the total number of applications received by the creditor. The greater the percentage of total loan applications submitted by the broker in any given period of time, the less likely it is that the broker would be considered an "intermediary agent or broker" of the creditor during the next period.

- The number of applications submitted by the broker to the creditor as compared to the total number of applications received by the broker. (This factor is applicable only if the creditor has such information.) The greater the percentage of total loan applications received by the broker that is submitted to a creditor in any given period of time, the less likely it is that the broker would be considered an "intermediary agent or broker" of the creditor during the next period.

- The amount of work (such as document preparation) the creditor expects to be done by the broker on an application based on the creditor's prior dealings with the broker and on the creditor's requirements for accepting applications, taking into consideration the customary practice of brokers in a particular area. The more work that the creditor expects the broker to do on an application, in excess of what is usually expected of a broker in that area, the less likely it is that the broker would be considered an "intermediary agent or broker" of the creditor.

An example of an "intermediary agent or broker" is a broker who, customarily within a brief period of time after receiving an application, inquires about the credit terms of several creditors with whom the broker does business and submits the application to one of them. The broker is responsible for only a small percentage of the applications received by that creditor. During the time the broker has the application, it might request a credit report and an appraisal (or even prepare an entire loan package if customary in that particular area).
