
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Variable-rate loan program defined.

2.i. Generally, if the identification, the presence or absence, or the exact value of a loan feature must be disclosed under this section, variable-rate loans that differ as to such features constitute separate loan programs. For example, separate loan programs would exist based on differences in any of the following loan features:

A. The index or other formula used to calculate interest rate adjustments.

B. The rules relating to changes in the index value, interest rate, payments, and loan balance.

C. The presence or absence of, and the amount of, rate or payment caps.

D. The presence of a demand feature.

E. The possibility of negative amortization.

F. The possibility of interest rate carryover.

G. The frequency of interest rate and payment adjustments.

H. The presence of a discount feature.

I. In addition, if a loan feature must be taken into account in preparing the disclosures required by ยง 226.19(b)(2)(viii), variable-rate loans that differ as to that feature constitute separate programs under ยง 226.19(b)(2).

ii. If, however, a representative value may be given for a loan feature or the feature need not be disclosed under ยง 226.19(b)(2), variable-rate loans that differ as to such features do not constitute separate loan programs. For example, separate programs would not exist based on differences in the following loan features:

A. The amount of a discount.

B. The amount of a margin.
