
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Discounted and premium interest rate.

1.In some variable-rate transactions, creditors may set an initial interest rate that is not determined by the index or formula used to make later interest rate adjustments. Typically, this initial rate charged to consumers is lower than the rate would be if it were calculated using the index or formula. However, in some cases the initial rate may be higher. If the initial interest rate will be a discount or a premium rate, creditors must alert the consumer to this fact. For example, if a creditor discounted a consumer's initial rate, the disclosure might state, "Your initial interest rate is not based on the index used to make later adjustments." (See the commentary to ยง 226.17(c)(1) for a further discussion of discounted and premium variable-rate transactions.) In addition, the disclosure must suggest that consumers inquire about the amount that the program is currently discounted. For example, the disclosure might state, "Ask us for the amount our adjustable rate mortgages are currently discounted." In a transaction with a consumer buydown or with a third-party buydown that will be incorporated in the legal obligation, the creditor should disclose the program as a discounted variable-rate transaction, but need not disclose additional information regarding the buydown in its program disclosures. (See the commentary to ยง 226.19(b)(2)(viii) for a discussion of how to reflect the discount or premium in the historical example or the maximum rate and payment disclosure).
