
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Index movement.

1.This section requires a creditor to provide an historical example, based on a $10,000 loan amount originating in 1977, showing how interest rate changes implemented according to the terms of the loan program would have affected payments and the loan balance at the end of each year during a 15-year period. (In all cases, the creditor need only calculate the payments and loan balance for the term of the loan. For example, in a five-year loan, a creditor would show the payments and loan balance for the five-year term, from 1977 to 1981, with a zero loan balance reflected for 1981. For the remaining ten years, 1982-1991, the creditor need only show the remaining index values, margin and interest rate and must continue to reflect all significant loan program terms such as rate limitations affecting them.) Pursuant to this section, the creditor must provide a history of index values for the preceding 15 years. Initially, the disclosures would give the index values from 1977 to the present. Each year thereafter, the revised program disclosures should include an additional year's index value until 15 years of values are shown. If the values for an index have not been available for 15 years, a creditor need only go back as far as the values are available in giving a history and payment example. In all cases, only one index value per year need be shown. Thus, in transactions where interest rate adjustments are implemented more frequently than once per year, a creditor may assume that the interest rate and payment resulting from the index value chosen will stay in effect for the entire year for purposes of calculating the loan balance as of the end of the year and for reflecting other loan program terms. In cases where interest rate changes are at the creditor's discretion (see the commentary to ยง 226.19(b)(2)(ii)), the creditor must provide a history of the rates imposed for the preceding 15 years, beginning with the rates in 1977. In giving this history, the creditor need only go back as far as the creditor's rates can reasonably be determined.
