
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Security interest arising from transaction.

1.In order for the right of rescission to apply, the security interest must be retained as part of the credit transaction. For example:

- A security interest that is acquired by a contractor who is also extending the credit in the transaction.

- A mechanic's or materialman's lien that is retained by a subcontractor or supplier of the contractor-creditor, even when the latter has waived its own security interest in the consumer's home.

The security interest is not part of the credit transaction and therefore the transaction is not subject to the right of rescission when, for example:

- A mechanic's or materialman's lien is obtained by a contractor who is not a party to the credit transaction but is merely paid with the proceeds of the consumer's unsecured bank loan.

- All security interests that may arise in connection with the credit transaction are validly waived.

- The creditor obtains a lien and completion bond that in effect satisfies all liens against the consumer's principal dwelling as a result of the credit transaction.

Although liens arising by operation of law are not considered security interests for purposes of disclosure under ยง 226.2, that section specifically includes them in the definition for purposes of the right of rescission. Thus, even though an interest in the consumer's principal dwelling is not a required disclosure under ยง 226.18(m), it may still give rise to the right of rescission.
