
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Amounts for third-party charges.,bona fide,bona fide

iii.Compensation includes amounts the loan originator retains, but does not include amounts the originator receives as payment forand reasonable third-party charges, such as title insurance or appraisals. In some cases, amounts received for payment for third-party charges may exceed the actual charge because, for example, the originator cannot determine with accuracy what the actual charge will be before consummation. In such a case, the difference retained by the originator is not deemed compensation if the third-party charge imposed on the consumer wasand reasonable, and also complies with state and other applicable law. On the other hand, if the originator marks up a third-party charge (a practice known as "upcharging"), and the originator retains the difference between the actual charge and the marked-up charge, the amount retained is compensation for purposes of ยง 226.36(d) and (e). For example

A. Assume a loan originator charges the consumer a $400 application fee that includes $50 for a credit report and $350 for an appraisal. Assume that $50 is the amount the creditor pays for the credit report. At the time the loan originator imposes the application fee on the consumer, the loan originator is uncertain of the cost of the appraisal because the originator may choose from appraisers that charge between $300 to $350 for appraisals. Later, the cost for the appraisal is determined to be $300 for this consumer's transaction. In this case, the $50 difference between the $400 application fee imposed on the consumer and the actual $350 cost for the credit report and appraisal is not deemed compensation for purposes of ยง 226.36(d) and (e), even though the $50 is retained by the loan originator.

B. Using the same example in comment 36(d)(1)-1.iii.A above, the $50 difference would be compensation for purposes of ยง 226.36(d) and (e) if the appraisers from whom the originator chooses charge fees between $250 and $300.
