
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Examples.

2.

i. A covered person is not required to provide the disclosures under this section if it acquires a partial interest in the loan from the original creditor who remains authorized to receive the notice of the right to rescind and resolve issues concerning the consumer's payments after the transfer.

ii. The original creditor transfers fifty percent of its interest in the loan to covered person A. Person A does not provide the disclosures under this section because the exception in ยง 226.39(c)(3) applies. The creditor then transfers the remaining fifty percent of its interest in the loan to covered person B and does not retain any interest in the loan. Person B must provide the disclosures under this section.

iii. The original creditor transfers fifty percent of its interest in the loan to covered person A and also authorizes party X as its agent to receive notice of the right to rescind and resolve issues concerning the consumer's payments on the loan. Since there is a change in an agent or party authorized to receive notice of the right to rescind and resolve issues concerning the consumer's payments, person A is required to provide the disclosures under this section. Person A then transfers all of its interest in the loan to covered person B. Person B is not required to provide the disclosures under this section if the original creditor retains a partial interest in the loan and party X retains the same authority.

iv. The original creditor transfers all of its interest in the loan to covered person A. Person A provides the disclosures under this section and notifies the consumer that party X is authorized to receive notice of the right to rescind and resolve issues concerning the consumer's payments on the loan. Person A then transfers fifty percent of its interest in the loan to covered person B. Person B is not required to provide the disclosures under this section if person A retains a partial interest in the loan and party X retains the same authority.
