
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Payment deferral options-general.

2.The creditor must describe the options that the consumer has under the loan agreement to defer payment on the loan. When there is no deferment option provided for the loan, the creditor must disclose that fact. Payment deferral options required to be disclosed include options for immediate deferral of payments, such as when the student is currently enrolled at a covered educational institution. The description may include of the length of the maximum initial in-school deferment period, the types of payments that may be deferred, and a description of any payments that are required during the deferment period. The creditor may, but need not, disclose any conditions applicable to the deferment option, such as that deferment is permitted only while the student is continuously enrolled in school. If payment deferral is not an option while the student is enrolled in school, the creditor may disclose that the consumer must begin repayment upon disbursement of the loan and that the consumer may not defer repayment while enrolled in school. If the creditor offers payment deferral options that may apply during the repayment period, such as an option to defer payments if the student returns to school to pursue an additional degree, the creditor must include a statement referring the consumer to the contract document or promissory note for more information.
