
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Deferment period assumptions.

4.Creditors may use either of the following two methods for estimating the duration of in-school deferment periods:

i. For loan programs intended for educational expenses of undergraduate students, the creditor may assume that the consumer defers payments for a four-year matriculation period, plus the loan's maximum applicable grace period, if any. For all other loans, the creditor may assume that the consumer defers for a two-year matriculation period, plus the maximum applicable grace period, if any, or the maximum time the consumer may defer payments under the loan program, whichever is shorter.

ii. Alternatively, if the creditor knows that the student will be enrolled in a program with a standard duration, the creditor may assume that the consumer defers payments for the full duration of the program (plus any grace period). For example, if a creditor makes loans intended for students enrolled in a four-year medical school degree program, the creditor may assume that the consumer defers payments for four years plus the loan's maximum applicable grace period, if any. However, the creditor may not modify the disclosure to correspond to a particular student's situation. For example, even if the creditor knows that a student will be a second-year medical school student, the creditor must assume a four-year deferral period.
