
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Basis for estimates.

2.i. The creditor must calculate the total cost estimate by determining all finance charges that would be applicable to loans with the highest rate of interest required to be disclosed under ยง 226.47(a)(1)(i). For example, if a creditor charges a range of origination fees from 0% to 3%, but the 3% origination fee would apply to loans with the highest initial rate, the lender must assume the 3% origination fee is charged. The creditor must base the total cost estimate on a total loan amount that includes all prepaid finance charges and results in a $10,000 amount financed. For example, if the prepaid finance charges are $600, the creditor must base the estimate on a $10,600 total loan amount and an amount financed of $10,000. The example must reflect an amount provided of $10,000. If the creditor only offers a particular private education loan for less than $10,000, the creditor may assume a loan amount that results in a $5,000 amount financed for that loan.

ii. If a prepaid finance charge is determined as a percentage of the amount financed, for purposes of the example, the creditor should assume that the fee is determined as a percentage of the total loan amount, even if this is not the creditor's usual practice. For example, suppose the consumer requires a disbursement of $10,000 and the creditor charges a 3% origination fee. In order to calculate the total cost example, the creditor must determine the loan amount that will result in a $10,000 amount financed after the 3% fee is assessed. In this example, the resulting loan amount would be $10,309.28. Assessing the 3% origination fee on the loan amount of $10,309.28 results in an origination fee of $309.28, which is withheld from the loan funds disbursed to the consumer. The principal loan amount of $10,309.28 minus the prepaid finance charge of $309.28 results in an amount financed of $10,000.
