
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### An estimate of the total amount for repayment.

6.The creditor must disclose an estimate of the total amount for repayment at two interest rates:

i. The interest rate in effect on the date of approval. Compliance with the total of payments disclosure requirement of ยง 226.18(h) constitutes compliance with this requirement.

ii. The maximum possible rate of interest applicable to the loan or, if the maximum rate cannot be determined, a rate of 25%. If the legal obligation between the parties specifies a maximum rate of interest, the creditor must calculate the total amount for repayment based on that rate. If the legal obligation does not specify a maximum rate but a usury or rate ceiling under State or Federal statutes or regulations applies, the creditor must use that rate. If a there is no maximum rate in the legal obligation or under a usury or rate ceiling, the creditor must base the disclosure on a rate of 25% and must disclose that there is no maximum rate and that the total amount for repayment disclosed under ยง 226.47(b)(3)(vii)(B) is an estimate and will be higher if the applicable interest rate increases.

iii. If terms of the legal obligation provide a limitation on the amount that the interest rate may increase at any one time, the creditor may reflect the effect of the interest rate limitation in calculating the total cost example. For example, if the legal obligation provides that the interest rate may not increase by more than three percentage points each year, the creditor may assume that the rate increases by three percentage points each year until it reaches that maximum possible rate, or if a maximum rate cannot be determined, an interest rate of 25%.
