
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Use of third-party service providers.

2.An institution that is the card issuer as defined in § 226.58(b)(4) has a legal obligation to comply with the requirements of § 226.58. However, a card issuer generally may use a third-party service provider to satisfy its obligations under § 226.58, provided that the issuer acts in accordance with regulatory guidance regarding use of third-party service providers and other applicable regulatory guidance. In some cases, an issuer may wish to arrange for the institution with which it partners to issue credit cards to fulfill the requirements of § 226.58 on the issuer's behalf. For example, Retailer and Bank work together to issue credit cards. Under the § 226.58(b)(4) definition, Bank is the issuer of these credit cards for purposes of § 226.58. However, Retailer services the credit card accounts, including mailing account opening materials and periodic statements to cardholders. While Bank is responsible for ensuring compliance with § 226.58, Bank may arrange for Retailer (or another appropriate third-party service provider) to submit credit card agreements to the Board under § 226.58 on Bank's behalf. Bank must comply with regulatory guidance regarding use of third-party service providers and other applicable regulatory guidance.
