
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Option to withdraw agreements clarified.

5.Section 226.58(c)(5) provides that if a card issuer that did not previously qualify for the de minimis exception qualifies for the de minimis exception, the card issuer must continue to make quarterly submissions to the Board as required by ยง 226.58(c)(1) until the card issuer notifies the Board that the issuer is withdrawing all agreements it previously submitted to the Board. For example, a card issuer has 10,001 open accounts and offers three agreements to the public as of December 31. The card issuer has submitted each of the three agreements to the Board as required under ยง 226.58(c)(1). As of March 31, the card issuer has only 9,999 open accounts. The card issuer has two options. First, the card issuer may notify the Board that the card issuer is withdrawing each of the three agreements it previously submitted. Once the card issuer has notified the Board, the card issuer is no longer required to make quarterly submissions to the Board under ยง 226.58(c)(1). Alternatively, the card issuer may choose not to notify the Board that it is withdrawing its agreements. In this case, the card issuer must continue making quarterly submissions to the Board as required by ยง 226.58(c)(1). The card issuer might choose not to withdraw its agreements if, for example, the card issuer believes that it likely will cease to qualify for the de minimis exception again in the near future.
