
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Relation to § 226.18(s).

6.A creditor must disclose an interest rate and payment summary table for transactions secured by real property or a dwelling, pursuant to § 226.18(s), instead of the general payment schedule required by § 226.18(g). Accordingly, home construction loans that are secured by real property or a dwelling are subject to § 226.18(s) and not § 226.18(g). Under § 226.176(c)(6)(ii), when a multiple-advance construction loan may be permanently financed by the same creditor, the construction phase and the permanent phase may be treated as either one transaction or more than one transaction.

i. If a creditor uses Appendix D and elects pursuant to § 226.17(c)(6)(ii) to disclose the construction and permanent phases as separate transactions, the construction phase must be disclosed according to the rules in § 226.18(s). Under § 226.18(s), the creditor must disclose the applicable interest rates and corresponding periodic payments during the construction phase in an interest rate and payment summary table. The provision in Appendix D, Part I.A.3, which allows the creditor to omit the number and amounts of any interest payments "in disclosing the payment schedule under § 226.18(g)" does not apply because the transaction is governed by § 226.18(s) rather than § 226.18(g). Also, because the construction phase is being disclosed as a separate transaction and its terms do not repay all principal, the creditor must disclose a balloon payment, pursuant to § 226.18(s)(5).
