
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Permissible changes.

1.Although use of the model forms and clauses is not required, creditors using them properly will be deemed to be in compliance with the regulation with regard to those disclosures. Creditors may make certain changes in the format or content of the forms and clauses and may delete any disclosures that are inapplicable to a transaction or a plan without losing the act's protection from liability, except formatting changes may not be made to model forms and samples in H-18, H-19, H-20, H-21, H-22, H-23, G-2(A), G-3(A), G-4(A), G-10(A)-(E), G-17(A)-(D), G-18(A) (except as permitted pursuant to ยง 226.7(b)(2)), G-18(B)-(C), G-19, G-20, and G-21. The rearrangement of the model forms and clauses may not be so extensive as to affect the substance, clarity, or meaningful sequence of the forms and clauses. Creditors making revisions with that effect will lose their protection from civil liability. Except as otherwise specifically required, acceptable changes include, for example:

i. Using the first person, instead of the second person, in referring to the borrower.

ii. Using "borrower" and "creditor" instead of pronouns.

iii. Rearranging the sequences of the disclosures.

iv. Not using bold type for headings.

v. Incorporating certain state "plain English" requirements.

vi. Deleting inapplicable disclosures by whiting out, blocking out, filling in "N/A" (not applicable) or "0," crossing out, leaving blanks, checking a box for applicable items, or circling applicable items. (This should permit use of multipurpose standard forms.)

vii. Using a vertical, rather than a horizontal, format for the boxes in the closed-end disclosures.
