
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Models G-13(A) and G-13(B).

7.These model forms illustrate the disclosures required under ยง 226.9(f) when the card issuer changes the entity providing insurance on a credit card account. Model G-13(A) contains the items set forth in ยง 226.9(f)(3) as examples of significant terms of coverage that may be affected by the change in insurance provider. The card issuer may either list all of these potential changes in coverage and place a check mark by the applicable changes, or list only the actual changes in coverage. Under either approach, the card issuer must either explain the changes or refer to an accompanying copy of the policy or group certificate for details of the new terms of coverage. Model G-13(A) also illustrates the permissible combination of the two notices required by ยง 226.9(f)-the notice required for a planned change in provider and the notice required once a change has occurred. This form may be modified for use in providing only the disclosures required before the change if the card issuer chooses to send two separate notices. Thus, for example, the references to the attached policy or certificate would not be required in a separate notice prior to a change in the insurance provider since the policy or certificate need not be provided at that time. Model G-13(B) illustrates the disclosures required under ยง 226.9(f)(2) when the insurance provider is changed.
