
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Models G-1 and G-1(A).

1.The model disclosures in G-1 and G-1(A) (different balance computation methods) may be used in both the account-opening disclosures under § 226.6 and the periodic disclosures under § 226.7. As is clear from the models given, "shorthand" descriptions of the balance computation methods are not sufficient, except where § 226.7(b)(5) applies. For creditors using model G-1, the phrase "a portion of" the finance charge should be included if the total finance charge includes other amounts, such as transaction charges, that are not due to the application of a periodic rate. If unpaid interest or finance charges are subtracted in calculating the balance, that fact must be stated so that the disclosure of the computation method is accurate. Only model G-1(b) contains a final sentence appearing in brackets, which reflects the total dollar amount of payments and credits received during the billing cycle. The other models do not contain this language because they reflect plans in which payments and credits received during the billing cycle are subtracted. If this is not the case, however, the language relating to payments and credits should be changed, and the creditor should add either the disclosure of the dollar amount as in model G-1(b) or an indication of which credits (disclosed elsewhere on the periodic statement) will not be deducted in determining the balance. (Such an indication may also substitute for the bracketed sentence in model G-1(b).) (See the commentary to § 226.7(a)(5) and (b)(5).) For open-end plans subject to the requirements of § 226.5b, creditors may, at their option, use the clauses in G-1 or G-1(A).
