
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Models G-3, G-3(A), G-4 and G-4(A).

3.

i. These set out models for the long-form billing-error rights statement (for use with the account-opening disclosures and as an annual disclosure or, at the creditor's option, with each periodic statement) and the alternative billing-error rights statement (for use with each periodic statement), respectively. For home-equity plans subject to the requirements of ยง 226.5b, at the creditor's option, a creditor either may use G-3 or G-3(A), and for creditors that use the short form, G-4 or G-4(A). For open-end (not home-secured) plans that not subject to the requirements of ยง 226.5b, creditors properly use G-3(A) and G-4(A). Creditors must provide the billing-error rights statements in a form substantially similar to the models in order to comply with the regulation. The model billing-rights statements may be modified in any of the ways set forth in the first paragraph to the commentary on appendices G and H. The models may, furthermore, be modified by deleting inapplicable information, such as:

A. The paragraph concerning stopping a debit in relation to a disputed amount, if the creditor does not have the ability to debit automatically the consumer's savings or checking account for payment.

B. The rights stated in the special rule for credit card purchases and any limitations on those rights.

ii. The model billing rights statements also contain optional language that creditors may use. For example, the creditor may:

A. Include a statement to the effect that notice of a billing error must be submitted on something other than the payment ticket or other material accompanying the periodic disclosures.

B. Insert its address or refer to the address that appears elsewhere on the bill.

C. Include instructions for consumers, at the consumer's option, to communicate with the creditor electronically or in writing.

iii. Additional information may be included on the statements as long as it does not detract from the required disclosures. For instance, information concerning the reporting of errors in connection with a checking account may be included on a combined statement as long as the disclosures required by the regulation remain clear and conspicuous.
