
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Models H-1 and H-2.

1.Creditors may make several types of changes to closed-end model forms H-1 (credit sale) and H-2 (loan) and still be deemed to be in compliance with the regulation, provided that the required disclosures are made clearly and conspicuously. Permissible changes include the addition of the information permitted by footnote 37 to § 226.17 and "directly related" information as set forth in the commentary to § 226.17(a).

The creditor may also delete or, on multi-purpose forms, indicate inapplicable disclosures, such as:

- The itemization of the amount financed option. (See Samples H-12 through H-15.)

- The credit life and disability insurance disclosures. (See Samples H-11 and H-12.)

- The property insurance disclosures. (See Samples H-10 through H-12, and H-14.)

- The "filing fees" and "non-filing insurance" disclosures. (See Samples H-11 and H-12.)

- The prepayment penalty or rebate disclosures. (See Samples H-12 and H-14.)

- The total sale price. (See Samples H-11 through H-15.)

Other permissible changes include:

- Adding the creditor's address or telephone number. (See the commentary to § 226.18(a).)

- Combining required terms where several numerical disclosures are the same, for instance, if the "total of payments" equals the "total sale price." (See the commentary to § 226.18.)

- Rearranging the sequence or location of the disclosures-for instance, by placing the descriptive phrases outside the boxes containing the corresponding disclosures, or by grouping the descriptors together as a glossary of terms in a separate section of the segregated disclosures; by placing the payment schedule at the top of the form; or by changing the order of the disclosures in the boxes, including the annual percentage rate and finance charge boxes.

- Using brackets, instead of checkboxes, to indicate inapplicable disclosures.

- Using a line for the consumer to initial, rather than a checkbox, to indicate an election to receive an itemization of the amount financed.

- Deleting captions for disclosures.

- Using a symbol, such as an asterisk, for estimated disclosures, instead of an "e."

- Adding a signature line to the insurance disclosures to reflect joint policies.

- Separately itemizing the filing fees.

- Revising the late charge disclosure in accordance with the commentary to § 226.18(l).
