
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Models H-18, H-19, H-20.

25.

i. These model forms illustrate disclosures required under ยง 226.47 on or with an application or solicitation, at approval, and after acceptance of a private education loan. Although use of the model forms is not required, creditors using them properly will be deemed to be in compliance with the regulation with regard to private education loan disclosures. Creditors may make certain types of changes to private education loan model forms H-18 (application and solicitation), H-19 (approval), and H-20 (final) and still be deemed to be in compliance with the regulation, provided that the required disclosures are made clearly and conspicuously. The model forms aggregate disclosures into groups under specific headings. Changes may not include rearranging the sequence of disclosures, for instance, by rearranging which disclosures are provided under each heading or by rearranging the sequence of the headings and grouping of disclosures. Changes to the model forms may not be so extensive as to affect the substance or clarity of the forms. Creditors making revisions with that effect will lose their protection from civil liability.

The creditor may delete inapplicable disclosures, such as:

- The Federal student financial assistance alternatives disclosures

- The self-certification disclosure

Other permissible changes include, for example:

- Adding the creditor's address, telephone number, or Web site

- Adding loan identification information, such as a loan identification number

- Adding the date on which the form was printed or produced

- Placing the notice of the right to cancel in the top left or top right of the disclosure to accommodate a window envelope

- Combining required terms where several numerical disclosures are the same. For instance, if the itemization of the amount financed is provided, the amount financed need not be separately disclosed
