
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Subpart C - Collection of Checks
###### ยง 229.31 Paying bank's responsibility for return of checks and notices of nonpayment.
####### Notice of nonpayment.

(c)(1) If a paying bank determines not to pay a check in the amount of $5,000 or more, it shall provide notice of nonpayment such that the notice would normally be received by the depositary bank not later than 2 p.m. (local time of the depositary bank) on the second business day following the banking day on which the check was presented to the paying bank. If the day the paying bank is required to provide notice is not a banking day for the depositary bank, receipt of notice not later than 2 p.m. (local time of the depositary bank) on the depositary bank's next banking day constitutes timely notice. Notice may be provided by any reasonable means, including the returned check, a writing (including a copy of the check), or telephone.

(2)(i) To the extent available to the paying bank, notice must include the information contained in the check's MICR line when the check is received by the paying bank, as well as-

(A) Name of the payee(s);

(B) Amount;

(C) Date of the indorsement of the depositary bank;

(D) The bank name, routing number, and trace or sequence number associated with the indorsement of the depositary bank; and

(E) Reason for nonpayment.

(ii) If the paying bank is not sure of the accuracy of an item of information, it shall include the information required by this paragraph to the extent possible, and identify any item of information for which the bank is not sure of the accuracy.

(iii) The notice may include other information from the check that may be useful in identifying the check being returned and the customer.
