
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix C to Part 229 - Model Availability Policy Disclosures, Clauses, and Notices; Model Substitute Check Policy Disclosure and Notices
###### time of day,time of day

For determining the availability of your deposits, every day is a business day, except Saturdays, Sundays, and federal holidays. If you make a deposit before () on a business day that we are open, we will consider that day to be the day of your deposit. However, if you make a deposit after () or on a day we are not open, we will consider that the deposit was made on the next business day we are open.

In some cases, we will not make all of the funds that you deposit by check available to you on the first business day after the day of your deposit. Depending on the type of check that you deposit, funds may not be available until the fifth business day after the day of your deposit. The first $100 of your deposits, however, may be available on the first business day.

If we are not going to make all of the funds from your deposit available on the first business day, we will notify you at the time you make your deposit. We will also tell you when the funds will be available. If your deposit is not made directly to one of our employees, or if we decide to take this action after you have left the premises, we will mail you the notice by the day after we receive your deposit.

If you will need the funds from a deposit right away, you should ask us when the funds will be available.

In addition, funds you deposit by check may be delayed for a longer period under the following circumstances:

- We believe a check you deposit will not be paid.

- You deposit checks totaling more than $5,000 on any one day.

- You redeposit a check that has been returned unpaid.

- You have overdrawn your account repeatedly in the last six months.

- There is an emergency, such as failure of computer or communications equipment.
