
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix C to Part 229 - Model Availability Policy Disclosures, Clauses, and Notices; Model Substitute Check Policy Disclosure and Notices
###### where deposit slip may be obtained

- Cashier's, certified, and teller's checks that are payable to you [if you use a special deposit slip available from ()].

- Federal Reserve Bank checks, Federal Home Loan Bank checks, and postal money orders, if these items are payable to you.

If you do not make your deposit in person to one of our employees (for example, if you mail the deposit), funds from these deposits will be available on the second business day after the day we receive your deposit.

To find out when funds from other check deposits will be available, look at the first four digits of the routing number on the check:

Some checks are marked "payable through" and have a four-or nine-digit number nearby. For these checks, use this four-digit number (or the first four digits of the nine-digit number), not the routing number on the bottom of the check, to determine if these checks are local or nonlocal. Once you have determined the first four digits of the routing number (1234 in the examples above), the following chart will show you when funds from the check will be available:

If you deposit both categories of checks, $100 from the checks will be available on the first business day after the day of your deposit, not $100 from each category of check.

Funds you deposit by check may be delayed for a longer period under the following circumstances:

- We believe a check you deposit will not be paid.

- You deposit checks totaling more than $5,000 on any one day.

- You redeposit a check that has been returned unpaid.

- You have overdrawn your account repeatedly in the last six months.

- There is an emergency, such as failure of computer or communications equipment.
