
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix C to Part 229 - Model Availability Policy Disclosures, Clauses, and Notices; Model Substitute Check Policy Disclosure and Notices
###### list of local numbers

If the first four digits of the routing number (1234 in the examples above) are (), then the check is a local check. Otherwise, the check is a nonlocal check. Some checks are marked "payable through" and have a four- or nine-digit number nearby. For these checks, use the four-digit number (or the first four digits of the nine-digit number), not the routing number on the bottom of the check, to determine if these checks are local or nonlocal. Our policy is to make funds from local and nonlocal checks available as follows.

1. Local checks. The first $100 from a deposit of local checks will be available on the first business day after the day of your deposit. The remaining funds will be available on the second business day after the day of your deposit.

For example, if you deposit a local check of $700 on a Monday, $100 of the deposit is available on Tuesday. The remaining $600 is available on Wednesday.

2. Nonlocal checks. The first $100 from a deposit of nonlocal checks will be available on the first business day after the day of your deposit. The remaining funds will be available on the fifth business day after the day of your deposit.

For example, if you deposit a $700 nonlocal check on a Monday, $100 of the deposit is available on Tuesday. The remaining $600 is available on Monday of the following week.

3. Local and nonlocal checks. If you deposit both categories of checks, $100 from the checks will be available on the first business day after the day of your deposit, not $100 from each category of check.

Funds you deposit by check may be delayed for a longer period under the following circumstances:

- We believe a check you deposit will not be paid.

- You deposit checks totaling more than $5,000 on any one day.

- You redeposit a check that has been returned unpaid.

- You have overdrawn your account repeatedly in the last six months.

- There is an emergency, such as failure of computer or communications equipment.
