
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix E to Part 229 - Commentary
###### Models C-1 through C-5 generally.

1.

a. Models C-1 through C-5A are models for the availability policy disclosures described in § 229.16 and substitute check policy disclosure described in § 229.57. The models accommodate a variety of availability policies, ranging from next-day availability to holds to statutory limits on all deposits. Model C-3 reflects the additional disclosures discussed in §§ 229.16 (b) and (c) for banks that have a policy of extending availability times on a case-by-case basis.

b. As already noted, there are several places in the models where information must be inserted. This information includes the bank's cut-off times, limitations relating to next-day availability, and the first four digits of routing numbers for local banks. In disclosing when funds will be available for withdrawal, the bank must insert the ordinal number (such as first, second, etc.) of the business day after deposit that the funds will become available.

c. Models C-1 through C-5A generally do not reflect any optional provisions of the regulation, or those that apply only to certain banks. Instead, disclosures for these provisions are included in Models C-6 through C-11A. A bank using one of the model availability policy disclosures should also consider whether it must incorporate one or more of Models C-6 through C-11A.

d. While § 229.10(b) requires next-day availability for electronic payments, Treasury regulations (31 CFR part 210) and ACH association rules require that preauthorized credits ("direct deposits") be made available on the day the bank receives the funds. Models C-1 through C-5 reflect these rules. Wire transfers, however, are not governed by Treasury or ACH rules, but banks generally make funds from wire transfers available on the day received or on the business day following receipt. Banks should ensure that their disclosures reflect the availability given in most cases for wire transfers.
