
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix F to Part 229 - Official Board Interpretations; Preemption Determinations

Section 4-213(5) of the Uniform Commercial Code ("U.C.C.") provides that money deposited in a bank is available for withdrawal as of right at the opening of business of the banking day after deposit. Although the language "deposited in a bank" is unclear, arguably it is broader than the language "made in person to an employee of the depositary bank", which conditions the next-day availability of cash under Regulation CC (§ 229.10(a)(1)). Under Regulation CC, deposits of cash that are not made in person to an employee of the depositary bank must be made available by the second business day after the banking day of deposit (§ 229.10(a)(2)). Therefore, this provision of the U.C.C. may call for the availability of certain cash deposits in a shorter time than provided in Regulation CC.

This provision of the U.C.C., however, is subject to Section 4-103(1), which provides, in part, that "the effect of the provisions of this Article may be varied by agreement * * *." (The Regulation CC funds availability requirements may not be varied by agreement.) U.C.C. Section 4-213(5) supersedes the Regulation CC provision in § 229.10(a)(2), but a depositary bank may not agree with its customer under section 4-103(1) of the Code to extend availability beyond the time periods provided in § 229.10(a) of Regulation CC.

The Board has been requested, in accordance with § 229.20(d) of Regulation CC (12 CFR part 229), to determine whether the Expedited Funds Availability Act (the "Act") and subpart B (and in connection therewith, subpart A) of Regulation CC preempt the provisions of California law concerning availability of funds. This preemption determination specifies those provisions of the California funds availability law that supersede the Act and Regulation CC. (See also the Board's preemption determination regarding the Uniform Commercial Code, section 4-213(5), pertaining to availability of cash deposits.)

California has four separate sets of regulations establishing maximum availability schedules. The regulations applicable to commercial banks and branches of foreign banks located in California (Cal. Admin. Code tit. 10, §§ 10.190401-10.190402) were promulgated by the Superintendent of Banks. The regulations applicable to savings banks and savings and loan associations (Cal. Admin. Code tit. 10, §§ 106.200-106.202) were adopted by the Savings and Loan Commissioner. The regulations applicable to credit unions (Cal. Admin. Code tit. 10, section 901) and to industrial loan companies (Cal. Admin. Code tit. 10, section 1101) were adopted by the Commissioner of Corporations.

All the regulations were adopted pursuant to California Financial Code section 866.5 and California Commercial Code section 4213(4)(a), under which the appropriate state regulatory agency for each depository institution must issue administrative regulations to define a reasonable time for permitting customers to draw on items received for deposit in the customer's account. California Financial Code section 867 also establishes availability periods for funds deposited by cashier's check, certified check, teller's check, or depository check under certain circumstances. Finally, California Financial Code section 866.2 establishes disclosure requirements.

The Board's determination with respect to these California laws and regulations governing the funds availability requirements applicable to depository institutions in California are as follows.
