
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix F to Part 229 - Official Board Interpretations; Preemption Determinations
###### Temporary schedule.

Regulation CC provides that, until September 1, 1990, nonlocal checks must be made available for withdrawal by the seventh business day after the banking day of deposit, except for certain nonlocal checks listed in appendix B-1, which must be made available within a shorter time (by the fifth business day following deposit for those California checks listed). Under the temporary schedule in the California regulations, a depositary bank with a four-digit routing symbol of 1210 ("1210 bank") or of 1220 ("1220 bank") that receives for deposit a check drawn on a nonlocal, in-state commercial bank or foreign bank branchmust make the funds available for withdrawal by the fourth business day after the day of deposit. The California regulations provide that 1210 and 1220 banks must make deposited checks drawn on nonlocal in-state thrifts (defined as savings and loan associations, savings banks, and credit unions) available by the fifth business day after deposit. In addition, California law provides that all other depositary banks must make deposited checks drawn on a nonlocal in-state commercial bank or foreign bank branch available by the fifth business day after deposit and checks drawn on nonlocal in-state thrifts available by the sixth business day after deposit. To the extent that these schedules provide for shorter holds than Regulation CC and its appendix B-1, the state schedules supersede the federal schedules.For example, the California four-day schedule that applies to checks drawn on in-state nonlocal commercial banks or foreign bank branches and deposited in a 1210 or 1220 bank would be shorter than and would supersede the federal schedules.

The California regulations do not specify whether the state schedules apply to deposits of checks at nonproprietary ATMs. Under the temporary schedules in Regulation CC, deposits at nonproprietary ATMs must be made available for withdrawal by the seventh business day following deposit. To the extent that the California schedules provide for shorter availability for deposits at nonproprietary ATMs, they would supersede the temporary schedule in Regulation CC for deposits at nonproprietary ATMs specified in ยง 229.11(d).
