
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix F to Part 229 - Official Board Interpretations; Preemption Determinations
###### Temporary schedule.

The California regulations provide that in-state nonlocal checks must be made available for withdrawal not later than the sixth business day following deposit. This time period is shorter than the seventh business day availability required for nonlocal checks under ยง 229.11(c) of Regulation CC, although it is not shorter than the schedules for nonlocal checks set forth in ยง 229.11(c)(2) and appendix B-1 of Regulation CC. Thus, the state scheduled for in-state nonlocal checks supersede the federal schedule to the extent that they apply to an item payable by a California institution that is defined as a nonlocal check under Regulation CC, and is not subject to reduced schedules under ยง 229.11(c)(2) and appendix B-1.

Under the California regulations, credit unions and industrial loan companies must provide next-day availability to first-indorsed items issued by any federally-insured institution. This regulatory requirement, however, has been superseded by section 867 of the California Financial Code, which requires depository institutions to make funds deposited by cashier's check, teller's check, certified checks, or depository check available for withdrawal on the second business day following deposit, if certain conditions are met. This requirement became effective January 1, 1988.

The Regulation CC next-day availability requirement for cashier's checks and teller's checks applies only to those checks issued for remittance purposes. To the extent that the state second business day availability requirement applies to cashier's and teller's checks issued for other than remittance purposes, the state two-day requirement supersedes the federal local and nonlocal schedules.

The California regulations do not specify whether they apply to deposits of checks at nonproprietary ATMs. Under the temporary schedule in Regulation CC, deposits at nonproprietary ATMs must be made available for withdrawal at the start of the seventh business day after deposit. To the extent that the California schedules provide for shorter availability for deposits at nonproprietary ATMs, they would supersede the temporary schedule in Regulation CC for deposits at nonproprietary ATMs specified in ยง 229.11(d).
