
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix F to Part 229 - Official Board Interpretations; Preemption Determinations
###### Exceptions to the availability schedules.

Under the state preemption standards of Regulation CC (see ยง 229.20(c) and accompanying Commentary), for deposits subject to the state availability schedules, a state exception may be used to extend the state availability schedule up to the federal availability schedule. Once the deposit is held up to the federal availability schedule limit under a state exception, the depositary bank may further extend the hold under any federal exception that can be applied to the deposit. If no state exceptions exist, then no exceptions holds may be placed on deposits covered by state schedules. Thus, to the extent that California law provides for exceptions to the California schedules that supersede Regulation CC, those exceptions may be applied in order to extend the state availability schedules up to the federal availability schedules or such later time as is permitted by a federal exception.

California law (Cal. Fin. Code ยง 866.2) requires depository institutions to provide written disclosures of their general availability policies to potential customers prior to opening any deposit account. The law also requires that preprinted deposit slips and ATM deposit envelopes contain a conspicuous summary of the general policy. Finally, the law requires depository institutions to provide specific notice of the time the customer may withdraw funds deposited by check or similar instrument into a deposit account if the funds are not available for immediate withdrawal.
