
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix F to Part 229 - Official Board Interpretations; Preemption Determinations
###### accounts

California law (Cal. Fin. Code ยง 866.2) requires depository institutions to provide written disclosures of their general availability policies to potential customers prior to opening any deposit account. The law also requires that preprinted deposit slips and ATM deposit envelopes contain a conspicuous summary of the general policy. Finally, the law requires depository institutions to provide specific notice of the time the customer may withdraw funds deposited by check or similar instrument into a deposit account if the funds are not available for immediate withdrawal. Section 229.20(c)(2) of Regulation CC provides that inconsistency may exist when a state law provides for disclosures or notices concerning funds availability relating to accounts. To the extent that California Financial Code ยง 866.2 requires disclosures that differ from those required by Regulation CC and apply toas defined in Regulation CC (generally, transaction accounts), the California law is preempted by Regulation CC.

The Department of Savings and Loan regulations provide that for those non-transaction accounts covered by state law but not by federal law, disclosures in accordance with Regulation CC will be deemed to comply with the state law disclosure requirements. To the extent that the Department of Savings and Loan regulations permit reliance on Regulation CC disclosures for transaction accounts and to the extent the state regulations survive the preemption of California Financial Code ยง 866.2, they are not preempted by, nor do they supersede, the federal law. The state law continues to apply to savings accounts and other non-transaction accounts not governed by Regulation CC disclosure requirements.

Each credit union and federally-insured industrial loan company that maintains an office in California for the acceptance of deposits must make funds deposited by check available for withdrawal in accordance with the following table:
