
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix F to Part 229 - Official Board Interpretations; Preemption Determinations
###### accounts

Section 229.20(c)(2) of Regulation CC provides that inconsistency may exist when a state law provides for disclosures or notices concerning funds availability relating to accounts. California Financial Code section 866.2 requires disclosures that differ from those required by Regulation CC, and therefore is preempted to the extent that it applies toas defined in Regulation CC. The state law continues to apply to savings accounts and other accounts not governed by Regulation CC disclosure requirements.

The Board has been requested, in accordance with ยง 229.20(d) of Regulation CC (12 CFR part 229), to determine whether the Expedited Funds Availability Act (the "Act") and subpart B (and in connection therewith, subpart A) of Regulation CC, preempt provisions of Connecticut law relating to the availability of funds. This preemption determination specifies those provisions of the Connecticut funds availability law that supersede the Act and Regulation CC. (See also the Board's preemption determination regarding the Uniform Commercial Code, section 4-213(5), pertaining to availability of cash deposits.)

In 1987, Connecticut amended its statute governing funds availability (Conn. Gen. Stat. section 36-9v), which requires Connecticut depository institutions to make funds deposited in a checking, time, interest, or savings account available for withdrawal with specified periods.

Generally, the Connecticut statute, as amended, provides that items deposited in a checking, time, interest, or savings account at a depository institution must be available for withdrawal in accordance with the following table:

Exceptions to the schedules are provided for items received for deposit for the purpose of opening an account and for items that the depositary bank has reason to believe will not clear. The Connecticut statute also requires availability policy disclosures to depositors in the form of written notices and notices posted conspicuously at each branch.
