
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix F to Part 229 - Official Board Interpretations; Preemption Determinations
###### Exceptions to the availability schedule.

The Connecticut law provides exceptions for items received for deposit for the purpose of opening new accounts and for items that the depositary bank has reason to believe will not clear. In all cases where the federal availability schedule preempts the state schedule, only the federal exceptions will apply. For deposits that are covered by the state availability schedule (e.g., nonlocal out-of-state checks under the temporary schedule), the state exceptions may be used to extend the state availability schedule (of six business days) to meet the federal availability schedule (of seven business days). Once the deposit is held up to the federal availability schedule limit under a state exception, the depositary bank may further extend the hold under any federal exception that can be applied to the deposit. Any time a depositary bank invokes an exception to extend a hold beyond the time periods otherwise permitted by law, it must give notice of the extended hold to its customer, in accordance with ยง 229.13(g) of Regulation CC.

The Connecticut statute (Conn. Gen. Stat. Section 36-9v(b)) requires written notice to depositors of an institution's check hold policy and requires a notice of the policy to be posted in each branch.
