
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix F to Part 229 - Official Board Interpretations; Preemption Determinations
###### accounts,Holds on other funds,,accounts

The Maine law and regulation govern the availability of funds to any deposit account, as defined in the Board's Regulation D (12 CFR 204.2(a)). This coverage is broader than thecovered in Regulation CC. The Maine law continues to apply to all deposit accounts, including those that are not accounts under Regulation CC. (Note, however, that under ยง 229.19(e) of Regulation CC,the federal availability schedules may apply to savings, time, and other accounts not defined asunder Regulation CC, in certain circumstances.)

The Maine regulation incorporates the Regulation CC availability and disclosure requirements with respect to deposits to accounts covered by Regulation CC. Because the state requirements are consistent with the federal requirements, the Maine regulation is not preempted by, nor does it supersede, the federal law.

The Board has been requested, in accordance with ยง 229.20(d) of Regulation CC (12 CFR part 229), to determine whether the Expedited Funds Availability Act (the "Act") and subpart B (and in connection therewith, subpart A) of Regulation CC, preempt provisions of Massachusetts law relating to the availability of funds. This preemption determination addresses the relationship of the Act and Regulation CC to the Massachusetts funds availability law. (See also the Board's preemption determination regarding the Uniform Commercial Code, section 4-213(5), pertaining to availability of cash deposits.)

In 1988, Massachusetts amended its statute governing funds availability (Mass. Gen. L. ch. 167D, section 35), to require Massachusetts banking institutions to make funds available for withdrawal and disclose their availability policies in accordance with the Act and Regulation CC. The Massachusetts law, however, provides that "local originating depository institution" is to be defined as any originating depository institution located in the Commonwealth.
