
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix F to Part 229 - Official Board Interpretations; Preemption Determinations
###### Exceptions to the availability schedules.

New York law provides exceptions to the state availability schedules for large deposits, new accounts, repeated overdrafters, doubtful collectibility, foreign items, and emergency conditions (part 34.4). The state exceptions apply only with respect to deposits of in-state nonlocal checks that are subject to the state availability schedule. For these deposits, the depositary bank may invoke a state exception and place a hold on the deposit up to the federal availability schedule limit for that type of deposit. Once the federal availability schedule limit is reached, the depositary bank may further extend the hold under any of the federal exceptions that apply to that deposit. Any time a depositary bank invokes an exception to extend a hold beyond the time periods otherwise permitted by law, it must give notice of the extended hold to its customer in accordance with ยง 229.12(g) of Regulation CC.

The revised New York regulation does not contain funds availability disclosure requirements applicable to accounts subject to Regulation CC.

The Board has been requested, in accordance with ยง 229.20(d) of Regulation CC (12 CFR part 229), to determine whether the Expedited Funds Availability Act (the "Act") and subpart B (and in connection therewith, subpart A) of Regulation CC, supersede provisions of Rhode Island law relating to the availability of funds. This preemption determination specifies those provisions in the Rhode Island funds availability law that supersede the Act and Regulation CC. (See also the Board's preemption determination regarding the Uniform Commercial Code, section 4-213(5), pertaining to availability of cash deposits.)

In 1986, Rhode Island adopted a statute governing funds availability (R.I. Gen. Laws tit. 6A, sections 4-601 through 4-608), which requires Rhode Island depository institutions to make checks deposited in a personal transaction account available for withdrawal within certain specific periods. Commercial banks and thrift institutions (mutual savings banks, savings banks, savings and loan institutions and credit unions) must make funds available for withdrawal in accordance with the following table:
