
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix F to Part 229 - Official Board Interpretations; Preemption Determinations
###### Business day/banking day.,business day,business day,banking day.,business days,banking day

The Rhode Island statute definesas excluding Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays. This definition is preempted by the Regulation CC definitions ofandThus, for determining the permissible hold under the Rhode Island schedules that supersede the Regulation CC schedule, deposits are considered made on the specified number offollowing theof deposit.

The Rhode Island statute requires written notice to depositors of an institution's check hold policy and requires a notice on deposit slips. Regulation CC preempts state disclosure requirements concerning funds availability that relate to accounts that are inconsistent with the federal requirements. The state reuirements are different from, and therefore inconsistent with, the federal rules. (ยง 229.20(c)(2)) Thus, Regulation CC preempts the Rhode Island disclosure requirements concerning funds availability.

The Board has been requested, in accordance with ยง 229.20(d) of Regulation CC (12 CFR part 229), to determine whether the Expedited Funds Availability Act (the Act) and subpart B (and in connection therewith, subpart A) of Regulation CC preempt the provisions of Wisconsin law concerning availability of funds. This preemption determination specifies those provisions of the Wisconsin funds availability law that are not preempted by the Act and Regulation CC. (See also the Board's preemption determination regarding the Uniform Commercial Code, section 4-213(5), pertaining to availability of cash deposits.)

Wisconsin Statutes sections 404.213(4m), 215.136, and 186.117 require Wisconsin banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, respectively, to make funds deposited in accounts available for withdrawal within specified time frames. Generally, checks drawn on the U.S. Treasury, the State of Wisconsin, or on a local government located in Wisconsin must be made available for withdrawal by the second day following deposit. (The law governing commercial banks determines availability based on banking day; the laws governing savings and loan associations and credit unions determine availability based on business days.) In-state and out-of-state checks must be made available for withdrawal within five days and eight days following deposit, respectively. Exceptions are provided for new accounts and reason to doubt collectibility. In addition, Wisconsin Statutes section 404.103 permits commercial banks to vary these availability requirements by agreement.
