
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 229 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS AND COLLECTION OF CHECKS (REGULATION CC)
##### Appendix F to Part 229 - Official Board Interpretations; Preemption Determinations
###### Temporary schedule.,the same in-state clearing facility,the same check clearinghouse association

Rhode Island law requires availability for certain checks in the same time as does Regulation CC. Thus, in these instances, the federal law does not preempt the state law. Rhode Island law requires commercial banks (but not thrift institutions) to make checks payable by a depositary institution that uses the same in-state clearing facility as the depositary bank available for withdrawal on the third business day following the day of the deposit. This is the same time period contained in Regulation CC for local checks payable by a bank that is a member of the same local clearinghouse as the depositary bank. (The Board views the definition ofas having the same meaning as the termin the federal law's provision that allows banks to limit the customer's ability to withdraw cash on the third business day if the local check being deposited is payable by a bank that is not a member of the same local clearinghouse as the depositary bank.) Since the Rhode Island law and the federal law both require the funds to be made available no later than the third business day, the state law is not preempted by the federal law.

The Rhode Island law also requires commercial banks and savings institutions to make checks payable by a depository institution located in the First or Second Federal Reserve District (outside of Rhode Island) available on the seventh business day following deposit. To the extent that this provision applies to checks payable by institutions located outside the Boston check processing region, it provides for availability in the same time as required for nonlocal checks under the temporary federal schedule, and thus is not preempted by the federal law.

The Rhode Island statute does not specify whether it applies to deposits of checks at nonproprietary ATMs. Under the temporary schedule in Regulation CC, deposits at nonproprietary ATMs must be made available for withdrawal at the opening of the seventh business day after deposit. To the extent that the Rhode Island schedules provide for shorter availability for deposits at nonproprietary ATMs, they would supersede the temporary schedule.
