
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 238 - SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION LL)
##### Subpart E - Qualified Stock Issuances
###### ยง 238.41 Qualified stock issuances by undercapitalized savings associations or holding companies.
####### Qualification.

(b)For purposes of this section, any issuance of shares of stock shall be treated as a qualified stock issuance if the following conditions are met:

(1) The shares of stock are issued by-

(i) An undercapitalized savings association, which for purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)(i) shall mean any savings association-

(A) The assets of which exceed the liabilities of such association; and

(B) Which does not comply with one or more of the capital standards in effect under section 5(t) of HOLA; or

(ii) A savings and loan holding company which is not a bank holding company but which controls an undercapitalized savings association if, at the time of issuance, the savings and loan holding company is legally obligated to contribute the net proceeds from the issuance of such stock to the capital of an undercapitalized savings association subsidiary of such holding company.

(2) All shares of stock issued consist of previously unissued stock or treasury shares.

(3) All shares of stock issued are purchased by a savings and loan holding company that is registered, as of the date of purchase, with the Board in accordance with the provisions of section 10(b) of the HOLA and the Board's regulations promulgated thereunder.

(4) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, the Board approves the purchase of the shares of stock by the acquiring savings and loan holding company.

(5) The entire consideration for the stock issued is paid in cash by the acquiring savings and loan holding company.

(6) At the time of the stock issuance, each savings association subsidiary of the acquiring savings and loan holding company (other than an association acquired in a transaction pursuant to section 13(c) or 13(k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, or section 408(m) of the National Housing Act, as in effect immediately prior to enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989) has capital (after deducting any subordinated debt, intangible assets, and deferred, unamortized gains or losses) of not less than 6percent of the total assets of such savings association.

(7) Immediately after the stock issuance, the acquiring savings and loan holding company holds not more than 15 percent of the outstanding voting stock of the issuing undercapitalized savings association or savings and loan holding company.

(8) Not more than one of the directors of the issuing association or company is an officer, director, employee, or other representative of the acquiring company or any of its affiliates.

(9) Transactions between the savings association or savings and loan holding company that issues the shares pursuant to this section and the acquiring company and any of its affiliates shall be subject to the provisions of section 11 of HOLA and the Board's regulations promulgated thereunder.
