
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 5 - RULES, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES FOR CORPORATE ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart C - Expansion of Activities
##### ยง 5.33 Business combinations involving a national bank or Federal savings association.
###### Mergers of a national bank with its nonbank affiliates under 12 U.S.C. 215a-3 resulting in a national bank.

(4)(i) With the approval of the OCC, a national bank may merge with one or more of its nonbank affiliates, with the national bank as the resulting institution, in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, provided that the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the nonbank affiliate is organized allows the nonbank affiliate to engage in such mergers. If the national bank is an insured bank, the transaction is also subject to approval by the FDIC under the Bank Merger Act, 12 U.S.C. 1828(c).

(ii) Unless it has elected to follow the procedures set out in paragraph (h) of this section, a national bank entering into the merger must follow the procedures of 12 U.S.C. 215a as if the nonbank affiliate were a State bank, except as otherwise provided herein.

(iii) A nonbank affiliate entering into the merger must follow the procedures for such mergers set out in the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the nonbank affiliate is organized.

(iv) The rights of dissenting shareholders and appraisal of dissenters' shares of stock in the nonbank affiliate entering into the merger must be determined in the manner prescribed by the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the nonbank affiliate is organized.

(v) The corporate existence of each institution participating in the merger continues in the resulting national bank, and all the rights, franchises, property, appointments, liabilities, and other interests of the participating institutions are transferred to the resulting national bank, as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 215a(a), (e), and (f) in the same manner and to the same extent as in a merger between a national bank and a State bank under 12 U.S.C. 215a(a), as if the nonbank affiliate were a State bank.
