
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 5 - RULES, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES FOR CORPORATE ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart C - Expansion of Activities
##### ยง 5.33 Business combinations involving a national bank or Federal savings association.
###### Mergers of an uninsured national bank with its nonbank affiliates under 12 U.S.C. 215a-3 resulting in a nonbank affiliate.

(5)(i) With the approval of the OCC, a national bank that is not an insured bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(h) may merge with one or more of its nonbank affiliates, with the nonbank affiliate as the resulting entity, in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, provided that the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the nonbank affiliate is organized allows the nonbank affiliate to engage in such mergers.

(ii) Unless it has elected to follow the procedures applicable to State banks under paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, a national bank entering into the merger must follow the procedures of 12 U.S.C. 214a, as if the nonbank affiliate were a State bank, except as otherwise provided in this section.

(iii) A nonbank affiliate entering into the merger must follow the procedures for such mergers set out in the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the nonbank affiliate is organized.

(iv)(A) National bank shareholders who dissent from an approved plan to merge may receive in cash the value of their national bank shares if they comply with the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 214a as if the nonbank affiliate were a State bank. The OCC may conduct an appraisal or reappraisal of dissenters' shares of stock in a national bank involved in the merger if all parties agree that the determination is final and binding on each party and agree on how the total expenses of the OCC in making the appraisal will be divided among the parties and paid to the OCC.

(B) The rights of dissenting shareholders and appraisal of dissenters' shares of stock in the nonbank affiliate involved in the merger must be determined in the manner prescribed by the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the nonbank affiliate is organized.

(v) The corporate existence of each entity participating in the merger continues in the resulting nonbank affiliate, and all the rights, franchises, property, appointments, liabilities, and other interests of the participating national bank are transferred to the resulting nonbank affiliate as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 214b, in the same manner and to the same extent as in a merger between a national bank and a State bank under 12 U.S.C. 214a, as if the nonbank affiliate were a State bank.
