
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 238 - SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION LL)
##### Subpart I - Prohibited Service at Savings and Loan Holding Companies
###### § 238.90 Hearings.
####### Hearing procedures.

(c)The following procedures apply to hearings under this subpart.

(1) The hearing shall be held in Washington, DC, or at another designated place, before a presiding officer designated by the Board.

(2) An applicant may elect in writing to have the matter determined on the basis of written submissions, rather than an oral hearing.

(3) The parties to the hearing are Enforcement Counsel and the applicant.

(4) The provisions of §§ 263.2, 263.4, 263.6 through 263.12, and 263.16 of this chapter apply to the hearing.

(5) Discovery is not permitted.

(6) A party may introduce relevant and material documents and make oral argument at the hearing.

(7) At the discretion of the presiding officer, witnesses may be presented within specified time limits, provided that a list of witnesses is furnished to the presiding officer and to all other parties prior to the hearing. Witnesses must be sworn, unless otherwise directed by the presiding officer. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness. Each party may cross-examine any witness presented by the opposing party. The Board will furnish a transcript of the proceedings upon an applicant's request and upon the payment of the costs of the transcript.
