
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 238 - SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION LL)
##### Subpart S - Capital Planning and Stress Capital Buffer Requirement
###### ยง 238.170 Capital planning and stress capital buffer requirement.
####### Disapproval and hearing.

(4)(i) The Board, or the appropriate Reserve Bank with concurrence of the Board, will notify the covered savings and loan holding company in writing of the reasons for a decision to disapprove any proposed capital distribution. Within 15 calendar days after receipt of a disapproval by the Board, the covered savings and loan holding company may submit a written request for a hearing.

(ii) The Board may, in its sole discretion, order an informal hearing if the Board finds that a hearing is appropriate or necessary to resolve disputes regarding material issues of fact. An informal hearing shall be held within 30 calendar days of a request, if granted, provided that the Board may extend this period upon notice to the requesting party.

(iii) Written notice of the final decision of the Board shall be given to the covered savings and loan holding company within 60 calendar days of the conclusion of any informal hearing ordered by the Board, provided that the Board may extend this period upon notice to the requesting party.

(iv) While the Board's decision is pending and until such time as the Board, or the appropriate Reserve Bank with concurrence of the Board, approves the capital distribution at issue, the covered savings and loan holding company may not make such capital distribution.
