
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart B - Mutual Holding Companies
###### ยง 239.8 Operating restrictions.
####### Pledging stock.

(b)(1) No mutual holding company may pledge the stock of its resulting association, an acquiree association, or any subsidiary savings association that was in the mutual form when acquired by the mutual holding company (or its parent mutual holding company), unless the proceeds of the loan secured by the pledge are infused into the association whose stock is pledged. No mutual holding company may pledge the stock of its subsidiary holding company unless the proceeds of the loan secured by the pledge are infused into any subsidiary savings association of the subsidiary holding company that is a resulting association, an acquiree association, or a subsidiary savings association that was in the mutual form when acquired by the subsidiary holding company (or its parent mutual holding company). In the event the subsidiary holding company has more than one subsidiary savings association, the loan proceeds shall, unless otherwise approved by the Board, be infused in equal amounts to each subsidiary savings association. Any amount of the stock of such association or subsidiary holding company may be pledged for these purposes. Nothing in this paragraph shall be deemed to prohibit:

(i) The payment of dividends from a subsidiary savings association to its mutual holding company parent to the extent otherwise permissible; or

(ii) The payment of dividends from a subsidiary holding company to its mutual holding company parent to the extent otherwise permissible; or

(iii) A mutual holding company from pledging the stock of more than one subsidiary savings association provided that the stock pledged of each such subsidiary association is proportionate to the proceeds of the loan infused into each subsidiary association.

(2) Any mutual holding company that fails to make any payment on a loan secured by the pledge of stock pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section on or before the date on which such payment is due shall, on the first day after such payment is due, provide written notice of nonpayment to the appropriate Reserve Bank.
