
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart B - Mutual Holding Companies
###### ยง 239.7 Acquisition and disposition of savings associations, savings and loan holding companies, and other corporations by mutual holding companies.
####### Dispositions.

(b)(1) A mutual holding company shall provide written notice to the appropriate Reserve Bank at least 30 days prior to the effective date of any direct or indirect transfer of any of the stock that it holds in a subsidiary holding company, a resulting association, an acquiree association, or any subsidiary savings association that was in the mutual form when acquired by the mutual holding company, including stock transferred in connection with a pledge pursuant to ยง 239.8(b) or any transfer of all or a substantial portion of the assets or liabilities of any such subsidiary holding company or association. Any such disposition shall comply with the requirements of this part, as appropriate, and with any other applicable statute or regulation.

(2) A mutual holding company may, subject to applicable laws and regulations, transfer any or all of the stock or cause or permit the transfer of any or all of the assets and liabilities of:

(i) Any subsidiary savings association that was in the stock form when acquired, provided such association is not a resulting association or an acquiree association;

(ii) Any subsidiary holding company acquired pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section; or

(iii) Any corporation other than a savings association or savings and loan holding company.

(3) A mutual holding company may, subject to applicable laws and regulations, transfer any stock acquired pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section.

(4) No transfer authorized by this section may be made to any insider of the mutual holding company, any associate of an insider of the mutual holding company, or any tax-qualified or non-tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan of the mutual holding company unless the mutual holding company provides notice to the appropriate Reserve Bank at least 30 days prior to the effective date of the proposed transfer. This notice shall be in addition to any other application or notice required under applicable laws or regulations, including those imposed by this part or Regulation LL.
