
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart B - Mutual Holding Companies
###### ยง 239.9 Conversion or liquidation of mutual holding companies.
####### Conversion,Generally.

(a)-(1)A mutual holding company may convert to the stock form in accordance with the rules and regulations set forth in subpart E of this part.

(2) Exchange of subsidiary savings association or subsidiary holding company stock. Any stock issued by a subsidiary savings association, or by a subsidiary holding company pursuant to ยง 239.24, of a mutual holding company to persons other than the parent mutual holding company may be exchanged for the stock issued by the successor to parent mutual holding company in connection with the conversion of the parent mutual holding company to stock form. The parent mutual holding company and the subsidiary holding company must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board that the basis for the exchange is fair and reasonable.

(3) If a subsidiary holding company or subsidiary savings association has issued shares to an entity other than the mutual holding company, the conversion of the mutual holding company to stock form may not be consummated unless a majority of the shares issued to entities other than the mutual holding company vote in favor of the conversion. This requirement applies in addition to any otherwise required account holder or shareholder votes.
