
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart B - Mutual Holding Companies
###### ยง 239.15 Bylaws.
####### Officers, employees, and agents.

(10)(i) The bylaws shall contain provisions regarding the officers of the mutual holding company, their functions, duties, and powers. The officers of the mutual holding company shall consist of a president, one or more vice presidents, a secretary, and a treasurer or comptroller, each of whom shall be elected annually by the board of directors. Such other officers and assistant officers and agents as may be deemed necessary may be elected or appointed by the board of directors or chosen in such other manner as may be prescribed in the bylaws. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person, except the offices of president and secretary.

(ii) All officers and agents of the mutual holding company, as between themselves and the mutual holding company, shall have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the mutual holding company as may be provided in the bylaws, or as may be determined by resolution of the board of directors not inconsistent with the bylaws. In the absence of any such provision, officers shall have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices. Any officer may be removed by the board of directors with or without cause, but such removal, other than for cause, shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights, if any, of the officer so removed.

(iii) Any indemnification provision must provide that any indemnification is subject to applicable Federal law, rules, and regulations.
