
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart C - Subsidiary Holding Companies
###### § 239.24 Issuances of stock by subsidiary holding companies of mutual holding companies.
####### Requirements.

(a)No subsidiary holding company of a mutual holding company may issue stock to persons other than its mutual holding company parent in connection with a mutual holding company reorganization, or at any time subsequent to the subsidiary holding company's acquisition by the mutual holding company, unless the subsidiary holding company obtains advance approval of each such issuance from the Board. Approval of a mutual holding company reorganization filed pursuant to § 239.3(a) shall be deemed to constitute approval of any stock issuance specifically applied for pursuant to this section in connection with the reorganization, unless otherwise specified by the Board. The Board shall approve any proposed issuance that meets each of the criteria set forth below in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section.

(1) The proposed issuance is to be made pursuant to a Stock Issuance Plan that contains all the provisions required by § 239.25.

(2) The Stock Issuance Plan is consistent with the terms of the subsidiary holding company's charter (or any proposed amendments thereto), including terms governing the type and amount of stock that may be issued.

(3) The Stock Issuance Plan would provide the subsidiary holding company, its mutual holding company parent, and any subsidiary savings associations of the subsidiary holding company with fully sufficient capital and would not be inequitable or detrimental to the subsidiary holding company or its mutual holding company parent or to members of the mutual holding company parent.

(4) The proposed price or price range of the stock to be issued is reasonable. The Board shall review the reasonableness of the proposed price or price range.

(5) The aggregate amount of outstanding common stock of the subsidiary holding company owned or controlled by persons other than the subsidiary holding company's mutual holding company parent at the close of the proposed issuance shall be less than 50 percent of the subsidiary holding company's total outstanding common stock, unless the subsidiary holding company was a stock holding company when acquired by the mutual holding company, in which case the foregoing restriction shall not apply. Any amount of preferred stock may be issued by any subsidiary holding company of a mutual holding company to persons other than the subsidiary holding company's mutual holding company, consistent with any other applicable laws and regulations.

(6) The subsidiary holding company furnishes the information required by the Board in connection with the proposed issuance.

(7) The proposed stock issuance meets the convenience and needs standard of § 239.55(g).

(8) The proposed issuance complies with all other applicable laws and regulations.

(9) Unless otherwise determined by the Board, the limitations on the minimum and maximum amounts of the estimated price range required by § 239.59(c) shall apply.
