
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 5 - RULES, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES FOR CORPORATE ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart C - Expansion of Activities
##### ยง 5.34 Operating subsidiaries of a national bank.
###### Procedures,Application required.

(f)-(1)(i) Except for an operating subsidiary that qualifies for the notice procedures in paragraph (f)(2) of this section or is exempt from application or notice requirements under paragraph (f)(6) of this section, a national bank must first submit an application to, and receive prior approval from, the OCC to establish or acquire an operating subsidiary or to perform a new activity in an existing operating subsidiary.

(ii) The application must explain, as appropriate, how the bank "controls" the enterprise, describing in full detail structural arrangements where control is based on factors other than bank ownership of more than 50 percent of the voting interest of the subsidiary and the ability to control the management and operations of the subsidiary by holding voting interests sufficient to select the number of directors needed to control the subsidiary's board and to select and terminate senior management. In the case of a limited partnership or limited liability company that does not qualify for the notice procedures set forth in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the bank must provide a statement explaining why it is not eligible. The application also must include a complete description of the bank's investment in the subsidiary, the proposed activities of the subsidiary, the organizational structure and management of the subsidiary, the relations between the bank and the subsidiary, and other information necessary to adequately describe the proposal. To the extent that the application relates to the initial affiliation of the bank with a company engaged in insurance activities, the bank must describe the type of insurance activity in which the company is engaged and has present plans to conduct. The bank must also list for each State the lines of business for which the company holds, or will hold, an insurance license, indicating the State where the company holds a resident license or charter, as applicable. The application must state whether the operating subsidiary will conduct any activity at a location other than the main office or a previously approved branch of the bank. The OCC may require a filer to submit a legal analysis if the proposal is novel, unusually complex, or raises substantial unresolved legal issues. In these cases, the OCC encourages filers to have a prefiling meeting with the OCC. Any bank receiving approval under this paragraph is deemed to have agreed that the subsidiary will conduct the activity in a manner consistent with published OCC guidance.
