
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart D - Indemnification; Employment Contracts
###### ยง 239.41 Employment contracts.
####### Required provisions.

(b)Each employment contract shall provide that:

(1) The mutual holding company's board of directors may terminate the officer or employee's employment at any time, but any termination by the mutual holding company's board of directors other than termination for cause, shall not prejudice the officer or employee's right to compensation or other benefits under the contract. The officer or employee shall have no right to receive compensation or other benefits for any period after termination for cause. Termination for cause shall include termination because of the officer or employee's personal dishonesty, incompetence, willful misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty involving personal profit, intentional failure to perform stated duties, willful violation of any law, rule, or regulation (other than traffic violations or similar offenses) or final cease-and-desist order, or material breach of any provision of the contract.

(2) If the officer or employee is suspended and/or temporarily prohibited from participating in the conduct of the mutual holding company's affairs by a notice served under section 8 (e)(3) or (g)(1) of Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818 (e)(3) and (g)(1)) the mutual holding company's obligations under the contract shall be suspended as of the date of service unless stayed by appropriate proceedings. If the charges in the notice are dismissed, the mutual holding company may in its discretion:

(i) Pay the officer or employee all or part of the compensation withheld while its contract obligations were suspended, and

(ii) Reinstate (in whole or in part) any of its obligations which were suspended.

(3) If the officer or employee is removed and/or permanently prohibited from participating in the conduct of the mutual holding company's affairs by an order issued under section 8 (e)(4) or (g)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818 (e)(4) or (g)(1)), all obligations of the mutual holding company under the contract shall terminate as of the effective date of the order, but vested rights of the contracting parties shall not be affected.
