
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### ยง 239.53 Prior to conversion.
####### Business plan.

(b)(1) Prior to filing an application for conversion, the mutual holding company must adopt a business plan reflecting the mutual holding company's intended plans for deployment of the proposed conversion proceeds. The business plan is required, under ยง 239.55(b), to be included in the mutual holding company's conversion application. At a minimum, the business plan must address:

(i) The subsidiary savings association's projected operations and activities for three years following the conversion. The business plan must describe how the conversion proceeds will be deployed at the savings association (and holding company, if applicable), what opportunities are available to reasonably achieve the planned deployment of conversion proceeds in the relevant proposed market areas, and how its deployment will provide a reasonable return on investment commensurate with investment risk, investor expectations, and industry norms, by the final year of the business plan. The business plan must include three years of projected financial statements. The business plan must provide that the subsidiary savings associations receive at least 50 percent of the net conversion proceeds. The Board may require that a larger percentage of proceeds be contributed to the subsidiary savings associations.

(ii) The mutual holding company's plan for deploying conversion proceeds to meet credit and lending needs in the proposed market areas. The Board strongly discourages business plans that provide for a substantial investment in mortgage securities or other securities, except as an interim measure to facilitate orderly, prudent deployment of proceeds during the three years following the conversion, or as part of a properly managed leverage strategy.

(iii) The risks associated with the plan for deployment of conversion proceeds, and the effect of this plan on management resources, staffing, and facilities.

(iv) The expertise of the mutual holding company and saving association subsidiary's management and board of directors, or that the mutual holding company has planned for adequate staffing and controls to prudently manage the growth, expansion, new investment, and other operations and activities proposed in its business plan.

(2) The mutual holding company may not project returns of capital or special dividends in any part of the business plan. A newly converted company may not plan on stock repurchases in the first year of the business plan.
