
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### ยง 239.55 Filing requirements.
####### Confidential treatment of portions of an application for conversion.

(d)(1) The Board makes all filings under this subpart available to the public, but may keep portions of the application for conversion confidential under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(2) The mutual holding company may request the Board keep portions of the application confidential. To do so, the mutual holding company must separately bind and clearly designate as "confidential" any portion of the application for conversion that the mutual holding company deems confidential. The mutual holding company must provide a written statement specifying the grounds supporting the request for confidentiality. The Board will not treat as confidential the portion of the application describing how the mutual holding company plans to meet the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) objectives. The CRA portion of the application may not incorporate by reference information contained in the confidential portion of the application.

(3) The Board will determine whether confidential information must be made available to the public under 5 U.S.C. 552 and part 261 of this chapter. The Board will advise the mutual holding company before it makes information the mutual holding company designated as "confidential" available to the public.
