
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### ยง 239.55 Filing requirements.
####### Board review of appraisal.

(2)The Board will review the appraisal required by paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining whether to approve the application. The Board will review the appraisal under the following requirements.

(i) Independent persons experienced and expert in corporate appraisal, and acceptable to the Board, must prepare the appraisal report.

(ii) An affiliate of the appraiser may serve as an underwriter or selling agent, if the mutual holding company ensures that the appraiser is separate from the underwriter or selling agent affiliate and the underwriter or selling agent affiliate does not make recommendations or affect the appraisal.

(iii) The appraiser may not receive any fee in connection with the conversion other than for appraisal services.

(iv) The appraisal report must include a complete and detailed description of the elements of the appraisal, a justification for the appraisal methodology, and sufficient support for the conclusions.

(v) If the appraisal is based on a capitalization of the pro forma income, it must indicate the basis for determining the income to be derived from the sale of shares, and demonstrate that the earnings multiple used is appropriate, including future earnings growth assumptions.

(vi) If the appraisal is based on a comparison of the shares with outstanding shares of existing stock associations, the existing stock associations must be reasonably comparable in size, market area, competitive conditions, risk profile, profit history, and expected future earnings.

(vii) The Board may decline to process the application for conversion and deem it materially deficient or substantially incomplete if the initial appraisal report is materially deficient or substantially incomplete.

(viii) The mutual holding company may not represent or imply that the Board has approved the appraisal.
