
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### ยง 239.57 Proxy solicitation.
####### Prohibited solicitations.

(g)(1) False or misleading statements. (i) No one may use proxy solicitation material for the members' meeting if the material contains any statement which, considering the time and the circumstances of the statement:

(A) Is false or misleading with respect to any material fact;

(B) Omits any material fact that is necessary to make the statements not false or misleading; or

(C) Omits any material fact that is necessary to correct a statement in an earlier communication that has become false or misleading.

(ii) No one may represent or imply that the Board determined that the proxy solicitation material is accurate, complete, not false or not misleading, or passed upon the merits of or approved any proposal.

(2) Other prohibited solicitations. No person may solicit:

(i) An undated or post-dated proxy;

(ii) A proxy that states it will be dated after the date it is signed by a member;

(iii) A proxy that is not revocable at will by the member; or

(iv) A proxy that is part of another document or instrument.

(3) If a solicitation violates this section, the Board may require remedial measures, including:

(i) Correction of the violation by a retraction and a new solicitation;

(ii) Rescheduling the members' meeting; or

(iii) Any other actions necessary to ensure a fair vote.

(4) The Board may also bring an enforcement action against the violator for violations of this section.
