
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### ยง 239.59 Offers and sales of stock.
####### Selling conversion shares.

(d)(1) The mutual holding company must distribute order forms to all eligible account holders, supplemental eligible account holders, and other voting members to enable them to subscribe for the conversion shares they are permitted under the plan of conversion. The mutual holding company may either send the order forms with the offering circular or after it distributes the offering circular.

(2) The mutual holding company may sell the conversion shares in a community offering, a public offering, or both. The mutual holding company may begin the community offering, the public offering, or both at any time during the subscription offering or upon conclusion of the subscription offering.

(3) The mutual holding company may pay underwriting commissions (including underwriting discounts). The Board may object to the payment of unreasonable commissions. The mutual holding company may reimburse an underwriter for accountable expenses in a subscription offering if the public offering is limited. If no public offering occurs, the mutual holding company may pay an underwriter a consulting fee. The Board may object to the payment of unreasonable consulting fees.

(4) If the mutual holding company conducts the community offering, the public offering, or both at the same time as the subscription offering, it must fill all subscription orders first.
