
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### ยง 239.59 Offers and sales of stock.
####### Allocating conversion shares in the event of oversubscription.

(l)(1) If the conversion shares are oversubscribed by the eligible account holders, the mutual holding company must allocate shares among the eligible account holders so that each, to the extent possible, may purchase 100 shares.

(2) If the conversion shares are oversubscribed by the supplemental eligible account holders, the mutual holding company must allocate shares among the supplemental eligible account holders so that each, to the extent possible, may purchase 100 shares.

(3) If a person is an eligible account holder and a supplemental eligible account holder, the mutual holding company must include the eligible account holder's allocation in determining the number of conversion shares that the mutual holding company may allocate to the person as a supplemental eligible account holder.

(4) For conversion shares that the mutual holding company does not allocate under paragraphs (l)(1) and (l)(2) of this section, the mutual holding company must allocate the shares among the eligible or supplemental eligible account holders equitably, based on the amounts of qualifying deposits. The mutual holding company must describe this method of allocation in its plan of conversion.

(5) If shares remain after the mutual holding company has allocated shares as provided in paragraphs (l)(1) and (l)(2) of this section, and if the voting members oversubscribe, the mutual holding company must allocate the conversion shares among those members equitably. The mutual holding company must describe the method of allocation in its plan of conversion.
