
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### ยง 239.62 Liquidation accounts.
####### Liquidation sub-accounts.

(b)(1)(i) The resulting stock holding company determines the initial sub-account balance for a savings account held by an eligible account holder by multiplying the initial balance of the liquidation account by the following fraction: The numerator is the qualifying deposit in the savings account on the eligibility record date. The denominator is total qualifying deposits of all eligible account holders on that date.

(ii) The resulting stock holding company determines the initial sub-account balance for a savings account held by a supplemental eligible account holder by multiplying the initial balance of the liquidation account by the following fraction: The numerator is the qualifying deposit in the savings account on the supplemental eligibility record date. The denominator is total qualifying deposits of all supplemental eligible account holders on that date.

(iii) If an account holder holds a savings account on the eligibility record date and a separate savings account on the supplemental eligibility record date, the resulting stock holding company must compute separate sub-accounts for the qualifying deposits in the savings account on each record date.

(2) The resulting stock holding company may not increase the initial sub-account balances. The resulting stock holding company must decrease the initial balance under ยง 239.62(d) as depositors reduce or close their accounts.
