
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### ยง 239.63 Post-conversion.
####### Management stock benefit plans.

(a)(1) During the 12 months after the conversion, the resulting stock holding company may implement a stock option plan (Option Plan), an employee stock ownership plan or other tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan (collectively, ESOP), and a management recognition plan (MRP), provided the resulting stock holding company meets all of the following requirements.

(i) The resulting stock holding company discloses the plans in the proxy statement and offering circular and indicates in the offering circular that there will be a separate shareholder vote on the Option Plan and the MRP at least six months after the conversion. No shareholder vote is required to implement the ESOP. The ESOP must be tax-qualified.

(ii) The Option Plan does not exceed more than ten percent of the number of shares that the resulting stock holding company issued in the conversion.

(iii)(A) The ESOP and MRP do not exceed, in the aggregate, more than ten percent of the number of shares that the resulting stock holding company issued in the conversion. If the resulting stock holding company has tangible capital of ten percent or more following the conversion, the Board may permit the ESOP and MRP to represent, in the aggregate, up to 12 percent of the number of shares issued in the conversion; and

(B) The MRP does not exceed more than three percent of the number of shares that the resulting stock holding company issued in the conversion. If the resulting stock holding company has tangible capital of ten percent or more after the conversion, the Board may permit the MRP to represent up to four percent of the number of shares that the resulting stock holding company issued in the conversion.

(iv) No individual receives more than 25 percent of the shares under any plan.

(v) The directors who are not the officers do not receive more than five percent of the shares of the MRP or Option Plan individually, or 30 percent of any such plan in the aggregate.

(vi) The shareholders approve each of the Option Plan and the MRP by a majority of the total votes eligible to be cast at a duly called meeting before the resulting stock holding company establishes or implements the plan. The resulting stock holding company may not hold this meeting until six months after the conversion.

(vii) When the resulting stock holding company distributes proxies or related material to shareholders in connection with the vote on a plan, the resulting stock holding company states that the plan complies with Board regulations and that the Board does not endorse or approve the plan in any way. The resulting stock holding company may not make any written or oral representations to the contrary.

(viii) The resulting stock holding company does not grant stock options at less than the market price at the time of grant.

(ix) The resulting stock holding company does not fund the Option Plan or the MRP at the time of the conversion.

(x) The plan does not begin to vest earlier than one year after shareholders approve the plan, and does not vest at a rate exceeding 20 percent per year.

(xi) The plan permits accelerated vesting only for disability or death, or if the resulting stock holding company undergoes a change of control.

(xii) The plan provides that the executive officers or directors must exercise or forfeit their options in the event the institution becomes critically undercapitalized under the applicable regulatory capital requirements, is subject to Board enforcement action, or receives a capital directive under ยง 263.83 of this chapter.

(xiii) The resulting stock holding company files a copy of the proposed Option Plan or MRP with the Board and certifies to the Board that the plan approved by the shareholders is the same plan that the resulting stock holding company filed with, and disclosed in, the proxy materials distributed to shareholders in connection with the vote on the plan.

(xiv) The resulting stock holding company files the plan and the certification with the Board within five calendar days after the shareholders approve the plan.

(2) The resulting stock holding company may provide dividend equivalent rights or dividend adjustment rights to allow for stock splits or other adjustments to the stock in the ESOP, MRP, and Option Plan.

(3) The restrictions in paragraph (a)(1) of this section do not apply to plans implemented more than 12 months after the conversion, provided that materials pertaining to any shareholder vote regarding such plans are not distributed within the 12 months after the conversion. If a plan adopted in conformity with paragraph (a)(1) of this section is amended more than 12 months following the conversion, the shareholders must ratify any material deviations to the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
