
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### ยง 239.62 Liquidation accounts.
####### Adjusting liquidation sub-accounts.

(d)(1)(i) The resulting stock holding company must reduce the balance of an eligible account holder's or supplemental eligible account holder's sub-account if the deposit balance in the account holder's savings account at the close of business on any annual closing date, which for purposes of this section is the fiscal year end, after the relevant eligibility record dates is less than:

(A) The deposit balance in the account holder's savings account at the close of business on any other annual closing date after the relevant eligibility record date; or

(B) The qualifying deposits in the account holder's savings account on the relevant eligibility record date.

(ii) The reduction must be proportionate to the reduction in the deposit balance.

(2) If the resulting stock holding company reduces the balance of a liquidation sub-account, the resulting stock holding company may not subsequently increase it if the deposit balance increases.

(3) The resulting stock holding company is not required to adjust the liquidation account and sub-account balances at each annual closing date if it maintains sufficient records to make the computations if a liquidation subsequently occurs.

(4) The resulting stock holding company must maintain the liquidation sub-account for each account holder as long as the account holder maintains an account with the same social security number or tax identification number, as applicable.

(5) If there is a complete liquidation, the resulting stock holding company must provide each account holder with a liquidation distribution in the amount of the sub-account balance.
