
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### § 239.63 Post-conversion.
####### Eligibility to acquire shares after conversion.

(f)(1) For three years after the resulting stock holding company converts, no person may, directly or indirectly, acquire or offer to acquire the beneficial ownership of more than ten percent of any class of the equity securities without the Board's prior written approval. If a person violates this prohibition, the resulting stock holding company may not permit the person to vote shares in excess of ten percent, and may not count the shares in excess of ten percent in any shareholder vote.

(2) A person acquires beneficial ownership of more than ten percent of a class of shares when he or she holds any combination of the stock or revocable or irrevocable proxies under circumstances that give rise to a conclusive control determination or rebuttable control determination under §§ 238.21(a) and (d) of this chapter. The Board will presume that a person has acquired shares if the acquiror entered into a binding written agreement for the transfer of shares. For purposes of this section, an offer is made when it is communicated. An offer does not include non-binding expressions of understanding or letters of intent regarding the terms of a potential acquisition.

(3) Notwithstanding the restrictions in this section:

(i) Paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section do not apply to any offer with a view toward public resale made exclusively to the resulting stock holding company, to the underwriters, or to a selling group acting on behalf of the resulting savings association.

(ii) Unless the Board objects in writing, any person may offer or announce an offer to acquire up to one percent of any class of shares. In computing the one percent limit, the person must include all of his or her acquisitions of the same class of shares during the prior 12 months.

(iii) A corporation whose ownership is, or will be, substantially the same as the ownership may acquire or offer to acquire more than ten percent of the common stock, if it makes the offer or acquisition more than one year after the resulting stock holding company converts.

(iv) One or more of the tax-qualified employee stock benefit plans may acquire the shares, if the plan or plans do not beneficially own more than 25 percent of any class of shares of the resulting savings association in the aggregate.

(v) An acquiror does not have to file a separate application to obtain Board approval under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, if the acquiror files an application under part 238 of this chapter that specifically addresses the criteria listed under paragraph (f)(4) of this section and the resulting stock holding company does not oppose the proposed acquisition.

(4) The Board may deny an application under paragraph (f)(1) of this section if the proposed acquisition:

(i) Is contrary to the purposes of this subpart;

(ii) Is manipulative or deceptive;

(iii) Subverts the fairness of the conversion;

(iv) Is likely to injure the resulting stock holding company;

(v) Is inconsistent with the plan to meet the credit and lending needs of the proposed market area;

(vi) Otherwise violates laws or regulations; or

(vii) Does not prudently deploy the conversion proceeds.
