
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### ยง 239.63 Post-conversion.
####### Board review of repurchase of conversion shares.

(d)(1) To repurchase stock in the first year following conversion, other than repurchases under paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) or (c)(1)(iv) of this section, the resulting stock holding company must file a written notice with the appropriate Reserve Bank. The resulting stock holding company must provide the following information:

(i) The proposed repurchase program;

(ii) The effect of the repurchases on the regulatory capital and other capital levels; and

(iii) The purpose of the repurchases and, if applicable, an explanation of the extraordinary circumstances necessitating the repurchases.

(2) The resulting stock holding company must file the notice with the appropriate Reserve Bank at least thirty days before the resulting stock holding company begins the repurchase program. The Board may extend its review of the notice for an additional sixty days.

(3) The resulting stock holding company may not repurchase the shares if the Board objects to the repurchase program. The Board will not object to the repurchase program if:

(i) The repurchase program will not adversely affect the financial condition of the resulting savings association;

(ii) The resulting stock holding company submits sufficient information to evaluate the proposed repurchases;

(iii) The resulting stock holding company demonstrate extraordinary circumstances and a compelling and valid business purpose for the share repurchases; and

(iv) The repurchase program would not be contrary to other applicable regulations.
