
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### ยง 239.63 Post-conversion.
####### Repurchase of conversion shares.

(c)(1) The resulting stock holding company may not repurchase its shares in the first year after the conversion except:

(i) In extraordinary circumstances, the resulting stock holding company may make open market repurchases of up to five percent of the outstanding stock in the first year after the conversion if the resulting stock holding company files a notice under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and the Board does not disapprove the repurchase. The Board will not approve such repurchases unless the repurchase meets the standards in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and the repurchase is consistent with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(ii) The resulting stock holding company may repurchase qualifying shares of a director or conduct a Board approved repurchase pursuant to an offer made to all shareholders of the stock holding company.

(iii) Repurchases to fund management recognition plans that have been ratified by shareholders do not count toward the repurchase limitations in this section. Repurchases in the first year to fund such plans require prior written notification to the Board.

(iv) Purchases to fund tax qualified employee stock benefit plans do not count toward the repurchase limitations in this section.

(2) After the first year, the resulting stock holding company may repurchase the shares, subject to all other applicable regulatory and supervisory restrictions and paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(3) All stock repurchases are subject to the following restrictions.

(i) The resulting stock holding company may not repurchase the shares if the repurchase will reduce its applicable capital levels below the amount required for the liquidation account under ยง 239.62(a). The resulting stock holding company must comply with the capital distribution requirements of this subpart.

(ii) The restrictions on share repurchases apply to a charitable organization under ยง 239.64(b). The resulting stock holding company must aggregate purchases of shares by the charitable organization with the repurchases.
