
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Subpart E - Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form
###### ยง 239.66 Board review of the voluntary supervisory conversion application.
####### Conditions the Board may impose on an approval.

(b)(1) The Board will condition approval of a voluntary supervisory conversion application on all of the following.

(i) The conversion stock sale must be complete within three months after the Board approves the application. The Board may grant an extension for good cause.

(ii) The mutual holding company and the resulting stock holding company must comply with all filing requirements of subpart E of this part.

(iii) The mutual holding company must submit an opinion of independent legal counsel indicating that the sale of the shares complies with all applicable state securities law requirements.

(iv) The mutual holding company and the resulting stock holding company must comply with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations.

(v) The mutual holding company and the resulting stock holding company must satisfy any other requirements or conditions the Board may impose.

(2) The Board may condition approval of a voluntary supervisory conversion application on either of the following:

(i) The mutual holding company and the resulting stock holding company must satisfy any conditions and restrictions the Board imposes to prevent unsafe or unsound practices, to protect the Deposit Insurance Fund and the public interest, and to prevent potential injury or detriment to the mutual holding company before and after the conversion. The Board may impose these conditions and restrictions on the mutual holding company and the resulting stock holding company (before and after the conversion), the acquiror, controlling parties, or directors and officers of the mutual holding company or the acquiror; or

(ii) The mutual holding company or the resulting stock holding company must infuse a larger amount of capital, if necessary, for safety and soundness reasons.
