
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 239 - MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION MM)
##### Appendix D to Part 239 - Subsidiary Holding Company of a Mutual Holding Company Model Bylaws
###### etc.

Section 3. Checks; Drafts.All checks, drafts, or other orders for the payment of money, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Subsidiary Holding Company shall be signed by one or more officers, employees or agents of the Subsidiary Holding Company in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by the board of directors.

Section 4. Deposits. All funds of the Subsidiary Holding Company not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Subsidiary Holding Company in any duly authorized depositories as the board of directors may select.

Section 1. Certificates for Shares. Certificates representing shares of capital stock of the Subsidiary Holding Company shall be in such form as shall be determined by the board of directors and approved by the Board. Such certificates shall be signed by the chief executive officer or by any other officer of the Subsidiary Holding Company authorized by the board of directors, attested by the secretary or an assistant secretary, and sealed with the corporate seal or a facsimile thereof. The signatures of such officers upon a certificate may be facsimiles if the certificate is manually signed on behalf of a transfer agent or a registrar other than the Subsidiary Holding Company itself or one of its employees. Each certificate for shares of capital stock shall be consecutively numbered or otherwise identified. The name and address of the person to whom the shares are issued, with the number of shares and date of issue, shall be entered on the stock transfer books of the Subsidiary Holding Company. All certificates surrendered to the Subsidiary Holding Company for transfer shall be canceled and no new certificate shall be issued until the former certificate for a like number of shares has been surrendered and canceled, except that in the case of a lost or destroyed certificate, a new certificate may be issued upon such terms and indemnity to the Subsidiary Holding Company as the board of directors may prescribe.

Section 2. Transfer of Shares. Transfer of shares of capital stock of the Subsidiary Holding Company shall be made only on its stock transfer books. Authority for such transfer shall be given only by the holder of record or by his or her legal representative, who shall furnish proper evidence of such authority, or by his or her attorney authorized by a duly executed power of attorney and filed with the Subsidiary Holding Company. Such transfer shall be made only on surrender for cancellation of the certificate for such shares. The person in whose name shares of capital stock stand on the books of the Subsidiary Holding Company shall be deemed by the Subsidiary Holding Company to be the owner for all purposes.

The fiscal year of the Subsidiary Holding Company shall end on the ________of________each year. The appointment of accountants shall be subject to annual ratification by the shareholders.

Subject to the terms of the Subsidiary Holding Company's charter and the regulations and orders of the Board, the board of directors may, from time to time, declare, and the Subsidiary Holding Company may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares of capital stock.

The board of directors shall provide a Subsidiary Holding Company seal, which shall be two concentric circles between which shall be the name of the Subsidiary Holding Company. The year of incorporation or an emblem may appear in the center.

These bylaws may be amended in a manner consistent with regulations of the Board and shall be effective after: (i) approval of the amendment by a majority vote of the authorized board of directors, or by a majority vote of the votes cast by the shareholders of the Subsidiary Holding Company at any legal meeting, and (ii) receipt of any applicable regulatory approval. When a Subsidiary Holding Company fails to meet its quorum requirements, solely due to vacancies on the board, then the affirmative vote of a majority of the sitting board will be required to amend the bylaws.
