
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 3 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY STANDARDS
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### § 3.2 Definitions.
###### Exposure amount

means:

(1) For the on-balance sheet component of an exposure (other than an available-for-sale or held-to-maturity security, if the national bank or Federal savings association has made an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in § 3.22(b)(2)); an OTC derivative contract; a repo-style transaction or an eligible margin loan for which the national bank or Federal savings association determines the exposure amount under § 3.37; a cleared transaction; a default fund contribution; or a securitization exposure), the national bank's or Federal savings association's carrying value of the exposure.

(2) For a security (that is not a securitization exposure, equity exposure, or preferred stock classified as an equity security under GAAP) classified as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity if the national bank or Federal savings association has made an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in § 3.22(b)(2)), the national bank's or Federal savings association's carrying value (including net accrued but unpaid interest and fees) for the exposure less any net unrealized gains on the exposure and plus any net unrealized losses on the exposure.

(3) For available-for-sale preferred stock classified as an equity security under GAAP if the national bank or Federal savings association has made an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in § 3.22(b)(2)), the national bank's or Federal savings association's carrying value of the exposure less any net unrealized gains on the exposure that are reflected in such carrying value but excluded from the national bank's or Federal savings association's regulatory capital components.

(4) For the off-balance sheet component of an exposure (other than an OTC derivative contract; a repo-style transaction or an eligible margin loan for which the national bank or Federal savings association calculates the exposure amount under § 3.37; a cleared transaction; a default fund contribution; or a securitization exposure), the notional amount of the off-balance sheet component multiplied by the appropriate credit conversion factor (CCF) in § 3.33.

(5) For an exposure that is an OTC derivative contract, the exposure amount determined under § 3.34.

(6) For an exposure that is a cleared transaction, the exposure amount determined under § 3.35.

(7) For an exposure that is an eligible margin loan or repo-style transaction for which the bank calculates the exposure amount as provided in § 3.37, the exposure amount determined under § 3.37.

(8) For an exposure that is a securitization exposure, the exposure amount determined under § 3.42.
