
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 250 - MISCELLANEOUS INTERPRETATIONS
##### Interpretations
###### ยง 250.166 Treatment of mandatory convertible debt and subordinated notes of state member banks and bank holding companies as "capital".
####### Provisions inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices.

(3)(i) The risk-based capital guidelines state that instruments included in capital may not contain or be covered by any covenants, terms, or restrictions that are inconsistent with safe and sound banking practice. As a general matter, capital instruments should not contain terms that could adversely affect liquidity or unduly restrict management's flexibility to run the organization, particularly in times of financial difficulty, or that could limit the regulator's ability to resolve problem bank situations. For example, some subordinated debt includes covenants that would not allow the banking organization to make additional secured or senior borrowings. Other covenants would prohibit a banking organization from disposing of a major subsidiary or undergoing a change in control. Such covenants could restrict the banking organization's ability to raise funds to meet its liquidity needs. In addition, such terms or conditions limit the ability of bank supervisors to resolve problem bank situations through a change in control.

(ii) Certain other provisions found in subordinated debt may provide protection to investors in subordinated debt without adversely affecting the overall benefits of the instrument to the organization. For example, some instruments include covenants that may require the banking organization to:

(A) Maintain an office or agency where securities may be presented,

(B) Hold payments on the securities in trust,

(C) Preserve the rights and franchises of the company,

(D) Pay taxes and assessments before they become delinquent,

(E) Provide an annual statement of compliance on whether the company has observed all conditions of the debt agreement, or

(F) Maintain its properties in good condition. Such covenants, as long as they do not unduly restrict the activity of the banking organization, generally would be acceptable in qualifying subordinated debt, provided that failure to meet them does not give the holders of the debt the right to accelerate the debt.
