
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 5 - RULES, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES FOR CORPORATE ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart D - Other Changes in Activities and Operations
##### ยง 5.43 National bank director residency and citizenship waivers.
###### Appeal.

(e)(1) A director or national bank, or both, may seek review by appealing the OCC's decision to revoke a residency or citizenship waiver to the Comptroller, or an authorized delegate, within 15 days of the receipt of the OCC's written decision to revoke. The director or national bank, or both, may appeal on the grounds that the reasons for revocation are contrary to fact or arbitrary and capricious. The appellant must submit all documents and written arguments that the appellant wishes to be considered in support of the appeal.

(2) The Comptroller, or an authorized delegate, may designate an appellate official who was not previously involved in the decision leading to the appeal at issue. The Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official considers all information submitted with the original application for the residency or citizenship waiver, the material before the OCC official who made the initial decision, and any information submitted by the appellant at the time of appeal.

(3) The Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official will independently determine whether the reasons given for the initial decision to revoke are contrary to fact or arbitrary and capricious. If they determine either to be the case, the Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official may reverse the initial decision to revoke the waiver.

(4) Upon completion of the review, the Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official will notify the appellant in writing of the decision. If the initial decision is upheld, the decision to revoke the waiver is effective pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.
