
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 253 - REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE ADJUSTABLE INTEREST RATE (LIBOR) ACT (REGULATION ZZ)
##### Appendix A to Part 253 - ISDA Protocol
###### Trade Date

means, in respect of a Protocol Covered Confirmation (other than a master confirmation agreement, including any related general terms confirmation), the date on which the parties enter into the related transaction.

The purpose of this letter is to confirm our adherence to the ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) on October 23, 2020 (the Protocol). By submitting this Adherence Letter, we confirm that we are an Adhering Party to the Protocol. This letter constitutes, as between each other Adhering Party and us, an Adherence Letter as referred to in the Protocol. The definitions and provisions contained in the Protocol are incorporated into this Adherence Letter, which will supplement and form part of each Protocol Covered Document between us and each other Adhering Party.

As between each Adhering Party and us, we acknowledge and agree that the amendments in the Attachment to the Protocol shall apply to each Protocol Covered Document to which we are a party in accordance with the terms of the Protocol and this Adherence Letter.

We hereby appoint ISDA as our agent for the limited purposes of the Protocol and accordingly we waive any rights and hereby release ISDA from any claims, actions or causes of action whatsoever (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or in any way relating to this Adherence Letter or our adherence to the Protocol or any actions contemplated as being required by ISDA.

By adhering to the Protocol, we agree that all claims or disputes arising out of or in connection with adherence to the Protocol shall be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce (the Rules) by three arbitrators, and hereby waive any right to assert any such claims or disputes against ISDA as a representative or member in any class or representative action. The claimant(s) (as defined in the Rules) shall nominate one arbitrator in the `Request for Arbitration'. The respondent(s) (as defined in the Rules) shall nominate one arbitrator in the `Answer to the Request'. The two party-nominated arbitrators shall then have 30 days to agree, in consultation with the parties to the arbitration, upon the nomination of a third arbitrator to act as president of the tribunal, barring which the International Chamber of Commerce Court shall select the third arbitrator (or any arbitrator that claimant(s) or respondent(s) shall fail to nominate in accordance with the foregoing). This agreement to arbitrate shall not be affected by the Revocation Notice as described in the Protocol.

Each Adhering Party or, if such Adhering Party is a Client on whose behalf an Agent adheres to this Protocol, each Agent, that is classified by ISDA for purposes of membership of ISDA as an "ISDA Primary Member" must submit a one-time fee of U.S. $500 to ISDA at or before the submission of this Adherence Letter. Each Adhering Party or, if such Adhering Party is a Client on whose behalf an Agent adheres to this Protocol, each Agent, which is not an "ISDA Primary Member" is not required to submit a fee to ISDA if this Adherence Letter is submitted prior to the Protocol Effective Date. If an Adhering Party or, if such Adhering Party is a Client on whose behalf an Agent adheres to this Protocol, an Agent, which is not an "ISDA Primary Member" submits this Adherence Letter on or after the Protocol Effective Date, such Adhering Party or Agent (as applicable) must submit a one-time fee of U.S. $500 to ISDA at or before the submission of this Adherence Letter.

Our contact details for purposes of this Adherence Letter are:

We consent to the publication of a conformed copy of this letter by ISDA and to the disclosure by ISDA of the contents of this letter.

Specify legal name of Adhering Party.

If you are an Agent, you may sign the Adherence Letter using one of the options below. Please note that, if you would like to adhere on behalf of yourself, as principal, and also on behalf of your Clients, as Agent, you must submit one adherence letter for yourself, as principal, and a second adherence letter on behalf of your Clients, as Agent, in the latter case, in accordance with one of the options set out below.

First, if you have the authority to adhere to this Protocol as Agent on behalf of all Clients, you may indicate the following in the signature block: "acting on behalf of [(a)] each fund, account or other principal (each, a "Client") on whose behalf we have entered, or will enter, into a Protocol Covered Document and any New Clients added to an Agent Protocol Covered Document in the future [and (b) in respect of any Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents, each Client which we name or identify through a Platform as being a Client in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) of the Protocol applies]". If such a signature block is used, a separate Adherence Letter for each Client does not need to be submitted to ISDA and no specific names of Clients must be identified through a Platform (except if you elect for Option 2 in this Adherence Letter, in which case the Clients on whose behalf you are amending Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents should be identified through such Platform; you will be responsible for identifying such Clients and providing their LEIs. If you cannot or do not wish to name such Clients, then provided that you can identify the Clients by way of LEIs, you may identify such Clients using LEIs and without including any names). If you do not elect for Option 2 in this Adherence Letter, you should delete the wording in square brackets in the signature block.

Second, if you adhere to this Protocol as an agent on behalf of certain Clients only by specifically identifying such Clients, you may indicate the following in the signature block: "acting on behalf of [(a)] each fund, account or other principal (each a "Client") which we name or identify through a Platform as being a Client on whose behalf we have entered, or will enter, into a Protocol Covered Document and any New Clients added to an Agent Protocol Covered Document and identified through a Platform as a New Client [and (b) in respect of any Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents, each Client which we name or identify through a Platform as being a Client in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) of the Protocol applies]". You will be responsible for identifying any Clients on whose behalf you have entered into, or will enter into, a Protocol Covered Document, any New Clients and any Clients on whose behalf you amend Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents and, in each case, providing their LEIs. If you cannot or do not wish to name such Clients, then provided that you can identify the Clients by way of LEIs, you may identify such Clients using LEIs and without including any names. If you do not elect for Option 2 in this Adherence Letter, you should delete the wording in square brackets in the signature block.

Third, if you adhere to this Protocol as an agent on behalf of certain Clients only by excluding certain Clients, you may indicate the following in the signature block: "acting on behalf of [(a)] each fund, account or other principal (each, a "Client") on whose behalf we have entered, or will enter, into a Protocol Covered Document (except for those Clients which we identify through a Platform as excluded from adherence) and any New Clients added to an Agent Protocol Covered Document (except for any New Clients which we identify through a Platform as excluded from adherence) [and (b) in respect of any Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents, each Client which we name or identify through a Platform as being a Client in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) of the Protocol applies]". You will be responsible for identifying any excluded Clients and any Clients on whose behalf you amend Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents and, in each case, for providing their LEIs. If you cannot or do not wish to name those excluded Clients or those Clients on whose behalf you are amending Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents, then provided that you can identify them by way of LEIs, you may identify those Clients using LEIs and without including any names. If you do not elect for Option 2 in this Adherence Letter, you should delete the wording in square brackets in the signature block.

Fourth, if you adhere to this Protocol as an agent on behalf of no current Clients, you may indicate the following in the signature block: "acting to amend each Protocol Covered Document (or other agreement which deems a Protocol Covered Document to have been created) between it (as agent) and each Adhering Party, with respect to New Clients."

As between each Adhering Party and us, we acknowledge and agree that the amendments in the Attachment to the Protocol shall apply to each:

&#x25A1; Protocol Covered Document into which we have entered on behalf of one or more Clients covered in accordance with the terms of the Protocol and this Adherence Letter (as contemplated by Option 1 in the Protocol); or

&#x25A1; Protocol Covered Document into (i) which we have entered on behalf of one or more Clients covered in accordance with the terms of the Protocol and this Adherence Letter and (ii) which we did not enter on behalf of one or more Clients but which we otherwise have the authority from the relevant Client to amend in accordance with and subject to the terms of the Protocol and this Adherence Letter (as contemplated by Option 2 in the Protocol).

We agree, in our capacity as Agent for the relevant Client(s), to provide each other Adhering Party, as soon as reasonably practicable following such other Adhering Party's written request (including by email), and in any event by no later than the end of the fifteenth calendar day following such request (and as required by and in accordance with subparagraph 3(g)(iv) of the Protocol), with reasonable evidence satisfactory to such other Adhering Party in its sole discretion supporting our authority to amend any Protocol Covered Document into which we did not enter on behalf of one or more Clients (whose name or identity we communicate to the other Adhering Party through a Platform as being a Client in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) of the Protocol applies).

Failure to provide an Adhering Party with such evidence shall (unless the Agent is deemed to have provided such evidence, pursuant to subparagraph 3(g)(iv) of the Protocol), only in respect of those Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents between the relevant Client(s) and such Adhering Party, result in this Adherence Letter being ineffective unless and until we, in our capacity as Agent for the relevant Client(s), are deemed to have provided that Adhering Party with such evidence pursuant to subparagraph 3(g)(iv) of the Protocol. Failure to provide an Adhering Party with such evidence shall not give rise to a Potential Event of Default or an Event of Default (each as defined in the ISDA Master Agreement), or any similar event, under those Protocol Covered Documents or other contractual right of action under this Protocol or those Protocol Covered Documents.

The descriptions of Option 1 and Option 2 in this Adherence Letter and of related provisions within the Protocol are intended for convenience of reference only. Adhering Parties should read the provisions of the Protocol before submitting an Adherence Letter. In the event of any inconsistency between the descriptions of Option 1 and Option 2 and related provisions in this Adherence Letter and the provisions of the Protocol, the provisions of the Protocol shall take precedence.

The purpose of this letter is to notify you that we wish to designate a Revocation Date as the last date on which an Implementation Date can occur pursuant to the terms of the ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) on October 23, 2020 (the Protocol) in respect of any Protocol Covered Document between us and any other Adhering Party.

This letter constitutes a Revocation Notice as referred to in the Protocol.

We consent to the publication of the conformed copy of this notice by ISDA on and after the Revocation Date and to the disclosure by ISDA of the contents of this letter.

Specify legal name of Adhering Party.

If you are an Agent and act on behalf of multiple Clients, you may sign a Revocation Notice using one of the methods below. Alternatively, you may submit one Revocation Notice per Client.

First, if you have the authority to deliver a Revocation Notice for this Protocol as Agent on behalf of all Clients, you may indicate the following in the signature block: "acting on behalf of each fund, account or other principal (each, a "Client") represented by us (as agent)" or such other language which indicates the Clients to which this letter is applicable. If such a signature block is used, a separate Revocation Notice for each Client does not need to be submitted to ISDA and no specific names of Clients must be identified in the Revocation Notice.

Second, if you have the authority to deliver a Revocation Notice for this Protocol as Agent on behalf of certain Clients only, you may indicate the following in the signature block: "acting on behalf of each fund, account or other principal (each, a "Client") represented by us (as agent) identified in the Revocation Notice or an appendix thereto". If you cannot or do not wish to name such Clients, then provided that you can identify the revoking Clients by way of specific identifiers which will be known and recognized by allAdhering Parties with which the relevant Clients have entered into Confirmations, Master Agreements and/or credit support documents, you may identify such revoking Clients using specific identifiers and without including any names.

Paragraph 1(e) of the Protocol sets out the consequences of a Revocation Notice where an Agent adheres to the Protocol on behalf of a Client.

(a) 2001 FBF Master Agreement relating to Transactions on Forward Financial Instruments.

(b) 2007 FBF Master Agreement relating to Transactions on Forward Financial Instruments.

(c) 2013 FBF Master Agreement relating to Transactions on Forward Financial Instruments.

(d) 1994 AFB Master Agreement for Foreign Exchange and Derivatives Transactions.

(e) 1997 AFTI/FBF Master Agreement for Loans of Securities.

(f) 2007 AFTI/FBF Master Agreement for Loans of Securities.

(g) 2007 FBF Master Agreement for Repurchase Transactions.

(h) 1994 AFTB Master Agreement for Repurchase Transactions with Delivery of Securities.

(i) Execution Annex with respect to the AFB/FBF 1994/2001/2007/2013 Master Agreements.

(j) 1997 Spanish Master Agreement (Contrato Marco de Operaciones Financieras or CMOF) published by Asociaci&#xF3;n Espa&#xF1;ola de Banca (Spanish Banking Association) and Confederaci&#xF3;n Espa&#xF1;ola de Cajas de Ahorros (Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks).

(k) Annex III to the 1997 Spanish Master Agreement (Contrato Marco de Operaciones Financieras or CMOF) published by Asociaci&#xF3;n Espa&#xF1;ola de Banca (Spanish Banking Association) and Confederaci&#xF3;n Espa&#xF1;ola de Cajas de Ahorros (Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks).

(l) 2009 Spanish Master Agreement (Contrato Marco de Operaciones Financieras or CMOF) published by Asociaci&#xF3;n Espa&#xF1;ola de Banca (Spanish Banking Association) and Confederaci&#xF3;n Espa&#xF1;ola de Cajas de Ahorros (Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks).

(m) Annex III to the 2009 Spanish Master Agreement (Contrato Marco de Operaciones Financieras or CMOF) published by Asociaci&#xF3;n Espa&#xF1;ola de Banca (Spanish Banking Association) and Confederaci&#xF3;n Espa&#xF1;ola de Cajas de Ahorros (Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks).

(n) 2013 Spanish Master Agreement (Contrato Marco de Operaciones Financieras or CMOF) published by Asociaci&#xF3;n Espa&#xF1;ola de Banca (Spanish Banking Association) and Confederaci&#xF3;n Espa&#xF1;ola de Cajas de Ahorros (Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks).

(o) Annex III to the 2013 Spanish Master Agreement (Contrato Marco de Operaciones Financieras or CMOF) published by Asociaci&#xF3;n Espa&#xF1;ola de Banca (Spanish Banking Association) and Confederaci&#xF3;n Espa&#xF1;ola de Cajas de Ahorros (Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks).

(p) 2003 Swiss Master Agreement for OTC Derivative Instruments published by the Swiss Bankers Association.

(q) 2013 Swiss Master Agreement for OTC Derivative Instruments published by the Swiss Bankers Association (for use in connection with certain ISDA definitions).

(r) 2013 Swiss Master Agreement for OTC Derivative Instruments published by the Swiss Bankers Association (non-ISDA version not for use in connection with any ISDA definitions).

(s) 1999 Bilateral Swiss Master Agreement for Repo Transactions published by the Swiss Bankers Association.

(t) 1999 Multilateral Swiss Master Agreement for Repo Transactions published by the Swiss Bankers Association.

(u) 2011 Swiss Master Agreement for Securities Lending and Borrowing prepared by the Swiss Bankers Association.

(v) 2001 Master Agreement for Financial Transactions sponsored by the Banking Federation of the European Union (EBF or FBE) in cooperation with the European Savings Banks Group (ESBG) and the European Association of Cooperative Banks (EACB).

(w) 2004 Master Agreement for Financial Transactions sponsored by the Banking Federation of the European Union (EBF or FBE) in cooperation with the European Savings Banks Group (ESBG) and the European Association of Cooperative Banks (EACB).

(x) 2020 Master Agreement for Financial Transactions sponsored by the Banking Federation of the European Union (EBF or FBE) in cooperation with the European Savings Banks Group (ESBG) and the European Association of Cooperative Banks (EACB).

(y) Austrian Master Agreement for Financial Transactions (&#xD6;sterreichischer Rahmenvertrag f&#xFC;r Finanztermingesch&#xE4;fte or &#xD6;RV).

(z) 1997 International Foreign Exchange and Options Master Agreement (FEOMA).

(aa) 1993 International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement (IFEMA).

(bb) 1997 International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement (IFEMA).

(cc) 1997 International Currency Options Market (ICOM) Master Agreement.

(dd) 2005 International Foreign Exchange and Currency Option Master Agreement (IFXCO).

(ee) 1992 PSA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement (GMRA).

(ff) 1995 PSA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement (GMRA).

(gg) 2000 TBMA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement (GMRA).

(hh) 2011 SIFMA/ICMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement (GMRA).

(ii) 2000 ISLA Global Master Securities Lending Agreement (GMSLA).

(jj) 2010 ISLA Global Master Securities Lending Agreement (GMSLA).

(kk) 2018 ISLA Global Master Securities Lending Agreement (GMSLA)-Security Interest over Collateral.

(ll) 1993 TBMA/SIA Master Securities Loan Agreement (MSLA).

(mm) 2000 TBMA/SIA Master Securities Loan Agreement (MSLA).

(nn) 2017 SIFMA Master Securities Loan Agreement (MSLA).

(oo) 1987 PSA Master Repurchase Agreement (MRA).

(pp) 1996 TBMA Master Repurchase Agreement (MRA).

(qq) 2000 SIFMA Master OTC Options Agreement.

(rr) 1989 TBMA Master Dealer Agreement, OTC Option Transaction-U.S. Treasury Securities.

(ss) Emissions Master LF-IETA Master Agreement.

(tt) WSPP Agreement.

(uu) 2004 FIA Grid Trade Master Agreement.

(vv) EEI Master Power Purchase & Sale Agreement. (ww)

EL Master-Electricity Power Master Agreement.

(xx) 1994 LBMA/FEC International Bullion Master Agreement (English law version).

(yy) 1994 LBMA/FEC International Bullion Master Agreement (New York law version).

(zz) 1997 ASLA Australian Master Securities Lending Agreement (AMSLA).

(aaa) 2002 ASLA Australian Master Securities Lending Agreement (AMSLA).

(bbb) 2003 ASLA Australian Master Securities Lending Agreement (AMSLA).

(ccc) GISB Base Short-Term Contract for Sale and Purchase of Natural Gas.

(ddd) NAESB Base Contract for Sale and Purchase of Natural Gas.

(eee) 1996 Master Gilt Edged Stock Lending Agreement (GESLA).

(fff) 1996 Master Equity and Fixed Interest Stock Lending Agreement (MEFISLA).

(ggg) 1994 Equity and Fixed Interest Stock Lending (Agency) Agreement.

(hhh) 1994 Overseas Securities Lender's Agreement (OSLA).

(iii) 1995 Overseas Securities Lender's Agreement (OSLA).

(jjj) globalCOAL Standard Coal Trading Agreement (SCoTA).

(kkk) KOFIA Agreement on Margin Transactions.

(lll) KOFIA Agreement on Foreign Exchange Margin Trading.

(mmm) KOFIA Agreement on Securities Lending and Borrowing.

(nnn) KOFIA Agreement on Repurchase Agreement (Repo) between Institutions.

(ooo) KOFIA Agreement on Repurchase Agreement (Repo) with Customers.

(ppp) KOFIA best practice Korean language agreement template for OTC derivatives.

(qqq) Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (IIROC) Repurchase/Reverse Repurchase Transaction Agreement.
