
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 253 - REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE ADJUSTABLE INTEREST RATE (LIBOR) ACT (REGULATION ZZ)
##### Appendix A to Part 253 - ISDA Protocol
###### saiken tou no gensaki torihiki ni kansuru kihon keiyakusho,saiken tou no gensaki torihiki ni kansuru kihon keiyakusho fuzoku oboegaki

(ttt) Master Agreement Concerning Bond Repo Transactions () (including without limitation separate agreements to be executed pursuant to or in connection with that Master Agreement such as Supplemental Memorandum of Understanding ()) published by Japan Securities Dealers Association.

(uuu) Mexican Master Derivatives Agreement (Contrato Marco para Operaciones Financieras Derivadas) published by Asociaci&#xF3;n de Bancos de Mexico (ABM) y Asociaci&#xF3;n Mexicana de Instituciones Bursatiles (AMIB).

(vvv) Mexican Master Securities Purchase and Sale/Repo Agreement (Contrato Marco para Operaciones de Compraventa de Valores y Reporto) published by Asociaci&#xF3;n de Bancos de Mexico (ABM) y Asociaci&#xF3;n Mexicana de Instituciones Bursatiles (AMIB).

(a) 2007 FBF Collateral Annex.

(b) 1997 ABF Collateral Annex.

(c) AFB/FBF Addendum to the ISDA 2016 Credit Support Annex for Variation Margin (VM).

(d) 2008 Credit Support Appendix to the Swiss Master Agreement for OTC Derivative Instruments published by the Swiss Bankers Association.

(e) 2015 Credit Support Appendix to the Swiss Master Agreement for OTC Derivative Instruments published by the Swiss Bankers Association.

(f) Credit Support Appendix for Variation Margin to the Swiss Master Agreement for OTC Derivative Instruments published by the Swiss Bankers Association.

(g) Mexican Credit Support Agreement related to Derivatives (Contrato Global para Otorgar Garant&#xED;as respecto de Operaciones Financieras Derivadas) published by Asociaci&#xF3;n de Bancos de Mexico (ABM) y Asociaci&#xF3;n Mexicana de Instituciones Bursatiles (AMIB).

If a Protocol Covered Document incorporates the 2006 ISDA Definitions, the version of the 2006 ISDA Definitions so incorporated shall be amended in accordance with the terms of the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement (and, if that Protocol Covered Document is a Protocol Covered Master Agreement, any reference to a term defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions in a Confirmation which supplements, forms part of and is subject to that Protocol Covered Master Agreement will be a reference to the term as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions as amended in accordance with the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement).

If a Protocol Covered Document incorporates the 2000 ISDA Definitions, the version of the 2000 ISDA Definitions so incorporated shall be amended in accordance with the terms of the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement (and, if that Protocol Covered Document is a Protocol Covered Master Agreement, any reference to a term defined in the 2000 ISDA Definitions in a Confirmation which supplements, forms part of and is subject to that Protocol Covered Master Agreement will be a reference to the term as defined in the 2000 ISDA Definitions as amended in accordance with the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement), provided that the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement shall be deemed amended as follows:

(a) Each of the following sections shall be deleted:
