
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 261 - RULES REGARDING AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Published Information and Records Available to Public; Procedures for Requests
###### ยง 261.13 Responses to requests.

(a) When the Board receives a perfected request, it will conduct a reasonable search of Board records in its possession on the date the Board's search begins and will review any responsive information it locates.

(b) If a request covers documents that were created by, obtained from, or classified by another agency, the Board may refer the request for such documents to that agency for a response and inform the requester promptly of the referral.

(c) In responding to a request, the Board will withhold information under this section only if-

(1) The Board reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption described in ยง 261.15(a); or

(2) Disclosure is prohibited by law.

(d) The Board will take reasonable steps necessary to segregate and release nonexempt information.

(e) The Board will notify the requester of:

(1) The Board's determination of the request;

(2) The reasons for the determination;

(3) An estimate of the amount of information withheld, if any. An estimate is not required if the amount of information is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;

(4) The right of the requester to seek assistance from the Board's FOIA Public Liaison; and

(5) When an adverse determination is made, the Board will advise the requester in writing of that determination and will further advise the requester of:

(i) The right of the requester to appeal any adverse determination within 90 calendar days after the date of the determination as specified in ยง 261.14;

(ii) The right of the requester to seek dispute resolution services from the Board's FOIA Public Liaison or the Office of Government Information Services; and

(iii) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the adverse determination.

(f) Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that the requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited treatment.

(g) The Board will normally send responsive, nonexempt documents to the requester by email but may use other means as arranged between the Board and the requester or as determined by the Board. The Board will attempt to provide records in the format requested by the requester.
