
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 5 - RULES, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES FOR CORPORATE ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart D - Other Changes in Activities and Operations
##### ยง 5.50 Change in control of a national bank or Federal savings association; reporting of stock loans.
###### l

(A) The securities to be acquired or voted are subject to the registration requirements of section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78; or

(B) Immediately after the transaction no other person will own or have the power to vote a greater proportion of that class of voting securities.

(iv) The OCC will consider a rebuttal of the presumption of control where the person or company intends to have no more than one representative on the board of directors of the national bank or Federal savings association.

(v) The presumption of control may not be rebutted if the total equity investment by the person or company in the national bank or Federal savings association, including 15 percent or more of any class of voting securities, equals or exceeds one third of the total equity of the national bank or Federal savings association.

(vi) Other transactions resulting in a person's control of less than 25 percent of a class of voting securities of a national bank or Federal savings association are not deemed by the OCC to result in control for purposes of this section.

(vii) If two or more persons, not acting in concert, each propose to acquire simultaneously equal percentages of 10 percent or more of a class of a national bank's or Federal savings association's voting securities, and either the acquisitions are of a class of securities subject to the registration requirements of section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78l, or immediately after the transaction no other shareholder of the national bank or Federal savings association would own or have the power to vote a greater percentage of the class, each of the acquiring persons must either file a notice or rebut the presumption of control.

(viii) An acquiring person may seek to rebut a presumption established in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section by presenting relevant information in writing to the appropriate OCC licensing office. The OCC will respond in writing to any person that seeks to rebut the presumption of control or the presumption of concerted action. No rebuttal filing is effective unless the OCC indicates in writing that the information submitted has been found to be sufficient to rebut the presumption of control.
