
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 262 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
##### ยง 262.3 Applications.
###### Submission of comments and requests for hearing.

(e)The Board is only required to consider a comment or a request for a hearing with respect to an application or notice if it is in writing and received by the Secretary of the Board or the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank on or before the latest date prescribed in any notice with respect to the application or notice, or where no such date is prescribed, on or before the 30th day after the date notice is first published. Similarly, the Board will consider comments on an application from the Attorney General or a banking supervisory authority to which notification of receipt of an application has been given, only if such comment is received by the Secretary of the Board within 30 days of the date of the letter giving such notification. Any comment on an application or notice that requests a hearing must include a statement of why a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute and summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing. In every case where a timely comment or request for hearing is received as provided herein, a copy of such comment or request shall be forwarded promptly to the applicant for its response. The Board will consider the applicant's response only if it is in writing and sent to the Secretary of the Board on or before eight business days after the date of the letter by which it is forwarded to the applicant. At the same time it transmits its response to the Board, the applicant should transmit a copy of its response to the person or supervisory authority making such comment or requesting a hearing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may, in its sole discretion and without notifying the parties, take into consideration the substance of comments with respect to an application, (but not requests for hearing) that are not received within the time periods provided herein.
