
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 262 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
##### ยง 262.3 Applications.
###### Special procedures for certain applications.

(j)The following types of applications require procedures exclusive of, or in addition to, those described in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Special rules pertaining to section 3 and merger applications follow:

(i) Each order of the Board and each letter of notification by a Reserve Bank acting pursuant to delegated authority approving a section 3 application includes, pursuant to the Act approved July 1, 1966 (12 U.S.C. 1849(b)), a requirement that the transaction approved shall not be consummated before the 30th calendar day following the date of such order.

(ii) Each order of the Board approving a merger application includes, pursuant to the Act approved February 21, 1966 (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)(6)), a requirement that the transaction approved shall not be consummated before the 30th calendar day following the date of such order, except as the Board may otherwise determine pursuant to emergency situations as to which the Act permits consummation at earlier dates.

(iii) Each order or each letter of notification approving an application also includes, as a condition of approval, a requirement that the transaction approved shall be consummated within 3 months and, in the case of acquisition by a holding company of stock of a newly organized bank, a requirement that such bank shall be opened for business within 6 months, but such periods may be extended for good cause by the Board (or by the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank where authority to grant such extensions is delegated to the Reserve Bank).

(2) For special rules governing procedures for section 4 applications, refer to ยง 225.23 of this chapter.

(3) Special rules pertaining to applications filed pursuant to section 10(e) and (o) of HOLA follow:

(i) Each order or each letter of notification approving an application also includes, as a condition of approval, a requirement that the transaction approved shall be consummated within 3 months and, in the case of acquisition by a holding company of stock of a newly organized savings association, a requirement that such savings association shall be opened for business within 6 months, but such periods may be extended for good cause by the Board (or by the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank where authority to grant such extensions is delegated to the Reserve Bank).

(ii) [Reserved]

(4) [Reserved]

(5) For special rules governing procedures for section 4(c)(13) applications, refer to ยง 225.4(f) of this chapter.
