
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 5 - RULES, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES FOR CORPORATE ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart D - Other Changes in Activities and Operations
##### ยง 5.50 Change in control of a national bank or Federal savings association; reporting of stock loans.
###### www.occ.gov

(A) The notice must contain the information required under 12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(6)(A), and the information prescribed in the Interagency Biographical and Financial Report. This form is available at. The OCC may waive any of the informational requirements of the notice if the OCC determines that it is in the public interest.

(B) When the acquiring person is an individual, or group of individuals acting in concert, the requirement to provide personal financial data may be satisfied with a current statement of assets and liabilities and an income summary, together with a statement of any material changes since the date of the statement or summary. However, the OCC may require additional information, if appropriate.

(ii) The OCC has 60 days from the date it declares the notice to be technically complete to review the notice.

(A) When the OCC declares a notice technically complete, the appropriate OCC licensing office sends a letter of acknowledgment to the filer indicating the technically complete date.

(B) As set forth in paragraph (g) of this section, the filer must publish an announcement within 10 days of filing the notice with the OCC. The publication of the announcement triggers a 20-day public comment period. The OCC may waive or shorten the public comment period if an emergency exists. The OCC also may shorten the comment period for other good cause. The OCC may act on a proposed change in control prior to the expiration of the public comment period if the OCC makes a written determination that an emergency exists.

(C) A filer must notify the OCC immediately of any material changes in a notice submitted to the OCC, including changes in financial or other conditions that may affect the OCC's decision on the filing.

(iii) Within the 60-day period, the OCC may inform the filer that the acquisition has been disapproved, has not been disapproved, or that the OCC will extend the 60-day review period for up to an additional 30 days. The period or the OCC's review of a notice may be further extended not to exceed two additional times for not more than 45 days each time if:

(A) The OCC determines that any acquiring party has not furnished all the information required under this part;

(B) In the OCC's judgment, any material information submitted is substantially inaccurate;

(C) The OCC has been unable to complete an investigation of each acquirer because of any delay caused by, or the inadequate cooperation of, such acquirer; or

(D) The OCC determines that additional time is needed to investigate and determine that no acquiring party has a record of failing to comply with the requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31 of the United States Code.
