
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 262 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
##### ยง 262.3 Applications.
###### Reconsideration of certain Board actions.

(k)The Board may reconsider any action taken by it on an application upon receipt by the Secretary of the Board of a written request for reconsideration from any party to such application, on or before the 15th day after the effective date of the Board's action. Such request should specify the reasons why the Board should reconsider its action, and present relevant facts that for good cause shown, were not previously presented to the Board. Within 10 days of receipt of such a request, the General Counsel, acting pursuant to delegated authority (12 CFR 265.2(b)(7)), shall determine whether or not the request for reconsideration should be granted, and shall notify all parties to the application orally by telephone of this determination within 10 days. Such notification will be confirmed promptly in writing. In the exercise of this authority, the General Counsel shall confer with the Directors of other interested Divisions of the Board or their designees. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may, on its own motion if it deems reconsideration appropriate, elect to reconsider its action with respect to any application, and the parties to such application shall be notified by the Secretary of the Board of its election as provided above. If it is determined that the Board should reconsider its action with respect to an application, such action will be stayed and will not be final until the Board has acted on the application upon reconsideration. If appropriate, notice of reconsideration of an application will be published promptly in the
