
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 263 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR HEARINGS
##### Subpart G - Rules Regarding Claims Under the Equal Access to Justice Act
###### ยง 263.105 Statement of net worth.
####### Contents.

(b)(1) Except as otherwise provided herein, the statement of net worth may be in any form convenient to the applicant which fully discloses all the assets and liabilities of the applicant and all the assets and liabilities of its affiliates, as of the time of the initiation of the adversary adjudication. Unaudited financial statements are acceptable for individual applicants as long as the statement provides a reliable basis for evaluation, unless the administrative law judge or the Board otherwise requires. Financial statements or reports filed with or reported to a Federal or State agency, prepared before the initiation of the adversary proceeding for other purposes, and accurate as of a date not more than three months prior to the initiation of the proceeding, shall be acceptable in establishing net worth as of the time of the initiation of the proceeding, unless the administrative law judge or the Board otherwise requires.

(2) In the case of applicants or affiliates that are not banks, net worth shall be considered for the purposes of this subpart to be the excess of total assets over total liabilities, as of the date the underlying proceeding was initiated, except as adjusted under ยง 263.103(c)(5). The net worth of a bank holding company or a savings and loan holding company shall be considered on a consolidated basis. Assets and liabilities of individuals shall include those beneficially owned.

(3) If the applicant or any of its affiliates is a bank or a savings association, the portion of the statement of net worth which relates to the bank or the savings association shall consist of a copy of the bank's or a savings association's last Consolidated Report of Condition and Income filed before the initiation of the adversary adjudication. Net worth shall be considered for the purposes of this subpart to be the total equity capital (or, in the case of mutual savings banks or mutual savings associations, the total surplus accounts) as reported, in conformity with applicable instructions and guidelines, on the bank's or the savings association's Consolidated Report of Condition and Income filed for the last reporting date before the initiation of the proceeding.
