
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 5 - RULES, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES FOR CORPORATE ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart D - Other Changes in Activities and Operations
##### ยง 5.51 Changes in directors and senior executive officers of a national bank or Federal savings association.
###### Appeal.

(f)(1) If the national bank or Federal savings association, the proposed individual, or both, disagree with a disapproval, they may seek review by appealing the disapproval to the Comptroller, or an authorized delegate, within 15 days of the receipt of the notice of disapproval. The national bank or Federal savings association or the individual may appeal on the grounds that the reasons for disapproval are contrary to fact or insufficient to justify disapproval. The appellant must submit all documents and written arguments that the appellant wishes to be considered in support of the appeal.

(2) The Comptroller, or an authorized delegate, may designate an appellate official who was not previously involved in the decision leading to the appeal at issue. The Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official considers all information submitted with the original notice, the material before the OCC official who made the initial decision, and any information submitted by the appellant at the time of the appeal.

(3) The Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official will independently determine whether the reasons given for the disapproval are contrary to fact or insufficient to justify the disapproval. If either is determined to be the case, the Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official may reverse the disapproval.

(4) Upon completion of the review, the Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official will notify the appellant in writing of the decision. If the original decision is reversed, the individual may assume the position in the national bank or Federal savings association for which he or she was proposed.
