
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 265 - RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
##### Subpart B - Delegations of Authority
###### § 265.20 Functions delegated to Federal Reserve Banks.
####### Savings and loan holding companies in mutual form.

(14)(i) To act on reorganization notices filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and § 239.3 of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.3), including with respect to the establishment of a mutual holding company, if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.

(ii) To act on applications to establish a subsidiary holding company of a mutual holding company filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and § 239.11 of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.11), if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.

(iii) To take any action related to an application by a mutual holding company to convert from mutual to stock form filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and subpart E of Regulation MM (12 CFR part 239, subpart E) if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.

(iv) To act on notices to repurchase stock filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and § 239.63(d) of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.63(d)), if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.

(v) To extend for an additional 60 days the 30-day period within which the Board may object to a notice to repurchase stock filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and § 239.63(d) of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.63(d)).

(vi) To act on applications to acquire savings associations, savings and loan holding companies, and other corporations filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and § 239.7 of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.7), if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.

(vii) To act on notices and applications to engage in activities filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and § 239.8 of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.8), if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.

(viii) To act on notices of indemnification filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and § 239.40 of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.40), if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.

(ix) To act on notices of waiver by mutual holding companies of the right to receive dividends declared by subsidiaries of the mutual holding company filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and § 239.8(d) of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.8(d)), if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.

(x) To act on applications relating to charter and bylaw amendments of mutual holding companies and subsidiary holding companies filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and §§ 239.14, 239.15, 239.22, and 239.23 of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.14, 239.15, 239.22, and 239.23), if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.

(xi) To act on notices of transfer of stock and issuance of stock to insiders, associates of insiders, or tax-qualified or non-tax-qualified employee stock benefit plans filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and §§ 239.7(b) and 239.8(e) of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.7(b) and 239.8(e)), if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.

(xii) To act on notices of disposition of stock of certain subsidiaries filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and § 239.7(b) of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.7(b)), if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.

(xiii) To act on applications to engage in voluntary supervisory conversions filed pursuant to section 10(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)) and § 239.65 of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.65), if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.

(xiv) To approve requests from subsidiary holding companies of mutual holding companies to conduct stock issuances pursuant to § 239.24 of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.24), persons other than its mutual holding company parent pursuant to § 239.24 of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.24), including approval of nonconforming stock issuances pursuant to § 239.24(c)(6)(ii) of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.24(c)(6)(ii)) and determinations that certain procedural and substantive requirements are inapplicable pursuant to § 239.24(d) of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.24(d)), where such requests do not raise any significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues.

(xv) To approve plans of dissolution filed by mutual holding companies and subsidiary holding companies of mutual holding companies pursuant to § 239.16 of Regulation MM (12 CFR 239.16), if no significant legal, policy, or supervisory issues are raised by the proposal.
