
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 268 - RULES REGARDING EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
##### Subpart H - Prohibition Against Discrimination in Board Programs and Activities Because of Physical or Mental Disability
###### ยง 268.710 Compliance procedures.
####### Investigation/conciliation.

(f)(1) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint, the Programs Director shall complete the investigation of the complaint, attempt informal resolution of the complaint, and if no informal resolution is achieved, the Programs Director shall forward the investigative report to the Chief Operating Officer.

(2) The Programs Director may request Board employees to cooperate in the investigation and attempted resolution of complaints. Employees who are requested by the Programs Director to participate in any investigation under this section shall do so as part of their official duties and during the course of regular duty hours.

(3) The Programs Director shall furnish the complainant with a copy of the investigative report promptly after completion of the investigation and provide the complainant with an opportunity for informal resolution of the complaint.

(4) If a complaint is resolved informally, the terms of the agreement shall be reduced to writing and made a part of the complaint file, with a copy of the agreement provided to the complainant. The written agreement may include a finding on the issue of discrimination and shall describe any corrective action to which the complainant has agreed.
