
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 269b - CHARGES OF UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICES
##### Formal Proceedings
###### ยง 269b.441 Rights of parties.

(a) Any party shall have the right to appear at such hearing in person, by counsel, or by other representative, to call, examine, and cross-examine witnesses as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts, and to introduce into the record documentary or other relevant evidence, except that the participation of any party shall be limited to the extent permitted by the hearing officer. Five copies of such documentary evidence shall be submitted unless the hearing officer permits a reduced number for good cause shown.

(b) Any party shall be entitled, upon request, to a reasonable period at the close of the hearing for oral argument, which shall be included in the stenographic report of the hearing.

(c) Any party shall be entitled to file a brief to the hearing officer within 10 days after the close of the hearing, but no reply brief may be filed except upon special permission of the hearing officer. A party filing a brief must file the original and one copy with the hearing officer along with proof of service of a copy of such brief to all parties. Requests for extension of time to file briefs must be made to the hearing officer who must receive the request at least 3 days prior to the expiration of time fixed for filing of briefs and notice of the request shall be served simultaneously on all other parties, and proof of service shall be furnished. If a request for extension of time is based on the need for a copy of the transcript prior to filing a brief, such request must be made to the hearing officer before the hearing is closed and must be ruled on prior to the close of the hearing.
