
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter B - Federal Open Market Committee
#### PART 271 - RULES REGARDING AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Published Information and Records Available to Public; Procedures for Requests
###### ยง 271.15 Exemptions from disclosure.
####### Types of records exempt from disclosure.

(a)Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b), the following records of the Committee are exempt from disclosure under this part.

(1) Any information that is specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and is in fact properly classified pursuant to the Executive order.

(2) Any information related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Committee.

(3) Any information specifically exempted from disclosure by statute to the extent required by 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3).

(4) Any matter that is a trade secret or that constitutes commercial or financial information obtained from a person and that is privileged or confidential.

(5) Inter- or intra-agency memorandums or letters that would not be available by law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the Committee, provided that the deliberative process privilege shall not apply to records that were created 25 years or more before the date on which the records were requested.

(6) Any information contained in personnel and medical files and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.

(7) Any records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, to the extent permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7).

(8) Any matter that is contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including a state financial institution supervisory agency.
