
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter B - Federal Open Market Committee
#### PART 271 - RULES REGARDING AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Published Information and Records Available to Public; Procedures for Requests
###### ยง 271.16 Fee schedules; waiver of fees.
####### Waiver or reduction of fees.

(g)A request for a waiver or reduction of the fees, and the justification for the waiver, shall be included with the request for records to which it pertains. If a waiver is requested and the requester has not indicated in writing an agreement to pay the applicable fees if the waiver request is denied, the time for response to the request for documents, as set forth in ยง 271.12(e), shall not begin until either a waiver has been granted or, if the waiver is denied, until the requester has agreed to pay the applicable fees.

(1) The Committee shall grant a waiver or reduction of fees where it is determined both that disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operation or activities of the government, and that the disclosure of information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. In making this determination, the Committee will consider the following factors:

(i) Whether the subject of the records would shed light on identifiable operations or activities of the government with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated; and

(ii) Whether disclosure of the information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of those operations or activities. This factor is satisfied when the following criteria are met:

(A) Disclosure of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either the same or a substantially identical form, would not be meaningfully informative if nothing new would be added to the public's understanding.

(B) The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area as well as the requester's ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public must be considered. The Committee will presume that a representative of the news media will satisfy this consideration.

(iii) The disclosure must not be primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. A commercial interest includes any commercial, trade, profit, or litigation interest.

(2) A request for a waiver or reduction of fees shall include:

(i) A clear statement of the requester's interest in the documents;

(ii) The use proposed for the documents and whether the requester will derive income or other benefit for such use;

(iii) A statement of how the public will benefit from such use and from the Committee's release of the documents;

(iv) A description of the method by which the information will be disseminated to the public; and

(v) If specialized use of the information is contemplated, a statement of the requester's qualifications that are relevant to that use.

(3) The requester has the burden to present evidence or information in support of a request for a waiver or reduction of fees.

(4) The Committee shall notify the requester of its determination on the request for a waiver or reduction of fees. The requester may appeal a denial in accordance with ยง 271.14(a).

(5) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver of fees, a waiver must be granted for those records.

(6) A request for a waiver or reduction of fees should be made when the request for records is first submitted to the Committee and should address the criteria referenced in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section. A requester may submit a fee waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees and that waiver is denied, the requester must pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.
