
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Procedure and Rules of Practice
#### PART 303 - FILING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - Rules of General Applicability
###### ยง 303.7 Public notice requirements.
####### Content of notice.

(c)(1) The public notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall consist of the following:

(i) In the case of an application for deposit insurance for a de novo depository institution, include the names of all organizers or incorporators. In the case of an application to establish a branch, include the location of the proposed branch or, in the case of an application to relocate a branch or main office, include the current and proposed address of the office. In the case of a merger application, include the names of all parties to the transaction. In the case of a notice of acquisition of control, include the name(s) of the acquiring parties. In the case of an application to relocate an insured branch of a foreign bank, include the current and proposed address of the branch.

(ii) Type of filing being made;

(iii) Name of the depository institution(s) that is the subject matter of the filing;

(iv) That the public may submit comments to the appropriate FDIC regional director;

(v) The address of the appropriate FDIC office where comments may be sent (the same location where the filing will be made);

(vi) The closing date of the public comment period as specified in the appropriate subpart of this part; and

(vii) That the nonconfidential portions of the application are on file in the appropriate FDIC office and are available for public inspection during regular business hours; photocopies of the nonconfidential portion of the application file will be made available upon request.

(2) The requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(iv) through (vii) of this section may be satisfied through use of the following notice:
