
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Procedure and Rules of Practice
#### PART 303 - FILING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Deposit Insurance
###### ยง 303.22 Processing.
####### Expedited processing for proposed institutions.

(a)(1) An application for deposit insurance for a proposed institution which will be a subsidiary of an eligible depository institution as defined in ยง 303.2(r) or an eligible holding company will be acknowledged in writing by the FDIC and will receive expedited processing unless the applicant is notified in writing to the contrary and provided with the basis for that decision. An eligible holding company is defined as a bank or thrift holding company that has consolidated assets of at least $150 million or more; a BOPEC rating of at least "2" for bank holding companies or an above average or "A" rating for thrift holding companies; and at least 75 percent of its consolidated depository institution assets comprised of eligible depository institutions. The FDIC may remove an application from expedited processing for any of the reasons set forth in ยง 303.11(c)(2).

(2) Under expedited processing, the FDIC will take action on an application within 60 days of receipt of a substantially complete application or 5 days after the expiration of the comment period described in ยง 303.23, whichever is later. Final action may be withheld until the FDIC has assurance that permission to organize the proposed institution will be granted by the chartering authority. Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if the FDIC does not act within the expedited processing period, it does not constitute an automatic or default approval.
