
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Procedure and Rules of Practice
#### PART 308 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart M - Procedures Applicable to the Request for and Conduct of a Hearing after Denial of an Application under Section 19 of the FDI Act
###### ยง 308.158 Hearings.
####### duces tecum.

(6) In the course of or in connection with any hearing under this paragraph, the presiding officer shall have the power to administer oaths and affirmations; to take or cause to be taken depositions of unavailable witnesses; and to issue, revoke, quash, or modify subpoenas and subpoenasWhere the presentation of witnesses is permitted, the presiding officer may require the attendance of witnesses from any state, territory, or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States at any location where the proceeding is being conducted. Witness fees shall be paid in accordance with ยง 308.14 of the Uniform Rules (subpart A of this part).

(7) Upon the request of the applicant afforded the hearing, or FDIC enforcement staff, the record shall remain open for five business days following the hearing for the parties to make additional submissions to the record.

(8) The presiding officer shall make recommendations to the Board of Directors, where possible, within 20 days after the last day for the parties to submit additions to the record.

(9) The presiding officer shall forward his or her recommendation to the Administrative Officer who shall promptly certify the entire record, including the recommendation to the Board of Directors or its designee. The Administrative Officer certification shall close the record.
