
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Procedure and Rules of Practice
#### PART 308 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart M - Procedures Applicable to the Request for and Conduct of a Hearing after Denial of an Application under Section 19 of the FDI Act
###### § 308.158 Hearings.
####### Hearing procedure.

(c)(1) The hearing shall be held in Washington, DC, or at another designated place, before a presiding officer designated by the Administrative Officer.

(2) The provisions of §§ 308.6 through 308.12, 308.16, and 308.21 of the Uniform Rules (subpart A of this part) and §§ 308.101, 308.102, and 308.104 through 308.106 the Local Rules (subpart B of this part) shall apply to hearings held under this subpart.

(3) The applicant may appear at the hearing and shall have the right to introduce relevant and material documents and oral argument. Members of the FDIC enforcement staff may attend the hearing and participate as a party.

(4) There shall be no discovery in proceedings under this subpart.

(5) At the discretion of the presiding officer, witnesses may be presented within specified time limits, provided that a list of witnesses is furnished to the presiding officer and to all other parties prior to the hearing. Witnesses shall be sworn, unless otherwise directed by the presiding officer. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness. Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine any witness presented by an opposing party. The transcript of the proceedings shall be furnished, upon request and payment of the cost thereof, to the applicant afforded the hearing.
