
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Procedure and Rules of Practice
#### PART 308 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart T - Program Fraud Civil Remedies and Procedures
###### ยง 308.502 Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
####### Claims.

(a)(1) A person who makes a false, fictitious, or fraudulent claim to the FDIC is subject to a civil penalty of up to $5,000 per claim. A claim is false, fictitious, or fraudulent if the person making the claim knows, or has reason to know, that:

(i) The claim is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or

(ii) The claim includes, or is supported by, a written statement that asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious or fraudulent; or

(iii) The claim includes, or is supported by, a written statement that:

(A) Omits a material fact; and

(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of that omission; and

(C) Is a statement in which the person making the statement has a duty to include the material fact; or

(iv) The claim seeks payment for providing property or services that the person has not provided as claimed.

(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim.

(3) A claim will be considered made to the FDIC, recipient, or party when the claim is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any state or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the FDIC, recipient, or party.

(4) Each claim for property, services, or money that constitutes any one of the elements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is subject to a civil penalty regardless of whether the property, services, or money is actually delivered or paid.

(5) If the FDIC has made any payment (including transferred property or provided services) on a claim, a person subject to a civil penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of such claim (or portion of the claim) that is determined to constitute a false, fictitious, or fraudulent claim under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The assessment will be in lieu of damages sustained by the FDIC because of the claims.

(6) The amount of any penalty assessed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be adjusted for inflation in accordance with ยง 308.132(d).

(7) The penalty specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is in addition to any other remedy allowable by law.
