
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Procedure and Rules of Practice
#### PART 308 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart T - Program Fraud Civil Remedies and Procedures
###### ยง 308.502 Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
####### Statements.

(b)(1) A person who submits to the FDIC a false, fictitious or fraudulent statement is subject to a civil penalty of up to $5,000 per statement. A statement is false, fictitious or fraudulent if the person submitting the statement to the FDIC knows, or has reason to know, that:

(i) The statement asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or

(ii) The statement omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in the statement; and

(iii) The statement contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement.

(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement.

(3) A statement will be considered made to the FDIC when the statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any state or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the FDIC.

(4) The amount of any penalty assessed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be adjusted for inflation in accordance with ยง 308.132(d).

(5) The penalty specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is in addition to any other remedy allowable by law.
