
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Procedure and Rules of Practice
#### PART 308 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart T - Program Fraud Civil Remedies and Procedures
###### ยง 308.515 Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ.

(a) A reviewing official or ALJ in a particular case may disqualify himself or herself at any time.

(b) A party may file with the ALJ a motion for disqualification of a reviewing official or an ALJ. An affidavit alleging conflict of interest or other reason for disqualification must accompany the motion.

(c) Such motion and affidavit must be filed promptly upon the party's discovery of reasons requiring disqualification, or such objections will be deemed waived.

(d) Such affidavit must state specific facts that support the party's belief that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists and the time and circumstances of the party's discovery of such facts. The representative of record must certify that the affidavit is made in good faith and this certification must accompany the affidavit.

(e) Upon the filing of such a motion and affidavit, the ALJ will proceed no further in the case until he or she resolves the matter of disqualification in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.

(f)(1) If the ALJ determines that a reviewing official is disqualified, the ALJ will dismiss the complaint without prejudice.

(2) If the ALJ disqualifies himself or herself, the case will be reassigned promptly to another ALJ.

(3) If the ALJ denies a motion to disqualify, the Board may determine the matter only as part of the Board's review of the initial decision upon appeal, if any.
