
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Procedure and Rules of Practice
#### PART 308 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart T - Program Fraud Civil Remedies and Procedures
###### ยง 308.545 Compromise or settlement.

(a) Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time.

(b) The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this subpart at any time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to issue a complaint and before the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision.

(c) The Board has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this subpart any time after the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision, except during the pendency of any review under ยง 308.541 of this subpart or during the pendency of any action to collect penalties and assessments under ยง 308.542 of this subpart.

(d) The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this subpart during the pendency of any review under ยง 308.541 of this subpart or of any action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.

(e) The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official, the Board, or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the Board, or the Attorney General, as appropriate.

(f) Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.
