
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Procedure and Rules of Practice
#### PART 309 - DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
##### ยง 309.7 Service of process.
###### Service.

(a)Any subpoena or other legal process to obtain information maintained by the FDIC shall be duly issued by a court having jurisdiction over the FDIC, and served upon either the Executive Secretary (or designee), FDIC, 550 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20429, or the Regional Director or Regional Manager of the FDIC region where the legal action from which the subpoena or process was issued is pending. A list of the FDIC's regional offices is available from the Office of Public Affairs, FDIC, 550 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20429 (telephone 202-898-6996). Where the FDIC is named as a party, service of process shall be made pursuant to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and upon the Executive Secretary (or designee), FDIC, 550 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20429, or upon the agent designated to receive service of process in the state, territory, or jurisdiction in which any insured depository institution is located. Identification of the designated agent in the state, territory, or jurisdiction may be obtained from the Executive Secretary or from the Office of the General Counsel, FDIC, 550 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20429. The Executive Secretary (or designee), Regional Director or designated agent shall immediately forward any subpoena, court order or legal process to the General Counsel. The Corporation may require the payment of fees, in accordance with the fee schedule referred to in ยง 309.5(c)(3), prior to the release of any records requested pursuant to any subpoena or other legal process.
