
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Procedure and Rules of Practice
#### PART 313 - PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTION OF CORPORATE DEBT, CRIMINAL RESTITUTION DEBT, AND CIVIL MONEY PENALTY DEBT
##### Subpart C - Salary Offset
###### § 313.49 Coordinating salary offset with other agencies.
####### Responsibility of the FDIC as the creditor agency.

(a)Upon completion of the procedures established in § 313.40 through § 313.45, the Director shall take the following actions:

(1) Submit a debt claim to the paying agency, containing the information described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, together with the certification of debt or an installment agreement (or other instruction regarding the payment schedule, if applicable).

(2) If the collection must be made in installments, inform the paying agency of the amount or percentage of disposable pay to be collected in each installment. The Director may also inform the paying agency of the commencement date and number of installments to be paid, if a date other than the next officially established pay period is required.

(3) Unless the employee has consented to the salary offset in writing or has signed a statement acknowledging receipt of the required procedures and the written consent or statement is forwarded to the paying agency, the Director must also advise the paying agency of the actions the FDIC has taken under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and state the dates such action was taken.

(4) If the employee is in the process of separating from employment, the Director shall submit the debt claim to the employee's paying agency for collection by lump-sum deduction from the employee's final check. The paying agency shall certify the total amount of its collection and furnish a copy of the certification to the FDIC and to the employee.

(5) If the employee is already separated and all payments due from his or her former paying agency have been paid, the Director may, unless otherwise prohibited, request that money due and payable to the employee from the federal government, including payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (5 CFR 831.1801), be administratively offset to collect the debt.

(6) In the event an employee transfers to another paying agency, the Director shall not repeat the procedures described in § 313.40 through § 313.45 in order to resume collecting the debt. Instead, the FDIC shall review the debt upon receiving the former paying agency's notice of the employee's transfer and shall ensure that collection is resumed by the new paying agency. The FDIC must submit a properly certified claim to the new paying agency before collection can be resumed.
