
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 324 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF FDIC-SUPERVISED INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 324.5 Issuance of directives.
####### Notice and opportunity to respond to issuance of a directive.

(c)(1) If the FDIC makes an initial determination that a directive should be issued to an FDIC-supervised institution pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the FDIC, through the appropriate designated official(s), shall serve written notification upon the FDIC-supervised institution of its intent to issue a directive. The notice shall include the current leverage capital ratio, the basis upon which said ratio was calculated, the proposed capital injection, the proposed date for achieving the minimum leverage capital requirement and any other relevant information concerning the decision to issue a directive. When deemed appropriate, specific requirements of a proposed plan for meeting the minimum leverage capital requirement may be included in the notice.

(2) Within 14 days of receipt of notification, the FDIC-supervised institution may file with the appropriate designated FDIC official(s) a written response, explaining why the directive should not be issued, seeking modification of its terms, or other appropriate relief. The FDIC-supervised institution's response shall include any information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other relevant evidence which supports its position, and may include a plan for attaining the minimum leverage capital requirement.

(3)(i) After considering the FDIC-supervised institution's response, the appropriate designated FDIC official(s) shall serve upon the FDIC-supervised institution a written determination addressing the FDIC-supervised institution's response and setting forth the FDIC's findings and conclusions in support of any decision to issue or not to issue a directive. The directive may be issued as originally proposed or in modified form. The directive may order the FDIC-supervised institution to:

(A) Achieve the minimum leverage capital requirement established by this regulation by a certain date;

(B) Submit for approval and adhere to a plan for achieving the minimum leverage capital requirement;

(C) Take other action as is necessary to achieve the minimum leverage capital requirement; or

(D) A combination of the above actions.

(ii) If a directive is to be issued, it may be served upon the FDIC-supervised institution along with the final determination.

(4) Any FDIC-supervised institution, upon a change in circumstances, may request the FDIC to reconsider the terms of a directive and may propose changes in the plan under which it is operating to meet the minimum leverage capital requirement. The directive and plan continue in effect while such request is pending before the FDIC.

(5) All papers filed with the FDIC must be postmarked or received by the appropriate designated FDIC official(s) within the prescribed time limit for filing.

(6) Failure by the FDIC-supervised institution to file a written response to notification of intent to issue a directive within the specified time period shall constitute consent to the issuance of such directive.
