
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 324 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF FDIC-SUPERVISED INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart C - Definition of Capital
###### ยง 324.22 Regulatory capital adjustments and deductions.
####### Regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital.

(b)(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the sum of common equity tier 1 capital elements pursuant to the requirements set forth in this paragraph (b). Such adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital must be made net of the associated deferred tax effects.

(i) An FDIC-supervised institution that makes an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) must make the adjustments required under ยง 324.22(b)(2)(i).

(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution that is an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, and an FDIC-supervised institution that has not made an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section), must deduct any accumulated net gains and add any accumulated net losses on cash flow hedges included in AOCI that relate to the hedging of items that are not recognized at fair value on the balance sheet.

(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution must deduct any net gain and add any net loss related to changes in the fair value of liabilities that are due to changes in the FDIC-supervised institution's own credit risk. An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must deduct the difference between its credit spread premium and the risk-free rate for derivatives that are liabilities as part of this adjustment.
