
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 324 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF FDIC-SUPERVISED INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart D - Risk-Weighted Assets - Standardized Approach
###### Risk-Weighted Assets for General Credit Risk
####### ยง 324.32 General risk weights.
######## Exposures to foreign banks.

(2)(i) Except as otherwise provided under paragraphs (d)(2)(iii), (d)(2)(v), and (d)(3) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank, in accordance with Table 2 to ยง 324.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the foreign bank's home country or the OECD membership status of the foreign bank's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the foreign bank's home country.

(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank whose home country is a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC.

(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 20 percent risk-weight to an exposure that is a self-liquidating, trade-related contingent item that arises from the movement of goods and that has a maturity of three months or less to a foreign bank whose home country has a CRC of 0, 1, 2, or 3, or is an OECD member with no CRC.

(iv) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank whose home country is not a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC, with the exception of self-liquidating, trade-related contingent items that arise from the movement of goods, and that have a maturity of three months or less, which may be assigned a 20 percent risk weight.

(v) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 150 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank immediately upon determining that an event of sovereign default has occurred in the bank's home country, or if an event of sovereign default has occurred in the foreign bank's home country during the previous five years.

(3) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a financial institution if the exposure may be included in that financial institution's capital unless the exposure is:

(i) An equity exposure;

(ii) A significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution in the form of common stock pursuant to ยง 324.22(d)(2)(i)(c);

(iii) Deducted from regulatory capital under ยง 324.22; or

(iv) Subject to a 150 percent risk weight under paragraph (d)(2)(iv) or Table 2 of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
