
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 324 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF FDIC-SUPERVISED INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart D - Risk-Weighted Assets - Standardized Approach
###### Risk-Weighted Assets for General Credit Risk
####### ยง 324.37 Collateralized transactions.
######## Own internal estimates for haircuts.

(4)With the prior written approval of the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution may calculate haircuts (Hs and Hfx) using its own internal estimates of the volatilities of market prices and foreign exchange rates:

(i) To receive FDIC approval to use its own internal estimates, an FDIC-supervised institution must satisfy the following minimum standards:

(A) An FDIC-supervised institution must use a 99th percentile one-tailed confidence interval.

(B) The minimum holding period for a repo-style transaction and client-facing derivative transaction is five business days and for an eligible margin loan and a derivative contract other than a client-facing derivative transaction is ten business days except for transactions or netting sets for which paragraph (c)(4)(i)(C) of this section applies. When a FDIC-supervised institution calculates an own-estimates haircut on a T-day holding period, which is different from the minimum holding period for the transaction type, the applicable haircut (H) is calculated using the following square root of time formula:

(C) If the number of trades in a netting set exceeds 5,000 at any time during a quarter, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the haircut using a minimum holding period of twenty business days for the following quarter except in the calculation of the exposure amount for purposes of ยง 324.35. If a netting set contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral or an OTC derivative that cannot be easily replaced, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the haircut using a minimum holding period of twenty business days. If over the two previous quarters more than two margin disputes on a netting set have occurred that lasted more than the holding period, then the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the haircut for transactions in that netting set on the basis of a holding period that is at least two times the minimum holding period for that netting set.

(D) An FDIC-supervised institution is required to calculate its own internal estimates with inputs calibrated to historical data from a continuous 12-month period that reflects a period of significant financial stress appropriate to the security or category of securities.

(E) An FDIC-supervised institution must have policies and procedures that describe how it determines the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the FDIC-supervised institution's own internal estimates for haircuts under this section and must be able to provide empirical support for the period used. The FDIC-supervised institution must obtain the prior approval of the FDIC for, and notify the FDIC if the FDIC-supervised institution makes any material changes to, these policies and procedures.

(F) Nothing in this section prevents the FDIC from requiring an FDIC-supervised institution to use a different period of significant financial stress in the calculation of own internal estimates for haircuts.

(G) An FDIC-supervised institution must update its data sets and calculate haircuts no less frequently than quarterly and must also reassess data sets and haircuts whenever market prices change materially.

(ii) With respect to debt securities that are investment grade, an FDIC-supervised institution may calculate haircuts for categories of securities. For a category of securities, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the haircut on the basis of internal volatility estimates for securities in that category that are representative of the securities in that category that the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, posted as collateral, borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral. In determining relevant categories, the FDIC-supervised institution must at a minimum take into account:

(A) The type of issuer of the security;

(B) The credit quality of the security;

(C) The maturity of the security; and

(D) The interest rate sensitivity of the security.

(iii) With respect to debt securities that are not investment grade and equity securities, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a separate haircut for each individual security.

(iv) Where an exposure or collateral (whether in the form of cash or securities) is denominated in a currency that differs from the settlement currency, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a separate currency mismatch haircut for its net position in each mismatched currency based on estimated volatilities of foreign exchange rates between the mismatched currency and the settlement currency.

(v) An FDIC-supervised institution's own estimates of market price and foreign exchange rate volatilities may not take into account the correlations among securities and foreign exchange rates on either the exposure or collateral side of a transaction (or netting set) or the correlations among securities and foreign exchange rates between the exposure and collateral sides of the transaction (or netting set).
