
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 324 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF FDIC-SUPERVISED INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart E - Risk-Weighted Assets - Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced Measurement Approaches
###### Risk-Weighted Assets for General Credit Risk
####### ยง 324.134 Guarantees and credit derivatives: PD substitution and LGD adjustment approaches.
######## Maturity mismatch.

(d)(1) An FDIC-supervised institution that recognizes an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative in determining its risk-based capital requirement for a hedged exposure must adjust the effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant to reflect any maturity mismatch between the hedged exposure and the credit risk mitigant.

(2) A maturity mismatch occurs when the residual maturity of a credit risk mitigant is less than that of the hedged exposure(s).

(3) The residual maturity of a hedged exposure is the longest possible remaining time before the obligor is scheduled to fulfil its obligation on the exposure. If a credit risk mitigant has embedded options that may reduce its term, the FDIC-supervised institution (protection purchaser) must use the shortest possible residual maturity for the credit risk mitigant. If a call is at the discretion of the protection provider, the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant is at the first call date. If the call is at the discretion of the FDIC-supervised institution (protection purchaser), but the terms of the arrangement at origination of the credit risk mitigant contain a positive incentive for the FDIC-supervised institution to call the transaction before contractual maturity, the remaining time to the first call date is the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant.

(4) A credit risk mitigant with a maturity mismatch may be recognized only if its original maturity is greater than or equal to one year and its residual maturity is greater than three months.

(5) When a maturity mismatch exists, the FDIC-supervised institution must apply the following adjustment to the effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant: P= E x (t-0.25)/(T-0.25), where:

(i) Pequals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for maturity mismatch;

(ii) E equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant;

(iii) t equals the lesser of T or the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant, expressed in years; and

(iv) T equals the lesser of five or the residual maturity of the hedged exposure, expressed in years.
