
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 324 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF FDIC-SUPERVISED INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart E - Risk-Weighted Assets - Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced Measurement Approaches
###### Risk-Weighted Assets for General Credit Risk
####### ยง 324.136 Unsettled transactions.
######## Non-DvP/non-PvP (non-delivery-versus-payment/non-payment-versus-payment) transactions.

(e)(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must hold risk-based capital against any non-DvP/non-PvP transaction with a normal settlement period if the FDIC-supervised institution has delivered cash, securities, commodities, or currencies to its counterparty but has not received its corresponding deliverables by the end of the same business day. The FDIC-supervised institution must continue to hold risk-based capital against the transaction until the FDIC-supervised institution has received its corresponding deliverables.

(2) From the business day after the FDIC-supervised institution has made its delivery until five business days after the counterparty delivery is due, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate its risk-based capital requirement for the transaction by treating the current fair value of the deliverables owed to the FDIC-supervised institution as a wholesale exposure.

(i) An FDIC-supervised institution may use a 45 percent LGD for the transaction rather than estimating LGD for the transaction provided the FDIC-supervised institution uses the 45 percent LGD for all transactions described in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.

(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution may use a 100 percent risk weight for the transaction provided the FDIC-supervised institution uses this risk weight for all transactions described in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.

(3) If the FDIC-supervised institution has not received its deliverables by the fifth business day after the counterparty delivery was due, the FDIC-supervised institution must apply a 1,250 percent risk weight to the current fair value of the deliverables owed to the FDIC-supervised institution.
