
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 324 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF FDIC-SUPERVISED INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart E - Risk-Weighted Assets - Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced Measurement Approaches
###### Risk-Weighted Assets for Equity Exposures
####### ยง 324.153 Internal models approach (IMA).
######## Qualifying criteria.

(b)To qualify to use the IMA to calculate risk-weighted assets for equity exposures, an FDIC-supervised institution must receive prior written approval from the FDIC. To receive such approval, the FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate to the FDIC's satisfaction that the FDIC-supervised institution meets the following criteria:

(1) The FDIC-supervised institution must have one or more models that:

(i) Assess the potential decline in value of its modeled equity exposures;

(ii) Are commensurate with the size, complexity, and composition of the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures; and

(iii) Adequately capture both general market risk and idiosyncratic risk.

(2) The FDIC-supervised institution's model must produce an estimate of potential losses for its modeled equity exposures that is no less than the estimate of potential losses produced by a VaR methodology employing a 99th percentile one-tailed confidence interval of the distribution of quarterly returns for a benchmark portfolio of equity exposures comparable to the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures using a long-term sample period.

(3) The number of risk factors and exposures in the sample and the data period used for quantification in the FDIC-supervised institution's model and benchmarking exercise must be sufficient to provide confidence in the accuracy and robustness of the FDIC-supervised institution's estimates.

(4) The FDIC-supervised institution's model and benchmarking process must incorporate data that are relevant in representing the risk profile of the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures, and must include data from at least one equity market cycle containing adverse market movements relevant to the risk profile of the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures. In addition, the FDIC-supervised institution's benchmarking exercise must be based on daily market prices for the benchmark portfolio. If the FDIC-supervised institution's model uses a scenario methodology, the FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate that the model produces a conservative estimate of potential losses on the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures over a relevant long-term market cycle. If the FDIC-supervised institution employs risk factor models, the FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate through empirical analysis the appropriateness of the risk factors used.

(5) The FDIC-supervised institution must be able to demonstrate, using theoretical arguments and empirical evidence, that any proxies used in the modeling process are comparable to the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures and that the FDIC-supervised institution has made appropriate adjustments for differences. The FDIC-supervised institution must derive any proxies for its modeled equity exposures and benchmark portfolio using historical market data that are relevant to the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures and benchmark portfolio (or, where not, must use appropriately adjusted data), and such proxies must be robust estimates of the risk of the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures.
