
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 324 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF FDIC-SUPERVISED INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart F - Risk-Weighted Assets - Market Risk
###### ยง 324.203 Requirements for application of this subpart F.
####### Requirements for internal models.

(c)(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must obtain the prior written approval of the FDIC before using any internal model to calculate its risk-based capital requirement under this subpart.

(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must meet all of the requirements of this section on an ongoing basis. The FDIC-supervised institution must promptly notify the FDIC when:

(i) The FDIC-supervised institution plans to extend the use of a model that the FDIC has approved under this subpart to an additional business line or product type;

(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution makes any change to an internal model approved by the FDIC under this subpart that would result in a material change in the FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for a portfolio of covered positions; or

(iii) The FDIC-supervised institution makes any material change to its modeling assumptions.

(3) The FDIC may rescind its approval of the use of any internal model (in whole or in part) or of the determination of the approach under ยง 324.209(a)(2)(ii) for an FDIC-supervised institution's modeled correlation trading positions and determine an appropriate capital requirement for the covered positions to which the model would apply, if the FDIC determines that the model no longer complies with this subpart or fails to reflect accurately the risks of the FDIC-supervised institution's covered positions.

(4) The FDIC-supervised institution must periodically, but no less frequently than annually, review its internal models in light of developments in financial markets and modeling technologies, and enhance those models as appropriate to ensure that they continue to meet the FDIC's standards for model approval and employ risk measurement methodologies that are most appropriate for the FDIC-supervised institution's covered positions.

(5) The FDIC-supervised institution must incorporate its internal models into its risk management process and integrate the internal models used for calculating its VaR-based measure into its daily risk management process.

(6) The level of sophistication of an FDIC-supervised institution's internal models must be commensurate with the complexity and amount of its covered positions. An FDIC-supervised institution's internal models may use any of the generally accepted approaches, including but not limited to variance-covariance models, historical simulations, or Monte Carlo simulations, to measure market risk.

(7) The FDIC-supervised institution's internal models must properly measure all the material risks in the covered positions to which they are applied.

(8) The FDIC-supervised institution's internal models must conservatively assess the risks arising from less liquid positions and positions with limited price transparency under realistic market scenarios.

(9) The FDIC-supervised institution must have a rigorous and well-defined process for re-estimating, re-evaluating, and updating its internal models to ensure continued applicability and relevance.

(10) If an FDIC-supervised institution uses internal models to measure specific risk, the internal models must also satisfy the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of ยง 324.207.
