
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 324 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF FDIC-SUPERVISED INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart F - Risk-Weighted Assets - Market Risk
###### ยง 324.206 Stressed VaR-based measure.
####### Quantitative requirements for stressed VaR-based measure.

(b)(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a stressed VaR-based measure for its covered positions using the same model(s) used to calculate the VaR-based measure, subject to the same confidence level and holding period applicable to the VaR-based measure under ยง 324.205, but with model inputs calibrated to historical data from a continuous 12-month period that reflects a period of significant financial stress appropriate to the FDIC-supervised institution's current portfolio.

(2) The stressed VaR-based measure must be calculated at least weekly and be no less than the FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based measure.

(3) An FDIC-supervised institution must have policies and procedures that describe how it determines the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the FDIC-supervised institution's stressed VaR-based measure under this section and must be able to provide empirical support for the period used. The FDIC-supervised institution must obtain the prior approval of the FDIC for, and notify the FDIC if the FDIC-supervised institution makes any material changes to, these policies and procedures. The policies and procedures must address:

(i) How the FDIC-supervised institution links the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the stressed VaR-based measure to the composition and directional bias of its current portfolio; and

(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution's process for selecting, reviewing, and updating the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the stressed VaR-based measure and for monitoring the appropriateness of the period to the FDIC-supervised institution's current portfolio.

(4) Nothing in this section prevents the FDIC from requiring an FDIC-supervised institution to use a different period of significant financial stress in the calculation of the stressed VaR-based measure.
