
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 324 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF FDIC-SUPERVISED INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart F - Risk-Weighted Assets - Market Risk
###### ยง 324.211 Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA).
####### Mechanics of the SSFA.

(c)Kand W are used to calculate K, the augmented value of K, which reflects the observed credit quality of the underlying exposures. Kis defined in paragraph (d) of this section. The values of parameters A and D, relative to Kdetermine the specific risk-weighting factor assigned to a position as described in this paragraph (c) and paragraph (d) of this section. The specific risk-weighting factor assigned to a securitization position, or portion of a position, as appropriate, is the larger of the specific risk-weighting factor determined in accordance with this paragraph (c), paragraph (d) of this section, and a specific risk-weighting factor of 1.6 percent.

(1) When the detachment point, parameter D, for a securitization position is less than or equal to K, the position must be assigned a specific risk-weighting factor of 100 percent.

(2) When the attachment point, parameter A, for a securitization position is greater than or equal to K, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the specific risk-weighting factor in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) When A is less than Kand D is greater than K, the specific risk-weighting factor is a weighted-average of 1.00 and Kcalculated under paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section. For the purpose of this calculation:
