
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 324 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF FDIC-SUPERVISED INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart H - Prompt Corrective Action
###### § 324.403 Capital measures and capital category definitions.
####### Capital categories.

(b)For purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act and this subpart, an FDIC-supervised institution shall be deemed to be:

(1)(i) "Well capitalized" if:

(A) Total Risk-Based Capital Measure: The FDIC-supervised institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0 percent or greater; and

(B) Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Measure: The FDIC-supervised institution has a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0 percent or greater; and

(C) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Measure: The FDIC-supervised institution has a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.5 percent or greater; and

(D) The FDIC-supervised institution has a leverage ratio of 5.0 percent or greater; and

(E) The FDIC-supervised institution is not subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by the FDIC pursuant to section 8 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1818), the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (12 U.S.C. 3907), or the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1464(t)(6)(A)(ii)), or section 38 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o), or any regulation thereunder, to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure.

(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important bank holding company will be deemed to be well capitalized if the FDIC-supervised institution satisfies paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (E) of this section and has a supplementary leverage ratio of 6.0 percent or greater. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)(ii), global systemically important bank holding company has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.402.

(iii) A qualifying community banking organization, as defined under § 324.12, that has elected to use the community bank leverage ratio framework under § 324.12 shall be considered to have met the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.

(2) "Adequately capitalized" if it:

(i) Has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0 percent or greater; and

(ii) Has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0 percent or greater; and

(iii) Has a common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5 percent or greater; and

(iv) Has a leverage ratio of 4.0 percent or greater; and

(v) Does not meet the definition of "well capitalized" in this section.

(vi) Beginning January 1, 2018, an advanced approaches or Category III FDIC-supervised institution will be deemed to be "adequately capitalized" if it satisfies paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section and has a supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0 percent or greater, as calculated in accordance with § 324.10.

(3) "Undercapitalized" if it:

(i) Has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 8.0 percent; or

(ii) Has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6.0 percent; or

(iii) Has a common equity tier 1 capital ratio that is less than 4.5 percent; or

(iv) Has a leverage ratio that is less than 4.0 percent.

(v) Beginning January 1, 2018, an advanced approaches or Category III FDIC-supervised institution will be deemed to be "undercapitalized" if it has a supplementary leverage ratio of less than 3.0 percent, as calculated in accordance with § 324.10.

(4) "Significantly undercapitalized" if it has:

(i) A total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6.0 percent; or

(ii) A Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 4.0 percent; or

(iii) A common equity tier 1 capital ratio that is less than 3.0 percent; or

(iv) A leverage ratio that is less than 3.0 percent.

(5) "Critically undercapitalized" if the insured depository institution has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2.0 percent.
