
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 7 - ACTIVITIES AND OPERATIONS
#### Subpart A - National Bank and Federal Savings Association Powers
##### ยง 7.1026 National bank and Federal savings association payment system memberships.
###### e.g.,

(i) Does the processing occur on a real-time gross settlement basis or provide reasonable assurance (prefunding, etc.) that members will meet settlement obligations?

(ii) How does the payment system's rules limit its liability to members?

(iii) Does the payment system have insurance coverage and/or self-insurance arrangements to cover operational losses?

(iv) Do the payment system's rules provide an unambiguous pro-rata loss allocation methodology under its indemnity provisions and does the methodology provide members the opportunity to reduce or eliminate liability exposure by decreasing or ceasing use of the payment system?

(v) Do the payment system's rules provide for unambiguous membership withdrawal procedures that do not require the prior approval of the system?

(vi) Does the payment system have appropriate admission and continuing participation requirements for system participants? Such requirements should address, among other things:

(A) The participants' access to sufficient financial resources to meet obligations arising from participation;

(B) The adequacy of participants' operational capacities to meet obligations arising from participation; and

(C) The adequacy of the participants' own risk management processes.

(vii) Does the payment system have processes and controls in place to verify and monitor on an ongoing basis the compliance of each participant with admission and participation requirements?

(viii) Does the payment system have written policies and procedures for addressing participant failures to meet ongoing participation requirements?

(ix) Are the payment system's rules relating to the system's emergency authorities unambiguous and may they be amended or otherwise altered without prior notification to all members and an opportunity to withdraw?

(x) Is the payment system governed by uniform, comprehensive and clear legal standards in its operating jurisdiction that address payment and/or settlement activities?

(xi) Is the payment system subject to and in compliance (or observance) with the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems and the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (CPSS-IOSCO) Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures?

(xii) Is the payment system designated as a systemically important financial market utility (SIFMU) by the Financial Stability Oversight Counsel (FSOC) or is it the international or foreign equivalent?

(xiii) Does the payment system provide members with information relevant to governance, risk management practices, and operations in a timely manner and with sufficient transparency and particularity for the bank to ascertain with reasonable certainty the bank's level of risk exposure to the system?

(xiv) Is the payment system operated by or subject to oversight of a central bank or regulatory authority?

(xv) Is the payment system legally organized as a not-for-profit enterprise or is it owned and operated by a government entity?
