
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 7 - ACTIVITIES AND OPERATIONS
#### Subpart A - National Bank and Federal Savings Association Powers
##### ยง 7.1026 National bank and Federal savings association payment system memberships.
###### e.g.

(xvi) Does the payment system have appropriate systems and controls for communicating to members in a timely manner about material events that relate to or could result in potential operational losses,fraud, system failures, natural disasters, etc.?

(xvii) Has the payment system ever exercised its authority under indemnification provisions?

(2) A national bank or Federal savings association should consider, at a minimum, the following characteristics of its risk management program when conducting an analysis required by paragraph (e) of this section:

(i) Does the bank or savings association have appropriate board supervision and managerial and staff expertise?

(ii) Does the bank or savings association have comprehensive policies and operating procedures with respect to its risk identification, measurement and management information systems that are routinely reviewed?

(iii) Does the bank or savings association have effective risk controls and processes to oversee and ensure the continuing effectiveness of the risk management process? The program should include a formal process for approval of payment system memberships as well as ongoing monitoring and measurement of activity against predetermined risk limits.

(iv) Does the bank or savings association's membership evaluation process include assessments and analyses of:

(A) The credit quality of the entity;

(B) The entity's risk management practices;

(C) Settlement and default procedures of the entity;

(D) Any default or loss-sharing precedents and any other applicable limits or restrictions of the entity;

(E) Key risks associated with joining the entity; and

(F) The incremental effect of additional memberships in aggregate exposure to payment system risk?

(v) Does the bank or savings association's risk management program include policies and procedures that identify and estimate the level of potential operational risks, at both inception of membership and on an on-going basis?

(vi) Does the bank or savings association have auditing procedures to ensure the integrity of risk measurement, control and reporting systems?

(vii) Does the program include mechanisms to monitor, estimate, and maintain control over the bank or savings association's potential liabilities for operational losses on an ongoing basis. This should include:

(A) Limits and other controls with respect to each identified risk factor;

(B) Reports generated throughout the processes that accurately present the nature and level(s) of risk taken and demonstrate compliance with approved polices and limits; and

(C) Identification of the business unit and/or individuals responsible for measuring and monitoring risk exposures, as well as those individuals responsible for monitoring compliance with policies and risk exposure limits.

(viii) Does a bank or savings association with memberships in multiple payment systems have the ability to monitor and report aggregate risk exposures and measurement against risk limits both at the sponsoring business line level and the total exposure organizationally?
