
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 327 - ASSESSMENTS
##### Subpart A - In General
###### Appendix E to Subpart A of Part 327 - Mitigating the Deposit Insurance Assessment Effect of Participation in the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility, and the Paycheck Protection Program
####### Description of the loss severity measure.

(a)The loss severity measure applies a standardized set of assumptions to an institution's balance sheet to measure possible losses to the FDIC in the event of an institution's failure. To determine an institution's loss severity rate, the FDIC first applies assumptions about uninsured deposit and other liability runoff, and growth in insured deposits, to adjust the size and composition of the institution's liabilities. Exclude total outstanding borrowings from Federal Reserve Banks under the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility from short-and long-term secured borrowings, as appropriate. Assets are then reduced to match any reduction in liabilities. Exclude from an institution's balance of commercial and industrial loans the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program. In the event that the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program exceeds the balance of commercial and industrial loans, exclude any remaining balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program first from the balance of all other loans, up to the total amount of all other loans, followed by the balance of agricultural loans, up to the total amount of agricultural loans. Increase cash balances by outstanding loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program that exceed total outstanding borrowings from Federal Reserve Banks under the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility, if any. The institution's asset values are then further reduced so that the Leverage Ratio reaches 2 percent. In both cases, assets are adjusted pro rata to preserve the institution's asset composition. Assumptions regarding loss rates at failure for a given asset category and the extent of secured liabilities are then applied to estimated assets and liabilities at failure to determine whether the institution has enough unencumbered assets to cover domestic deposits. Any projected shortfall is divided by current domestic deposits to obtain an end-of-period loss severity ratio. The loss severity measure is an average loss severity ratio for the three most recent quarters of data available. The applicable portions of the current expected credit loss methodology (CECL) transitional amounts attributable to the allowance for credit losses on loans and leases held for investment and added to retained earnings for regulatory capital purposes pursuant to the regulatory capital regulations, as they may be amended from time to time (12 CFR part 3, 12 CFR part 217, 12 CFR part 324, 85 FR 61577 (Sept. 30, 2020), and 84 FR 4222 (Feb. 14, 2019)), will be removed from the calculation of the loss severity measure.

Table E.3 contains run-off assumptions.

Given the resulting total liabilities after runoff, assets are then reduced pro rata to preserve the relative amount of assets in each of the following asset categories and to achieve a Leverage Ratio of 2 percent:

- Cash and Interest Bearing Balances, including outstanding loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program in excess of borrowings from Federal Reserve Banks under the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility;

- Trading Account Assets;

- Federal Funds Sold and Repurchase Agreements;

- Treasury and Agency Securities;

- Municipal Securities;

- Other Securities;

- Construction and Development Loans

- Nonresidential Real Estate Loans;

- Multifamily Real Estate Loans;

- 1-4 Family Closed-End First Liens;

- 1-4 Family Closed-End Junior Liens;

- Revolving Home Equity Loans; and

- Agricultural Real Estate Loans

Table E.4-shows loss rates applied to each of the asset categories as adjusted above.

Federal Home Loan Bank advances, secured federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements are assumed to be fully secured. Foreign deposits are treated as fully secured because of the potential for ring fencing.

Exclude total outstanding borrowings from the Federal Reserve Banks under the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility.

The FDIC's loss given failure (LGD) is calculated as:

An end-of-quarter loss severity ratio is LGD divided by total domestic deposits at quarter-end and the loss severity measure for the scorecard is an average of end-of-period loss severity ratios for three most recent quarters.

(b) [Reserved]

Total Assessment Amount Due = Total Assessment Amount LESS: (SUM (Outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program and quarterly average amount of assets purchased under the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility) * Total Base Assessment Rate)
