
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 7 - ACTIVITIES AND OPERATIONS
#### Subpart A - National Bank and Federal Savings Association Powers
##### ยง 7.1030 Permissible derivatives activities for national banks.
###### Additional requirements for physical hedging activities.

(e)(1) A national bank engaging in physical hedging activities pursuant to paragraph (c)(5) of this section must hold the underlying solely to hedge risks arising from derivatives transactions originated by customers for the customers' valid and independent business purposes.

(2) The physical hedging activities must offer a cost-effective means to hedge risks arising from permissible banking activities.

(3) The national bank must not take anticipatory or maintain residual positions in the underlying except as necessary for the orderly establishment or unwinding of a hedging position.

(4) The national bank must not acquire equity securities for hedging purposes that constitute more than 5 percent of a class of voting securities of any issuer.

(5) With respect to physical hedging involving commodities:

(i) A national bank's physical position in a particular physical commodity (including, as applicable, delivery point, purity, grade, chemical composition, weight, and size) must not be more than 5 percent of the gross notional value of the bank's derivatives that are in that particular physical commodity and allow for physical settlement within 30 days. Title to commodities acquired and immediately sold by a transitory title transfer does not count against the 5 percent limit;

(ii) The physical position must more effectively reduce risk than a cash-settled hedge referencing the same commodity; and

(iii) The physical position hedges a physically-settled customer-driven commodity derivative transaction(s).
