
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 327 - ASSESSMENTS
##### Subpart B - Implementation of One-Time Assessment Credit
###### ยง 327.36 Requests for review of credit amount.
####### connect

(a)(1) As soon as practicable after the publication date of this rule, the FDIC shall notify each insured depository institution by FDICor mail of its 1996 assessment base ratio and credit amount in a Statement of One-Time Credit ("Statement"), if any. An insured depository institution may submit a request for review of the FDIC's determination of the institution's 1996 assessment base ratio or credit amount as shown on the Statement within 30 days after the effective date of this rule. Such review may be requested if:

(i) The institution disagrees with a determination as to eligibility for the credit that relates to that institution's credit amount;

(ii) The institution disagrees with the calculation of the credit as stated on the Statement; or

(iii) The institution believes that the 1996 assessment base ratio attributed to the institution on the Statement does not fully or accurately reflect its own 1996 assessment base or appropriate adjustments for successors.

(2) If an institution does not submit a timely request for review, that institution is barred from subsequently requesting review of its credit amount, subject to paragraph (e) of this section.

(b)(1) An insured depository institution may submit a request for review of the FDIC's adjustment to the credit amount in a quarterly invoice within 30 days of the date on which the FDIC provides the invoice. Such review may be requested if:

(i) The institution disagrees with the calculation of the credit as stated on the invoice; or

(ii) The institution believes that the 1996 assessment base ratio attributed to the institution due to the adjustment to the invoice does not fully or accurately reflect appropriate adjustments for successors since the last quarterly invoice.

(2) If an institution does not submit a timely request for review, that institution is barred from subsequently requesting review of its credit amount, subject to paragraph (e) of this section.

(c) The request for review shall be submitted to the Division of Finance and shall provide documentation sufficient to support the change sought by the institution. At the time of filing with the FDIC, the requesting institution shall notify, to the extent practicable, any other insured depository institution that would be directly and materially affected by granting the request for review and provide such institution with copies of the request for review, the supporting documentation, and the FDIC's procedures for requests under this subpart. In addition, the FDIC also shall make reasonable efforts, based on its official systems of records, to determine that such institutions have been identified and notified.

(d) During the FDIC's consideration of the request for review, the amount of credit in dispute shall not be available for use by any institution.

(e) Within 30 days of being notified of the filing of the request for review, those institutions identified as potentially affected by the request for review may submit a response to such request, along with any supporting documentation, to the Division of Finance, and shall provide copies to the requesting institution. If an institution that was notified under paragraph (c) does not submit a response to the request for review, that institution may not:

(1) Subsequently dispute the information submitted by other institutions on the transaction(s) at issue in the review process; or

(2) Appeal the decision by the Director of the Division of Finance.

(f) If additional information is requested of the requesting or affected institutions by the FDIC, such information shall be provided by the institution within 21 days of the date of the FDIC's request for additional information.

(g) Any institution submitting a timely request for review will receive a written response from the FDIC's Director of the Division of Finance, (or his or her designee), notifying the requesting and affected institutions of the determination of the Director as to whether the requested change is warranted. Notice of the procedures applicable to appeals under paragraph (h) of this section will be included with the Director's written determination. Whenever feasible, the FDIC will provide the institution with the aforesaid written response the later of:

(1) Within 60 days of receipt by the FDIC of the request for revision;

(2) If additional institutions have been notified by the requesting institution or the FDIC, within 60 days of the date of the last response to the notification; or

(3) If additional information has been requested by the FDIC, within 60 days of receipt of the additional information.

(h) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, the insured depository institution that requested review under this section, or an insured depository institution materially affected by the Director's determination, that disagrees with that determination may appeal to the FDIC's Assessment Appeals Committee on the same grounds as set forth under paragraph (a) of this section. Any such appeal must be submitted within 30 calendar days from the date of the Director's written determination. Notice of the procedures applicable to appeals under this section will be included with the Director's written determination. The decision of the Assessment Appeals Committee shall be the final determination of the FDIC.

(i) Any adjustment to an institution's credits resulting from a determination by the Director of the FDIC's Assessment Appeals Committee shall be reflected in the institution's next assessment invoice. The adjustment to credits shall affect future assessments only and shall not result in a retroactive adjustment of assessment amounts owed for prior periods.
