
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 328 - ADVERTISEMENT OF MEMBERSHIP, FALSE ADVERTISING, MISREPRESENTATION OF INSURED STATUS, AND MISUSE OF THE FDIC'S NAME OR LOGO
##### Subpart B - False Advertising, Misrepresentation of Insured Status, and Misuse of the FDIC's Name or Logo
###### ยง 328.102 Prohibition.
####### Use of the FDIC name or logo.

(a)(1) No person may represent or imply that any Uninsured Financial Product is insured or guaranteed by the FDIC by using FDIC-Associated Terms as part of any business name or firm name of any person.

(2) No person may represent or imply that any Uninsured Financial Product is insured or guaranteed by the FDIC by using FDIC-Associated Terms or by using FDIC-Associated Images as part of an Advertisement, solicitation, or other publication or dissemination.

(3) This section applies, but is not limited, to:

(i) An Advertisement for any Uninsured Financial Product that features or includes one or more FDIC-Associated Terms or FDIC-Associated Images, without a clear, conspicuous, and prominent disclaimer that the products being offered are not FDIC insured or guaranteed.

(ii) An Advertisement for any Uninsured Financial Product that may be backed or guaranteed by an entity other that the FDIC, but features or includes one or more FDIC-Associated Terms or FDIC-Associated Images, without a clear, conspicuous, prominent, and accurate explanation as to the actual nature and source of the guarantee.

(iii) An Advertisement for any Non-Deposit Product or Hybrid Product by a Regulated Institution that includes any statement or symbol which implies or suggests the existence of deposit insurance relating to the Non-Deposit Product or Hybrid Product.

(iv) Publication or dissemination of information, regardless of the media or platform, that suggests or implies that the party making the representation is an FDIC-insured institution if this is not in fact true.

(v) Publication or dissemination of information, regardless of the media or platform, that suggests or implies that the party making the representation is associated with an FDIC-insured institution if the nature of the association is not clearly, conspicuously, prominently, and accurately described.

(vi) Publication or dissemination of information, regardless of the media or platform, that suggests or implies that the party making the representation is the FDIC or any office, division, or subdivision thereof, if this is not in fact true.

(vii) Publication or dissemination of information, regardless of the media or platform, that suggests or implies that the party making the representation is associated with the FDIC or any office, division, or subdivision thereof, if the nature of the association is not clearly, conspicuously, prominently, and accurately described.
