
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 335-SECURITIES OF STATE NONMEMBER BANKS AND STATE SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
##### ยง 335.801 Inapplicable SEC regulations; FDIC substituted regulations; additional information.
###### connect,https://www2.fdicconnect.gov/index.asp.,http://www.fdic.gov/regulations/laws/forms.

(2) All reporting persons must electronically file Beneficial Ownership Reports (FDIC Forms 3, 4, and 5), including amendments and exhibits thereto, using the Internet-based interagency Beneficial Ownership Filings System, except that a reporting person that has obtained a continuing hardship exemption under these rules may file the forms with the FDIC in paper format. For electronic filing purposes, FDIC Forms 3, 4, and 5 are accessible at the Internet-based interagency Web site for Beneficial Ownership Filings at FDICatThese forms and the instructions thereto are available for printing and downloading atA reporting person that has obtained a continuing hardship exemption under these rules may file the appropriate forms with the FDIC in paper format. Instructions for continuing hardship exemptions are provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.

(3) Electronic filings of FDIC beneficial ownership report Forms 3, 4, and 5 must be submitted to the FDIC through the interagency Beneficial Ownership Filings system. Beneficial ownership reports and any amendments are deemed filed with the FDIC upon electronic receipt on business days from 8 a.m. through 10 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect (Eastern Time). Business days include each day, except Saturdays, Sundays and Federal holidays. All filings submitted electronically to the FDIC commencing after 10 p.m. Eastern Time on business days shall be deemed filed as of 8 a.m. on the following business day. All filings submitted electronically to the FDIC on non-business days shall be deemed filed as of 8 a.m. on the following business day.
