
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 335-SECURITIES OF STATE NONMEMBER BANKS AND STATE SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
##### ยง 335.801 Inapplicable SEC regulations; FDIC substituted regulations; additional information.
###### Continuing Hardship Exemption.

(6)The FDIC will not accept in paper format any beneficial ownership report filing required to be submitted electronically under this part unless the filer satisfies the requirements for a continuing hardship exemption:

(i) A filer may apply in writing for a continuing hardship exemption if all or part of a filing or group of filings otherwise required to be filed in electronic format cannot be so filed without undue burden or expense. Such written application shall be made at least ten business days prior to the required due date of the filing(s) or the proposed filing date, as appropriate, or within such shorter period as may be permitted. The written application shall be sent to the Accounting and Securities Disclosure Section, Division of Risk Management Supervision, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 550 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20429, and shall contain the information set forth in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section.

(A) The application shall not be deemed granted until the applicant is notified by the FDIC.

(B) If the FDIC denies the application for a continuing hardship exemption, the filer shall file the required document in electronic format on the required due date or the proposed filing date or such other date as may be permitted.

(C) If the FDIC determines that the grant of the exemption is appropriate and consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors and so notifies the applicant, the filer shall follow the procedures set forth in paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section.

(ii) The request for the continuing hardship exemption shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

(A) The reason(s) that the necessary hardware and software are not available without unreasonable burden and expense;

(B) The burden and expense involved to employ alternative means to make the electronic submission; and/or

(C) The reasons for not submitting electronically the document or group of documents, as well as justification for the requested time period for the exemption.

(iii) If the request for a continuing hardship exemption is granted, the electronic filer shall submit the document or group of documents for which the exemption is granted in paper format on the required due date specified in the applicable form, rule or regulation, or the proposed filing date, as appropriate. The paper format document(s) shall have placed at the top of page 1, or at the top of an attached cover page, a legend in capital letters:

(iv) Where a continuing hardship exemption is granted with respect to an exhibit only, the paper format exhibit shall be filed with the FDIC under Form SE (17 CFR part 249). The name of the FDIC shall be substituted for the name of the SEC on the form. Form SE shall be filed as a paper cover sheet to all exhibits to Beneficial Ownership Reports submitted to the FDIC in paper form pursuant to a hardship exemption.

(v) Form SE may be filed with the FDIC up to six business days prior to, or on the date of filing of, the electronic form to which it relates but shall not be filed after such filing date. If a paper exhibit is submitted in this manner, requirements that the exhibit be filed with, provided with, or accompany the electronic filing shall be satisfied. Any requirements as to delivery or furnishing the information to persons other than the FDIC shall not be affected by this section.
