
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 345-COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT
##### Subpart B-Standards for Assessing Performance
###### ยง 345.22 Lending test.
####### Scope of test.

(a)(1) The lending test evaluates a bank's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its assessment area(s) through its lending activities by considering a bank's home mortgage, small business, small farm, and community development lending. If consumer lending constitutes a substantial majority of a bank's business, the FDIC will evaluate the bank's consumer lending in one or more of the following categories: motor vehicle, credit card, other secured, and other unsecured loans. In addition, at a bank's option, the FDIC will evaluate one or more categories of consumer lending, if the bank has collected and maintained, as required in ยง 345.42(c)(1), the data for each category that the bank elects to have the FDIC evaluate.

(2) The FDIC considers originations and purchases of loans. The FDIC will also consider any other loan data the bank may choose to provide, including data on loans outstanding, commitments and letters of credit.

(3) A bank may ask the FDIC to consider loans originated or purchased by consortia in which the bank participates or by third parties in which the bank has invested only if the loans meet the definition of community development loans and only in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The FDIC will not consider these loans under any criterion of the lending test except the community development lending criterion.
