
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 8 - ASSESSMENT OF FEES
#### ยง 8.2 Semiannual assessment.
##### Control,company

(D)andwith respect to Federal savings associations have the same meanings as these terms have in section 10(a) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a).

(b)(1) Each Federal branch and each Federal agency shall pay to the OCC a semiannual assessment fee, due by March 31 and September 30 of each year, for the six-month period beginning on January 1 and July 1 before each payment date. The OCC will calculate the amount due under this section and provide a notice of assessments to each Federal branch and agency no later than 7 business days prior to March 31 and September 30 of each year.

(2) The amount of the semiannual assessment paid by each Federal branch and Federal agency shall be computed at the same rate as provided in the Table in 12 CFR 8.2(a); however, only the total domestic assets of the Federal branch or agency shall be subject to assessment.

(3)(i) Each semiannual assessment of each Federal branch and each agency is based upon the total assets shown in the Federal branch's or agency's Call Report most recently preceding the payment date. Each Federal branch or agency subject to the jurisdiction of the OCC on the date of the second and fourth Call Reports is subject to the full assessment for the next six-month period. Federal branches and agencies that are no longer subject to the jurisdiction of the OCC as of the date of the first or third quarterly Call Report, as appropriate, will receive a refund of assessments for the second three months of the semiannual assessment period.

(ii) [Reserved]

(4)(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the OCC may reduce the semiannual assessment for each non-lead Federal branch and agency by an amount that it will specify in the "Notice of Office of the Comptroller of the Currency Fees and Assessments" described in ยง 8.8.

(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(4):
