
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 347 - INTERNATIONAL BANKING
##### ยง 347.102 Definitions.
###### Investment grade

(o)means a security issued by an entity that has adequate capacity to meet financial commitments for the projected life of the exposure. Such an entity has adequate capacity to meet financial commitments if the risk of its default is low and the full and timely repayment of principal and interest is expected.

(p) Loan or extension of credit means all direct and indirect advances of funds to a person, government, or entity made on the basis of any obligation of that person, government, or entity to repay funds.

(q) Organization or entity means a corporation, partnership, association, bank, or other similar entity.

(r) NRSRO means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization as designated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

(s) Representative office means an office that engages solely in representative functions such as soliciting new business for its home office or acting as liaison between the home office and local customers, but which has no authority to make business or contracting decisions other than those relating to the personnel and premises of the representative office.

(t) Subsidiary means any organization more than 50 percent of the voting equity interests of which are directly or indirectly held by another organization.

(u) Tier 1 capital means Tier 1 capital as defined in ยง 324.2 of this chapter.

(v) Well capitalized means well capitalized as defined in ยง 324.403 of this chapter.
