
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 352 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY
##### § 352.3 Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the term-

(a) "Auxiliary aids" means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, the FDIC programs or activities, and Electronic and Information Technology set forth in § 352.2.

(b) "Electronic and Information Technology" ("EIT") has the same meaning as "information technology" except EIT also includes any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that is used in the creation, conversion, or duplication of data or information. The term EIT includes, but is not limited to, telecommunication products (such as telephones), information kiosks and transaction machines, worldwide web sites, multimedia, and office equipment (such as copiers and fax machines).

(c) "Facility" means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots and other real or personal property. As used in this definition, "personal property" means only furniture, carpeting and similar features not considered to be real property.

(d) "Individual with a disability" means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.

(e) "Qualified individual with a disability" means-

(1) With respect to any FDIC program or activity in which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with a disability who meets the essential eligibility requirements and can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the FDIC can determine on the basis of a written record would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;

(2) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with a disability who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity;

(3) With respect to employment, an individual with a disability as defined in 29 CFR 1630.2(g), which is made applicable to this part by § 352.6.

(f) "Sections 504 and 508" mean sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794 and 794d)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617), the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955), and the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (Pub. L. 105-220, 112 Stat. 936). As used in this regulation, sections 504 and 508 shall be applied only to the programs, activities, and EIT conducted by the FDIC as set forth in §§ 352.2 and 352.3(b) of this regulation.
