
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 352 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY
##### ยง 352.9 Communications.

(a) The FDIC shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with participants in FDIC programs, activities and EIT.

(1) The FDIC shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with a disability an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, the FDIC programs or activities.

(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the FDIC shall give primary consideration to any reasonable requests of the individual with a disability.

(ii) The FDIC need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.

(2) Where the FDIC communicates by telephone, it shall use telecommunications devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems with hearing impaired participants and beneficiaries.

(b) The FDIC shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, facilities and EIT. Interested persons may obtain such information by calling, writing or visiting the FDIC Office of Minority and Women Inclusion (OMWI), located at 3501 Fairfax Drive, Arlington, VA 22226. The FDIC telephone number is (877) 275-3342 or (703) 562-2473 (TTY).

(c) The FDIC shall provide information at a primary entrance to each of its facilities where programs or activities are conducted, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
