
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 352 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY
##### ยง 352.10 Compliance procedures.
###### Formal complaints.

(e)The individual must file a written formal complaint within 15 calendar days after receiving the notice of a right to file a formal complaint. Formal complaints must be filed with the FDIC Chairman or the OMWI Director. Within 120 days of the receipt of such a complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the FDIC shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing-

(1) A finding regarding the alleged violations;

(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(3) A notice of the right to appeal.

(f) Appeals of the findings or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 30 days of receipt from the FDIC of the letter required by ยง 352.10 (e). The FDIC may extend this time for good cause.

(g) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the FDIC Chairman or OMWI Director.

(h) The FDIC Chairman or ODEO Director shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the FDIC Chairman or OMWI Director determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make a determination on the appeal.

(i) The time limits set forth in (e) and (h) above may be extended for an individual case when the FDIC Chairman or OMWI Director determines that there is good cause, based on the particular circumstances of that case.

(j) The FDIC may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other federal agencies or independent contractors, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated.
