
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 352 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY
##### ยง 352.10 Compliance procedures.
###### Informal process.

(c)A complainant shall first exhaust informal administrative procedures before filing a formal complaint alleging disability discrimination in FDIC programs or activities, or a denial of technology access. The FDIC's Office of Minority and Women Inclusion shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. An aggrieved individual initiates the process by filing an informal complaint with OMWI within 180 calendar days from the date of the alleged disability discrimination or denial of access to electronic information technology. An informal complaint with respect to any FDIC program or activity must include a written statement containing the individual's name and address which describes the FDIC's action in sufficient detail to inform the FDIC of the nature and date of the alleged violation of these regulations. An informal complaint for denial of technology access must clearly identify the individual and the manner in which the EIT was inaccessible. All informal complaints shall be signed by the complainant or one authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Informal complaints filed on behalf of third parties shall describe or identify (by name if possible) the alleged victim of discrimination or denial of technology access. During the informal resolution process, OMWI has 30 days to attempt a resolution of the matter. If the aggrieved individual elects to participate in mediation, the period for attempting informal resolution will be extended for an additional 60 calendar days. If the matter is not resolved informally, the individual will be provided written notice of the right to file a formal complaint. All complaints should be sent to the FDIC's Office of Minority and Women Inclusion, 3501 Fairfax Drive, Arlington, VA 22226.

(d) If the FDIC receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complainant to the appropriate government entity.
