
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 359 - GOLDEN PARACHUTE AND INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENTS
##### ยง 359.6 Filing instructions.

Requests to make excess nondiscriminatory severance plan payments pursuant to ยง 359.1(f)(2)(v) and golden parachute payments permitted by ยง 359.4 shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate regional director (DSC). For filing requirements, consult 12 CFR 303.244. In the event that the consent of the institution's primary federal regulator is required in addition to that of the FDIC, the requesting party shall submit a copy of its letter to the FDIC to the institution's primary federal regulator. In the case of national banks, such written requests shall be submitted to the OCC. In the case of state member banks and bank holding companies, such written requests shall be submitted to the Federal Reserve district bank where the institution or holding company, respectively, is located. In the case of savings associations and savings association holding companies, such written requests shall be submitted to the OTS regional office where the institution or holding company, respectively, is located. In cases where only the prior consent of the institution's primary federal regulator is required and that agency is not the FDIC, a written request satisfying the requirements of this section shall be submitted to the primary federal regulator as described in this section.
