
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 360 - RESOLUTION AND RECEIVERSHIP RULES
##### ยง 360.10 Resolution plans required for insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in total assets.
###### Implementation Matters.

(d)(1) In order to allow evaluation of the resolution plan, each CIDI must provide the FDIC such information and access to such personnel of the CIDI as the FDIC determines is necessary to assess the credibility of the resolution plan and the ability of the CIDI to implement the resolution plan. The FDIC will rely to the fullest extent possible on examinations conducted by or on behalf of the appropriate Federal banking agency for the relevant company.

(2) Within a reasonable period of time, as determined by the FDIC, following its Initial Submission Date, the CIDI shall demonstrate its capability to produce promptly, in a time frame and format acceptable to the FDIC, the information and data underlying its resolution plan. The FDIC shall consult with the appropriate Federal banking agency for the CIDI before finding that the CIDI's capability to produce the information and data underlying its resolution plan is unacceptable.

(3) Notwithstanding the general requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, on a case-by-case basis, the FDIC may extend, on its own initiative or upon written request, the implementation and updating time frames for all or part of the requirements of this section.

(4) FDIC may, on its own initiative or upon written request, exempt a CIDI from one or more of the requirements of this section.
