
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 363 - ANNUAL INDEPENDENT AUDITS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 363.3 Independent public accountant.
###### Peer reviews and inspection reports.

(g)(1) Prior to commencing any services for an insured depository institution under this part, the independent public accountant must have received a peer review, or be enrolled in a peer review program, that meets acceptable guidelines. Acceptable peer reviews include peer reviews performed in accordance with the AICPA's Peer Review Standards and inspections conducted by the PCAOB.

(2) Within 15 days of receiving notification that a peer review has been accepted or a PCAOB inspection report has been issued, or before commencing any audit under this part, whichever is earlier, the independent public accountant must file two copies of the most recent peer review report and the public portion of the most recent PCAOB inspection report, if any, accompanied by any letters of comments, response, and acceptance, with the FDIC, Accounting and Securities Disclosure Section, 550 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20429, if the report has not already been filed. The peer review reports and the public portions of the PCAOB inspection reports will be made available for public inspection by the FDIC.

(3) Within 15 days of the PCAOB making public a previously nonpublic portion of an inspection report, the independent public accountant must file two copies of the previously nonpublic portion of the inspection report with the FDIC, Accounting and Securities Disclosure Section, 550 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20429. Such previously nonpublic portion of the PCAOB inspection report will be made available for public inspection by the FDIC.
