
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 363 - ANNUAL INDEPENDENT AUDITS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Appendix A to Part 363 - Guidelines and Interpretations

1. Measuring Total Assets

2. Insured Branches of Foreign Banks

3. Compliance by Holding Company Subsidiaries

4. Comparable Services and Functions

4A. Financial Reporting

5. Annual Financial Statements

5A. Institutions Merged out of Existence

6. Holding Company Statements

7. Insured Branches of Foreign Banks

7A. Compliance with Designated Laws and Regulations

8. Management Report

8A. Management's Reports on Internal Control over Financial Reporting under Part 363 and Section 404 of SOX

8B. Internal Control Reports and Part 363 Annual Reports for Acquired Businesses

8C. Management's Disclosure of Noncompliance with the Designated Laws and Regulations

9. Safeguarding of Assets

10. Standards for Internal Control

11. Service Organizations

12. Reserved

13. General Qualifications

14. Reserved

15. Peer Review Guidelines

16. Reserved

17. Information to be Provided to the Independent Public Accountant

18. Attestation Report and Management Letters

18A. Internal Control Attestation Standards for Independent Auditors

19. Reviews with Audit Committee and Management

20. Notice of Termination

21. Reliance on Internal Auditors

22. Reserved

23. Notification of Late Filing

24. Public Availability

25. Reserved

26. Notices Concerning Accountants

27. Composition

28. "Independent of Management" Considerations

29. Reserved

30. Holding Company Audit Committees

31. Duties

32. Banking or Related Financial Management Expertise

33. Large Customers

34. Access to Counsel

35. Transition Period for Forming and Restructuring Audit Committees

36. Modifications of Guidelines

Congress added section 36, "Early Identification of Needed Improvements in Financial Management" (section 36), to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) in 1991.

The FDIC Board of Directors adopted 12 CFR part 363 of its rules and regulations (the Rule) to implement those provisions of section 36 that require rulemaking. The FDIC also approved these "Guidelines and Interpretations" (the Guidelines) and directed that they be published with the Rule to facilitate a better understanding of, and full compliance with, the provisions of section 36.

Although not contained in the Rule itself, some of the guidance offered restates or refers to statutory requirements of section 36 and is therefore mandatory. If that is the case, the statutory provision is cited.

Furthermore, upon adopting the Rule, the FDIC reiterated its belief that every insured depository institution, regardless of its size or charter, should have an annual audit of its financial statements performed by an independent public accountant, and should establish an audit committee comprised entirely of outside directors.

The following Guidelines reflect the views of the FDIC concerning the interpretation of section 36. The Guidelines are intended to assist insured depository institutions (institutions), their boards of directors, and their advisors, including their independent public accountants and legal counsel, and to clarify section 36 and the Rule. It is recognized that reliance on the Guidelines may result in compliance with section 36 and the Rule which may vary from institution to institution. Terms which are not explained in the Guidelines have the meanings given them in the Rule, the FDI Act, or professional accounting and auditing literature.
