
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 363 - ANNUAL INDEPENDENT AUDITS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Appendix A to Part 363 - Guidelines and Interpretations
###### Internal Control Attestation Standards for Independent Auditors.

18A.(a) ยง 363.3(b) provides that the independent public accountant's attestation and report on management's assertion concerning the effectiveness of an institution's internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting shall be made in accordance with generally accepted standards for attestation engagements or the PCAOB's auditing standards, if applicable. The standards that should be followed by the institution's independent public accountant concerning internal control over financial reporting for institutions with $1 billion or more in total assets can be summarized as follows:

(1) For an insured institution that is neither a public company nor a subsidiary of a public company, its independent public accountant need only follow the AICPA's attestation standards.

(2) For an insured institution that is a public company that is required to comply with the auditor attestation requirement of section 404 of SOX, its independent public accountant should follow the PCAOB's auditing standards.

(3) For an insured institution that is a public company but is not required to comply with the auditor attestation requirement of section 404 of SOX, its independent public accountant is not required to follow the PCAOB's auditing standards. In this case, the accountant need only follow the AICPA's attestation standards.

(4) For an insured institution that is a subsidiary of a public company that is required to comply with the auditor attestation requirement of section 404 of SOX, but is not itself a public company, the institution and its independent public accountant have flexibility in complying with the internal control requirements of part 363. If the conditions specified in ยง 363.1(b)(2) are met, management and the independent public accountant may choose to report on internal control over financial reporting at the consolidated holding company level. In this situation, the independent public accountant's work would be performed for the public company in accordance with the PCAOB's auditing standards. Alternatively, the institution may choose to comply with the internal control reporting requirements of part 363 at the institution level and its independent public accountant could follow the AICPA's attestation standards.

(b) If an independent public accountant need only follow the AICPA's attestation standards, the accountant and the insured institution may instead agree to have the internal control attestation performed under the PCAOB's auditing standards.
