
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 364 - STANDARDS FOR SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS
##### Appendix A to Part 364 - Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness
###### Compensation Leading to Material Financial Loss

B.

Compensation that could lead to material financial loss to an institution is prohibited as an unsafe and unsound practice.

Section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831p-1) was added by section 132 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), Pub. L. 102-242, 105 Stat. 2236 (1991), and amended by section 956 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, Pub. L. 102-550, 106 Stat. 3895 (1992) and section 318 of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, Pub. L. 103-325, 108 Stat. 2160 (1994).

For the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, these regulations appear at 12 CFR Part 30; for the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, these regulations appear at 12 CFR Part 263; and for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, these regulations appear at 12 CFR Part 308, subpart R.

In applying these definitions for savings associations, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1464, savings associations shall use the terms "savings association" and "insured savings association" in place of the terms "member bank" and "insured bank".

See footnote 3 in section I.B.4. of this appendix.

See footnote 3 in section I.B.4. of this appendix.
