
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 366 - MINIMUM STANDARDS OF INTEGRITY AND FITNESS FOR AN FDIC CONTRACTOR
##### ยง 366.6 How is my ownership or control determined?

(a) Your ownership or control is determined on a case-by-case basis. Your ownership or control depends on the specific facts of your situation and the particular industry and legal entity involved. You must provide documentation to us to use in determining your ownership or control.

(b) The interest of a spouse or other family member in the same organization is imputed to you in determining your ownership or control.

(c) The following are examples of when your ownership or control may or may not exist. These examples are not inclusive.

(1) You have control if you are the president or chief executive officer of an organization.

(2) You have ownership or control if you are a partner in a small law firm. You might not have ownership or control if you are a partner in a large national law firm.

(3) You have control if you are a general partner of a limited partnership. You have ownership or control if you have a limited partnership interest of 25 percent or more.

(4) You have ownership or control if you have the:

(i) Power to vote, directly or indirectly, 25% or more interest of any class of voting stock of a company;

(ii) Ability to direct in any manner the election of a majority of a company's directors or trustees; or

(iii) Ability to exercise a controlling influence over the company's management and policies.
