
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 366 - MINIMUM STANDARDS OF INTEGRITY AND FITNESS FOR AN FDIC CONTRACTOR
##### ยง 366.12 What are the FDIC's minimum standards of ethical responsibility?
###### Ighotline@fdic.gov.

(c) You must disclose to us waste, fraud, abuse or corruption. Contact the Inspector General at 1-800-964-FDIC or

(d) You and any person who performs contract services to us must not:

(1) Accept or solicit for yourself or others any favor, gift, or other item of monetary value from any person who you reasonably believe is seeking an official action from you on our behalf, or has an interest that the performance or nonperformance of your duties to us may substantially affect;

(2) Use or allow the use of our property, except as specified in the contract;

(3) Make an unauthorized promise or commitment on our behalf; or

(4) Provide impermissible gifts or entertainment to an FDIC employee or other person providing services to us.

(e) The following are examples of when you are engaging in unethical behavior. These examples are not inclusive.

(1) Using government resources, including our Internet connection, to conduct any business that is unrelated to the performance of your contract with us.

(2) Submitting false invoices or claims, or making misleading or false statements.

(3) Committing us to forgive or restructure a debt or portion of a debt, unless we provide you with written authority to do so.
