
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 371 - RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACTS
##### ยง 371.4 Content of records.
###### Full scope entities.

(b)Except as provided in ยง 371.6, a full scope entity must maintain the following records:

(1) The position-level data listed in Table A-1 in Appendix B of this part with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.

(2) The counterparty-level data listed in Table A-2 in Appendix B of this part with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.

(3) The legal agreements information listed in Table A-3 in Appendix B of this part with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.

(4) The collateral detail data listed in Table A-4 in Appendix B of this part with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.

(5) The corporate organization master table in Appendix B of this part for the records entity and its affiliates.

(6) The counterparty master table in Appendix B of this part with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.

(7) The booking location master table in Appendix B of this part for each booking location used with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.

(8) The safekeeping agent master table in Appendix B of this part for each safekeeping agent used with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.

(9) All documents that govern QFC transactions between the records entity (or any of its reportable subsidiaries) and each counterparty, including, without limitation, master agreements and annexes, schedules, netting agreements, supplements, or other modifications with respect to the agreements, confirmations for each QFC position that has been confirmed and all trade acknowledgments for each QFC position that has not been confirmed, all credit support documents including, but not limited to, credit support annexes, guarantees, keep-well agreements, or net worth maintenance agreements that are relevant to one or more QFCs, and all assignment or novation documents, if applicable, including documents that confirm that all required consents, approvals, or other conditions precedent for such assignment or novation have been obtained or satisfied.

(10) A list of vendors directly supporting the QFC-related activities of the records entity and its reportable subsidiaries and the vendors' contact information.
