
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 371 - RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACTS
##### ยง 371.4 Content of records.
###### Limited scope entities.

(a)Except as provided in ยง 371.6, a limited scope entity must maintain (at the election of such records entity) either the records described in paragraph (b) of this section or the following records:

(1) The position-level data listed in Table A-1 in Appendix A of this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party, without duplication.

(2) The counterparty-level data listed in Table A-2 in Appendix A of this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party, without duplication.

(3) The corporate organization master table in Appendix A of this part for the records entity and its affiliates.

(4) The counterparty master table in Appendix A of this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party, without duplication.

(5) All documents that govern QFC transactions between the records entity and each counterparty, including, without limitation, master agreements and annexes, schedules, netting agreements, supplements, or other modifications with respect to the agreements, confirmations for each QFC position that has been confirmed and all trade acknowledgments for each QFC position that has not been confirmed, all credit support documents including, but not limited to, credit support annexes, guarantees, keep-well agreements, or net worth maintenance agreements that are relevant to one or more QFCs, and all assignment or novation documents, if applicable, including documents that confirm that all required consents, approvals, or other conditions precedent for such assignment or novation have been obtained or satisfied.

(6) A list of vendors directly supporting the QFC-related activities of the records entity and the vendors' contact information.
