
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 380 - ORDERLY LIQUIDATION AUTHORITY
##### Subpart A - General and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 380.8 Predominantly engaged in activities that are financial or incidental thereto.

(a) For purposes of sections 201(a)(11) and 201(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act("Dodd-Frank Act") and this part, a company is predominantly engaged in activities that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("Board of Governors") has determined are financial in nature or incidental thereto for purposes of section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 ("BHC Act") (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)), if:

(1) At least 85 percent of the total consolidated revenues of such company (determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards) for either of its two most recently completed fiscal years were derived, directly or indirectly, from financial activities, or

(2) Based upon all of the relevant facts and circumstances, the consolidated revenues of the company from financial activities constitute 85 percent or more of the total consolidated revenues of the company.

(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following definitions apply:

(1) The term "applicable accounting standards" means the accounting standards utilized by the company in the ordinary course of business in preparing its consolidated financial statements, provided that those standards are:

(i) U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,

(ii) International Financial Reporting Standards, or

(iii) Such other accounting standards that are determined to be appropriate on a case-by-case basis.

(2) The terms "broker" and "dealer" have the same meanings as in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c).

(3) The term "financial activity" means:

(i) Lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for others, or safeguarding money or securities.

(ii) Insuring, guaranteeing, or indemnifying against loss, harm, damage, illness, disability, or death, or providing and issuing annuities, and acting as principal, agent, or broker for purposes of the foregoing, in any state.

(iii) Providing financial, investment, or economic advisory services, including advising an investment company (as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940).

(iv) Issuing or selling instruments representing interests in pools of assets permissible for a bank to hold directly.

(v) Underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in securities.

(vi) Engaging in any activity that the Board of Governors has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto, which include-

(A) Extending credit and servicing loans. Making, acquiring, brokering, or servicing loans or other extensions of credit (including factoring, issuing letters of credit and accepting drafts) for the company's account or for the account of others.

(B) Activities related to extending credit. Any activity usual in connection with making, acquiring, brokering or servicing loans or other extensions of credit, including the following activities-
