
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 380 - ORDERLY LIQUIDATION AUTHORITY
##### Subpart A - General and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 380.8 Predominantly engaged in activities that are financial or incidental thereto.
####### 2,1

() Up to 30 percent of a nonbank company's revenues related to providing general purpose hardware in connection with providing data processing products or services described in (b)(2)(vi)(N)() of this section will be included in the company's financial revenues.

(O) Administrative services. Providing administrative and other services to mutual funds.

(P) Securities exchange. Owning shares of a securities exchange.

(Q) Certification authority. Acting as a certification authority for digital signatures and authenticating the identity of persons conducting financial and nonfinancial transactions.

(R) Employment histories. Providing employment histories to third parties for use in making credit decisions and to depository institutions and their affiliates for use in the ordinary course of business.

(S) Check cashing and wire transmission. Check cashing and wire transmission services.

(T) Services offered in connection with banking services. In connection with offering banking services, providing notary public services, selling postage stamps and postage-paid envelopes, providing vehicle registration services, and selling public transportation tickets and tokens.

(U) Real estate title abstracting.

(vii) Engaging, in the United States, in any activity that a bank holding company may engage in outside of the United States; and the Board has determined, under regulations prescribed or interpretations issued pursuant to section 4(c)(13) of the BHC Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(13)) to be usual in connection with the transaction of banking or other financial operations abroad. Those activities include-

(A) Providing management consulting services, including to any person with respect to nonfinancial matters, so long as the management consulting services are advisory and do not allow the company to control the person to which the services are provided.

(B) Operating a travel agency in connection with financial services.

(C) Organizing, sponsoring, and managing a mutual fund.

(D) Commercial banking and other banking activities.

(viii)(A) Acting as a finder in bringing together one or more buyers and sellers of any product or service for transactions that the parties themselves negotiate and consummate, including providing any or all of the following services through any means-
