
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 380 - ORDERLY LIQUIDATION AUTHORITY
##### Subpart A - General and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 380.13 Restrictions on sale of assets of a covered financial company by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
####### Applicability.

(2)(i) The restrictions of this section apply to the sale of assets of a covered financial company by the FDIC as receiver or in its corporate capacity.

(ii) The restrictions in this section apply to the sale of assets of a bridge financial company if:

(A) The sale is not in the ordinary course of business of the bridge financial company, and

(B) The approval or non-objection of the FDIC is required in connection with the sale according to the charter, articles of association, bylaws or other documents or instruments establishing the governance of the bridge financial company and the authorities of its board of directors and executive officers.

(iii) In the case of a sale of securities backed by a pool of assets that may include assets of a covered financial company by a trust or other entity, this section applies only to the sale of assets by the FDIC to an underwriter in an initial offering, and not to any other purchaser of the securities.

(iv) The restrictions of this section do not apply to a sale of a security or a group or index of securities, a commodity, or any qualified financial contract that customarily is traded through a financial intermediary, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, where the seller cannot control selection of the purchaser and the sale is consummated through that customary practice.

(v) The restrictions of this section do not apply to a judicial sale or a trustee's sale of property that secures an obligation to the FDIC where the sale is not conducted or controlled by the FDIC.

(vi) The restrictions of this section do not apply to the sale or transfer of an asset if such sale or transfer resolves or settles, or is part of the resolution or settlement of, one (1) or more claims or obligations that have been, or could have been, asserted by the FDIC against the person with whom the FDIC is settling regardless of the amount of such claims or obligations.

(3) The FDIC retains the authority to establish other policies restricting asset sales. Neither 12 U.S.C. 5390(r) nor this section in any way limits the authority of the FDIC to establish policies prohibiting the sale of assets to prospective purchasers who have injured the respective covered financial company, or to other prospective purchasers, such as certain employees or contractors of the FDIC, or individuals who are not in compliance with the terms of any debt or duty owed to the FDIC in any of its capacities. Any such policies may be independent of, in conjunction with, or in addition to the restrictions set forth in this part.
