
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 381 - RESOLUTION PLANS
##### § 381.3 Critical operations.
###### Joint identification of critical operations by the Board and the Corporation.

(b)(1) The Board and the Corporation shall, not less frequently than every six years, jointly review the operations of covered companies to determine whether to jointly identify critical operations of any covered company in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or to jointly rescind any currently effective joint identification in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(2) If the Board and the Corporation jointly identify a covered company's operation as a critical operation, the Board and the Corporation shall jointly notify the covered company in writing. A covered company is not required to include the information required under §§ 381.5 through 381.7 for the identified critical operation in any resolution plan that the covered company is required to submit within 12 months after the joint notification unless the operation had been identified by the covered company as a critical operation on or before the date the Board and the Corporation jointly notified the covered company.

(3) The Board and the Corporation may jointly rescind a joint identification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section by providing the covered company with joint notice of the rescission. Upon the notification, the covered company is not required to include the information regarding the operation required for identified critical operations under §§ 381.5 through 381.7 in any subsequent resolution plan unless:

(i) The covered company identifies the operation as a critical operation; or

(ii) The Board and the Corporation subsequently provide a joint notification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section to the covered company regarding the operation.

(4) A joint notification provided by the Board and the Corporation to a covered company before [effective date of final rule] that identifies any of its operations as a critical operation and not previously jointly rescinded is deemed to be a joint identification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
