
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter III - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
### Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy
#### PART 390 - REGULATIONS TRANSFERRED FROM THE OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION
##### Subpart W - Securities Offerings
###### ยง 390.413 Non-public offering.
####### Sales to 35 persons.

(b)The offer and sale of all securities in the transaction satisfies each of the following conditions:

(1) Sales of the security are not made to more than 35 persons during the offering period, as determined under the integration provisions of Commission Rule 502(a) (17 CFR 230.502(a)). The number of purchasers referred to above is exclusive of any accredited investor, officer, director or affiliate of the issuer. For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, a husband and wife (together with any custodian or trustee acting for the account of their minor children) are counted as one person and a partnership, corporation or other organization which was not specifically formed for the purpose of purchasing the security offered in reliance upon this exemption, is counted as one person.

(2) All purchasers either have a preexisting personal or business relationship with the issuer or any of its officers, directors or controlling persons, or by reason of their business or financial experience or the business or financial experience of their professional advisors who are unaffiliated with and who are not compensated by the issuer or any affiliate or selling agent of the issuer, directly or indirectly, could reasonably be assumed to have the capacity to protect their own interests in connection with the transaction.

(3) Each purchaser represents that the purchaser is purchasing for the purchaser's own account (or a trust account if the purchaser is a trustee) and not with a view to or for sale in connection with any distribution of the security.

(4) The offer and sale of the security is not accomplished by the publication of any advertisement.
