
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter IV - Export-Import Bank of the United States
### PART 403 - CLASSIFICATION, DECLASSIFICATION, AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
#### ยง 403.1 General policies and definitions.
##### Order,Directive,NSDD 84

(a) This regulation of the Export-Import Bank (the Bank) implements executive orders which govern the classification, declassification, and safeguarding of national security information and material of the United States. This regulation is based on Executive Order 12356, National Security Information, April 2, 1982 (3 CFR, 1982 Comp. p. 166) (hereafter referred to as the), Information Security Oversight Directive No. 1, June 25, 1982 (32 CFR part 2001) (hereafter referred to as the), and National Security Decision Directive 84, "Safeguarding National Security Information," signed by the President on March 11, 1983 (hereafter referred to as). Violation of the provisions of part 403 may result in the imposition of administrative penalties, and civil and criminal penalties under applicable law. Executive Order 12356 prescribes a uniform system for classifying, declassifying, and safeguarding national security information. It recognizes that it is essential that the public be informed concerning the activities of the Government, but that the interests of the United States and its citizens require that certain information concerning the national defense and foreign relations be protected against unauthorized disclosure. Information may not be classified under the Order unless its disclosure reasonably could be expected to cause damage to the national security.

(b) For the purposes of the Order, the Directive and these guidelines, the following terms shall have the meanings specified below:
