
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter IV - Export-Import Bank of the United States
### PART 403 - CLASSIFICATION, DECLASSIFICATION, AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
#### ยง 403.3 Classification principles and authority.
##### Marking and Identification.

(e)(1) Classified information must be marked, or otherwise identified, to inform and warn the holder of the information of its sensitivity. The classifier is responsible for ensuring that proper classification markings are applied. At the time of classification, the following information shall be shown on the face of all classified documents, or clearly associated with other forms of classified information in a manner appropriate to the medium involved, unless this information itself would reveal a confidential source or relationship not otherwise evident in the document or information:

(i) One of the three classification levels defined in ยง 403.3(b); "(TS)" for Top Secret, "(S)" for Secret, "(C)" for Confidential, and "(U)" for Unclassified; with each page marked at top and bottom according to the highest level of classified information on each page.

(ii) The identity of the original classification authority if other than the person whose name appears as the approving or signing official;

(iii) The agency and office of origin; and

(iv) The date or event for declassification, or the notation "Originating Agency's Determination Required."

(2) Each classified document shall, by marking or other means, indicate which portions are classified, with the applicable classification level, and which portions are not classified. The Chairman may, for good cause, grant and revoke waivers of this requirement for specified classes of documents or information. The Director of the Information Security Oversight Office shall be notified of any waivers.

(3) Marking designations implementing the provisions of the Order, including abbreviations, shall conform to the standards prescribed in implementing directives issued by the Information Security Oversight Office. All authorized classifiers shall be issued a uniform stamp that has a "Classified by" line and a "Declassify on" line.

(4) Documents that contain foreign government information shall include either the marking, "FOREIGN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION", or a marking that otherwise indicates that the information is foreign government information. If that fact must be concealed, the document will be marked as if it were of U.S. origin. Foreign government information shall either retain its original classification or be assigned a United States classification that shall ensure a degree of protection at least equivalent to that required by the entity that furnished the information.

(5) Documents that contain information relating to intelligence sources or methods shall include the following marking unless proscribed by the Director of the Central Intelligence; WARNING NOTICE-INTELLIGENCE SOURCES OR METHODS INVOLVED.

(6) Information assigned a level of classification under predecessor orders shall be considered as classified at that level of classification despite the omission of other required markings. Omitted markings may be inserted on a document by the General Counsel or the Security Officer.
