
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter IV - Export-Import Bank of the United States
### PART 403 - CLASSIFICATION, DECLASSIFICATION, AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
#### ยง 403.5 Declassification and downgrading.
##### Authority and policy for declassification and downgrading.

(a)Information that continues to meet the classification requirements prescribed in ยง 403.3(c) despite the passage of time will continue to be safeguarded. However, information which is properly classified at the time it is developed may not necessarily require protection indefinitely. National security information over which the Bank exercises final classification jurisdiction shall be declassified or downgraded as soon as national security considerations permit. Information shall be declassified or downgraded by:

(1) The official who authorized the original classification, if that official is still serving in the same position, by a successor, or by a supervisory official of either; or

(2) Officials specifically delegated this authority in writing by the Chairman or by the Security Officer. A list of those who may be so delegated shall be maintained by the Security Officer.

(3) If the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office determines that information is unlawfully classified, the Director may require the Export-Import Bank to declassify it. Any such decision by the Director may be appealed to the National Security Council. The information shall remain classified until the appeal is decided.
