
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter IV - Export-Import Bank of the United States
### PART 403 - CLASSIFICATION, DECLASSIFICATION, AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
#### ยง 403.3 Classification principles and authority.
##### Duration of Original Classification.

(d)(1) Information shall be classified as long as required by national security considerations. When it can be determined, a specific date or event for declassification shall be set by the original classification authority at the time the information is originally classified. If the date or event for declassification cannot be determined at the time of classification, the standard notation "Originating Agency's Determination Required", or its abbreviation "OADR", should be entered on the "Declassify on" line.

(2) Automatic declassification determinations under predecessor orders shall remain valid unless the classification is extended by an authorized declassification authority. These extensions may be by individual documents or categories of information, provided, however, that any extension of classification on other than an individual document basis shall be reported to the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office. The declassification authority shall be responsible for notifying holders of the information of such extensions.

(3) Information classified under predecessor orders and marked for declassification review shall remain classified until reviewed for declassification under the provisions of the Order.
