
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter IV - Export-Import Bank of the United States
### PART 403 - CLASSIFICATION, DECLASSIFICATION, AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
#### ยง 403.3 Classification principles and authority.
##### Original Classification Authority and Criteria.

(c)(1) The Bank's authority to assign original classification to any document is limited as follows and is nondelegable:

(2) A determination to classify information shall be made by an original classification authority when the information concerns one or more of categories (i) through (x) of this paragraph, and when the unauthorized disclosure of the information, either by itself or in the context of other information, reasonably could be expected to cause damage to the national security. Information shall be considered for classification if it concerns:

(i) Military plans, weapons, or operations;

(ii) The vulnerabilities or capabilities of systems, installations, projects, or plans relating to the national security;

(iii) Foreign government information;

(iv) Intelligence activities (including special activities), or intelligence sources or methods;

(v) Foreign relations or foreign activities of the United States;

(vi) Scientific, technological, or economic matters relating to the national security;

(vii) United States Government programs for safeguarding nuclear materials or facilities;

(viii) Cryptology;

(ix) A confidential source; or

(x) Other categories of information that are related to the national security and that require protection against unauthorized disclosure as determined by the President of the United States, by the Chairman or by other officials who have been delegated original classification authority by the President. Recommendations concerning the need to designate additional categories of information that may be considered for classification shall be forwarded through the Security Officer to the Chairman for determination. Such a determination shall be reported to the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office.

(3) Information that is determined to concern one or more of the above categories shall be classified when an original classification authority also determines that its unauthorized disclosure, either by itself or in the context of other information, reasonably could be expected to cause damage to the national security. Accordingly, certain information which would otherwise be unclassified may require classification when associated with other unclassified or classified information. Classification on this basis shall be supported by a written explanation that, at a minimum, shall be maintained with the file or reference on the recent copy of the information.

(4) Unauthorized disclosure of foreign government information, the identity of a confidential foreign source, or disclosure of intelligence sources or methods is presumed to cause damage to the national security.

(5) Information classified in accordance with the above classification categories shall not be declassified automatically as a result of any unofficial publication or inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure in the United States or abroad of identical or similar information.
