
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter IV - Export-Import Bank of the United States
### PART 404 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE
#### Subpart A - Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 404.6 Time for processing response to requests.
###### Expedited processing.

(h)(1) EXIM must process requests and appeals on an expedited basis when EXIM determines that the requester or appellant has demonstrated:

(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited processing could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or

(ii) In the case of a requester who is primarily engaged in disseminating information, an urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity. A requester who is not a full-time member of the news media must establish that the requester is a person whose primary professional activity or occupation is information dissemination, though it need not be the requester's sole occupation. Such a requester also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the Government activity involved in the request-one that extends beyond the public's right to know about Government activity generally. The existence of numerous articles published on a given subject can be helpful in establishing the requirement that there be an "urgency to inform" the public on the topic.

(2) A request for expedited processing may be made at any time. When making a request for expedited processing of an administrative appeal, the request should be submitted to the EXIM's Assistant General Counsel for Administrative Law and Board Support.

(3) A request for expedited processing and other submissions in support of the request must be accompanied by a statement certified by the requester to be true and correct to the best of his or her knowledge and belief. EXIM may waive this formal certification requirement as a matter of discretion. The statement must be in the form prescribed by 28 U.S.C. 1746:

(i) If executed within the United States: "I declare (or certify, verify, or state) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. Executed on [date]. (signature)."

(ii) If executed outside the United States: "I declare (or certify, verify, or state) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. Executed on (date). (Signature)."
