
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter IV - Export-Import Bank of the United States
### PART 404 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE
#### Subpart A - Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 404.11 Fee waivers or reductions.
###### Form of request for fee waiver.

(b)EXIM must furnish records responsive to a request without charge or at a reduced rate when it determines, based on all available information, that the factors described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section are satisfied:

(1) Disclosure of the requester information would shed light on the operations or activities of the Government. The subject of the request must concern identifiable operations or activities of the Federal Government with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated.

(2) Disclosure of the requested information is likely to contribute to the public understanding of those operations or activities. This factor is satisfied when the following criteria are met:

(i) Disclosure of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about Government operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either the same or substantially identical for, would not be meaningfully informative if nothing new would be added to the public understanding.

(ii) The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area as well as the requester's ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public must be considered.

(3) The disclosure must not be primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. To determine whether disclosure of the requested information is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, EXIM will consider the following criteria:

(i) EXIM must identify whether the requester has any commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. A commercial interest includes any commercial, trade, or profit interest. Requesters must be given an opportunity to provide explanatory information regarding this consideration.

(ii) If there is an identified commercial interest EXIM must determine whether that is the primary interest furthered by the request.

(4) A waiver or reduction of fees is justified when the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section are satisfied and any commercial interest is not the primary interest furthered by the request. EXIM ordinarily will presume that when a news media requester has satisfied paragraphs (b)(1) and (2), the request is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market government information for direct economic return will not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.

(5) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver of fees under this section, a waiver must be granted for those records.

(6) Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees should be made when the request is first submitted to EXIM and should address the criteria referenced in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section. A requester may submit a fee waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees and that waiver is denied, the requester must pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.

(7) In all cases, the requester has the burden of presenting sufficient evidence or information to justify the fee waiver or reduction. The requester may use the procedures set forth in ยง 404.12 to appeal a denial of a fee waiver request.
