
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter IV - Export-Import Bank of the United States
### PART 404 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE
#### Subpart B - Access to Records Under the Privacy Act of 1974
##### ยง 404.16 Requirements of request for access.
###### Fee statement.

(c)The request must contain a statement expressing willingness to pay fees for processing the request or a request for a fee waiver (see ยง 404.18(d)).

(1) Whenever a requester submits a request for access that does not contain a fee statement or a request for a fee waiver, Ex-Im Bank shall advise the requester of the requirements of this section. If the requester fails to respond within ten working days of such notification, then the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office shall notify the requester, in writing, that Ex-Im Bank will not process the request.

(2) A general statement by the requester expressing willingness to pay all applicable fees shall be deemed an agreement to pay up to $25.00. If Ex-Im Bank estimates that the fees for a request will exceed $25.00, then Ex-Im Bank shall notify the requester. Ex-Im Bank shall offer the requester the opportunity to agree, in writing, either to pay a greater fee or to modify the request as a means of limiting the cost.

(3) Whenever the estimated fee chargeable under this section exceeds $25.00, Ex-Im Bank reserves the right to require a requester to make an advance payment prior to processing the request.

(4) Ex-Im Bank shall not process a request by a requester who has failed to pay a fee for a previous request unless and until such requester had paid the full amount owed and also has paid, in advance, the total estimated charges for the new request.
