
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter IV - Export-Import Bank of the United States
### PART 407 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC OBSERVATION OF EXIMBANK MEETINGS
#### ยง 407.4 Procedures applicable to other meetings.
##### Amendments.

(a)(1) For every meeting which is to be open to public observation or which is to be closed pursuant to any paragraph of ยง 407.2(a) other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (10), or any combination thereof, public announcement will be made at least one week before the meeting of the time, place, and the agenda setting forth the subject matter of such meeting, and whether the meeting, or any portion thereof, is to be open or closed to the public.

(2) Inquiries from the public regarding any such meeting shall be directed to the Office of the Secretary.

(3) The one-week period for the announcement required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be reduced if the Board of Directors determines by a recorded vote that Eximbank business requires such meeting to be called at an earlier date. Public announcement of the time, place, and subject matter of such meeting, and whether open or closed to the public, will be made at the earliest practicable time.

(4) The time or place of a meeting may be changed following the announcement required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section only if public announcement is made of such change at the earliest practicable time.

(5) The subject matter of a meeting or the determination of the Board of Directors to open or close a meeting, or any portion thereof, to the public, may be changed following the announcement required by paragraph (a) of this section only if:

(i) A majority of the entire voting membership of the Board of Directors determines by a recorded vote that Eximbank business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible; and

(ii) The Board of Directors announces such change and the vote of each Director upon such change at the earliest practicable time.

(6) Individual items may be added to or deleted from any agenda at any time.

(7) The announcements required pursuant to this section shall be made in the form of a notice posted in the Office of the Secretary. In addition, immediately following each announcement required by this section, notice of:

(i) The time, place and subject matter of a meeting which is to be open to public observation or which is to be closed pursuant to any section of ยง 407.2(a) other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (10), or any combination thereof,

(ii) the decision to open or close such meeting, or any portion thereof, or

(iii) any change in any announcement previously made shall be submitted for publication in the

(8) The information required by this subsection shall be disclosed except to the extent that it is exempt from disclosure under any section of ยง 407.2(a).
