
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 603 - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 603.340 Appeal of an initial adverse determination of a request to amend a record.

(a) Not more than 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) after receipt by an individual of an adverse determination on the individual's request to amend a record or otherwise, the individual may appeal to the Director, Office of Agency Services.

(b) The appeal shall be by letter, mailed or delivered to the Director, Office of Agency Services, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102-5090. The letter shall identify the records involved in the same manner they were identified to the Privacy Act Officer, shall specify the dates of the request and adverse determination, and shall indicate the expressed basis for that determination. Also, the letter shall state briefly and succinctly the reasons why the adverse determination should be reversed.

(c) The review shall be completed and a final determination made by the Director not later than 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) from receipt of the request for such review, unless the Director extends such 30-day period for good cause. If the 30-day period is extended, the individual shall be notified of the reasons therefor.

(d) If the Director refuses to amend the record in accordance with the request, the individual shall be notified of the right to file a concise statement setting forth that person's disagreement with the final determination and that person's right under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(A) to a judicial review of the final determination.

(e) If an amendment of a record as requested upon review is refused, there shall be included in the disputed portion of the record a copy of the concise statement filed by the individual together with a concise statement of the reasons for not amending the record as requested. Such statements will be included when disclosure of the disputed record is made to persons and agencies as authorized under 5 U.S.C. 552a.
