
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 604 - FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION BOARD MEETINGS
##### ยง 604.435 Record of closed meetings or closed portion of a meeting.

(a) The Farm Credit Administration shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each closed meeting or closed portion of a meeting, except that in the case of a meeting or portion of a meeting closed to the public pursuant to ยง 604.420 (d), (h), (i)(1), or (j) of this part, the Farm Credit Administration shall maintain either such transcript, recording, or a set of minutes.

(b) Any minutes so maintained shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any roll call vote. All documents considered in connection with any action shall be identified in the minutes.

(c) The Farm Credit Administration shall promptly make available to the public, in its offices, the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes, of the discussion of any item on the agenda of a closed meeting, or closed portion of a meeting, except for such item or items of discussion which the Farm Credit Administration determines to contain information which may be withheld under ยง 604.420 of this part. Copies of such transcript or minutes, or a transcription of such recording disclosing the identity of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription.

(d) The Farm Credit Administration shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each closed meeting or closed portion of a meeting for a period of 2 years after the date of such closed meeting or closed portion of a meeting.

(e) All actions required or permitted by this section to be undertaken by the Farm Credit Administration shall be by or under the authority of the Secretary to the Board.
