
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 605 - INFORMATION
##### ยง 605.502 Program and procedures.
###### Nondisclosure agreement.

(i)In accordance with 32 CFR 2003.20, the Farm Credit Administration requires that any person whose position requires access to classified information must execute a nondisclosure agreement on Standard Form 312-Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement. Persons not executing such nondisclosure agreements are subject to sanctions of Executive Order 13292. It is the policy of the Farm Credit Administration that any employee authorized access to classified information holds a personal responsibility for safeguarding against unlawful disclosures, and such employees are prohibited from disclosure without consent of the FCA Information Security Officer. Any such unauthorized disclosure will be reported to the Information Security Oversight Office, the Department of Justice, the Department of State, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and to any other Federal agency for which the Farm Credit Administration has access to classified information, as such reportings are subject to interpretation as required by statute and Executive order. Any employee who knowingly disclosed classified information or who refuses to cooperate with an investigation may be subject to mandatory administrative sanctions, including as a minimum, denial of further access to classified information. Further sanctions could include demotion or dismissal depending on the circumstances of a particular case.
