
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 607 - ASSESSMENT AND APPORTIONMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
##### § 607.5 Notice of assessment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, prior to September 15 of each year, the FCA shall determine the amount of assessment to be collected from each System institution for the next fiscal year under §§ 607.3 and 607.4 and shall provide each System institution with a Notice of Assessment. The total amount assessed each System institution in the Notice of Assessment shall be an obligation of each institution on October 1 of each fiscal year. The total amount assessed each System institution shall be payable not less often than quarterly in equal installments during each fiscal year, subject to adjustment pursuant to §§ 607.3(d), 607.4(a)(2), 607.4(b), and 607.10.

(b) For banks, associations and designated other System entities chartered during the period July 1 through September 30 of each year, the FCA shall, prior to December 15, determine the amount of assessment to be collected from each such institution for the remainder of the fiscal year and provide the institution with a Notice of Assessment. The total amount of the assessment becomes an obligation of the institution on January 1 and shall be payable in equal installments, subject to adjustment pursuant to §§ 607.3(d) and 607.10, not less often than quarterly for the remainder of the fiscal year. The first installment shall be due on January 1. This paragraph shall not apply to banks, associations, and designated other System entities formed by merger, consolidation, or transfer of direct lending authority.

(c) In the event of the proposed cancellation of the charter of a System institution, the unpaid installments of the total amount of the institution's assessment shall be provided for prior to the cancellation of the charter.
