
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 608 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart B - Administrative Offset
###### ยง 608.823 Right to review of claim.

(a) If the debtor disputes the claim, the debtor may request a review of the FCA's determination of the existence of the debt, the amount of the debt, the propriety of collecting the debt by offset, and in the case of salary offset, the propriety of the proposed repayment schedule. If only part of the claim is disputed, the undisputed portion should be paid by the payment due date.

(b) To obtain a review, the debtor shall submit a written request for review to the FCA official named in the Notice of Intent to Collect by Administrative [or Salary] Offset within 15 calendar days after receipt of the notice. The debtor's written request for review shall state the basis on which the claim is disputed and shall specify whether the debtor requests an oral hearing or a review of the written record of the claim. If an oral hearing is requested, the debtor shall explain in the request why the matter cannot be resolved by a review of the documentary evidence alone.

(c) The FCA shall promptly notify the debtor, in writing, that the FCA has received the request for review. The FCA shall conduct its review of the claim in accordance with ยง 608.810.

(d) The FCA's review of the claim, under this section, shall include providing the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing if:

(1) An applicable statute authorizes or requires the FCA to consider waiver of the indebtedness, the debtor requests waiver of the indebtedness, and the waiver determination turns on an issue of credibility or veracity; or

(2) The debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the FCA determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by reviewing the documentary evidence; for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity.

(e) A debtor waives the right to a hearing and will have his or her debt offset in accordance with the proposed offset schedule if the debtor:

(1) Fails to file a written request for review within the timeframe set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, unless the FCA determines that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond his or her control; or

(2) Fails to appear at an oral hearing of which he or she was notified unless the hearing official determines that the failure to appear was due to circumstances beyond the employee's control.

(f) Upon completion of its review of the claim, the FCA shall notify the debtor whether the FCA's determination of the existence or amount of the debt has been sustained, amended, or canceled. The notification shall include a copy of the written decision issued by the hearing official, pursuant to ยง 608.810(e). If the FCA's determination is sustained, this notification shall contain a provision which states that the FCA intends to collect the debt by offset or by requesting other Federal agencies for assistance in collecting the debt.

(g) When the procedural requirements of this section have been provided to the debtor in connection with the same debt or under some other statutory or regulatory authority, the FCA is not required to duplicate those requirements before effecting offset.
