
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 611 - ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart C - Election of Directors and Other Voting Procedures
###### ยง 611.310 Eligibility for membership on bank and association boards and subsequent employment.

(a) No person shall be eligible for membership on a bank or association board who is or has been, within 1 year preceding the date the term of office begins, a salaried officer or employee of any bank or association in the System.

(b) No bank or association director shall be eligible to continue to serve in that capacity and his or her office shall become vacant if after election as a member of the board, he or she becomes legally incompetent or is convicted of any criminal offense involving dishonesty or breach of trust or held liable in damages for fraud.

(c) No bank director shall, within 1 year after the date when he or she ceases to be a member of the board, serve as a salaried officer or employee of such bank, or any association with which the bank has a discount or agent relationship.

(d) No director of an association shall, within 1 year after he or she ceases to be a member of the board, serve as a salaried officer or employee of such association.

(e) No person shall be eligible for membership on a Farm Credit bank or association board of directors in the same election cycle for which the Farm Credit institution's nominating committee is identifying candidates if that person was elected to serve on that institution's nominating committee and attended any meeting called by the nominating committee.

(f) Out-of-territory borrowers who hold voting stock in the association may serve as association directors unless prohibited by the association's bylaws. If an association's bylaws prohibit it, that association must inform, in writing and at the time of loanmaking, each out-of-territory borrower that out-of-territory borrowers may not serve as directors.
