
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 611 - ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart D - Compensation Practices of Farm Credit Banks and Associations
###### ยง 611.400 Compensation of bank board members.

(a) Farm Credit banks are authorized to pay fair and reasonable compensation to directors for services performed in an official capacity at a rate not to exceed the level established in section 4.21 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, unless the FCA determines that such a level adversely affects the safety and soundness of the institution.

(b) The bank director compensation level established in section 4.21 of the Act shall be adjusted to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all urban consumers, as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in the following manner: Current year's maximum compensation = Prior year's maximum compensation adjusted by the prior year's annual average percent change in the CPI for all urban consumers. Adjustments will be made to the bank director statutory compensation limit beginning from October 28, 1992 (the date of enactment of the Farm Credit Banks and Associations Safety and Soundness Act of 1992). Additionally, each year the FCA will communicate the CPI adjusted bank director statutory compensation limit.

(c)(1) A Farm Credit bank is authorized to pay a director up to 30 percent more than the statutory compensation limit in exceptional circumstances where the director contributes extraordinary time and effort in the service of the bank and its shareholders.

(2) Banks must document the exceptional circumstances justifying additional director compensation. The documentation must describe:

(i) The exceptional circumstances justifying the additional director compensation, including the extraordinary time and effort the director devoted to bank business; and

(ii) The amount and the terms and conditions of the additional director compensation.

(d) Each bank board shall adopt a written policy regarding compensation of bank directors. The policy shall address, at a minimum, the following areas:

(1) The activities or functions for which attendance is necessary and appropriate and may be compensated, except that a Farm Credit bank shall not compensate any director for rendering services on behalf of any other Farm Credit System institution or a cooperative of which the director is a member, or for performing other assignments of a non-official nature;

(2) The methodology for determining each director's rate of compensation; and

(3) The exceptional circumstances under which the board would pay additional compensation for any of its directors as authorized by paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) Directors may also be reimbursed for reasonable travel, subsistence, and other related expenses in accordance with the bank's policy.
