
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 611 - ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart E - Transfer of Authorities
###### ยง 611.505 Farm Credit Administration review.

(a) Upon receipt of the board of directors resolution and the accompanying documents, the Farm Credit Administration shall review the request and either deny or give its preliminary approval to the request.

(b) If the request is denied, written notice stating the reasons for the denial shall be transmitted to the chief executive officer of the bank and the association who shall promptly notify their respective boards of directors.

(c) Upon approval of the proposed transfer of authorities by the stockholders as provided in ยง 611.510, the secretary of the bank and the secretary of the association shall forward to the Farm Credit Administration a certified record of the results of the stockholder votes.

(d) Each institution shall notify its stockholders not later than 30 days after the stockholder vote of the final results of the vote. If no petition for reconsideration is filed with the Farm Credit Administration in accordance with ยง 611.525, the transfer shall be effective on the date specified in the transfer plan, or at such later date as may be required by the Farm Credit Administration to grant final approval. Notice of final approval shall be transmitted to the institutions involved.

(e) The effective date of a transfer may not be less than 35 days after mailing of the notification to stockholders of the results of the stockholder vote, or 15 days after the date of submission to the Farm Credit Administration of all required documents for the Agency's consideration of final approval, whichever occurs later. If a petition for reconsideration is filed within 35 days after the date of mailing of the notification of stockholder vote, the constituent institutions must agree on a second effective date to be used in the event the transfer is approved on reconsideration. The second effective date may not be less than 60 days after stockholder notification of the results of the first vote, or 15 days after the date of the reconsideration vote, whichever occurs later.
