
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 611 - ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart E - Transfer of Authorities
###### ยง 611.515 Information statement.

(a) The bank and association shall prepare an information statement which will inform stockholders about the provisions of the proposed transfer of authorities and the effect of the proposal on the bank and the association.

(b) The information statement for each institution involved shall contain the following materials as applicable to the institution:

(1) A statement either on the first page of the materials or on the notice of the stockholders meeting, in capital letters and boldface type, that:

(2) A description of the material provisions of the plan under ยง 611.520 and the effect of the transaction on the institution, its stockholders, and the territory to be served.

(3) A statement enumerating the potential advantages and disadvantages of the proposed transfer including, but not limited to, changes in operating efficiencies, one-stop service, branch offices, local control, and financial condition.

(4) A summary of the provisions of the charter and bylaws following the transfer that differ materially from the charter or bylaws currently existing.

(5) A brief statement by the board of directors of the institution setting forth the board's opinion on the advisability of the transfer.

(6) A presentation of the following financial data:

(i) An audited balance sheet and income statement and notes thereto of the bank or the association, as applicable, for the preceding 2 fiscal years.

(ii) If the transfer of authority includes any material transfer of assets, a balance sheet and income statement of the bank and the association showing its financial condition before the transfer of authority and a pro forma balance sheet and income statement for the bank or association, as applicable, showing its financial condition after the transfer. The statements shall meet the following conditions:

(A) Such financial statements shall be presented in columnar form, showing the financial condition as of the end of the most recent quarter of the institution, and operating results since the end of the last fiscal year through the end of the most recent quarter of the institution.

(B) If the request is made within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year, the institution's financial statements shall be as of the most recent fiscal yearend.

(C) If the request is made within 45 days after the end of the most recent quarter, the institution's financial statements shall be as of the end of the quarter preceding the quarter just ended.

(D) If the request is made more than 45 days after the end of the most recent quarter, the institution's financial statements shall be as of the end of that quarter.

(E) The financial statements must be accompanied by appropriate notes, describing any assets being transferred and including data relating to high-risk assets and other property owned, allowance for credit losses, and current year-to-date chargeoffs.

(F) The amount and nature of start-up costs estimated to be associated with the transfer.

(7) A description of the type and dollar amount of any financial assistance that has been provided to the bank or the association, as applicable, during the past year; the conditions on which the financial assistance was extended, the terms of repayment or retirement, if any; and, the liability for repayment of this assistance by the bank or the association if the transfer were approved.

(8) A statement as to whether the bank or the association, as applicable, would require financial assistance during the first 3 years of operation, the estimated type and dollar amount of the assistance, and terms of repayment or retirement, if known.

(9) A statement indicating the possible tax consequences to stockholders and whether any legal opinion, ruling or external auditor's opinion has been obtained on the matter.

(10) A presentation of the association's interest rate and fee programs, interest collection policy, capitalization plan and other factors that would affect a borrower's cost of doing business with the association.

(11) A description of any event subsequent to the date of the last quarterly report, but prior to the stockholder vote, that would have a material impact on the financial condition of the bank or the association.

(12) A statement of any other material fact or circumstances that a stockholder would need in order to make an informed and responsible decision, or that would be necessary in order to provide a disclosure that is not misleading.

(13) A form of written proxy, together with instructions on its purpose, use and authorization by the stockholder. The proxy instructions must ensure the secrecy of the stockholder's ballot if the stockholder votes by proxy.

(14) A copy of the plan of transfer provided for in ยง 611.520 of this part.

(c) No bank or association director, officer, or employee shall make any untrue or misleading statement of a material fact, or fail to disclose any material fact necessary under the circumstances to make statements made not misleading, to a stockholder of the association in connection with a transfer under this subpart.
