
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 611 - ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart G - Mergers, Consolidations, and Charter Amendments of Associations
###### ยง 611.1123 Association merger or consolidation agreements.

(a) Associations operating under the same title of the Act may merge or consolidate voluntarily, but only pursuant to a written agreement. The agreement must set forth all of the terms of the transaction, including, but not limited to, the following:

(1) The proposed effective date of the merger or consolidation.

(2) The proposed name and headquarters location of the continuing or consolidated association.

(3) The names of the persons nominated to serve as directors until the first regular annual meeting of the continuing or consolidated association to be held after the effective date of the merger or consolidation. Any director of a constituent association may be designated in the agreement to serve as a director of the continuing or consolidated association for a period not to exceed his or her current term, after which he or she must stand for reelection. However, the terms of the agreement must provide for the election of at least one director at each annual meeting subsequent to the effective date of the merger or consolidation. The bylaws of the continuing or consolidated association must reflect the provisions of the merger or consolidation agreement regarding director terms.

(4) A statement of the formula to be used to exchange the stock of the constituent associations for the stock of the continuing or consolidated association. No fractional shares of stock may be issued.

(5) A statement of any conditions which must be satisfied prior to the effective date of the proposed transaction, including but not limited to approval by stockholders, the funding bank, and the FCA.

(6) A statement of the representations or warranties, if any, made or to be made by any association, or its officers, directors, or employees that is a party to the proposed transactions.

(7) A statement that the board of directors of each constituent association can terminate the agreement before the effective date upon a determination by an association, with the concurrence of the FCA, that:

(i) The information disclosed to stockholders contained material errors or omissions;

(ii) Material misrepresentations were made to stockholders regarding the impact of the merger or consolidation;

(iii) Fraudulent activities were used to obtain stockholders' approval; or

(iv) An event occurred between the time of the vote and the merger that would have a significant adverse impact on the future viability of the continuing or consolidated association.

(8) A description of the legal opinions or rulings (including those related to tax matters), if any, that have been obtained or furnished by any party in connection with the proposed transaction. Also, refer to paragraph (a)(5) of this section.

(9) The capitalization plan and capital structure for the continuing or consolidated association and a statement that the capitalization plan must comply with applicable FCA regulations.

(10) Provision for the employee benefits plan, its subsequent continuation or adaptation by the board of directors of the continuing or consolidated association following the merger or consolidation.

(11) A statement of the authority of those persons designated to carry out the terms of the agreement, including the authority to waive provisions of the agreement and to execute any documents necessary to perfect title, on behalf of the constituent associations.

(b) As an attachment to the agreement, the constituent associations must set forth those provisions of the charter and bylaws of the continuing or consolidated association which differ from the existing charter or bylaw provisions of the constituent associations.
