
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 611 - ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart J - Unincorporated Business Entities
###### ยง 611.1154 Notice of equity investments in UBEs.
####### Notice requirements.

(b)System institutions must provide written notice to FCA so that the notice is received by FCA no later than 10 business days in advance of making an equity investment in a UBE for authorized UBE business activity described in paragraph (a) of this section. The notice must include:

(1) The UBE's articles of formation, including its name and the State in which it is organized, length of time it will exist, its partners or members, and its management structure;

(2) The dollar amount of the System institution's equity investment in the UBE;

(3) A certified resolution of the System institution's board of directors authorizing the equity investment in, and business activity of, the UBE and the board's approval to submit the notice to the FCA. For UBEs organized to acquire and manage unusual or complex collateral associated with loans as identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the board of directors may adopt a blanket board resolution to cover all such UBEs that the System institution will organize.

(4) Except for those UBEs identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a board statement included with the certified board resolution affirming that the UBE:

(i) Is needed to achieve operating efficiencies and benefits;

(ii) Is necessary or expedient to the System institution's business;

(iii) Will operate with transparency;

(iv) Will conduct its business activity in a manner designed to prevent conflicts of interest between its purpose and operations and the mission and operations of the System institution(s);

(v) Will otherwise be in compliance with applicable Federal, State, and local laws; and

(vi) Will not be used by the System institution to make direct loans; perform any functions or provide any services that the System institution is not authorized to perform or provide under the Act and FCA regulations; or to exceed the stated purpose of the UBE as set forth in its articles of formation.

(5) A letter from the funding bank that it has approved the institution's equity investment in the UBE. For those UBEs organized to acquire and manage unusual or complex collateral associated with loans as identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the funding bank may provide a blanket approval letter to cover all such UBEs that its district associations may invest in or organize.

(6) Any additional information the System institution wishes to submit.
