
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 611 - ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart P - Termination of System Institution Status
###### ยง 611.1255 Exit fee calculation.
####### Final exit fee calculation-terminating association.

(a)Calculate the final exit fee in the following order:

(1) Base your exit fee calculation on the average daily balances of assets and liabilities for the 12-month period preceding the termination date. Assume for this calculation that you have not paid or accrued the items described in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section.

(2) Any amounts we refer to in this section are average daily balances unless we specify that they are not. Amounts that are not average daily balances will be referred to as "dollar amount."

(3) Compute the average daily balances based on financial statements that comply with GAAP. The financial statements, as of the termination date, must be independently audited by a qualified public accountant.

(4) Make adjustments to assets and liabilities as follows:

(i) Add back expenses related to the termination. Related expenses include, but are not limited to, legal services, accounting services, tax services, studies, auditing, business planning, payments of severance and special retirements, equity holder meetings, and application fees for the termination and reorganization. Do not add back to assets expenses related to a requirement by the FCA to engage independent experts to conduct assessments, analyses, or studies, or to request rulings that solely address the impact of the termination on the System or parties other than the terminating institution and its stockholders.

(ii) Subtract from assets the dollar amount of current and deferred tax expenses, if any, due to the termination.

(iii) Add to assets the dollar amount of current and deferred tax benefits, if any, due to the termination.

(iv) Subtract from liabilities any liability that we treat as regulatory capital under the capital or collateral requirements in subparts H and K of part 615 of this chapter.

(v) Make the adjustments that we require under ยง 611.1250(c). For the final exit fee, we will review and may require additional adjustments for transactions between the date you adopted the termination resolution and the termination date.

(5) After making these adjustments to assets and liabilities, subtract liabilities from assets. This is your total capital for purposes of termination.

(6) Multiply assets by 6 percent, and subtract this amount from total capital. This is your final exit fee.
