
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 611 - ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart P - Termination of System Institution Status
###### ยง 611.1250 Preliminary exit fee estimate.
####### Preliminary exit fee estimate-terminating bank.

(b)(1) Affiliated associations that are terminating with you must calculate their individual preliminary exit fee estimates as described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Base your exit fee calculation on the average daily balances of assets and liabilities for the 12-month period as of the quarter end immediately before the date you send us your plan of termination.

(3) Any amounts we refer to in this section are average daily balances unless we specify that they are not. Amounts that are not average daily balances will be referred to as "dollar amount."

(4) Compute the average daily balances based on bank-only financial statements that comply with GAAP. The financial statements, as of the quarter end immediately before the date you send us your plan of termination, must be independently audited by a qualified public accountant. We may, in our discretion, waive this requirement if an independent audit was performed as of a date less than 6 months before you submit the plan of termination.

(5) Make adjustments to assets and liabilities as follows:

(i) Add back to assets the following:

(A) Expenses you have incurred related to termination. Related expenses include, but are not limited to, legal services, accounting services, tax services, studies, auditing, business planning, equity holder meetings, and application fees for the termination and reorganization. Do not add back to assets expenses related to a requirement by the FCA to engage independent experts to conduct assessments, analyses, or studies, or to request rulings that solely address the impact of the termination on the System or parties other than the terminating institution and its stockholders.

(B) Any specific allowance for losses, and a pro rata portion of any general allowance for credit losses, on direct loans to associations that you do not expect to incur before or at termination.

(ii) Subtract from your assets and liabilities an amount equal to your direct loans to your affiliated associations that are not terminating.

(iii) Subtract the following from assets:

(A) Equity investments in your institution that are held by nonterminating associations and that you expect to transfer to another System bank before or at termination. A nonterminating association's investment consists of purchased equities, allocated equities, and a share of the bank's unallocated surplus calculated in accordance with the bank's bylaw provisions on liquidation. We may require a different calculation method for the unallocated surplus if we determine that using the liquidation provision would be inequitable to stockholders; and

(B) The dollar amount of estimated current and deferred tax expenses, if any, due to the termination.

(iv) Add the dollar amount of current and deferred estimated tax benefits, if any, due to the termination.

(v) Subtract from liabilities any liability that we treat as regulatory capital under the capital or collateral requirements in subparts H and K of part 615 of this chapter.

(vi) Adjust for the dollar amount of significant transactions you reasonably expect to occur between the quarter end before you file your plan of termination and date of termination. Examples of these transactions include, but are not limited to, retirements of equity, loan repayments, and patronage distributions. Do not make adjustments for future expenses related to termination, such as severance or special retirement payments, or stock retirements to dissenting stockholders and Farm Credit institutions.

(6) Make any adjustments we require under paragraph (c) of this section.

(7) After the above adjustments, combine your balance sheet with the balance sheets of your terminating associations after they have made the adjustments required in paragraph (a) of this section. Subtract liabilities from assets. This is your preliminary total capital estimate for purposes of termination.

(8) Multiply the assets of the combined balance sheet after the above adjustments by 6 percent. Subtract this amount from the preliminary total capital estimate of the combined balance sheet. The remainder is the preliminary exit fee estimate of the bank and terminating affiliated associations.

(9) Your preliminary exit fee estimate is the amount by which the preliminary exit fee estimate for the combined entity exceeds the total of the individual preliminary exit fee estimates of your affiliated terminating associations.
