
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 611 - ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart P - Termination of System Institution Status
###### ยง 611.1255 Exit fee calculation.
####### Final exit fee calculation-terminating bank.

(b)(1) The individual exit fees of affiliated associations that are terminating with you must be calculated as described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Base your exit fee calculation on the average daily balances of assets and liabilities for the 12-month period preceding the termination date. Assume for this calculation that you have not paid or accrued the items described in paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(B) and (b)(5)(iv) of this section.

(3) Any amounts we refer to in this section are average daily balances unless we specify that they are not. Amounts that are not average daily balances will be referred to as "dollar amount."

(4) Compute the average daily balances based on bank-only financial statements that comply with GAAP. The financial statements, as of the termination date, must be independently audited by a qualified public accountant.

(5) Make adjustments to assets and liabilities as follows:

(i) Add back the following to your assets:

(A) Expenses you have incurred related to termination. Related expenses include, but are not limited to, legal services, accounting services, tax services, studies, auditing, business planning, payments of severance and special retirements, equity holder meetings, and application fees for the termination and reorganization. Do not add back to assets expenses related to a requirement by the FCA to engage independent experts to conduct assessments, analyses, or studies, or to request rulings that solely address the impact of the termination on the System or parties other than the terminating institution and its stockholders.

(B) Any specific allowance for losses, and a pro rata share of any general allowance for credit losses, on direct loans to associations that are paid off or transferred before or at termination.

(ii) Subtract from your assets and liabilities your direct loans to affiliated associations that were paid off or transferred in the 12-month period before termination or at termination.

(iii) Subtract from your assets the following:

(A) Equity investments held in your institution by affiliated associations that you transferred at termination or during the 12 months before termination; and

(B) The dollar amount of current and deferred tax expenses, if any, due to the termination;

(iv) Add to assets, the dollar amount of estimated current and deferred tax benefits, if any, due to the termination.

(v) Subtract from liabilities any liability that we treat as regulatory capital (or that we do not treat as a liability) under the capital or collateral requirements in subparts H and K of part 615 of this chapter.

(vi) Make the adjustments that we require under ยง 611.1250(c). For the final exit fee, we will review and may require additional adjustments for transactions between the date you adopted the termination resolution and the termination date.

(6) After the above adjustments, combine your balance sheet with the balance sheets of terminating associations after making the adjustments required in paragraph (a) of this section.

(7) Subtract combined liabilities from combined assets. This is the total capital of the combined balance sheet.

(8) Multiply the assets of the combined balance sheet after the above adjustments by 6 percent. Subtract this amount from the total capital of the combined balance sheet. This amount is the combined final exit fee for your institution and the terminating affiliated associations.

(9) Your final exit fee is the amount by which the combined final exit fee exceeds the total of the individual final exit fees of your affiliated terminating associations.
