
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 612 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND REFERRAL OF KNOWN OR SUSPECTED CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS
##### Subpart A - Standards of Conduct
###### § 612.2137 Elements of a Standards of Conduct Program.
####### Establish Standards of Conduct policies and procedures.

(d)Each institution's board of directors must adopt policies and procedures to implement the institution's SOC program. These policies and procedures must address all aspects of the SOC program, including, but not limited to, the following:

(1) Requiring conflict of interest reporting from all directors and employees pursuant to § 612.2145. The frequency of conflicts of interest reporting and other disclosures must be addressed in SOC program policies and procedures using the institution's fiscal year calendar. At a minimum, each person must annually report to the SOCO known conflicts occurring in the current year. Pursuant to § 612.2145(c), the board must also require directors and officers to give the SOCO the disclosures required under § 620.6(a), (e), and (f) of this chapter, regardless of who else in the institution receives the disclosures.

(2) Explaining what constitutes SOC program compliance, including setting criteria for documentation submitted with conflicts of interest reports and providing instructions to help directors and employees identify and report on interests or circumstances that could give rise to an actual or apparent conflict of interest.

(i) The board must explain within the policies and procedures what transactions are likely to present real or potential conflicts, setting benchmarks and thresholds for both single and aggregate activities. The policies and procedures must also explain how transactions in the ordinary course of business are identified.

(ii) The board must explain within the policies and procedures, setting benchmarks and thresholds, how materiality of a conflict is identified. The materiality guidelines must be used when evaluating conflicts of interest reports filed by employees and directors. An exception for those matters affecting all shareholders or borrowers may be used in making the determination of materiality.

(3) Addressing the process by which real and apparent conflicts will be resolved. The procedures must also explain action(s) to be taken when a conflict cannot be resolved to the satisfaction of the institution. The procedures must explain the role and authorities of the SOCO in resolving conflicts.

(4) Addressing the conduct of third-party relationships. The board of directors at each institution must adopt conflict-of-interest policies for third-party relationships and develop safeguards for use in contractual obligations that require third-party service providers to perform services on behalf of the institution in an ethical manner. At a minimum, the policies for third-party relationships must set forth expectations for disclosing known conflicts of interest to the institution. The policies must also implement the requirements of § 612.2180 for agents of the institution.

(5) Setting criteria for accepting gifts that are not otherwise prohibited by this subpart. The criteria must explain the scope of application and may make appropriate exceptions for non-business events where the gift is not viewed by the institution as attempting to influence official institution business. The gift criteria must include de minimis dollar thresholds for all permissible gifts, regardless of the gift giving reason. The thresholds must apply both per gift and in the aggregate per recipient, per year. The institution must also establish disclosure requirements for gifts received as well as procedures for disposing of impermissible gifts.

(6) Identifying the appropriate actions that may be taken against any director or employee who violates the standards of conduct policies and procedures, Code of Ethics, or regulations under this subpart. The board must also identify who is authorized to take which action and when. The board must address how the SOCO exercises his or her authority under § 612.2170 to investigate certain conduct issues.

(7) Providing for anonymous reporting by individuals of known or suspected violations of the institution's Standards of Conduct Program and Code of Ethics, through a hotline or other venue.
