
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 612 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND REFERRAL OF KNOWN OR SUSPECTED CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS
##### Subpart A - Standards of Conduct
###### ยง 612.2137 Elements of a Standards of Conduct Program.
####### Monitor the SOC program through internal controls.

(e)Each institution's board of directors must establish a system of internal controls for its SOC program that includes, at a minimum, a process to:

(1) Protect against unauthorized disclosure of confidential information maintained by the institution.

(2) Conduct scheduled periodic reviews of the Standards of Conduct Program that determine the continued adequacy of the program. Each review must look for consistency with institution practices, financial services industry best practices, and Farm Credit Administration (FCA) regulations in this chapter, identifying any required updates.

(3) Perform internal audits of the Standards of Conduct Program. The board of directors, with the assistances of the SOCO and appropriate officers of the institution, must determine the scope and depth of the audit. The board is responsible for identifying who will conduct the internal audit. The audit findings must be given directly to the institution's board or designated board committee. The audit itself must be designed to:

(i) Review the effectiveness of advancing the core principles;

(ii) Identify weaknesses;

(iii) Recommend and report necessary corrective actions; and

(iv) Cover the entire Standards of Conduct Program across the institution, including all activities conducted through a System institution unincorporated business entity (UBE) formed under ยง 611.1150(b) of this chapter, including UBEs organized for the express purpose of investing in a Rural Business Investment Company.
