
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 612 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND REFERRAL OF KNOWN OR SUSPECTED CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS
##### Subpart A - Standards of Conduct
###### ยง 612.2145 Disclosing and reporting conflicts of interest.
####### Reporting conflicts of interest.

(b)As a director or employee of a System institution, you must file with the SOCO reports on any real or potential conflicts of interest. The reports must be filed at least annually and at such other times as may be required by your institution policies and procedures. The reports must be in sufficient detail for a reasonable person to make a conflict of interest determination and decide if the conflict is material. You must file a report with the SOCO that contains the disclosures required by this section and those required by the institution's SOC program policies and procedures. At a minimum, the report must be signed by you and include:

(1) Any interest you have in any business matter, including any loan or loan application, to be considered by the System institution, or supervised or supervising institution in the current year;

(2) All material financial interests, including those arising in the ordinary course of business, you have with any director, employee, agent, or borrower of your System institution, or a supervised or supervising institution;

(3) The name(s) of your reportable business entities that you know or have reason to know in the current year transacted business with:

(i) Your System institution;

(ii) Any supervised or supervising institution; or

(iii) A borrower that transacts business with your System institution, or any supervised or supervising institution.

(4) The name(s) of your family members you know or have reason to know transacted business with your System institution or any supervised or supervising institution in the current year.

(5) Reportable gifts received or disposed of under the institution's SOC program policies and procedures.
