
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 612 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND REFERRAL OF KNOWN OR SUSPECTED CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS
##### Subpart A - Standards of Conduct
###### ยง 612.2145 Disclosing and reporting conflicts of interest.
####### Responsibilities.

(a)As a director or employee of a System institution you must identify, disclose, and report on any interest or circumstances that does or could constitute a conflict of interest and potential conflict of interest. You must carry out this responsibility to the best of your knowledge and belief. You must cooperate with, and provide information requested by, the Standards of Conduct Official for use in determining the materiality of a conflict and to resolve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest.

(1) If you have a conflict of interest in a matter, transaction, or activity subject to official action by the institution or before the board of directors then you must disclose it and refrain from participating in official action or board discussion of the matter, transaction, or activity. You must also avoid voting on or influencing any decision directed at the matter, transaction, or activity.

(2) You must report, either to the SOCO or by using the institution's anonymous reporting procedures, any known or suspected activity by a person affiliated with the institution that you suspect is illegal, unethical, or a violation of the institution's standards of conduct and Code of Ethics.
