
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 612 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND REFERRAL OF KNOWN OR SUSPECTED CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS
##### Subpart A - Standards of Conduct
###### ยง 612.2150 Prohibited conduct.
####### Purchase property owned by the institution.

(4)Do not knowingly purchase or otherwise acquire (directly or indirectly) any interest (including mineral interests) in any real or personal property that currently is owned, or within the past 12 months was owned, by your institution, your supervising institution, or institutions supervised by your institution as a result of foreclosure, deed in lieu, or similar action. The prohibition in this paragraph (a)(4) extends to property held or sold by a chartered service corporation or a System unincorporated business entity. The prohibition does not apply in the following situations:

(i) You acquire the property by inheritance.

(ii) You are exercising your rights of first refusal under section 4.36 of the Act.

(iii) If you are a director of the institution, you may purchase property from a System institution when the property is sold through public auction or similar open, competitive bidding process. The exception in this paragraph (a)(4)(iii) only applies if you did not participate in the decision to foreclose upon the property nor did you participate in deciding how the institution would dispose of the property. Participating in these decisions includes setting the sale terms or receiving information as a result of your position with the institution that could give you an advantage over other potential bidders or purchasers of the property.
