
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 612 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND REFERRAL OF KNOWN OR SUSPECTED CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS
##### Subpart B - Referral of Known or Suspected Criminal Violations
###### ยง 612.2300 Purpose and scope.

(a) This part applies to all institutions of the Farm Credit System as defined in section 1.2(a) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, (Act) (12 U.S.C. 2002(a)) including, but not limited to, associations, banks, service corporations chartered under section 4.25 of the Act, the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, the Farm Credit Leasing Services Corporation, and the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (hereinafter, institutions). The purposes of this part are to ensure public confidence in the Farm Credit System, to ensure the reporting of known or suspected criminal activity, to reduce potential losses to institutions, and to ensure the safety and soundness of institutions. This part requires that institutions use the Farm Credit Administration Criminal Referral Form (hereinafter FCA Referral Form) to notify the appropriate Federal authorities when any known or suspected Federal criminal violations of the type described in ยง 612.2301 are discovered by institutions.

(b) The specific referral requirements of this part apply to known or suspected criminal violations of the United States Code involving the assets, operations, or affairs of an institution. This part prescribes procedures for referring those violations to the proper Federal authorities and the Farm Credit Administration. No specific procedural requirements apply to the referral of violations of State or local laws.

(c) Nothing in this part should be construed as reducing in any way an institution's ability to report known or suspected criminal activities to the appropriate investigatory or prosecuting authorities, whether Federal, State, or local, even when the circumstances in which a report is required under ยง 612.2301 are not present.

(d) It shall be the responsibility of each System institution to determine whether there appears to be a reasonable basis to conclude that a criminal violation has been committed and, if so, to report the matter to the proper law enforcement authorities for consideration of prosecution.

(e) Each referral required by ยง 612.2301(a) shall be made on the FCA Referral Form in accordance with the FCA Referral Form instructions relating to its filing and distribution.
