
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 614 - LOAN POLICIES AND OPERATIONS
##### Subpart D - General Loan Policies for Banks and Associations
###### ยง 614.4165 Young, beginning, and small farmers and ranchers.
####### Direct lender association YBS programs.

(c)The board of directors of each direct lender association must establish a program to provide sound and constructive credit and services to YBS farmers and ranchers in its territory. Such a program must include the following minimum components:

(1) A mission statement describing program objectives and specific means for achieving such objectives.

(2) Annual quantitative targets for credit to YBS farmers and ranchers that are based on an understanding of reasonably reliable demographic data for the lending territory. Such targets may include:

(i) Loan volume and loan number goals for "young," "beginning," and "small" farmers and ranchers in the territory;

(ii) Percentage goals representative of the demographics for "young," "beginning," and "small" farmers and ranchers in the territory;

(iii) Percentage goals for loans made to new borrowers qualifying as "young," "beginning," and "small" farmers and ranchers in the territory; or

(iv) Goals for capital committed to loans made to "young," "beginning," and "small" farmers and ranchers in the territory.

(3) Annual qualitative YBS goals that must include efforts to:

(i) Offer related services either directly or in coordination with others that are responsive to the needs of the "young," "beginning," and "small" farmers and ranchers in the territory;

(ii) Take full advantage of opportunities for coordinating credit and services offered with other System institutions in the territory and other governmental and private sources of credit who offer credit and services to those who qualify as "young," "beginning," and "small" farmers and ranchers; and

(iii) Implement effective outreach programs to attract YBS farmers and ranchers, which may include the use of advertising campaigns and educational credit and services programs beneficial to "young," "beginning," and "small" farmers and ranchers in the territory, as well as an advisory committee comprised of "young," "beginning," and "small" farmers and ranchers to provide views on how the credit and services of the direct lender association could best serve the credit and services needs of YBS farmers and ranchers.

(4) Methods to ensure that credit and services offered to YBS farmers and ranchers are provided in a safe and sound manner and within a direct lender association's risk-bearing capacity. Such methods could include customized loan underwriting standards, loan guarantee programs, fee waiver programs, or other credit enhancement programs.
