
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 614 - LOAN POLICIES AND OPERATIONS
##### Subpart J - Lending and Leasing Limits
###### § 614.4360 Lending and leasing limit violations.

(a) Each loan, except loans that are grandfathered under the provisions of § 614.4361, shall be in compliance with the lending and leasing limit on the date the loan is made, and at all times thereafter. Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, loans which are in violation of the lending and leasing limit shall comply with the provisions of § 615.5090 of this chapter.

(b) Under the following conditions a loan that violates the lending and leasing limit shall be exempt from the provisions of § 615.5090 of this chapter:

(1) A loan in which the total amount of principal outstanding and undisbursed commitments exceed the lending and leasing limit because of a decline in permanent capital after the loan was made.

(2) Loans on which funds are advanced pursuant to a commitment that was within the lending and leasing limit at the time the commitment was made, even if the lending and leasing limit subsequently declines.

(3) A loan that exceeds the lending and leasing limit as a result of the consolidation of the debt of two or more borrowers as a consequence of a merger or the acquisition of one borrower's operations by another borrower. Such a loan may be extended or renewed, for a period not to exceed 1 year from the date of such merger or acquisition, during which period the institution may advance and/or readvance funds not to exceed the greater of:

(i) 110 percent of the advances to the borrower in the prior calendar year; or

(ii) 110 percent of the average of the advances to the borrower in the past 3 calendar years.

(c) For all lending and leasing limit violations except those exempted under § 614.4360(b)(3), within 90 days of the identification of the violation, the institution must develop a written plan prescribing the specific actions that will be taken by the institution to bring the total amount of loans and commitments outstanding or attributed to that borrower within the new lending and leasing limit, and must document the plan in the loan file.

(d) All leases, except those permitted under § 614.4361, reading "effective date of this subpart" in § 614.4361(a) and "effective date of these regulations" in § 614.4361(b) as "effective date of this amendment," must comply with the lending and leasing limit on the date the lease is made, and at all times after that.

(e) Nothing in this section limits the authority of the FCA to take administrative action, including, but not limited to, monetary penalties, as a result of lending and leasing limit violations.
