
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 615 - FUNDING AND FISCAL AFFAIRS, LOAN POLICIES AND OPERATIONS, AND FUNDING OPERATIONS
##### Subpart B - Collateral
###### § 615.5050 Collateral requirements.

(a) Each bank shall have on hand at the time of issuance of any notes, bonds, debentures, or other similar obligations, and at all times thereafter maintain, free from any lien or other pledge, assets consisting of notes and other obligations representing loans made under the authority of the Act, real or personal property acquired in connection with loans made under the Act, obligations of the United States or any agency thereof direct or fully guaranteed, other bank assets (including marketable securities) approved by the Farm Credit Administration, cash, or cash equivalents approved by the Farm Credit Administration, in an aggregate value equal to the total amount of notes, bonds, debentures, or other similar obligations outstanding for which the bank is primarily liable.

(b) The collateral value of eligible investments (as defined in § 615.5140) shall be the lower of cost or market value.

(c)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the collateral value of notes and other obligations representing loans made under the authority of any Farm Credit Act shall be the unpaid balance of such loans adjusted for any allowance for credit losses (except as provided for in § 615.5090).

(2) The collateral value of loans in process of liquidation or foreclosure, judgments, and sales contracts shall be the unpaid balance of such loans, judgments, and contracts adjusted for any allowance for credit losses.

(3) The collateral value of loans which have been restructured by any action, such as an extension, deferment, or partial release, shall be the new unpaid balance of the loans adjusted for any allowance for credit losses.

(4) The collateral value of property acquired in the liquidation of loans shall be the book value of such property adjusted for any allowance for credit losses.

(5) Collateral shall not include the amount of any loan that exceeds the maximum amount authorized under the Act or part 614 of these regulations.

(6) Collateral may include the collateral value of secured interbank loans, computed as provided in § 615.5050(c)(1), provided that the assets securing the loan could serve as collateral supporting the issuance of obligations under § 615.5050(a). In computing its eligible collateral, the borrowing bank shall not count the assets securing such loan.

(d) Each bank shall have procedures which will ensure that the bank is in compliance with the statutory requirements for maintenance of collateral. Such procedures shall include provisions for:

(1) Adequate safekeeping facilities;

(2) Methods to determine that debt instruments meet all requirements of law and regulations;

(3) A report signed by an authorized bank officer at each regular meeting of the board of directors certifying the eligibility and the adequacy of collateral. Items to be reported will include but not be limited to the total amount of eligible collateral, amount of ineligible loans, amount of deductions, and the amount of excess collateral; and

(4) Written procedures and practices to ensure that there will be a high degree of accuracy in protecting and accounting for the collateral.
