
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 615 - FUNDING AND FISCAL AFFAIRS, LOAN POLICIES AND OPERATIONS, AND FUNDING OPERATIONS
##### Subpart D - Other Funding
###### ยง 615.5120 Purchase eligibility requirement.
####### Form and ownership.

(b)Farm Credit Investment Bonds are registered bonds issued in definitive or book-entry form depending on investor preference. The registration used must express the actual ownership of an interest in the bond and will be considered by the issuing institution as conclusive of such ownership and interest. No designation of an attorney, agent, or other representative to request or receive payment on behalf of the owner or coowner, nor any restriction on the right of the owner or coowner to receive payment of the bond or interest, except as provided in this section may be made in the registration or otherwise. Registrations requested in applications for the purchase shall be clear, accurate, complete, and conform with one of the registration provisions set forth in this section, and include the appropriate taxpayer identifying number. Registrations requested will be inscribed on the face of the bond if in definitive form or on the confirmation of investment if in book-entry form. The following provisions shall apply for registration of Farm Credit Investment Bonds:

(1) In all cases the member's name (whether a natural person, fiduciary, or legal entity) or employee's name must appear as owner of the bond.

(2) A bond may be registered in the name of a fiduciary only if the fiduciary is in fact the member.

(3) A member or employee may not use a form of registration (such as a gift to a minor, irrevocable trust, etc.) which would divest himself of ownership. However, a minor may be named as coowner or beneficiary.

(4) If a member is a natural person, a second natural person, member or nonmember, may be named as coowner or beneficiary. Coownership may not involve a fiduciary or private organization.

(5) In the coownership form the connective "or" shall serve the same purpose as "joint tenants with right of survivorship."
