
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 615 - FUNDING AND FISCAL AFFAIRS, LOAN POLICIES AND OPERATIONS, AND FUNDING OPERATIONS
##### Subpart E - Investment Management
###### ยง 615.5140 Eligible investments.
####### Farm Credit banks,Investment eligibility criteria.

(a)-(1)A Farm Credit bank may purchase an investment only if it satisfies the following investment eligibility criteria:

(i) The investment must be purchased and held for one or more investment purposes authorized in ยง 615.5132.

(ii) The investment must be one of the following:

(A) A non-convertible senior debt security;

(B) A money market instrument with a maturity of 1 year or less;

(C) A portion of an MBS or ABS that is fully guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by a U.S. Government agency;

(D) A portion of an MBS or ABS that is fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by a GSE;

(E) The senior-most position of an MBS or ABS that a U.S. Government agency does not fully guarantee as to the timely payment of principal and interest or a GSE does not fully and explicitly guarantee as to the timely payment of principal and interest, provided that the MBS satisfies the definition of "mortgage related security" in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(41);

(F) An obligation of an international or multilateral development bank in which the U.S. is a voting member; or

(G) Shares of a diversified investment fund registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, if its portfolio consists solely of securities that satisfy paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) of this section, or are eligible under ยง 615.5174. The investment company's risk and return objectives and use of derivatives must be consistent with the Farm Credit bank's investment policies.

(iii) At least one obligor of the investment must have very strong capacity to meet its financial commitment for the expected life of the investment. If any obligor whose capacity to meet its financial commitment is being relied upon to satisfy this requirement is located outside the U.S., either:

(A) That obligor's sovereign host country must have the highest or second-highest consensus Country Risk Classification (0 or 1) as published by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) or be an OECD member that is unrated; or

(B) The investment must be fully guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by a U.S. Government agency.

(iv) The investment must exhibit low credit risk and other risk characteristics consistent with the purpose or purposes for which it is held.

(v) The investment must be denominated in U.S. dollars.
