
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 615 - FUNDING AND FISCAL AFFAIRS, LOAN POLICIES AND OPERATIONS, AND FUNDING OPERATIONS
##### Subpart E - Investment Management
###### ยง 615.5140 Eligible investments.
####### Risk management requirements.

(3)Each association that purchases investments pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section must document how its investment activities contribute to managing risks as required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Such documentation must address and evidence that the association:

(i) Complies with ยง 615.5133(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (h), and (i). These investment management processes must be appropriate for the size, risk and complexity of the association's investment portfolio.

(ii) Complies with ยง 615.5182 for investments that exhibit interest rate risk that could lead to significant declines in net income or in the market value of capital.

(iii) Assesses how these investments impact the association's overall credit risk profile and how these investment purchases aid in diversifying, hedging, or mitigating overall credit risk.

(iv) Considers and evaluates any other relevant factors unique to the association or to the nature of the investments that could affect the association's overall risk-bearing capacity, including but not limited to management experience and capability to understand and manage unique risks in investments purchased.
