
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 618 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - Related Services
###### ยง 618.8010 Related services authorization process.
####### Previously authorized services.

(c)(1) For related services that have been authorized by the FCA, any System bank or association may develop a program and subsequently offer the related service to eligible recipients, subject to any special conditions or institutional limits placed by the FCA. These programs will be subject to review and evaluation during the examination and enforcement process.

(2) The FCA shall make available to all System banks and associations a list of such related services ("related services list" or "list") and will update the list in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section. The list will contain the following:

(i) A description of each related service; and

(ii) The types of institutions authorized to offer each type of related service;

(iii) Identification of any special conditions on how the related service may be offered. The special conditions and description of the service will be fully detailed in FCA's notice to System institutions under paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(3) At least 10 business days prior to implementing a related service program already on the list, the System bank or association must notify the FCA Office of Examination field office responsible for examining that institution in writing and provide it with a description of the proposed related service program.
