
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 620 - DISCLOSURE TO SHAREHOLDERS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 620.2 Preparing and filing reports.

For the purposes of this part, the following shall apply:

(a) Copies of each report required by this part, including financial statements and related schedules, exhibits, and all other papers and documents that are a part of the report, must be sent to the Farm Credit Administration according to our instructions. Submissions must comply with the requirements of ยง 620.3 of this part. The Farm Credit Administration must receive the report within the period prescribed under applicable subpart sections.

(b) The reports must be available for public inspection at the issuing institution and the Farm Credit Administration office with which the reports are filed. Farm Credit bank reports must also be available for public inspection at each related association's office(s).

(c) The reports sent to shareholders must comply with the requirements of ยง 620.3 and electronic delivery of those reports requires shareholder agreement.

(d) Information in any part of a report may be incorporated by reference in answer or partial answer to any other item of the report, unless instructions for the report state otherwise.

(e) All items of essentially the same character as items required to be reported in the reports of condition and performance pursuant to part 621 of this chapter shall be prepared in accordance with the rules set forth in part 621.

(f) No disclosure required by subparts B and E of this part shall be deemed to violate any regulation of the Farm Credit Administration.

(g) Each Farm Credit institution shall present its reports in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and in a manner that provides the most meaningful disclosure to shareholders.

(1) Any Farm Credit institution that presents its annual and quarterly financial statements on a combined or consolidated basis shall also include in the report the statement of condition and statement of income of the institution on a stand-alone basis. The stand-alone statements may be in summary form and shall disclose the basis of presentation if different from accounting policies of the combined or consolidated statements.

(2) Any Farm Credit bank that prepares its annual financial statements on a stand-alone basis must also provide financial information on its related associations as part of its annual report. The information on the related associations must be presented on a combined basis with the bank's financial information and, at a minimum, include both a condensed statement of condition and a statement of income. The combined bank and association financial information may either be in the footnotes of the bank's annual report or located in a supplement to the report. All combined information provided through either a footnote or a supplement will be considered part of the bank's annual report, subject to the same annual report preparation, distribution, and accuracy requirements of part 620.

(i) The combined bank and association financial information may be unaudited but must disclose the basis of presentation if different from accounting policies used for the bank-only financial statements.

(ii) If the combined bank and association financial information is presented in the form of a supplement, the supplement must be referenced within the bank's annual report and accompany the annual report when distributed.

(h)(1) Each institution's annual report or notice must state, in a prominent location within the report or notice:

(i) That the institution's quarterly reports are available free of charge on request;

(ii) The approximate dates the quarterly reports will be available; and

(iii) The telephone numbers and addresses (including information on any other distribution method the institution makes available) where shareholders can request or obtain copies of the quarterly reports.

(2) Each association must state, in a prominent location within each report:

(i) That the shareholders' investment in the association may be materially affected by the financial condition and results of operations of the related bank;

(ii) That (if not otherwise provided) a copy of the bank's financial reports to shareholders will be made available free of charge on request; and

(iii) The telephone numbers and addresses (including information on any other distribution method the association makes available) where shareholders can request or obtain copies of the related bank's financial reports.

(3) Each institution shall, after receiving a request for a report, provide the report to the requestor. The first copy of the requested report shall be provided to the requestor free of charge.

(i) Any events that have affected one or more related organizations of the reporting institution that are likely to have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, cost of funds, or reliability of sources of funds of the reporting institution shall be considered significant events for the reporting institution and shall be disclosed in the reports. Any significant event affecting the reporting institution that occurred during the preceding fiscal quarters that continues to have a material effect on the reporting institution shall be considered significant events of the current fiscal quarter and shall be disclosed in the reports.
