
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 620 - DISCLOSURE TO SHAREHOLDERS
##### Subpart B - Annual Report to Shareholders
###### § 620.5 Contents of the annual report to shareholders.
####### Description of capital structure.

(d)(1) Describe each class of stock and participation certificates the institution is authorized to issue and the rights, duties, and liabilities of each class. The description shall include:

(i) The number of shares of each class outstanding;

(ii) The par or face value;

(iii) The voting and dividend rights;

(iv) The order of priority upon impairment or liquidation;

(v) The institution's retirement policies and restrictions on transfer;

(vi) The statutory requirement that a borrower purchase stock as a condition to obtaining a loan;

(vii) The manner in which the stock is purchased (i.e., promissory note to the issuer, or cash not advanced by issuing institution);

(viii) The statutory authority of the institution to require additional capital contributions, if any; and

(ix) The statutory and regulatory restrictions regarding retirement of stock and distribution of earnings pursuant to § 615.5215 of this chapter, and any requirements to add capital under a plan approved by the Farm Credit Administration pursuant to § 615.5350, § 615.5351, § 615.5353, § 615.5357, or § 628.301 of this chapter.

(2) Describe regulatory minimum capital standards, and the institution's compliance with such standards. For banks, also discuss any related associations that are not currently in compliance with the standards.

(3) State whether the institution is currently prohibited from retiring stock or distributing earnings by the statutory and regulatory restrictions described in paragraph (d)(1)(ix) of this section, or knows of any reason such prohibitions may apply during the fiscal year subsequent to the fiscal year just ended.

(4) Describe the institution's capital adequacy requirements and the minimum stock purchase requirement in effect.
