
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 620 - DISCLOSURE TO SHAREHOLDERS
##### Subpart B - Annual Report to Shareholders
###### ยง 620.5 Contents of the annual report to shareholders.
####### Results of operations.

(2)(i) Describe, on a comparative basis, changes in the major components of net interest income during the last 2 fiscal years, describing significant factors that contributed to the changes and quantifying the amount of change(s) due to an increase in volume or the introduction of new services and the amount due to changes in interest rates earned and paid, based on averages for each period.

(ii) Describe any unusual or infrequent events or transactions or any significant economic changes, including, but not limited to, financial assistance received or paid that materially affected reported income. In each case, indicate the extent to which income was so affected.

(iii) Discuss the factors underlying the material changes, if any, in the return on average assets, the return on average protected borrower capital and at-risk capital, and the permanent capital ratio as determined in accordance with part 615, subpart H of this chapter. An explanation of the basis of the calculation of ratios relating to permanent capital and at-risk capital shall be included.

(iv) Describe, on a comparative basis, the major components of operating expense, indicating the reasons for significant increases or decreases.

(v) Describe any other significant components of income or expense, including, but not limited to, income from investments, that should be described in order to understand the institution's results of operations.

(vi) Discuss any events affecting a related organization that are likely to have a material effect on the reporting institution's financial condition, results of operations, cost of funds, or reliability of sources of funds.

(vii) Describe any known trends or uncertainties that have had, or that the institution reasonably expects will have, a material impact on net interest income or net income. Disclose any events known to management that will cause a material change in the relationship between costs and revenues.
