
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 620 - DISCLOSURE TO SHAREHOLDERS
##### Subpart B - Annual Report to Shareholders
###### ยง 620.6 Disclosures in the annual report to shareholders relating to directors and senior officers.
####### Compensation of directors.

(b)Describe the arrangements under which directors of the institution are compensated for all services as a director (including total cash compensation and noncash compensation). Noncash compensation with an annual aggregate value of less than $5,000 does not have to be reported. State the total cash and reportable noncash compensation paid to all directors as a group during the last fiscal year. For the purposes of this paragraph, disclosure of compensation paid to and days served by directors applies to any director who served in that capacity at any time during the reporting period. If applicable, describe any exceptional circumstances justifying the additional director compensation as authorized by ยง 611.400(c) of this chapter. For each director, state:

(1) The number of days served at board meetings;

(2) The total number of days served in other official activities, including any board committee(s);

(3) Any additional compensation paid for service on a board committee, naming the committee; and

(4) The total cash and noncash compensation paid to each director during the last fiscal year. Reportable compensation includes cash and the value of noncash items provided by a third party to a director for services rendered by the director on behalf of the reporting Farm Credit institution. Noncash compensation with an annual aggregate value of less than $5,000 does not have to be reported.
