
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 620 - DISCLOSURE TO SHAREHOLDERS
##### Subpart C - Quarterly Report
###### ยง 620.11 Content of quarterly report to shareholders.
####### Interim statements of income.

(2)When any major income statement caption is less than 15 percent of average net income for the 3 most recent fiscal years and the amount in the caption has not increased or decreased by more than 20 percent since the corresponding interim period of the preceding fiscal year, the caption may be combined with others. In calculating average net income, loss years should be excluded. If losses were incurred in each of the 3 most recent fiscal years, the average loss shall be used for purposes of this test.

(3) The interim financial information shall include disclosure either on the face of the financial statements or in accompanying footnotes sufficient to make the interim information presented not misleading. Institutions may presume that users of the interim financial information have read or have access to the audited financial statements for the preceding fiscal year and the adequacy of additional disclosure needed for a fair presentation may be determined in that context. Accordingly, footnote disclosure that would substantially duplicate the disclosure contained in the most recent audited financial statements (such as a statement of significant accounting policies and practices), and details of accounts that have not changed significantly in amount or composition since the end of the most recent completed fiscal year may be omitted. However, disclosure shall be provided of events occurring subsequent to the end of the most recent fiscal year that have a material impact on the institution. Disclosures should encompass, for example, significant changes since the end of the most recently completed fiscal year in such items as accounting principles and practices; estimates inherent in the preparation of financial statements; status of long-term contracts; capitalization, including significant new indebtedness or modification of existing financing agreements; and the reporting entity resulting from business combinations or dispositions.

(4) The interim financial statements furnished shall reflect all adjustments that are, necessary to a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented. A statement to that effect shall be included. Furnish any material information necessary to make the information called for not misleading, such as a statement that the results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the year.
