
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 620 - DISCLOSURE TO SHAREHOLDERS
##### Subpart D - Notice to Shareholders
###### ยง 620.15 Notice of significant or material events.

When a Farm Credit bank or association determines that it has a significant or material event, the institution must prepare and provide to its shareholders and the Farm Credit Administration a notice disclosing the event(s).

(a) Each bank and association board of directors must establish and maintain a policy identifying the categories and types of events that may result in a notice under this section. At a minimum, events covered under this provision include significant events defined in ยง 620.1(q) and material events defined in ยง 620.1(h). The policy must identify how the significance or materiality of an event will be determined.

(b) A notice issued under this section must be made as soon as possible, but not later than 90 days after occurrence of the event.

(1) Each institution must electronically provide the notice to the Farm Credit Administration at the same time as distribution of the notice to shareholders.

(2) Delivery of the notice to shareholders may be accomplished by direct communications with the shareholders, posting the notice on the institution's Web site, as part of the quarterly report to shareholders, or by publishing the notice in any publication with circulation wide enough to reasonably assure that all of the institution's shareholders have access to the information in a timely manner. No matter how the notice is distributed, it must comply with all the provisions of this section.

(c) Every notice must be dated and signed in a manner similar to the requirements of ยง 620.3(b).

(d) The information required to be included in a notice issued under this section must be conspicuous, easily understandable, complete, accurate, and not misleading.

(e) A Farm Credit System institution may be required to issue a notice under this section at the direction of the Farm Credit Administration.
