
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 622 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - Rules Applicable to Formal Hearings
###### ยง 622.7 Conduct of hearings.
####### Ex parte communications.

(j)(1) No person shall make or knowingly cause to be made an ex parte communication relevant to the merits of the proceeding to the presiding officer or anyone who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process.

(2) No person who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process shall make or knowingly cause to be made an ex parte communication relevant to the merits of the proceeding to any person.

(3) Except as authorized by law, the presiding officer shall not consult anyone on any fact in issue, unless upon notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. The presiding officer shall not be responsible to, or subject to the supervision or direction of, any officer, employee, or agent of the FCA engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions. An officer, employee or agent engaged in the performance of such functions in any case shall not, in that case or a factually related case, participate or advise in the decision of the presiding officer, except as a witness or counsel in the proceedings, or as otherwise authorized by law.

(4) If an ex parte communication is made or knowingly caused to be made, all such communications, and any responses, shall be placed in the record.

(5) Upon receipt of a communication knowingly made or caused to be made in violation of paragraph (j) of this section, the responsible party may be required to show cause why such party's claim or interest should not be dismissed, denied, or otherwise adversely affected. To the extent consistent with the interests of justice, a knowing violation of paragraph (j) of this section may be grounds for a decision adverse to a party in violation.

(6) The prohibitions against ex parte communications apply from the time a proceeding is noticed for hearing. However, when the person responsible for the communication has knowledge that the proceeding will be noticed, the prohibitions apply from the time such knowledge is acquired.
