
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 622 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - Rules Applicable to Formal Hearings
###### ยง 622.10 Depositions.
####### Procedure on deposition.

(d)Depositions may be taken before any person having the power to administer oaths. Each witness whose testimony is taken by deposition shall be duly sworn before any question is propounded. Examination and cross-examination of deponents may proceed as permitted at the hearing. Objections to questions or documents shall be in short form, stating the grounds relief upon for the objection. Failure to object to questions or evidence is deemed a waiver if the ground of the objection is one which might have been obviated or removed if presented at that time. The questions propounded and the answers thereto, together with all objections made (but not including argument or debate) shall be recorded by or under the direction of the person before whom the deposition is taken. The deposition shall be signed by the witness, unless the parties by stipulation waive the signing or the witness is physically unable to sign, cannot be found, or refuses to sign. The deposition shall also be certified as a true and complete transcript by the person recording the testimony. If the deposition is not signed by the witness, the person recording the testimony shall state this fact and the reason therefor on the record. The person before whom the deposition is taken shall promptly file the transcript and all exhibits with the presiding officer. Interested parties shall make their own arrangements with the person recording the testimony for copies of the testimony and exhibits.
