
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 623 - PRACTICE BEFORE THE FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
##### ยง 623.5 Reinstatement.

(a) Any person who is suspended from practicing before the FCA under ยง 623.4 (a) or (c) of this part may file an application for reinstatement at any time. Denial of the privilege of practicing before the FCA shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated by order of the Board for good cause shown.

(b) Any person suspended under ยง 623.4(b) shall be reinstated by the Board, upon appropriate application, if all of the grounds for application of the provisions of that paragraph are removed subsequently by a reversal of the conviction or termination of the suspension, disbarment of revocation. An application for reinstatement on any other grounds by any person suspended under ยง 623.4(b) may be filed at any time. Such application shall state with particularity the relief requested and the grounds therefor and shall include supporting evidence, when available. The applicant shall be accorded an opportunity for an informal hearing in the matter, unless the applicant has waived a hearing in the application and, instead, has elected to have the matter determined on the basis of written submissions. Such hearing shall utilize the procedures established in part 622, subpart C. However, such suspension shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated by order of the Board for good cause shown.
