
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 625 - APPLICATION FOR AWARD OF FEES AND OTHER EXPENSES UNDER THE EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 625.2 Proceedings covered.

(a) The EAJA applies to adversary adjudications conducted by the FCA either on its own behalf or in connection with any other agency of the United States that participates in or in any way is a part of the adversary adjudication. Adversary adjudications are:

(1) Adjudications under 5 U.S.C. 554 in which the position of the FCA or other agency is presented by an attorney or other representative who enters an appearance and participates in the proceeding; and

(2) Enforcement proceedings under 12 U.S.C. 2261-2273.

(b) The failure of the FCA to identify a type of proceeding as an adversary adjudication shall not preclude the filing of an application by a party who believes that the proceeding is covered by the EAJA; whether the proceeding is covered shall then be an issue for resolution in proceedings on the application.

(c) If a proceeding includes both matters covered and excluded from coverage by the EAJA, any award made will include only fees and expenses related to covered issues.

(d) Proceedings under this part may be conducted by the FCA Board (Board) or by the presiding officer (referred to as the "adjudicative officer" in the EAJA), as defined in ยง 622.2(f) of this chapter. If the Board conducts proceedings, reference to the "presiding officer" in this part shall mean the Board, in applicable context. Where the Board presides, the recommended decision under ยง 625.26 of this part will be omitted and the Board will make a final decision on the application in accordance with ยง 625.27 of this part.

(e) If a court reviews the underlying decision of the adversary adjudication, an award for fees and other expenses may be made only pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2412(d)(3).
