
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 625 - APPLICATION FOR AWARD OF FEES AND OTHER EXPENSES UNDER THE EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT
##### Subpart B - Applicant Information Required
###### ยง 625.11 Net worth exhibit.

(a) Each applicant, except a qualified tax-exempt organization or cooperative association, must provide with its application a detailed exhibit showing the net worth of the applicant and any affiliates (as defined in ยง 625.3(f)(1) of this part) as of the date when the adversary adjudication was initiated. The exhibit may be in any convenient form that provides full disclosure of the assets and liabilities of the applicant and its affiliates and is otherwise sufficient to demonstrate that the applicant qualifies under the standards in this part. The presiding officer may require an applicant to file additional information supporting its eligibility for an award.

(b) An applicant that objects to public disclosure of information in any portion of the net worth exhibit and believes there are legal grounds for withholding it from disclosure may submit that portion of the exhibit directly to the presiding officer in a sealed envelope labeled "Confidential Financial Information," accompanied by a motion under ยง 622.11 of this chapter to withhold the information from public disclosure. The motion shall describe the information sought to be withheld and explain, in detail, why it falls within one or more of the specific exemptions from mandatory disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(b) (1)-(9), why public disclosure of the information would adversely affect the applicant, and why disclosure is not required in the public interest. The material in question shall be served on counsel representing the FCA, but need not be served on any other party to the application proceeding. If the presiding officer, or the FCA Board pursuant to ยง 622.11(e) of this chapter, finds that the information should not be withheld from disclosure, it shall be placed in the public record of the application proceeding. Otherwise, any request to inspect or copy the exhibit shall be treated in accordance with the FCA's procedures regarding release of information (12 CFR part 602).
