
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 625 - APPLICATION FOR AWARD OF FEES AND OTHER EXPENSES UNDER THE EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT
##### Subpart B - Applicant Information Required
###### ยง 625.10 Contents of application.

(a) An application for an award of fees and other expenses under the EAJA shall identify the applicant and the adversary adjudication for which an award is sought. The application shall show that the applicant has prevailed in the adversary adjudication. If the application is made on the basis of significant and discrete substantive issues on which the applicant prevailed, the issues must be specifically identified. The application also shall identify each position of the FCA or other agencies that the applicant alleges was not substantially justified. Unless the applicant is an individual, the application shall describe briefly the type and purpose of its organization or business and state the number of persons employed.

(b) The application shall include a statement that the applicant's net worth does not exceed $2 million (if an individual) or $7 million (for all other applicants, including their affiliates). However, an applicant may omit this statement if:

(1) It states that it has 500 employees or fewer and attaches a copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or, in the case of a tax-exempt organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status, a statement that describes the basis for the applicant's belief that it qualifies under such section; or

(2) It states that it is a cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)) with 500 or fewer employees.

(c) The application shall state the total amount of fees and other expenses for which an award is sought.

(d) The application may include any other relevant matters that the applicant wishes the FCA to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made.

(e) The application shall be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney of the applicant. The application must contain a written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application and any supporting documents is accurate.
