
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 627 - TITLE IV CONSERVATORS, RECEIVERS, AND VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 627.2710 Grounds for appointment of conservators and receivers.

(a) Upon a determination by the Farm Credit Administration Board of the existence of one or more of the factors set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, with respect to any bank, association, or other institution of the System, the Farm Credit Administration Board may, in its discretion, appoint a conservator or receiver for such institution. After January 5, 1993, the Insurance Corporation shall be the sole entity to be appointed as conservator or receiver.

(b) The grounds for the appointment of a conservator or receiver for a System institution are:

(1) The institution is insolvent, in that the assets of the institution are less than its obligations to creditors and others, including its members. For purposes of determining insolvency, "obligations to members" shall not include stock or allocated equities held by current or former borrowers.

(2) There has been a substantial dissipation of the assets or earnings of the institution due to the violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or the conduct of an unsafe or unsound practice;

(3) The institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact business, including having insufficient capital or otherwise. For purposes of this regulation, "unsafe or unsound condition" shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following conditions:

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) For associations, a default by the association of one or more terms of its general financing agreement with its affiliated bank that the Farm Credit Administration determines to be a material default.

(iii) For all institutions, permanent capital of less than one-half the minimum required level for the institution.

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) For associations, stock impairment.

(4) The institution has committed a willful violation of a final cease-and-desist order issued by the Farm Credit Administration Board; or

(5) The institution is concealing its books, papers, records, or assets, or is refusing to submit its books, papers, records, assets, or other material relating to the affairs of the institution for inspection to any examiner or to any lawful agent of the Farm Credit Administration Board.

(6) The institution is unable to make a timely payment of principal or interest on any insured obligation (as defined in section 5.51(3) of the Act) issued by the institution individually, or on which it is primarily liable.
