
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 630 - DISCLOSURE TO INVESTORS IN SYSTEMWIDE AND CONSOLIDATED BANK DEBT OBLIGATIONS OF THE FARM CREDIT SYSTEM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 630.4 Responsibilities for preparing the report to investors.
####### Responsibilities of the Funding Corporation.

(a)The Funding Corporation shall:

(1) Prepare the reports to investors required by ยง 630.3(a), including the Systemwide combined financial statements and notes thereto, and such other disclosures, supplemental information, and related analysis as are required by this part to make the reports meaningful and not misleading.

(2) Establish a system of internal controls sufficient to reasonably ensure that any information it releases to investors and the general public concerning any matter required to be disclosed by this part is true and that there are no omissions of material information. The system of internal controls, at a minimum, shall require that the Funding Corporation:

(i) Maintain written policies and procedures, approved by the System Audit Committee, to be carried out by the disclosure entities for preparation of the report to investors;

(ii) Provide instructions to the disclosure entities regarding the information needed for preparation of the Systemwide combined financial statements and disclosures required to be presented in the report to investors;

(iii) Review the information submitted to it for preparation of the report to investors, and make reasonable inquiries to ascertain whether the information is reliable, accurate, and complete; and

(iv) Specify procedures for monitoring interim disclosures of System institutions and disclose, in a timely manner, any material changes in information contained in the most recently published report to investors.

(3) Collect from each disclosure entity financial data and related analyses and other information needed for preparation of the report to investors, including any information that is material to the disclosure entity.

(4) File the reports with the FCA in accordance with ยง 630.3(f) and (h) and ยง 630.5.

(5) Ensure prompt delivery of sufficient copies of each report to selling group dealers for distribution to investors and potential investors in FCS debt obligations.

(6) Make the report available to the general public upon request.

(7) Notify the FCA if it is unable to prepare and publish the report to investors in compliance with the requirements of this part because one or more banks have failed to comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. A notification, signed by the officer(s) designated by the board of directors of the Funding Corporation to certify the report to investors and by the chief executive officer, shall be made to the FCA as soon as the Funding Corporation becomes aware of its inability to comply. The Funding Corporation shall explain the reasons for the notification and may request that the FCA extend the due date for the report to investors.

(8) Include in the report a statement that briefly explains the respective responsibilities of the disclosure entities and states that the Funding Corporation has policies and procedures in place to ensure, to the best of the knowledge and belief of management and the board of the Funding Corporation, that the information contained in the report is true, accurate, and complete. The statement shall be signed by the chief executive officer and the chairperson of the board of the Funding Corporation.

(9) Request the FCA to provide information regarding the content of the latest Reports of Examination of any banks and related associations, if such information is necessary for preparation of a report that is meaningful and not misleading and is not forthcoming from a bank in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The request shall be made to the Chief Examiner, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102-5090.
