
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 630 - DISCLOSURE TO INVESTORS IN SYSTEMWIDE AND CONSOLIDATED BANK DEBT OBLIGATIONS OF THE FARM CREDIT SYSTEM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 630.4 Responsibilities for preparing the report to investors.
####### Responsibilities of banks.

(b)Each bank shall:

(1) Provide to the Funding Corporation annual, quarterly, and interim financial and other information in accordance with instructions of the Funding Corporation for preparation of the report to investors, including:

(i) Financial data of the bank or, if the bank is required under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to prepare its financial statements on a consolidated basis with its subsidiaries, consolidated financial data of the bank and its consolidated subsidiaries; and

(ii) Combined financial data of the bank (including any consolidated subsidiaries of the bank) and related associations of the bank.

(2) Respond to Funding Corporation inquiries and provide any followup information requested by the Funding Corporation in connection with the preparation of the report to investors in accordance with instructions of the Funding Corporation.

(3) Notify the Funding Corporation promptly of any events occurring subsequent to publication of the report that may be material either to the financial condition and results of operations of the bank or to the combined financial condition and results of operations of the bank and its related associations. Furnish the Funding Corporation with any information necessary to provide interim Systemwide disclosure to investors to make the most recently published report to investors not misleading.

(4) Respond to inquiries from the Funding Corporation relating to preparation of the report.

(5) Certify to the Funding Corporation that all information needed for preparation of the report to investors has been submitted in accordance with the instructions of the Funding Corporation and the information submitted complies with the signature and certification provisions of ยง 620.3(b) and (c), respectively.
