
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 630 - DISCLOSURE TO INVESTORS IN SYSTEMWIDE AND CONSOLIDATED BANK DEBT OBLIGATIONS OF THE FARM CREDIT SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Annual Report to Investors
###### ยง 630.20 Contents of the annual report to investors.
####### Description of capital.

(e)(1) Describe the capitalization of the System, including capital structure, types of stock and participation certificates, and voting rights of holders of stock and participation certificates.

(2) Describe the statutory requirement that a borrower purchase stock as a condition of obtaining a loan; how such stock is purchased, transferred, and retired; and how earnings are distributed.

(3) Describe any statutory or other authority of a System institution to require additional capital contributions from stockholders.

(4) Describe regulatory minimum permanent capital standards and capital adequacy requirements for banks and associations. State the number of institutions, if any, categorized by banks and associations, that are not currently in compliance with such standards and include a brief discussion of the reasons for the noncompliance.

(5) Describe any statutory and regulatory restrictions on retirement of stock and distribution of earnings by System institutions. State the number of System institutions, if any, categorized by banks and associations, that are currently affected by such restrictions and provide a summary of the causes of such prohibitions.
