
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 630 - DISCLOSURE TO INVESTORS IN SYSTEMWIDE AND CONSOLIDATED BANK DEBT OBLIGATIONS OF THE FARM CREDIT SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Annual Report to Investors
###### ยง 630.20 Contents of the annual report to investors.
####### Results of operations.

(2)(i) Describe, on a comparative basis, changes in the major components of net interest income. Include a discussion of significant factors that contributed to the changes and quantify the amount of change(s) due to an increase or decrease in volume and the amount due to changes in interest rates earned and paid, based on averages for each period.

(ii) Describe any unusual or infrequent events or transactions, or any significant economic changes that materially affected reported income and, in each case, indicate the extent to which income was so affected.

(iii) Discuss the factors underlying any material changes in the return on average assets and return on average capital stock and surplus.

(iv) Describe, on a comparative basis, the major components of operating expense and any other significant components of income or expense, indicating the reasons for any significant increases or decreases.

(v) Describe any known trends or uncertainties that have had, or that are reasonably expected to have, a material impact on net interest income or net income. Disclose any known events that will cause a material change in the relationship between costs and revenues.

(vi) Explain the changes that have taken place, by major components on a comparative basis, in Insurance Fund assets and related restricted capital and how such changes affected reported income.
