
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 630 - DISCLOSURE TO INVESTORS IN SYSTEMWIDE AND CONSOLIDATED BANK DEBT OBLIGATIONS OF THE FARM CREDIT SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Annual Report to Investors
###### ยง 630.20 Contents of the annual report to investors.
####### Instructions for discussion and analysis.

(6)(i) The purpose of the discussion and analysis (D&A) shall be to provide to investors and other users information relevant to an assessment of the combined financial condition and results of operations of System institutions as determined by evaluating the amounts and certainty of cashflows from operations and from outside sources. The information provided pursuant to this section need only include that which is available to System institutions and which does not clearly appear in the combined financial statements.

(ii) The D&A of the financial statements and other statistical data shall be presented in a manner designed to enhance a reader's understanding of the combined financial condition, results of operations, cashflows, and changes in capital of System institutions. Unless otherwise specified in ยง 630.20(g), the discussion shall cover the period covered by the financial statements and shall use year-to-year comparisons or any other understandable format. Where trend information is relevant, reference to the 5-year selected financial data required by paragraph (f) of this section may be necessary.

(iii) The D&A shall focus specifically on material events and uncertainties known at the time of reporting that would cause reported financial information not to be necessarily indicative of future operating results or of future financial condition. This should include descriptions and amounts of:

(A) Matters that would have an impact on future operations but that have not had an impact in the past; and

(B) Matters that have had an impact on reported operations but are not expected to have an impact on future operations.
