
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 630 - DISCLOSURE TO INVESTORS IN SYSTEMWIDE AND CONSOLIDATED BANK DEBT OBLIGATIONS OF THE FARM CREDIT SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Annual Report to Investors
###### ยง 630.20 Contents of the annual report to investors.
####### Supplemental information.

(m)Furnish supplemental information regarding the components of the Systemwide combined financial statements that has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph and any additional guidance or instructions provided by the FCA.

(1) At a minimum, the supplemental information shall include the following:

(i) Supplemental balance sheet information as of the end of the most recent fiscal year; and

(ii) Supplemental income statement information for the most recently completed fiscal year.

(2) At a minimum, the report shall present supplemental information showing combined financial data for the following components on a stand-alone basis:

(i) Banks;

(ii) Associations;

(iii) Combined financial data of the System without the Insurance Fund;

(iv) The Insurance Fund and related combination entries; and

(v) Combined financial data of the System with the Insurance Fund.

(3) The supplemental information shall be presented in a columnar format and include, at a minimum, the selected financial data listed in the schedules in appendix A of this part. The prescribed components shall be designated as column headings and they may be abbreviated in the schedules. The financial data required by ยง 630.20(m)(2)(i) shall include the financial data required to be submitted by each bank pursuant to the requirement of ยง 630.4(c)(1)(i).

(4) The supplemental information may be presented separately or in accompanying notes to the Systemwide combined financial statements and shall contain additional disclosures sufficient to explain the basis of the presentation of the supplemental information, the components, and any adjustments contained therein to enable readers to understand the effect of each component on the Systemwide combined financial statements.
