
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 630 - DISCLOSURE TO INVESTORS IN SYSTEMWIDE AND CONSOLIDATED BANK DEBT OBLIGATIONS OF THE FARM CREDIT SYSTEM
##### Subpart C - Quarterly Reports to Investors
###### ยง 630.40 Contents of the quarterly report to investors.
####### Interim statements of income.

(2)When any major income statement caption is less than 15 percent of average net income for the 3 most recent fiscal years and the amount in the caption has not increased or decreased by more than 20 percent since the corresponding interim period of the preceding fiscal year, the caption may be combined with others. In calculating average net income, loss years should be excluded. If losses were incurred in each of the 3 most recent fiscal years, the average loss shall be used for purposes of this test.

(3) The interim financial information shall include disclosure either on the face of the financial statements or in accompanying footnotes sufficient to make the interim information presented not misleading. It may be presumed that users of the interim financial information have read or have access to the audited financial statements for the preceding fiscal year, and the adequacy of additional disclosure needed for a fair presentation may be determined in that context. Accordingly, footnote disclosure that would substantially duplicate the disclosure contained in the most recent audited financial statements (such as a statement of significant accounting policies and practices) and details of accounts that have not changed significantly in amount or composition since the end of the most recently completed fiscal year may be omitted.

(4) Interim reports shall disclose events that have occurred subsequent to the end of the most recently completed fiscal year that have a material impact on the System. Disclosures should encompass, for example, significant changes since the end of the most recently completed fiscal year in such items as accounting principles and practices, estimates used in the preparation of financial statements, status of long-term contracts, capitalization, significant new indebtedness or modification of existing financing agreements, financial assistance received, significant business combinations and liquidations of System institutions, and terminations of System institution status. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, where material contingencies exist, disclosure of such matters shall be provided even though a significant change since yearend may not have occurred.

(5) In addition to meeting the reporting requirements specified by existing accounting pronouncements for accounting changes, state the date of any material accounting change and the reasons for making it.

(6) Any material prior period adjustment made during any period covered by the interim financial statements shall be disclosed, together with its effect upon net income and upon the balance of surplus for any prior period included. If results of operations for any period presented have been adjusted retroactively by such an item subsequent to the initial reporting of such period, similar disclosure of the effect of the change shall be made.

(7) Interim financial statements furnished shall reflect all adjustments that are necessary to a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented. A statement to that effect shall be included. Furnish any material information necessary to make the information called for not misleading, such as a statement that the results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the year.

(8) If any amount that would otherwise be required to be shown by this section with respect to any item is not material, it need not be separately shown. The combination of insignificant items is permitted.
