
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 650 - FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORPORATION GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Conservators, Receivers, and Liquidations
###### ยง 650.40 Creditor claims.

(a) Upon appointment, the receiver shall promptly publish a notice to creditors to present their claims against the Corporation, with proof thereof, to the receiver by a date specified in the notice, which shall be not less than 90 calendar days after the first publication. The notice shall be republished approximately 30 days and 60 days after the first publication. The receiver shall promptly send, by first class mail, a similar notice to any creditor shown on the Corporation's books at the creditor's last address appearing thereon. Claims filed after the specified date shall be disallowed except as the receiver may approve them for full or partial payment from the Corporation's assets remaining undistributed at the time of approval.

(b) The receiver shall allow any claim that is timely received and proved to the receiver's satisfaction. The receiver may disallow in whole or in part any creditor's claim or claim of security, preference, or priority that is not proved to the receiver's satisfaction or is not timely received and shall notify the claimant of the disallowance and reason therefor. Sending the notice of disallowance by first class mail to the claimant's address appearing on the proof of claim shall be sufficient notice. The disallowance shall be final unless, within 30 days after the notice of disallowance is mailed, the claimant files a written request for payment regardless of the disallowance. The receiver shall reconsider any claim upon the timely request of the claimant and may approve or disapprove such claim in whole or in part.

(c) Creditors' claims that are allowed shall be paid by the receiver from time to time, to the extent funds are available therefor and in accordance with the priorities established in this part and in such manner and amounts as the receiver deems appropriate. In the event the Corporation has a claim against a creditor of the Corporation, the receiver shall offset the amount of such claim against the claim asserted by such creditor.
