
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 650 - FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORPORATION GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Conservators, Receivers, and Liquidations
###### ยง 650.45 Priority of claims.

The following priority of claims shall apply to the distribution of the assets of the Corporation in liquidation:

(a) All costs, expenses, and debts incurred by the receiver in connection with the administration of the receivership, all Farm Credit Administration assessments for the costs of supervising and examining the Corporation, and any amounts borrowed pursuant to ยง 650.56(b)(3).

(b) Administrative expenses of the Corporation, provided that such expenses were incurred within 60 days prior to the receiver's taking possession, and that such expenses shall be limited to reasonable expenses incurred for services actually provided by accountants, attorneys, appraisers, examiners, or management companies, or reasonable expenses incurred by employees that were authorized and reimbursable under a preexisting expense reimbursement policy and that, in the opinion of the receiver, are of benefit to the receivership, and shall not include wages or salaries of employees of the Corporation.

(c) If authorized by the receiver, claims for wages and salaries, including vacation pay, earned prior to the appointment of the receiver by an employee of the Corporation whom the receiver determines it is in the best interest of the receivership to engage or retain for a reasonable period of time.

(d) If authorized by the receiver, claims for wages and salaries, including vacation pay, earned prior to the appointment of the receiver, up to a maximum of three thousand dollars ($3,000) per person as adjusted for inflation, by an employee of the Corporation not engaged or retained by the receiver. The adjustment for inflation shall be the percentage by which the Consumer Price Index (as prepared by the Department of Labor) for the calendar year preceding the appointment of the receiver exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the calendar year 1992.

(e) All claims for taxes.

(f) All claims of creditors which are secured by specific assets of the Corporation, with priority of conflicting claims of creditors within this same class to be determined in accordance with priorities of applicable Federal or State law.

(g) All claims of general creditors.
