
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 650 - FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORPORATION GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Conservators, Receivers, and Liquidations
###### ยง 650.70 Powers and duties of the conservator.

(a) The conservator shall direct the Corporation's further operation until the Farm Credit Administration Board decides that the Corporation can operate without the conservatorship or places the Corporation into receivership. Upon correction or resolution of the problem or condition that provided the basis for the appointment, the Farm Credit Administration Board may turn the Corporation over to such management as the Farm Credit Administration Board may direct.

(b) The conservator shall exercise all powers necessary to continue the ongoing operations of the Corporation, to conserve and preserve the Corporation's assets and property, and otherwise protect the interests of the Corporation, its stockholders, and creditors as provided in this subpart.

(c) The conservator serves as the trustee of the Corporation and conducts its operations for the benefit of the creditors and stockholders of the Corporation.

(d) The conservator may exercise the powers that a receiver of the Corporation may exercise under any of the provisions of ยง 650.56(b) of this subpart, except paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(16). In interpreting the applicable paragraphs for purposes of this section, the terms "conservator" and "conservatorship" shall be read for "receiver" and "receivership".

(e) The conservator may also take any other action the conservator considers appropriate or expedient to the continuing operation of the Corporation.
