
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 652 - FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORPORATION FUNDING AND FISCAL AFFAIRS
##### Subpart B - Risk-Based Capital Requirements
###### ยง 652.65 Risk-based capital stress test.
####### Interest rate risk.

(c)(1) During the first year of the stress period, you will adjust interest rates for two scenarios, an increase in rates and a decrease in rates. You must determine your risk-based capital level based on whichever scenario would require more capital.

(2) You will calculate the interest rate stress based on changes to the quarterly average of the 10-year CMT. The starting rate is the 3-month average of the most recent CMT monthly rate series. To calculate the change in the starting rate, determine the average yield of the preceding 12 monthly 10-year CMT rates. Then increase and decrease the starting rate by:

(i) 50 percent of the 12-month average if the average rate is less than 12 percent; or

(ii) 600 basis points if the 12-month average rate is equal to or higher than 12 percent.

(3) Following the first year of the stress period, interest rates remain at the new level for the remainder of the stress period.

(4) You will apply the interest rate changes scenario as indicated in appendix A to this subpart.

(5) You may use other interest rate indices in addition to the 10-year CMT subject to our concurrence, but in no event can your risk-based capital level be less than that determined by using only the 10-year CMT.
