
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VI - Farm Credit Administration
### Subchapter B - Farm Credit System
#### PART 652 - FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORPORATION FUNDING AND FISCAL AFFAIRS
##### Subpart B - Risk-Based Capital Requirements
###### ยง 652.65 Risk-based capital stress test.
####### Credit risk.

(b)The credit risk part estimates loan losses during a period of sustained economic stress.

(1) For each loan in the Farmer Mac I portfolio, you will determine a default probability by using the logit functions specified in appendix A to this subpart with each of the following variables:

(i) Borrower's debt-to-asset ratio at loan origination;

(ii) Loan-to-value ratio at origination, which is the loan amount divided by the value of the property;

(iii) Debt-service-coverage ratio at origination, which is the borrower's net income (on- and off-farm) plus depreciation, capital lease payments, and interest, less living expenses and income taxes, divided by the total term debt payments;

(iv) The origination loan balance stated in 1997 dollars based on the consumer price index; and,

(v) The worst-case percentage change in farmland values (23.52 percent).

(2) You will then calculate the loss rate by multiplying the default probability for each loan by the estimated loss-severity rate, which is the average loss of the defaulted loans in the data set (20.9 percent).

(3) You will calculate losses by multiplying the loss rate by the origination loan balances stated in 1997 dollars.

(4) You will adjust the losses for loan seasoning, based on the number of years since loan origination, according to the functions in appendix A to this subpart.

(5) You will calculate loss rates on rural utility loans as further described in appendix A.

(6) You will further adjust losses for loans that collateralize the general obligation of AgVantage Plus volume, and for loans where the program loan counterparty retains a subordinated interest in accordance with appendix A to this subpart.

(7) The losses must be applied in the risk-based capital stress test as specified in appendix A to this subpart.
