
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 701 - ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS
##### ยง 701.6 Fees paid by Federal credit unions.
###### Assessment of Administrative Fee and Interest for Delinquent Payment.

(d)Each Federal credit union shall pay to the Administration an administrative fee, the costs of collection, and interest on any delinquent payment of its operating fee. A payment will be considered delinquent if it is postmarked later than the date stated in the notice to the credit union provided under ยง 701.6(c). The National Credit Union Administration may waive or abate charges or collection of interest if circumstances warrant.

(1) The administrative fee for a delinquent payment shall be an amount fixed from time to time by the National Credit Union Administration Board and based upon the administrative costs of such delinquent payments to the Administration in the preceding year.

(2) The costs of collection shall be the actual hours expended by Administration personnel multiplied by the average hourly salary and benefits costs of such personnel as determined by the National Credit Union Administration Board.

(3) The interest rate charged on any delinquent payment shall be the U.S. Department of the Treasury Tax and Loan Rate in effect on the date when the payment is due as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717.

(4) If a credit union makes a combined payment of its operating fee and its share insurance deposit as provided in ยง 741.4 of this chapter and such payment is delinquent, only one administrative fee will be charged and interest will be charged on the total combined payment.
