
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 701 - ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 701 - Federal Credit Union Bylaws
###### Member in good standing.

Section 5.A member in good standing retains all their rights and privileges in the credit union. A member in good standing is a member who maintains at least the minimum share set forth in Article III, Section 1 of these bylaws; who is not significantly delinquent on any credit union loan; who has not had any account with this credit union closed due to abuse or negligent behavior; who has not caused a financial loss to this credit union; and who has not engaged in violent, belligerent, disruptive, or abusive activities, such as:

(1) Violence, intimidation, threats, harassment, or physical or verbal abuse of duly elected or appointed officials or employees of the credit union, members, or agents of the credit union. This includes actions while on credit union premises and through use of telephone, mail, email or other electronic method.

(2) Causes or threatens damage to credit union property.

(3) Unauthorized use or access of credit union property.

(4) Knowingly disseminating incorrect, misleading, confidential, or proprietary information regarding the credit union.

(5) Any actions that may cause material risk or financial harm to the credit union.

A credit union may limit services for violent, belligerent, disruptive, or abusive activities only if there is a logical relationship between the objectionable activities and the services to be suspended. In the event of a suspension of service, the member will be notified of what accounts or services have been discontinued.

Subject to Article XIV of these bylaws and any applicable limitation of services policy approved by the board, members not in good standing retain their right to attend, participate, and vote at the annual and special meetings of the members and maintain a share account.
