
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 701 - ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 701 - Federal Credit Union Bylaws
###### General definitions.

Section 1.When used in these bylaws the terms:

"Act" means the Federal Credit Union Act, as amended.

"Administration" means the National Credit Union Administration.

"Agency" means the Regional Director, the Director of the Office of National Examinations and Supervision, or the Director of the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion.

"Applicable law and regulations" means the Federal Credit Union Act and rules and regulations issued thereunder or other applicable federal and state statutes and rules and regulations issued thereunder as the context indicates.

"Board" means board of directors of the federal credit union.

"Board officers" means:

1. "Chair" means Presiding Board officer, President of the Board, Presiding Board Officer, or Chairperson.

2. "Vice Chair" means Vice President.

3. "Financial Officer" means Treasurer.

4. "Secretary" means Recording Officer.

5. "Management Official" means General Manager, Manager, President, or Chief Executive Officer.

"Charter" means the approved organization certificate and field of membership issued by the National Credit Union Administration or one of its predecessors. It is the document that authorizes a group to operate as a credit union, defines the fundamental limits of its operating authority, and includes the persons the credit union is permitted to accept for membership.

"Field of membership" means the persons (including organizations and other legal entities) a credit union is permitted to accept for membership.

"Immediate family member" means spouse, child, sibling, parent, grandparent, grandchild, stepparents, stepchildren, stepsiblings, and adoptive relationships.

"Loans" means any type of loan product the credit union offers. This includes, but is not limited to, consumer loans, lines of credit, credit cards, member business loans, commercial loans, and real estate loans.

"Management" means the Board, Financial Officer, and Management Official.

"Member" means a person must:

1. Be eligible for membership under Section 5 of the charter;

2. Sign membership forms as approved by the credit union board;

3. Subscribe to at least one share (par value) of stock;

4. Pay the initial installment;

5. Pay an entrance fee, if required; and

6. Be eligible to vote upon reaching the minimum age the credit union establishes for voting and participation in the affairs of the credit union.

"Membership Officer" means a majority of the board of directors, a majority of the members of a duly authorized executive committee, or an individual(s) appointed by the board of directors to serve as such.

"NCUA Board" means the Board of the National Credit Union Administration.

"Person in the same household" means an individual living in the same residence maintaining a single economic unit.

"Regulation" or "regulations" means rules and regulations issued by the NCUA Board.

"Share" or "shares" means all classes of shares and share certificates that may be held in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
