
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 701 - ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix B to Part 701 - Chartering and Field of Membership Manual
###### i.e.,,e.g.,

The corporation or other legal entity (the employer) may also be included in the common bond-"ABC Corporation." The corporation or legal entity will be defined in the last clause in Section 5 of the credit union's charter.

A charter applicant must provide documentation to establish that the single occupational common bond requirement has been met.

Some examples of valid single occupational common bonds are:

- Employees of the Hunt Manufacturing Company who work in West Chester, Pennsylvania. (common bond-same employer with geographic definition);

- Employees of the Buffalo Manufacturing Company who work in the United States. (common bond-same employer with geographic definition);

- Employees, elected and appointed officials of municipal government in Parma, Ohio. (common bond-same employer with geographic definition);

- Employees of Johnson Soap Company and its majority owned subsidiary, Johnson Toothpaste Company, who work in, are paid from, are supervised from, or are headquartered in Augusta and Portland, Maine. (common bond-parent and subsidiary company with geographic definition);

- Employees of MMLLJS contractor who work regularly at the U.S. Naval Shipyard in Bremerton, Washington. (common bond-employees of contractors with geographic definition);

- Employees, doctors, medical staff, technicians, medical and nursing students who work in or are paid from the Newport Beach Medical Center, Newport Beach, California. (single corporation with geographic definition);

- Employees of JLS, Incorporated and MJM, Incorporated working for the LKM Joint Venture Company in Catalina Island, California. (common bond-same employer-ongoing dependent relationship);

- Employees of and students attending Georgetown University. (common bond-same occupation);

- Employees of all the schools supervised by the Timbrook Board of Education in Timbrook, Georgia. (common bond-same employer); or

- All licensed nurses in Fairfax County, Virginia. (occupational common bond TIP).

In contrast, some examples of insufficiently defined single occupational common bonds are:

- Employees of manufacturing firms in Seattle, Washington. (no defined occupational sponsor; overly broad TIP);

- Persons employed or working in Chicago, Illinois. (no occupational common bond).

A common bond based on employment in a trade, industry, or profession can include employment at any number of corporations or other legal entities that-while not under common ownership-have a common bond by virtue of producing similar products, providing similar services, or participating in the same type of business.

While proposed or existing single common bond credit unions have some latitude in defining a trade, industry, or profession occupational common bond, it cannot be defined so broadly as to include groups in fields which are not closely related. For example, the manufacturing industry, energy industry, communications industry, retail industry, or entertainment industry would not qualify as a TIP because each industry lacks the necessary commonality. However, textile workers, realtors, nurses, teachers, police officers, or U.S. military personnel are closely related and each would qualify as a TIP.

The common bond relationship must be one that demonstrates a narrow commonality of interests within a specific trade, industry, or profession. If a credit union wants to serve a physician TIP, it can serve all physicians, but that does not mean it can also serve all clerical staff in the physicians' offices. However, if the TIP is based on the health care industry, then clerical staff would be able to be served by the credit union because they work in the same industry and have the same commonality of interests.
