
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 701 - ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix B to Part 701 - Chartering and Field of Membership Manual
###### e.g.,

NCUA has not set a minimum field of membership size for chartering a federal credit union. Consequently, groups of any size may apply for a credit union charter and be approved if they demonstrate economic advisability. However, it is important to note that often the size of the group is indicative of the potential for success. For that reason, a charter application with fewer than 3,000 primary potential members (employees of a corporation or members of an association) may not be economically advisable. Therefore, a charter applicant with a proposed field of membership of fewer than 3,000 primary potential members may have to provide more support than an applicant with a larger field of membership. For example, a small occupational or associational group may be required to demonstrate a commitment for long-term support from the sponsor.

The ability to provide effective service to members, to compete in the marketplace, and to adapt to changing market conditions are key to the survival of any enterprise. Before NCUA will charter a credit union, a business plan based on realistic and supportable projections and assumptions must be submitted.

The business plan should contain, at a minimum, the following elements:

- Mission statement;

- Analysis of market conditions, including if applicable, geographic, demographic, employment, income, housing, and other economic data;

- Evidence of member support;

- Goals for shares, loans, and for number of members;

- Financial services needed/desired;

- Financial services to be provided to members of all segments within the field of membership;

- How/when services are to be implemented;

- Organizational/management plan addressing qualification and planned training of officials/employees;

- Continuity plan for directors, committee members and management staff;

- Operating facilities, to include office space/equipment and supplies, safeguarding of assets, insurance coverage, etc.;

- Type of record-keeping and data processing system;
