
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 701 - ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix B to Part 701 - Chartering and Field of Membership Manual
###### Proposed Area Consisting of Multiple Contiguous Units.,e.g.,,e.g.,,i.e.,

When a proposed area consists of either multiple contiguous Metro units (a group of adjoining census tracts) or multiple contiguous Non-Metro units (a group of adjoining counties), a population threshold applies when implementing the economic distress criteria. At least 85 percent (85%) of the area's total population must reside within the units that are "distressed,"that meet one of the applicable economic distress criteria above, as reported by the decennial Census (Unemployment, Poverty and MFI for census tracts plus, for counties only, Population Loss and Migration Loss); the balance of the area's population may reside in the non-"distressed" tract(s). The population threshold is met, and the whole proposed area qualifies as "distressed," when the "distressed" units represent at least 85 percent of the area's total population.

A proposed area that is "distressed" also must display "significant unmet needs" for loans or for one or more of the financial services credit unions are authorized to offer. To meet this criterion, the credit union must include within its Business Plan a section, one page in length, entitled "Significant Unmet Needs for Credit Union Services" ("SUN section") that establishes the existence of such unmet needs by identifying the credit and depository needs of the community and detailing how the credit union plans to serve those needs. The credit union may choose which among the following "credit and depository needs" to address in the SUN section: loans, share draft accounts, savings accounts, check cashing, money orders, certified checks, automated teller machines, deposit taking, safe deposit box services, and similar services. The existence of each "credit and depository need" the credit union identifies and plans to serve must be supported by objective reasons and/or accompanying documentation derived from an identified, authoritative source of the credit union's choice. Third-party documentation generally is the most compelling.
