
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 701 - ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix B to Part 701 - Chartering and Field of Membership Manual
###### e.g.,

- Comply with the requirements of the Federal Credit Union Act,chartering and reserve requirements; and

- Be granted federal share insurance by NCUA.

Conversions are treated the same as any initial application for a federal charter, including an on-site examination by NCUA where appropriate. NCUA will also consult with the appropriate state authority regarding the credit union's current financial condition, management expertise, and past performance. Since the applicant in a conversion is an ongoing credit union, the economic advisability of granting a charter is more readily determinable than in the case of an initial charter applicant.

A converting state credit union's field of membership must conform to NCUA's chartering policy. The field of membership will be phrased in accordance with NCUA chartering policy. However, if the converting credit union is a multiple group charter and the new federal charter is a multiple group, then the new federal charter may retain in its field of membership any group that the state credit union was serving at the time of conversion. Subsequent changes must conform to NCUA chartering policy in effect at that time.

If the converting credit union is a community charter and the new federal charter is community-based, it must meet the community field of membership requirements set forth in Chapter 2, Section V of this manual. If the state-chartered credit union's community boundary is more expansive than the approved federal boundary, only members of record outside of the new community boundary may continue to be served.

The converting credit union, regardless of charter type, may continue to serve members of record. The converting credit union may retain in its field of membership any group or community added pursuant to state emergency provisions.

The following documents must be submitted with the conversion proposal:

- Conversion of State Charter to Federal Charter (NCUA 4000);

- Organization Certificate (NCUA 4008). Only Part (3) and the signature/notary section should be completed and, where applicable, signed by the credit union officials.

- Report of Officials and Agreement to Serve (NCUA 4012);

- The Application to Convert From State Credit Union to Federal Credit Union (NCUA 4401);

- The Application and Agreements for Insurance of Accounts (NCUA 9500);

- Certification of Resolution (NCUA 9501);

- Written evidence regarding whether the state regulator is in agreement with the conversion proposal; and

- Business plan, as appropriate, including the most current financial report and delinquent loan schedule.

If the state charter is applying to become a federal community charter, it must also comply with the documentation requirements included in Chapter 2, Section V.A.2 of this manual.

The application will be reviewed to determine that it is complete and that the proposal is in compliance with Section 125 of the Federal Credit Union Act. This review will include a determination that the state credit union's field of membership is in compliance with NCUA's chartering policies. The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director may make further investigation into the proposal and may require the submission of additional information to support the request to convert.

NCUA may conduct an on-site examination of the books and records of the credit union. Non-federally insured credit unions will be assessed an insurance application fee.

The conversion will be approved by the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director if it is in compliance with Section 125 of the Federal Credit Union Act and meets the criteria for federal insurance. Where applicable, the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director will specify any special conditions that the credit union must meet in order to convert to a federal charter, including changes to the credit union's field of membership in order to conform to NCUA's chartering policies. Some of these conditions may be set forth in a Letter of Understanding and Agreement (LUA), which requires the signature of the officials and the appropriate NCUA regional director or Office of National Examinations and Supervision Director.

The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director will notify both the credit union and the state regulator of the decision on the conversion.

When NCUA disapproves any application to convert to a federal charter, the applicant will be informed in writing of the:

- Specific reasons for the action;

- Options to consider, if appropriate, for gaining approval; and

- Appeal procedures.

If a conversion to a Federal charter is denied by the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director, the applicant credit union may appeal that decision to the NCUA Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart B to part 746 of this chapter.

Before appealing, the credit union may, within 30 days of the denial, provide supplemental information to the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director for reconsideration. A request for reconsideration should contain new and material evidence addressing the reasons for the initial denial or explain extenuating circumstances that precluded the inclusion of existing material evidence or information that should have been filed with the request for reconsideration. The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director will have 30 days from the date of the receipt of the request for reconsideration to make a final decision. If the request is again denied, the applicant may proceed with the appeal process within 60 days of the date of the last denial. A petitioner may seek a second reconsideration based on new material evidence or information or extenuating circumstances that precluded the inclusion of such information in the previous request.

Upon being informed of the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director's preliminary approval, the board must:

- Comply with all requirements of the state regulator that will enable the credit union to convert to a federal charter and cease being a state credit union;

- Obtain a letter or official statement from the state regulator certifying that the credit union has met all of the state requirements and will cease to be a state credit union upon its receiving a federal charter. A copy of this document must be submitted to the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director;

- Obtain a letter from the private share insurer (includes excess share insurers), if applicable, certifying that the credit union has met all withdrawal requirements. A copy of this document must be submitted to the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director; and

- Submit a statement of the action taken to comply with any conditions imposed by the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director in the preliminary approval of the conversion proposal and, if applicable, submit the signed LUA.

When the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director has received evidence that the board of directors has satisfactorily completed the actions described above, the Federal charter and new Certificate of Insurance will be issued.

The credit union may then complete the conversion as discussed in the following section. A credit union may request the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director to reconsider a denial of a conversion application and/or appeal a denial to the NCUA Board. For more information, refer to Section II.C.6 of this chapter.

The date on which the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director approves the Organization Certificate and the Application and Agreements for Insurance of Accounts is the date on which the credit union becomes a federal credit union. The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director will notify the credit union and the state regulator of the date of the conversion.

As of the effective date of the conversion, the federal credit union will be the owner of all of the assets and will be responsible for all of the liabilities and share accounts of the state credit union.

Upon receipt of its federal charter, the board will hold its first meeting as a federal credit union. At this meeting, the board will transact such business as is necessary to complete the conversion as approved and to operate the credit union in accordance with the requirements of the Federal Credit Union Act and NCUA Rules and Regulations.

As of the commencement of operations, the accounting system, records, and forms must conform to the standards established by NCUA.

Changing of the credit union's name on all signage, records, accounts, investments, and other documents should be accomplished as soon as possible after conversion. The credit union has 180 days from the effective date of the conversion to change its signage and promotional material. This requires the credit union to discontinue using any remaining stock of "state credit union" stationery immediately, and discontinue using credit cards, ATM cards, etc., within 180 days after the effective date of the conversion, or the reissue date whichever is later. The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director has the discretion to extend the timeframe for an additional 180 days. Member share drafts with the state-chartered name can be used by the members until depleted.

Within 10 business days after commencement of operations, the recently converted federal credit union must submit to the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director the following:

- Report of Officials (NCUA 4501); and

- Financial and Statistical Reports, as of the commencement of business of the federal credit union.

Any federal credit union may apply to convert to a state credit union. In order to do so, it must:

- Notify NCUA prior to commencing the process to convert to a state charter and state the reason(s) for the conversion;

- Comply with the requirements of Section 125 of the Federal Credit Union Act that enable it to convert to a state credit union and to cease being a federal credit union; and

- Comply with applicable state law and the requirements of the state regulator.

It is important that the credit union provide an accurate disclosure of the reasons for the conversion. These reasons should be stated in specific terms, not as generalities. The federal credit union converting to a state charter remains responsible for the entire operating fee for the year in which it converts.

If the federal credit union intends to continue federal share insurance after the conversion to a state credit union, it must submit an Application for Insurance of Accounts (NCUA 9600) to the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director at the time it requests approval of the conversion proposal. The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director has the authority to approve or disapprove the application.

If the converting federal credit union does not intend to continue federal share insurance or if its application for continued insurance is denied, insurance will cease in accordance with the provisions of Section 206 of the Federal Credit Union Act.

If, upon its conversion to a state credit union, the federal credit union will be terminating its federal share insurance or converting from federal to non-federal share insurance, it must comply with the membership notice and voting procedures set forth in Section 206 of the Federal Credit Union Act and part 708 of NCUA's Rules and Regulations, and address the criteria set forth in Section 205(c) of the Federal Credit Union Act.

Where the state credit union will be non-federally insured, federal insurance ceases on the effective date of the charter conversion. If it will be otherwise uninsured, then federal insurance will cease one year after the date of conversion subject to the restrictions in Section 206(d)(1) of the Federal Credit Union Act. In either case, the state credit union will be entitled to a refund of the federal credit union's NCUSIF capitalization deposit after the final date on which any of its shares are federally insured.

The NCUA Board reserves the right to delay the refund of the capitalization deposit for up to one year if it determines that payment would jeopardize the NCUSIF.

Upon approval of a proposition for conversion by a majority vote of the board of directors at a meeting held in accordance with the federal credit union's bylaws, the conversion proposal will be submitted to the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director and will include:

- A current financial report;

- A current delinquent loan schedule;

- An explanation and appropriate documents relative to any changes in insurance of member accounts;

- A resolution of the board of directors;

- A proposed Notice of Special Meeting of the Members (NCUA 4221);

- A copy of the ballot to be sent to all members (NCUA 4506);

- If the credit union intends to continue with federal share insurance, an application for insurance of accounts (NCUA 9600);

- Evidence that the state regulator is in agreement with the conversion proposal; and

- A statement of reasons supporting the request to convert.

The proposal will be reviewed to determine that it is complete and is in compliance with Section 125 of the Federal Credit Union Act. The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director may make further investigation into the proposal and require the submission of additional information to support the request.

The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director will specify any special conditions that the credit union must meet in order to proceed with the conversion.

The proposal will be approved by the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director if it is in compliance with Section 125 and, in the case where the state credit union will no longer be federally insured, the notice and voting requirements of Section 206 of the Federal Credit Union Act.

The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director will notify both the credit union and the state regulator of the decision on the proposal.

When NCUA disapproves any application to convert to a state charter, the applicant will be informed in writing of the:

- Specific reasons for the action;

- If appropriate, options or suggestions that could be considered for gaining approval; and

- Appeal procedures.

If the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director denies a conversion to a State charter, the Federal credit union may appeal that decision to the NCUA Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart B to part 746 of this chapter.

Before appealing, the credit union may, within 30 days of the denial, provide supplemental information to the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director for reconsideration. The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director will have 30 business days from the date of the receipt of the request for reconsideration to make a final decision. If the application is again denied, the credit union may proceed with the appeal process to the NCUA Board within 60 days of the date of the last denial by the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director.

The members may not vote on the proposal until it is approved by the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director. Once approval of the proposal is received, the following actions will be taken by the board of directors:

- The proposal must be submitted to the members for approval and a date set for a meeting to vote on the proposal. The proposal may be acted on at the annual meeting or at a special meeting for that purpose. The members must also be given the opportunity to vote by written ballot to be filed by the date set for the meeting.

- Members must be given advance notice (NCUA 4221) of the meeting at which the proposal is to be submitted. The notice must:

- Specify the purpose, time and place of the meeting;

- Include a brief, complete, and accurate statement of the reasons for and against the proposed conversion, including any effects it could have upon share holdings, insurance of member accounts, and the policies and practices of the credit union;
