
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 701 - ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix B to Part 701 - Chartering and Field of Membership Manual
###### http://www.consumerfinance.gov/guidance/#ruralunderserved,).

As one alternative to the concentration of facilities ratio, a proposed area will qualify as "underserved by other depository institutions" if it is designated an "underserved county" by NCUA based on data produced by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (available at:NCUA will make its list of "underserved counties" available on its Web site.

As another alternative to the concentration of facilities ratio, a proposed area will qualify as "underserved by other depository institutions" if the credit seeking to serve it, using a metric of its own choosing, provided that it is based on NCUA or other Federal banking agency data, that establishes to NCUA that the proposed area is "underserved by other depository institutions."

If NCUA approves the request to add an "underserved area," the credit union will be issued an amendment to Section 5 of its charter.

Once a credit union is initially approved to serve an "underserved area," other credit unions that subsequently apply may be approved to serve the same area. To be approved, the area must qualify as "underserved" at the time the new applicant applies. An applicant must demonstrate that the area continues to be "distressed", as provided above, only if a new decennial Census has been published since the date the area was last approved. In any case, the applicant must demonstrate that the area still has "significant unmet needs" for loans or credit union services (to qualify as an "investment area"), and remains "underserved by other depository institutions" (to qualify as "underserved").

A federal credit union that desires to include an underserved community in its field of membership must first develop, and submit for approval, a business plan specifying how it will serve the community. In addition, the business plan must include a SUN section as provided in section III.B.2.b. above. The credit union will be expected to regularly review the business plan to determine if the community is being adequately served. The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director may require periodic service status reports from a credit union about the "underserved area" to ensure that the needs of the community are being met, and must require such reports before NCUA allows a multiple common bond federal credit union to add an additional "underserved area."

Once an "underserved area" has been added to a federal credit union's field of membership, the credit union must establish within two years, and maintain, an office or service facility in the community. A service facility is defined as a place where shares are accepted for members' accounts, loan applications are accepted and loans are disbursed. By definition, a service facility includes a credit union-owned branch, a shared branch, a mobile branch, an office operated on a regularly scheduled weekly basis, or a credit union-owned electronic facility that meets, at a minimum, the above requirements. A service facility also includes a shared branch or a shared branch network location, including an electronic facility that meets the above requirements, if a credit union participates in a shared branching network.

This definition does not include an ATM or the credit union's internet website.

When NCUA disapproves any application to add an "underserved area" in whole or in part, under this chapter, the applicant will be informed in writing of the:

- Specific reasons for the action;

- Options to consider, if appropriate, for gaining approval; and

- Appeal procedures.

If the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director denies an "underserved area" request, the Federal credit union may appeal that decision to the NCUA Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart B to part 746 of this chapter.

Before appealing, the credit union may, within 30 days of the denial, provide supplemental information to the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director for reconsideration. A request for reconsideration should contain new and material evidence addressing the reasons for the initial denial or explain extenuating circumstances that precluded the inclusion of existing material evidence or information that should have been filed with the request for reconsideration. The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director will have 30 days from the date of the receipt of the request for reconsideration to make a final decision. If the request is again denied, the applicant may proceed with the appeal process within 60 days of the date of the last denial. A petitioner may seek a second reconsideration based on new material evidence or information or extenuating circumstances that precluded the inclusion of such information in the previous request.

A charter conversion is a change in the jurisdictional authority under which a credit union operates.

Federal credit unions receive their charters from NCUA and are subject to its supervision, examination, and regulation.

State-chartered credit unions are incorporated in a particular state, receiving their charter from the state agency responsible for credit unions and subject to the state's regulator. If the state-chartered credit union's deposits are federally insured, it will also fall under NCUA's jurisdiction.

A federal credit union's power and authority are derived from the Federal Credit Union Act and NCUA Rules and Regulations. State-chartered credit unions are governed by state law and regulation. Certain federal laws and regulations also apply to federally insured state chartered credit unions.

There are two types of charter conversions: federal charter to state charter and state charter to federal charter. Common bond and community requirements are not an issue from NCUA's standpoint in the case of a federal to state charter conversion. The procedures and forms relevant to both types of charter conversion are included in appendix 4.

Any state-chartered credit union may apply to convert to a federal credit union. In order to do so it must:

- Comply with state law regarding conversion and file proof of compliance with NCUA;

- File the required conversion application, proposed federal credit union organization certificate, and other documents with NCUA;
