
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 701 - ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix B to Part 701 - Chartering and Field of Membership Manual
###### i.e.,

- Specify the costs of the conversion,changing the credit union's name, examination and operating fees, attorney and consulting fees, tax liability, etc.;

- Inform the members that they have the right to vote on the proposal at the meeting, or by written ballot to be filed not later than the date and time announced for the annual meeting, or at the special meeting called for that purpose;

- Be accompanied by a Federal to State Conversion-Ballot for Conversion Proposal (NCUA 4506); and

- State inface type that the issue will be decided by a majority of members who vote.

- The proposed conversion must be approved by a majority of all of the members who vote on the proposal, a quorum being present, in order for the credit union to proceed further with the proposition, provided federal insurance is maintained. If the proposed state-chartered credit union will not be federally insured, 20 percent of the total membership must participate in the voting, and of those, a majority must vote in favor of the proposal. Ballots cast by members who did not attend the meeting but who submitted their ballots in accordance with instructions above will be counted with votes cast at the meeting. In order to have a suitable record of the vote, the voting at the meeting should be by written ballot as well.

- The board of directors shall, within 10 days, certify the results of the membership vote to the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director. The statement shall be verified by affidavits of the Chief Executive Officer and the Recording Officer on NCUA 4505.

If the proposal for conversion is approved by a majority of all members who voted, the board of directors will:

- Ensure that all requirements of state law and the state regulator have been accommodated;

- Ensure that the state charter or the license has been received within 90 days from the date the members approved the proposal to convert; and

- Ensure that the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director is kept informed as to progress toward conversion and of any material delay or of substantial difficulties which may be encountered.

If the conversion cannot be completed within the 90-day period, the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director should be informed of the reasons for the delay. The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director may set a new date for the conversion to be completed.

In order for the conversion to be completed, the following steps are necessary:

- The board of directors will submit a copy of the state charter to the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director within 10 days of its receipt. This will be accompanied by the federal charter and the federal insurance certificate. A copy of the financial reports as of the preceding month-end should be submitted at this time.

- The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director will notify the credit union and the state regulator in writing of the receipt of evidence that the credit union has been authorized to operate as a state credit union.

- The credit union shall cease to be a federal credit union as of the effective date of the state charter.

- If the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director finds a material deviation from the provisions that would invalidate any steps taken in the conversion, the credit union and the state regulator shall be promptly notified in writing. This notice may be either before or after the copy of the state charter is filed with the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director. The notice will inform the credit union as to the nature of the adverse findings. The conversion will not be effective and completed until the improper actions and steps have been corrected.

- Upon ceasing to be a federal credit union, the credit union shall no longer be subject to any of the provisions of the Federal Credit Union Act, except as may apply if federal share insurance coverage is continued. The successor state credit union shall be immediately vested with all of the assets and shall continue to be responsible for all of the obligations of the federal credit union to the same extent as though the conversion had not taken place. Operation of the credit union from this point will be in accordance with the requirements of state law and the state regulator.

- If the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director is satisfied that the conversion has been accomplished in accordance with the approved proposal, the federal charter will be canceled.

- There is no federal requirement for closing the records of the federal credit union at the time of conversion or for the manner in which the records shall be maintained thereafter. The converting credit union is advised to contact the state regulator for applicable state requirements.

- The credit union shall neither use the words "Federal Credit Union" in its name nor represent itself in any manner as being a federal credit union.

- Changing of the credit union's name on all signage, records, accounts, investments, and other documents should be accomplished as soon as possible after conversion. Unless it violates state law, the credit union has 180 days from the effective date of the conversion to change its signage and promotional material. This requires the credit union to discontinue using any remaining stock of "federal credit union" stationery immediately, and discontinue using credit cards, ATM cards, etc., within 180 days after the effective date of the conversion, or the reissue date, whichever is later. The Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director has the discretion to extend the timeframe for an additional 180 days. Member share drafts with the federal chartered name can be used by the members until depleted. If the state credit union is not federally insured, it must change its name and must immediately cease using any credit union documents referencing federal insurance.

- If the state credit union is to be federally insured, the Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion Director will issue a new insurance certificate.

These definitions apply only for use with this Manual. Definitions are not intended to be all inclusive or comprehensive. This Manual, the Federal Credit Union Act, and NCUA Rules and Regulations, as well as state laws, may be used for further reference.
