
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 702 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY
##### Subpart A - Prompt Corrective Action
###### ยง 702.104 Risk-based capital ratio.
####### Risk weights for off-balance sheet items.

(4)The risk weighted amounts for all off-balance sheet items are determined by multiplying the off-balance sheet exposure amount by the appropriate CCF and the assigned risk weight as follows:

(i) For the outstanding balance of loans transferred to a Federal Home Loan Bank under the mortgage partnership finance program, a 20 percent CCF and a 50 percent risk weight.

(ii) For other loans transferred with limited recourse, a 100 percent CCF applied to the off-balance sheet exposure and:

(A) For commercial loans, a 100 percent risk weight.

(B) For first-lien residential real estate loans, a 50 percent risk weight.

(C) For junior-lien residential real estate loans, a 100 percent risk weight.

(D) For all secured consumer loans, a 75 percent risk weight.

(E) For all unsecured consumer loans, a 100 percent risk weight.

(iii) For unfunded commitments:

(A) For a commitment that is unconditionally cancelable, a 0 percent CCF.

(B) For commercial loans, a 50 percent CCF with a 100 percent risk weight.

(C) For first-lien residential real estate loans, a 10 percent CCF with a 50 percent risk weight.

(D) For junior-lien residential real estate loans, a 10 percent CCF with a 100 percent risk weight.

(E) For all secured consumer loans, a 10 percent CCF with a 75 percent risk weight.

(F) For all unsecured consumer loans, a 10 percent CCF with a 100 percent risk weight.

(iv) For financial standby letter of credits, a 100 percent CCF and a 100 percent risk weight.

(v) For forward agreements that are not derivative contracts, a 100 percent CCF and a 100 percent risk weight.

(vi) For sold credit protection through guarantees and credit derivatives, a 100 percent CCF and a 100 percent risk weight for guarantees; for credit derivatives the risk weight is determined by the applicable provisions of 12 CFR 324.34 or 324.35.

(vii) For off-balance sheet securitization exposures, a 100 percent CCF, and the risk weight is determined as if the exposure is an on-balance sheet securitization exposure.

(viii) For securities borrowing or lending transactions, a 100 percent CCF and a 100 percent risk weight. A credit union may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral, as defined under 12 CFR 324.2, by risk weighting the collateralized portion of the exposure under the applicable provisions of 12 CFR 324.35 or 324.37.

(ix) For the off-balance sheet portion of repurchase transactions, a 100 percent CCF and a 100 percent risk weight. A credit union may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral, as defined by 12 CFR 324.2, by risk weighting the collateralized portion of the exposure under the applicable provisions of 12 CFR 324.35 or 324.37.

(x) For all other off-balance sheet exposures not explicitly provided a CCF or risk weight in this paragraph (c) that meet the definition of a commitment, a 100 percent CCF and a 100 percent risk weight.
