
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 702 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY
##### Subpart A - Prompt Corrective Action
###### ยง 702.104 Risk-based capital ratio.
####### Treatment when ceasing to meet the qualifying complex credit union requirements.

(7)(i) If a qualifying complex credit union that has opted into the CCULR framework ceases to meet the qualifying criteria in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the credit union has two calendar quarters (grace period) either to satisfy the requirements to be a qualifying complex credit union or to calculate its risk-based capital ratio under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

(ii) The grace period begins at the end of the calendar quarter in which the credit union no longer satisfies the criteria to be a qualifying complex credit union. The grace period ends on the last day of the second consecutive calendar quarter following the beginning of the grace period.

(iii) During the grace period, the credit union continues to be treated as a qualifying complex credit union for the purpose of this part and must continue calculating and reporting its CCULR, unless the qualifying complex credit union has opted out of using the CCULR framework under paragraph (d)(6) of this section. The qualifying complex credit union also continues to be considered to have met the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category under ยง 702.102(a)(1). However, if the qualifying complex credit union has a CCULR of less than seven percent, it will not be considered to have met the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category under ยง 702.102(a)(1) and its capital classification is determined by its net worth ratio.

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) A qualifying complex credit union that ceases to meet the qualifying criteria in paragraph (d)(2) of this section as a result of a merger or acquisition that is not a supervisory merger or combination has no grace period and must comply with the risk-based capital ratio under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section in the quarter it ceases to be a qualifying complex credit union.
