
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 702 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY
##### Subpart A - Prompt Corrective Action
###### ยง 702.105 Derivative contracts.
####### Collateral haircut approach.

(4)(i) A credit union may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral that secures a collateralized derivative contract by using the standard supervisory haircuts in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(ii) The collateral haircut approach applies to both OTC and cleared interest rate derivatives contracts discussed in this section.

(iii) A credit union must determine the exposure amount for a collateralized derivative contracts by setting the exposure amount equal to the max {0,[(exposure amount - value of collateral) + (sum of current fair value of collateral instruments * market price volatility haircut of the collateral instruments)]}, where:

(A) The value of the exposure equals the exposure amount for OTC interest rate derivative contracts (or netting set) calculated under paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(B) The value of the exposure equals the exposure amount for cleared interest rate derivative contracts (or netting set) calculated under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(C) The value of the collateral is the sum of cash and all instruments under the transaction (or netting set).

(D) The sum of current fair value of collateral instruments as of the measurement date.

(E) A credit union must use the standard supervisory haircuts for market price volatility in Table 2 to this section.
