
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 702 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY
##### Subpart C - Capital Planning and Stress Testing
###### ยง 702.304 Capital planning.
####### Annual capital planning.

(a)(1) A covered credit union must develop and maintain a capital plan. Tier I and tier II credit unions must complete this plan and their capital policy by December 31 each year, but are not required to submit this plan to the NCUA. For tier I and tier II credit unions, the plan must be based on the credit union's financial data from either of the two calendar quarters preceding the quarter in which the plan is approved by the credit union's board of directors (or a designated committee of the board). A tier III credit union must submit this plan and its capital policy to NCUA by May 31 each year, or such later date as directed by NCUA. For tier III credit unions, the plan must be based on the credit union's financial data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, or such other date as directed by NCUA.

(2) A covered credit union's board of directors (or a designated committee of the board) must at least annually, and for tier III credit unions, prior to the submission of the capital plan under paragraph (a)(1) of this section:

(i) Review the credit union's process for assessing capital adequacy;

(ii) Ensure that any deficiencies in the credit union's process for assessing capital adequacy are appropriately remedied; and

(iii) Approve the credit union's capital plan.
