
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 702 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY
##### Subpart D - Subordinated Debt, Grandfathered Secondary Capital, and Regulatory Capital
###### ยง 702.408 Preapproval to issue Subordinated Debt.
####### Filing requirements and inspection of documents.,http://www.NCUA.gov,

(l)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, all initial applications, Offering Documents, amendments, notices, or other documents must be filed with the NCUA electronically. The NCUA will publish on its website,the web address for electronic filings. Documents may be signed electronically using the signature provision in 17 CFR 230.402 (Rule 402 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended).

(2) Provided the Issuing Credit Union filing the document has complied with all requirements regarding the filing in this section, the date of filing of the document is the date the NCUA receives the filing. An electronic filing that is submitted on a business day by direct transmission commencing on or before 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard or Daylight Savings Time, whichever is then currently in effect, would be deemed received by the NCUA on the same business day. An electronic filing that is submitted by direct transmission commencing after 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard or Daylight Savings Time, whichever is then currently in effect, or on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, would be deemed received by the NCUA on the next business day. If an electronic filer in good faith attempts to file a document with the NCUA in a timely manner, but the filing is delayed due to technical difficulties beyond the electronic filer's control, the electronic filer may request that the NCUA adjust the filing date of such document. The NCUA may grant the request if it appears that such adjustment is appropriate and consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.

(3) If an Issuing Credit Union experiences unanticipated technical difficulties preventing the timely preparation and submission of an electronic filing, the Issuing Credit Union may, upon notice to the Appropriate Supervision Office, file the subject filing in paper format no later than one business day after the date on which the filing was to be made.

(4) Any filing of amendments or supplements to an Offering Document must include two copies, one of which must be marked to indicate clearly and precisely, by underlining or in some other conspicuous manner, the changes made from the previously filed Offering Document.
