
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 703 - INVESTMENT AND DEPOSIT ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart A - General Investment and Deposit Activities
###### ยง 703.5 Discretionary control over investments and investment advisers.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a Federal credit union must retain discretionary control over its purchase and sale of investments. A Federal credit union has not delegated discretionary control to an investment adviser when the Federal credit union reviews all recommendations from investment advisers and is required to authorize a recommended purchase or sale transaction before its execution.

(b)(1) A Federal credit union may delegate discretionary control over the purchase and sale of investments to a person other than a Federal credit union official or employee:

(i) Provided the person is an investment adviser registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b); and

(ii) In an amount up to 100 percent of its net worth in the aggregate at the time of delegation.

(2) At least annually, the Federal credit union must adjust the amount of funds held under discretionary control to comply with the 100 percent of net worth cap. The Federal credit union's board of directors must receive notice as soon as possible, but no later than the next regularly scheduled board meeting, of the amount exceeding the net worth cap and notify in writing the appropriate regional director within 5 days after the board meeting. The credit union must develop a plan to comply with the cap within a reasonable period of time.

(3) Before transacting business with an investment adviser, a Federal credit union must analyze his or her background and information available from State or Federal securities regulators, including any enforcement actions against the adviser, associated personnel, and the firm for which the adviser works.

(c) A Federal credit union may not compensate an investment adviser with discretionary control over the purchase and sale of investments on a per transaction basis or based on capital gains, capital appreciation, net income, performance relative to an index, or any other incentive basis.

(d) A Federal credit union must obtain a report from its investment adviser at least monthly that details the investments under the adviser's control and their performance.
