
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### ยง 704.3 Corporate credit union capital.
###### Capital requirements.

(a)(1) A corporate credit union must maintain at all times:

(i) A leverage ratio of 4.0 percent or greater;

(ii) A Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.0 percent or greater; and

(iii) A total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0 percent or greater.

(2) To ensure it meets its capital requirements, a corporate credit union must develop and ensure implementation of written short- and long-term capital goals, objectives, and strategies which provide for the building of capital consistent with regulatory requirements, the maintenance of sufficient capital to support the risk exposures that may arise from current and projected activities, and the periodic review and reassessment of the capital position of the corporate credit union.

(3) Beginning with the first call report submitted on or after October 21, 2013, a corporate credit union must calculate and report to NCUA the ratio of its retained earnings to its moving daily average net assets. If this ratio is less than 0.45 percent, the corporate credit union must, within 30 days, submit a retained earnings accumulation plan to the NCUA for NCUA's approval. The plan must contain a detailed explanation of how the corporate credit union will accumulate earnings sufficient to meet all its future minimum leverage ratio requirements, including specific semiannual milestones for accumulating retained earnings. In the case of a state-chartered corporate credit union, the NCUA will consult with the appropriate state supervisory authority (SSA) before making a determination to approve or disapprove the plan, and will provide the SSA a copy of the completed plan. If the corporate credit union fails to submit a plan acceptable to NCUA, or fails to comply with any element of a plan approved by NCUA, the corporate will immediately be classified as significantly undercapitalized or, if already significantly undercapitalized, as critically undercapitalized for purposes of prompt corrective actions. The corporate credit union will be subject to all the associated actions under ยง 704.4.
