
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### ยง 704.3 Corporate credit union capital.
###### Former capital accounts.

(f)This paragraph addresses membership capital accounts (MCAs) that qualified as corporate capital prior to October 20, 2011 but which no longer satisfy the definitions of capital because the accounts have not been converted by the member to nonperpetual capital accounts (NCAs) or to perpetual contributed capital (PCC).

(1) For MCAs structured as adjustable balance accounts, the corporate will immediately place the account on notice of withdrawal if the member has not already done so. The corporate will continue to adjust the balance of the MCA account in accordance with the original terms of the account until the entire notice period has run and then return the remaining balance, less any losses, to the member. Until the expiration of the notice period the entire adjusted balance will be available to cover losses at the corporate credit union that exceed retained earnings and PCC (excluding, if a corporate credit union exercises the capital prioritization option under Part I of appendix A to this part, any PCC with priority under that option).

(2) For term MCAs, the corporate credit union will return the balance of the MCA account to the member at the expiration of the term. Until the expiration of term, the entire account balance will be available to cover losses that exceed retained earnings and PCC (excluding, if a corporate credit union exercises the capital prioritization option under part I of appendix A to this part, any PCC with priority under that option).

(3) A corporate credit union may count a portion of unconverted MCAs as Tier 2 capital. Beginning on the date of issuance (for term MCAs) or the date of notice of withdrawal (for other MCAs), the corporate may count the entire account balance as Tier 2 capital, but will then reduce the amount of the account that can be considered as Tier 2 capital by a constant monthly amortization that ensures the capital is fully amortized one year before the date of maturity or one year before the end of the notice period. For adjustable balance account MCAs where the adjustment is determined based on some impermanent measure, such as shares on deposit with the corporate, the corporate credit union may not treat any part of the account as capital.
