
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### ยง 704.3 Corporate credit union capital.
###### Reservation of authority.

(3)(i) Notwithstanding the definitions of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital in paragraph (d) of this section, NCUA may find that a particular asset or Tier 1 capital or Tier 2 capital component has characteristics or terms that diminish its contribution to a corporate credit union's ability to absorb losses, and NCUA may require the discounting or deduction of such asset or component from the computation of Tier 1 capital, Tier 2 capital, or total capital.

(ii) Notwithstanding appendix C to this part, the NCUA will look to the substance of a transaction and may find that the assigned risk-weight for any asset, or credit equivalent amount or credit conversion factor for any off-balance sheet item does not appropriately reflect the risks imposed on the corporate credit union. The NCUA may require the corporate credit union to apply another risk-weight, credit equivalent amount, or credit conversion factor that NCUA deems appropriate.

(iii) If appendix C to this part does not specifically assign a risk-weight, credit equivalent amount, or credit conversion factor to a particular asset or activity of the corporate credit union, the NCUA may assign any risk-weight, credit equivalent amount, or credit conversion factor that it deems appropriate. In making this determination, NCUA will consider the risks associated with the asset or off-balance sheet item as well as other relevant factors.

(4) Where practicable, the NCUA will consult with the appropriate state regulator before taking any action under this paragraph (e) that involves a state chartered corporate credit union.

(5) Before taking any action under this paragraph (e), NCUA will provide the corporate credit union with written notice of the intended action and the reasons for such action. The corporate credit union will have seven days to provide the NCUA with a written response, and the NCUA will consider the response before taking the action. Upon the timely request of the corporate credit union, and for good cause, NCUA may extend the seven day response period.
