
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### ยง 704.4 Prompt corrective action.
###### Notice of capital category.

(c)(1) Effective date of determination of capital category. A corporate credit union will be deemed to be within a given capital category as of the most recent date:

(i) A 5310 Financial Report is required to be filed with the NCUA;

(ii) A final NCUA report of examination is delivered to the corporate credit union; or

(iii) Written notice is provided by the NCUA to the corporate credit union that its capital category has changed as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) or (d)(3) of this section.

(2) Adjustments to reported capital levels and category-

(i) Notice of adjustment by corporate credit union. A corporate credit union must provide the NCUA with written notice that an adjustment to the corporate credit union's capital category may have occurred no later than 15 calendar days following the date that any material event has occurred that would cause the corporate credit union to be placed in a lower capital category from the category assigned to the corporate credit union for purposes of this section on the basis of the corporate credit union's most recent call report or report of examination.

(ii) Determination by the NCUA to change capital category. After receiving notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, or on its own initiative, the NCUA will determine whether to change the capital category of the corporate credit union and will notify the corporate credit union of the NCUA's determination.
