
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### ยง 704.4 Prompt corrective action.
###### Mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions,Mandatory supervisory actions,Provisions applicable to all corporate credit unions.

(f)-(1)- (i)All corporate credit unions are subject to the restrictions contained in paragraph (k)(1) of this section on capital distributions.

(ii) Provisions applicable to undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized corporate credit unions. Immediately upon receiving notice or being deemed to have notice, as provided in paragraph (c) or (e) of this section, that the corporate credit union is undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized, the corporate credit union will be subject to the following provisions of paragraph (k) of this section:

(A) Restricting capital distributions (paragraph (k)(1));

(B) NCUA monitoring of the condition of the corporate credit union (paragraph (k)(2)(i));

(C) Requiring submission of a capital restoration plan (paragraph (k)(2)(ii));

(D) Restricting the growth of the corporate credit union's assets (paragraph (k)(2)(iii)); and

(E) Requiring prior approval of certain expansion proposals (paragraph (k)(2)(iv)).

(iii) Additional provisions applicable to significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized corporate credit unions. In addition to the mandatory requirements described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, immediately upon receiving notice or being deemed to have notice that the corporate credit union is significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized, or that the corporate credit union is subject to the provisions applicable to corporate credit unions that are significantly undercapitalized because the credit union failed to submit or implement in any material respect an acceptable capital restoration plan, the corporate credit union will become subject to the provisions of paragraph (k)(3)(iii) of this section that restrict compensation paid to senior executive officers of the institution.

(iv) Additional provisions applicable to critically undercapitalized corporate credit unions. In addition to the provisions described in paragraphs (f)(1)(ii) and (f)(1)(iii) of this section, immediately upon receiving notice or being deemed to have notice that the corporate credit union is critically undercapitalized, the corporate credit union will become subject to these additional provisions of paragraph (k) of this section:

(A) Restricting the activities of the corporate credit union ((k)(5)(i)); and

(B) Restricting payments on subordinated debt of the corporate credit union ((k)(5)(ii)).
