
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### ยง 704.4 Prompt corrective action.
###### Contents of plan.

(ii)Any plan required under paragraph (k)(4)(i) of this section will specify the steps that the corporate credit union will take to correct the unsafe or unsound condition or practice. Capital restoration plans, however, will not be required under paragraph (k)(4)(i)(B) of this section.

(5) Provisions applicable to critically undercapitalized corporate credit unions.

(i) Activities restricted. Any critically undercapitalized corporate credit union must comply with restrictions prescribed by the NCUA under paragraph (k)(6) of this section.

(ii) Payments on contributed capital and subordinated debt prohibited. A critically undercapitalized corporate credit union must not, beginning no later than 60 days after becoming critically undercapitalized, make any payment of dividends on contributed capital or any payment of principal or interest on the corporate credit union's subordinated debt unless the NCUA determines that an exception would further the purpose of this section. Interest, although not payable, may continue to accrue under the terms of any subordinated debt to the extent otherwise permitted by law. Dividends on contributed capital do not, however, continue to accrue.

(iii) Conservatorship, liquidation, or other action. The NCUA may, at any time, conserve or liquidate any critically undercapitalized corporate credit union or require the credit union to combine, in whole or part, with another institution. NCUA will consider, not later than 90 days after a corporate credit union becomes critically undercapitalized, whether NCUA should liquidate, conserve, or combine the institution.

(6) Restricting activities of critically undercapitalized corporate credit unions. To carry out the purpose of this section, the NCUA will, by order-

(i) Restrict the activities of any critically undercapitalized corporate credit union; and

(ii) At a minimum, prohibit any such corporate credit union from doing any of the following without the NCUA's prior written approval:

(A) Entering into any material transaction other than in the usual course of business, including any investment, expansion, acquisition, sale of assets, or other similar action.

(B) Extending credit for any transaction NCUA determines to be highly leveraged.

(C) Amending the corporate credit union's charter or bylaws, except to the extent necessary to carry out any other requirement of any law, regulation, or order.

(D) Making any material change in accounting methods.

(E) Paying compensation or bonuses NCUA determines to be excessive.

(F) Paying interest on new or renewed liabilities at a rate that would increase the corporate credit union's weighted average cost of funds to a level significantly exceeding the prevailing rates of interest on insured deposits in the corporate credit union's normal market areas.
