
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### ยง 704.6 Credit risk management.
###### Sector concentration limits.

(d)(1) A corporate credit union must establish sector limits based on the value recorded on the books of the corporate credit union that do not exceed the following maximums:

(i) Mortgage-backed securities (inclusive of commercial mortgage-backed securities)-the lower of 1000 percent of total capital or 50 percent of assets;

(ii) Commercial mortgage-backed securities-the lower of 300 percent of total capital or 15 percent of assets;

(iii) Federal Family Education Loan Program student loan asset-backed securities-the lower of 1000 percent of total capital or 50 percent of assets;

(iv) Private student loan asset-backed securities-the lower of 500 percent of total capital or 25 percent of assets;

(v) Auto loan/lease asset-backed securities-the lower of 500 percent of total capital or 25 percent of assets;

(vi) Credit card asset-backed securities-the lower of 500 percent of total capital or 25 percent of assets;

(vii) Other asset-backed securities not listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) through (vi) of this section-the lower of 500 percent of total capital or 25 percent of assets;

(viii) Corporate debt obligations-the lower of 1000 percent of total capital or 50 percent of assets; and

(ix) Municipal securities-the lower of 1000 percent of total capital or 50 percent of assets.

(2) Registered investment companies-A corporate credit union must limit its investment in registered investment companies to the lower of 1000 percent of total capital or 50 percent of assets. In addition to applying the limit in this paragraph, a corporate credit union must also include the underlying assets in each registered investment company in the relevant sectors described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section when calculating those sector limits.

(3) A corporate credit union must limit its aggregate holdings in any investments not described in paragraphs (d)(1) or (2) of this section to the lower of 100 percent of total capital or 5 percent of assets. The NCUA may approve a higher percentage in appropriate cases.

(4) Investments in other federally insured credit unions, deposits and federal funds investments in other federally insured depository institutions, and investment repurchase agreements are excluded from the concentration limits in paragraphs (d)(1), (2), and (3) of this section.
