
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### ยง 704.14 Representation.
###### Recusal provision.

(d)(1) No director, committee member, officer, or employee of a corporate credit union shall in any manner, directly or indirectly, participate in the deliberation upon or the determination of any question affecting his or her pecuniary interest or the pecuniary interest of any entity (other than the corporate credit union) in which he or she is interested, except if the matter involves general policy applicable to all members, such as setting dividend or loan rates or fees for services.

(2) An individual is "interested" in an entity if he or she:

(i) Serves as a director, officer, or employee of the entity;

(ii) Has a business, ownership, or deposit relationship with the entity; or

(iii) Has a business, financial, or familial relationship with an individual whom he or she knows has a pecuniary interest in the entity.

(3) In the event of the disqualification of any directors, by operation of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the remaining qualified directors present at the meeting, if constituting a quorum with the disqualified directors, may exercise, by majority vote, all the powers of the board with respect to the matter under consideration. Where all of the directors are disqualified, the matter must be decided by the members of the corporate credit union.

(4) In the event of the disqualification of any committee member by operation of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the remaining qualified committee members, if constituting a quorum with the disqualified committee members, may exercise, by majority vote, all the powers of the committee with respect to the matter under consideration. Where all of the committee members are disqualified, the matter shall be decided by the board of directors.
