
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 704 - Capital Prioritization and Model Forms
###### pro rata

(5) Nonperpetual capital is available to cover losses that exceed retained earnings and perpetual contributed capital. Any such losses will be distributedamong nonperpetual capital account holders at the time the loss is realized. To the extent that NCA funds are used to cover losses, the corporate credit union is prohibited from restoring or replenishing the affected accounts under any circumstances.

(6) Where the corporate credit union is liquidated, nonperpetual capital accounts are payable only after satisfaction of all liabilities of the liquidation estate including uninsured obligations to shareholders and the NCUSIF. However, nonperpetual capital that is used to cover losses in a calendar year previous to the year of liquidation has no claim against the liquidation estate.

(7) Where the corporate credit union is merged into another corporate credit union, the nonperpetual capital account will transfer to the continuing corporate credit union. For notice accounts, the five-year notice period for withdrawal of the nonperpetual capital account will remain in effect. For term accounts, the original term will remain in effect.

(8) If a term certificate-: The nonperpetual capital account is a term certificate that will mature on-(date)-(insert date with a minimum five-year original maturity).

I have read the above terms and conditions and I understand them.

I further agree to maintain in the credit union's files the annual notice of terms and conditions of the nonperpetual capital account.

The notice form must be signed by either all of the directors of the member credit union or, if authorized by board resolution, the chair and secretary of the board of the credit union.

The annual disclosure notice form must be signed by the chair of the corporate credit union. The chair must then sign a statement that certifies that the notice has been sent to member credit unions with nonperpetual capital accounts. The certification must be maintained in the corporate credit union's files and be available for examiner review.

(1) A nonperpetual capital account is not subject to share insurance coverage by the NCUSIF or other deposit insurer.

(2) A nonperpetual capital account is not releasable due solely to the merger, charter conversion or liquidation of the member credit union. In the event of a merger, the nonperpetual capital account transfers to the continuing credit union. In the event of a charter conversion, the nonperpetual capital account transfers to the new institution. In the event of liquidation, the nonperpetual capital account may be released to facilitate the payout of shares with the prior written approval of NCUA.

(3) If the nonperpetual capital account is a notice account, a member credit union may withdraw the nonperpetual capital with a minimum of five years' notice. If the nonperpetual capital account is a term instrument it may be redeemed only at maturity. The corporate credit union may not redeem any account prior to the expiration of the notice period, or maturity, without the prior written approval of the NCUA.

(4) Nonperpetual capital cannot be used to pledge borrowings.
