
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 704 - Capital Prioritization and Model Forms

Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, a corporate credit union, at its option, may determine that capital contributed to the corporate credit union on or after January 18, 2011 will have priority, for purposes of availability to absorb losses and payout in liquidation, over capital contributed to the corporate credit union before that date. The board of directors at a corporate credit union that desires to make this determination must:

(a) On or before January 18, 2011, adopt a resolution implementing its determination.

(b) Inform the credit union's members and NCUA, in writing and as soon as practicable after adoption of the resolution, of the contents of the board resolution.

(c) Ensure the credit union uses the appropriate initial and periodic Model Form disclosures in Part II below.

Part II contains model forms intended for use by corporate credit unions to aid in compliance with the capital disclosure requirements of ยง 704.3 and Part I of this Appendix.

(1) A nonperpetual capital account is not subject to share insurance coverage by the NCUSIF or other deposit insurer.

(2) A nonperpetual capital account is not releasable due solely to the merger, charter conversion or liquidation of the member credit union. In the event of a merger, the nonperpetual capital account transfers to the continuing credit union. In the event of a charter conversion, the nonperpetual capital account transfers to the new institution. In the event of liquidation, the nonperpetual capital account may be released to facilitate the payout of shares with the prior written approval of NCUA.

(3) If the nonperpetual capital account is a notice account, a member credit union may withdraw the nonperpetual capital with a minimum of five years' notice. If the nonperpetual capital account is a term instrument it may be redeemed only at maturity. The corporate credit union may not redeem any account prior to the expiration of the notice period, or maturity, without the prior written approval of the NCUA.

(4) Nonperpetual capital cannot be used to pledge borrowings.
