
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 704 - Capital Prioritization and Model Forms
###### pro rata,

(b) Perpetual contributed capital issued on or after January 18, 2011 is available to cover losses that exceed retained earnings and any contributed capital issued before January 18, 2011. Any such losses must be distributedat the time the loss is realized, among holders of perpetual contributed capital issued on or after January 18, 2011. To the extent that perpetual contributed capital funds are used to cover losses, the corporate credit union is prohibited from restoring or replenishing the affected accounts under any circumstances.

(c) Attached to this disclosure is a statement that describes the amount of perpetual capital the credit union has with the corporate credit union in each of the categories described in paragraphs (6)(a) and (6)(b) above.

(7) Where the corporate credit union is liquidated:

(a) Perpetual contributed capital accounts issued on or after January 18, 2011 are payable only after satisfaction of all liabilities of the liquidation estate including uninsured obligations to shareholders and the NCUSIF, but not including contributed capital accounts issued before January 18, 2011. However, perpetual contributed capital that is used to cover losses in a calendar year previous to the year of liquidation has no claim against the liquidation estate.

(b) Perpetual contributed capital accounts issued before January 18, 2011 are payable only after satisfaction of all liabilities of the liquidation estate including uninsured obligations to shareholders and the NCUSIF, nonperpetual capital accounts issued before January 18, 2011, and all contributed capital accounts issued on or after January 18, 2011. However, perpetual contributed capital that is used to cover losses in a calendar year previous to the year of liquidation has no claim against the liquidation estate.

I have read the above terms and conditions and I understand them. I further agree to maintain in the credit union's files the annual notice of terms and conditions of the perpetual contributed capital instrument.

The notice form must be signed by either all of the directors of the credit union or, if authorized by board resolution, the chair and secretary of the board of the credit union.
