
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 704 - Capital Prioritization and Model Forms
###### pro rata

(6) Perpetual contributed capital is available to cover losses that exceed retained earnings. Any such losses must be distributedamong perpetual contributed capital holders at the time the loss is realized. To the extent that perpetual contributed capital funds are used to cover losses, the corporate credit union is prohibited from restoring or replenishing the affected accounts under any circumstances.

(7) Where the corporate credit union is liquidated, perpetual contributed capital accounts are payable only after satisfaction of all liabilities of the liquidation estate including uninsured obligations to shareholders and the NCUSIF, and nonperpetual capital holders. However, perpetual contributed capital that is used to cover losses in a calendar year previous to the year of liquidation has no claim against the liquidation estate.

I have read the above terms and conditions and I understand them. I further agree to maintain in the credit union's files the annual notice of terms and conditions of the perpetual contributed capital instrument.

The notice form must be signed by either all of the directors of the credit union or, if authorized by board resolution, the chair and secretary of the board of the credit union.

(1) A perpetual contributed capital account is not subject to share insurance coverage by the NCUSIF or other deposit insurer.

(2) A perpetual contributed capital account is not releasable due solely to the merger, charter conversion or liquidation of the member credit union. In the event of a merger, the perpetual contributed capital account transfers to the continuing credit union. In the event of a charter conversion, the perpetual contributed capital account transfers to the new institution. In the event of liquidation, the perpetual contributed capital account may be released to facilitate the payout of shares with the prior written approval of NCUA.

(3) The funds are callable only at the option of the corporate credit union and only if the corporate credit union meets its minimum required capital and NEV ratios after the funds are called. The corporate credit union must also obtain the prior, written approval of the NCUA before releasing any perpetual contributed capital funds.

(4) Perpetual contributed capital cannot be used to pledge borrowings.

(5) Perpetual contributed capital is perpetual maturity and noncumulative dividend.

(6) Availability to cover losses.
