
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 704 - Capital Prioritization and Model Forms
###### pro rata,

(b) Nonperpetual capital that is issued before January 18, 2011, is available to cover losses that exceed retained earnings and perpetual capital issued before January 18, 2011. Any such losses will be distributedat the time the loss is realized, among nonperpetual capital account holders with accounts issued before January 18, 2011. To the extent that NCA funds are used to cover losses, the corporate credit union is prohibited from restoring or replenishing the affected accounts under any circumstances.

(c) Attached to this disclosure is a statement that describes the amount of NCA the credit union has with the corporate credit union in each of the categories described in paragraphs (5)(a) and (5)(b) above.

(6) If the corporate credit union is liquidated:

(a) Nonperpetual capital accounts issued on or after January 18, 2011 are payable only after satisfaction of all liabilities of the liquidation estate including uninsured obligations to shareholders and the NCUSIF, but not including contributed capital accounts issued before January 18, 2011 or perpetual capital accounts issued on or after January 18, 2011. However, nonperpetual capital that is used to cover losses in a calendar year previous to the year of liquidation has no claim against the liquidation estate.

(b) Nonperpetual capital accounts issued before January 18, 2011 are payable only after satisfaction of all liabilities of the liquidation estate including uninsured obligations to shareholders and the NCUSIF, but not including perpetual capital accounts issued before January 18, 2011. However, nonperpetual capital that is used to cover losses in a calendar year previous to the year of liquidation has no claim against the liquidation estate.

(7) Where the corporate credit union is merged into another corporate credit union, the nonperpetual capital account will transfer to the continuing corporate credit union. For notice accounts, the five-year notice period for withdrawal of the nonperpetual capital account will remain in effect. For term accounts, the original term will remain in effect.

(8) If a term certificate-: The nonperpetual capital account is a term certificate that will mature on-(date)-(insert date with a minimum five-year original maturity).

I have read the above terms and conditions and I understand them.

I further agree to maintain in the credit union's files the annual notice of terms and conditions of the nonperpetual capital account.

The notice form must be signed by either all of the directors of the member credit union or, if authorized by board resolution, the chair and secretary of the board of the credit union.

The annual disclosure notice form must be signed by the chair of the corporate credit union. The chair must then sign a statement that certifies that the notice has been sent to member credit unions with nonperpetual capital accounts. The certification must be maintained in the corporate credit union's files and be available for examiner review.

(1) A perpetual contributed capital account is not subject to share insurance coverage by the NCUSIF or other deposit insurer.

(2) A perpetual contributed capital account is not releasable due solely to the merger, charter conversion or liquidation of the member credit union. In the event of a merger, the perpetual contributed capital account transfers to the continuing credit union. In the event of a charter conversion, the perpetual contributed capital account transfers to the new institution. In the event of liquidation, the perpetual contributed capital account may be released to facilitate the payout of shares with the prior written approval of NCUA.

(3) The funds are callable only at the option of the corporate credit union and only if the corporate credit union meets its minimum required capital and NEV ratios after the funds are called. The corporate credit union must also obtain the prior, written approval of the NCUA before releasing any perpetual contributed capital funds.

(4) Perpetual contributed capital cannot be used to pledge borrowings.

(5) Perpetual contributed capital is perpetual maturity and noncumulative dividend.
