
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 704 - Risk-Based Capital Credit Risk-Weight Categories
###### e.g.,,pro rata,pro rata,pro rata

(5) Indirect ownership interests in pools of assets. Assets representing an indirect holding of a pool of assets,mutual funds, are assigned to risk-weight categories under this section based upon the risk-weight that would be assigned to the assets in the portfolio of the pool. An investment in shares of a mutual fund whose portfolio consists primarily of various securities or money market instruments that, if held separately, would be assigned to different risk-weight categories, generally is assigned to the risk-weight category appropriate to the highest risk-weighted asset that the fund is permitted to hold in accordance with the investment objectives set forth in its prospectus. The corporate credit union may, at its option, assign the investment on abasis to different risk-weight categories according to the investment limits in its prospectus. In no case will an investment in shares in any such fund be assigned to a total risk-weight less than 20 percent. If the corporate credit union chooses to assign investments on abasis, and the sum of the investment limits of assets in the fund's prospectus exceeds 100 percent, the corporate credit union must assign the highestamounts of its total investment to the higher risk categories. If, in order to maintain a necessary degree of short-term liquidity, a fund is permitted to hold an insignificant amount of its assets in short-term, highly liquid securities of superior credit quality that do not qualify for a preferential risk-weight, such securities will generally be disregarded in determining the risk-weight category into which the corporate credit union's holding in the overall fund should be assigned. The prudent use of hedging instruments by a mutual fund to reduce the risk of its assets will not increase the risk-weighting of the mutual fund investment. For example, the use of hedging instruments by a mutual fund to reduce the interest rate risk of its government bond portfolio will not increase the risk-weight of that fund above the 20 percent category. Nonetheless, if the fund engages in any activities that appear speculative in nature or has any other characteristics that are inconsistent with the preferential risk-weighting assigned to the fund's assets, holdings in the fund will be assigned to the 100 percent risk-weight category.

(6) Derivatives. Certain transactions or activities, such as derivatives transactions, may appear on a corporate credit union's balance sheet but are not specifically described in the Section II(a) on-balance sheet risk-weight categories. These items will be assigned risk-weights as described in Section II(b) or II(c) below.

Except as provided in Section II(c) of this Appendix, risk-weighted off-balance sheet items are determined by the following two-step process. First, the face amount of the off-balance sheet item must be multiplied by the appropriate credit conversion factor listed in this Section II(b). This calculation translates the face amount of an off-balance sheet exposure into an on-balance sheet credit-equivalent amount. Second, the credit-equivalent amount must be assigned to the appropriate risk-weight category using the criteria regarding obligors, guarantors, and collateral listed in Section II(a) of this Appendix.The following are the credit conversion factors and the off-balance sheet items to which they apply.

(1) 100 percent credit conversion factor (Group A).

(i) Risk participations purchased in bankers' acceptances;
