
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 704 - Risk-Based Capital Credit Risk-Weight Categories
###### i.e.,

(i) Calculation of credit equivalent amounts. The credit equivalent amount of an off-balance sheet derivative contract that is not subject to a qualifying bilateral netting contract in accordance with paragraph II(b)(6)(ii) of this Appendix is equal to the sum of the current credit exposure,the replacement cost of the contract, and the potential future credit exposure of the contract. The calculation of credit equivalent amounts is measured in U.S. dollars, regardless of the currency or currencies specified in the contract.

(A) Current credit exposure. The current credit exposure of an off-balance sheet derivative contract is determined by the mark-to-market value of the contract. If the mark-to-market value is positive, then the current credit exposure equals that mark-to-market value. If the mark-to-market value is zero or negative, then the current exposure is zero. In determining its current credit exposure for multiple off-balance sheet derivative contracts executed with a single counterparty, a corporate credit union may net positive and negative mark-to-market values of off-balance sheet derivative contracts if subject to a bilateral netting contract as provided in paragraph II(b)(6)(ii) of this Appendix.

(B) Potential future credit exposure. The potential future credit exposure of an off-balance sheet derivative contract, including a contract with a negative mark-to-market value, is estimated by multiplying the notional principal by a credit conversion factor.Corporate credit unions, subject to examiner review, should use the effective rather than the apparent or stated notional amount in this calculation. The conversion factors are:

(ii) Off-balance sheet derivative contracts subject to bilateral netting contracts. In determining its current credit exposure for multiple off-balance sheet derivative contracts executed with a single counterparty, a corporate credit union may net off-balance sheet derivative contracts subject to a bilateral netting contract by offsetting positive and negative mark-to-market values, provided that:

(A) The bilateral netting contract is in writing;

(B) The bilateral netting contract creates a single legal obligation for all individual off-balance sheet derivative contracts covered by the bilateral netting contract. In effect, the bilateral netting contract provides that the corporate credit union has a single claim or obligation either to receive or pay only the net amount of the sum of the positive and negative mark-to-market values on the individual off-balance sheet derivative contracts covered by the bilateral netting contract. The single legal obligation for the net amount is operative in the event that a counterparty, or a counterparty to whom the bilateral netting contract has been validly assigned, fails to perform due to any of the following events: Default, insolvency, bankruptcy, or other similar circumstances;

(C) The corporate credit union obtains a written and reasoned legal opinion(s) representing, with a high degree of certainty, that in the event of a legal challenge, including one resulting from default, insolvency, bankruptcy or similar circumstances, the relevant court and administrative authorities would find the corporate credit union's exposure to be the net amount under:
