
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 704 - CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 704 - Risk-Based Capital Credit Risk-Weight Categories
###### 3

() The law that governs the bilateral netting contract;

(D) The corporate credit union establishes and maintains procedures to monitor possible changes in relevant law and to ensure that the bilateral netting contract continues to satisfy the requirements of this section; and

(E) The corporate credit union maintains in its files documentation adequate to support the netting of an off-balance sheet derivative contract.

(iii) Walkaway clause. A bilateral netting contract that contains a walkaway clause is not eligible for netting for purposes of calculating the current credit exposure amount. The term "walkaway clause" means a provision in a bilateral netting contract that permits a nondefaulting counterparty to make a lower payment than it would make otherwise under the bilateral netting contract, or no payment at all, to a defaulter or the estate of a defaulter, even if the defaulter or the estate of the defaulter is a net creditor under the bilateral netting contract.

(iv) Risk-weighting. Once the corporate credit union determines the credit equivalent amount for an off-balance sheet derivative contract, that amount is assigned to the risk-weight category appropriate to the counterparty, or, if relevant, to the nature of any collateral or guarantee. Collateral held against a netting contract is not recognized for capital purposes unless it is legally available for all contracts included in the netting contract. However, the maximum risk-weight for the credit equivalent amount of such off-balance sheet derivative contracts is 50 percent.

(v) Exceptions. The following off-balance sheet derivative contracts are not subject to the above calculation, and therefore, are not part of the denominator of a corporate credit union's risk-based capital ratio:

(A) A foreign exchange rate contract with an original maturity of 14 calendar days or less; and

(B) Any interest rate or foreign exchange rate contract that is traded on an exchange requiring the daily payment of any variations in the market value of the contract.

(1) In general. Except as otherwise permitted in this Section II(c), to determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a recourse obligation or a direct credit substitute (but not a residual interest):
