
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 705 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REVOLVING LOAN FUND ACCESS FOR CREDIT UNIONS
##### ยง 705.5 Terms and conditions for loans.
###### Matching requirements.

(g)At its discretion, NCUA may require a Participating Credit Union to develop and implement a plan to match all or a portion of the funds represented by loan proceeds. Such requirement will be based on the financial condition of the Participating Credit Union, which will be evaluated under criteria contained in the related Notice of Funding Opportunity. Matching funds must be from non-governmental member or nonmember share deposits. Participating Credit Unions required to provide matching funds are subject to the following general provisions and any other conditions in the related Notice of Funding Opportunity and agreements between the Participating Credit Union and NCUA:

(1) Loan monies made available generally must be matched by the Participating Credit Union in an amount equal to the loan amount. Any loan monies matched by nonmember share deposits are not subject to the 20% limitation on nonmember deposits under ยง 701.32 of this chapter. Participating Credit Unions must maintain the increase in the total amount of share deposits for the duration of the loan. Once the loan is repaid, nonmember share deposits accepted to meet the matching requirement are subject to ยง 701.32 of this chapter.

(2) Upon approval of its loan application, and before it meets its matching, if required, a Participating Credit Union may receive the entire loan commitment in a single payment. If, at NCUA's discretion, any funds are withheld, the remainder of the funds committed will be available to the Participating Credit Union only after it has documented that it has met the match requirement.

(3) Failure of a Participating Credit Union to generate the required match within the time specified in the loan documents may result in the reduction of the loan proportionate to the amount of match actually generated. Payment of any additional funds initially approved may be limited as appropriate to reflect the revised amount of the loan approved. Any funds already advanced to the Participating Credit Union in excess of the revised amount of loan approval must be repaid immediately to NCUA. Failure to repay such funds to NCUA upon demand may result in the default of the entire loan.
