
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 707 - TRUTH IN SAVINGS
##### ยง 707.3 General disclosure requirements.
###### Oral responses to inquiries.

(e)In an oral response to a member or potential member's inquiry about dividend rates payable on its accounts, the credit union shall state the annual percentage yield. The dividend rate may be stated in addition to the annual percentage yield. No other rate may be stated. In stating a dividend rate and annual percentage yield, a credit union shall:

(1) For dividend-bearing accounts other than term share accounts, specify a dividend rate and annual percentage yield as of the last dividend declaration date. In the event that disclosures of a dividend rate and annual percentage yield as of the last dividend declaration date might be inaccurate because of known or contemplated dividend rate changes, the credit union may disclose the prospective dividend rate and prospective annual percentage yield. Such prospective dividend rate and prospective annual percentage yield may be disclosed either in lieu of, or in addition to, the dividend rate and annual percentage yield as of the last dividend declaration date.

(2) For interest-bearing accounts and for dividend-bearing term share accounts, specify an interest (dividend) rate and annual percentage yield that were offered within the most recent seven calendar days; state that the rate and yield are accurate as of an identified date; and provide a telephone number members may call to obtain current rate information.
