
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 707 - TRUTH IN SAVINGS
##### Appendix A to Part 707 - Annual Percentage Yield Calculation

The annual percentage yield (APY) measures the total amount of dividends a credit union pays on an account based on the dividend rate and the frequency of compounding. The annual percentage yield is expressed as an annualized rate, based on a 365-day year. (Credit unions may calculate the annual percentage yield based on a 365-day or a 366-day year in a leap year.) Part I of this appendix discusses the annual percentage yield calculations for account disclosures and advertisements, while Part II discusses annual percentage yield earned calculations for statements. The annual percentage yield reflects only dividends and does not include the value of any bonus, as that term is defined in part 707, that may be provided to the member to open, maintain, increase or renew an account. Dividends, interest or other earnings are not to be included in the annual percentage yield if such amounts are determined by circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. These formulas apply to both dividend-bearing and interest-bearing accounts held by credit unions.

In general, the annual percentage yield for account disclosures under §§ 707.4 and 707.5 and for advertising under § 707.8 is an annualized rate that reflects the relationship between the amount of dividends that would be earned by the member for the term of the account and the amount of principal used to calculate those dividends. The amount of dividends that would be earned may be projected based on the most recent past declared rate or an anticipated future rate, whichever the credit union judges to most reasonably approximate the dividends to be earned. Special rules apply to accounts with tiered and stepped dividend rates, and to certain term share accounts with a stated maturity greater than 1 year.

Except as provided in Part I. E. of this appendix, the annual percentage yield shall be calculated by the formula shown below. Credit unions may calculate the annual percentage yield using projected dividends based on either the rate at the last dividend declaration date or the rate anticipated at a future date. The credit union must disclose whichever option it uses to members. Credit unions shall calculate the annual percentage yield based on the actual number of days for the term of the account. For accounts without a stated maturity date (such as a typical share or share draft account), the calculation shall be based on an assumed term of 365 days. In determining the total dividends figure to be used in the formula, credit unions shall assume that all principal and dividends remain on deposit for the entire term, and that no other transactions (deposits or withdrawals) occur during the term. (This assumption shall not be used if a credit union requires, as a condition of the account, that members withdraw dividends during the term. In such a case, the dividends (and annual percentage yield calculation) shall reflect that requirement.) For term share accounts that are offered in multiples of months, credit unions may base the number of days on either the actual number of days during the applicable period, or the number of days that would occur for any actual sequence of that many calendar months. If credit unions choose to use this permissive rule, they must use the same number of days to calculate the dollar amount of dividends that will be earned on the account in the annual percentage yield formula (where "Dividends" are divided by "Principal".)

The annual percentage yield is to be calculated by use of the following general formula (("APY") is used for convenience in the formulas):

"Principal" is the amount of funds assumed to have been deposited at the beginning of the account.

"Dividends" is the total dollar amount of dividends earned on the Principal for the term of the account.

"Days in term" is the actual number of days in the term of the account.

When the "days in term" is 365 (that is, where the stated maturity is 365 days or where the account does not have a stated maturity), the APY can be calculated by use of the following simple formula:

(1) If a credit union would pay $61.68 in dividends for a 365-day year on $1,000 deposited into a share draft account, the APY is 6.17%:

Or, using the simple formula above (since the term is deemed to be 365 days):

(2) If a credit union pays $30.37 in dividends on a $1,000 six-month term share certificate account (where the six-month period used by the credit union contains 182 days), using the general formula above, the APY is 6.18%:

The APY is affected by the frequency of compounding, i.e., the amount of dividends will be greater the more frequently dividends are compounded for a given nominal rate. When two credit unions are offering the same dividend rate on, for example, a share account, the APY disclosed may be different if the credit unions use a different frequency of compounding.

(1) If a credit union pays $1,268.25 in dividends for a 365-day year on $10,000 deposited into a regular share account earning 12%, and the dividends are compounded monthly, the APY will be 12.68%.

(2) However, if a credit union is compounding dividends on a quarterly basis on an account which otherwise has the same terms, the dividends will be $1,255.09 and the APY will be 12.55%.

For accounts with two or more dividend rates applied in succeeding periods (where the rates are known at the time the account is opened), a credit union shall assume each dividend rate is in effect for the length of time provided for in any share agreement.

(1) If a credit union offers a $1,000 6-month term share (certificate) account on which it pays a 5% dividend rate, compounded daily, for the first three months (which contain 91 days), and a 5.5% dividend rate, compounded daily, for the next three months (which contain 92 days), the total dividends for six months is $26.68, and, using the general formula above, the APY is 5.39%:

(2) If a credit union offers a $1,000 2-year share certificate on which it pays a 6% dividend rate, compounded daily, for the first year, and a 6.5% dividend rate, compounded daily, for the next year, the total dividends for two years is $133.13, and, using the general formula above, the APY is 6.45%:

For variable-rate accounts without an introductory premium or discounted rate, a credit union must base the calculation only on the initial dividend rate in effect when the account is opened (or advertised), and assume that this rate will not change during the year.

Variable-rate accounts with an introductory premium or discount rate must be treated like stepped-rate accounts. Thus, a credit union shall assume that: (1) The introductory simple dividend rate is in effect for the length of time provided for in the account contract; and (2) the variable dividend rate that would have been in effect when the account is opened or advertised (but for the introductory rate) is in effect for the remainder of the year. If the variable rate is tied to an index, the index-based rate in effect at the time of disclosure must be used for the remainder of the year. If the rate is not tied to an index, the rate in effect for existing members holding the same account (who are not receiving the introductory dividend rate) must be used for the remainder of the year.

For example, if a credit union offers an account on which it pays a 7% dividend rate, compounded daily, for the first three months (which, for example, contains 91 days), while the variable dividend rate that would have been in effect when the account was opened was 5%, the total dividends for a 365-day year for a $1,000 account balance is $56.52, (based on 91 days at 7% followed by 274 days at 5%). Using the simple formula, the APY is 5.65%:

For accounts in which two or more dividend rates paid on the account are applicable to specified balance levels, the credit union must calculate the annual percentage yield in accordance with the method described below that it uses to calculate dividends. In all cases, an annual percentage yield (or a range of annual percentage yields, if appropriate) must be disclosed for each balance tier.

For purposes of the examples discussed below, assume the following:

Under this method, a credit union pays on the full balance in the account the stated dividend rate that corresponds to the applicable share balance tier. For example, if a member deposits $8,000, the credit union pays the 5.50% dividend rate on the entire $8,000. This is also known as a "hybrid" or "plateau" tiered rate account.

When this method is used to determine dividends, only one annual percentage yield will apply to each tier. Within each tier, the annual percentage yield will not vary with the amount of principal assumed to have been deposited.

For the dividend rates and account balances assumed above, the credit union will state three annual percentage yields-one corresponding to each balance tier. Calculation of each annual percentage yield is similar for this type of account as for accounts with a single fixed dividend rate. Thus, the calculation is based on the total amount of dividends that would be received by the member for each tier of the account for a year and the principal assumed to have been deposited to earn that amount of dividends.
