
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 707 - TRUTH IN SAVINGS
##### Appendix A to Part 707 - Annual Percentage Yield Calculation
###### Third tier.

For the third tier, the credit union would pay $841.45 and $5,871.78 in dividends on the low end of the third tier (a balance of $15,000.01). For $15,000.01, dividends would be figured on $2,500 at 5.25% dividend rate, plus dividends on $12,500 at 5.50% dividend rate, plus dividends on $.01 at 5.75% dividend rate. For the low end of the third tier, therefore, the annual percentage yield, using the simple formula, is 5.61%:

Assuming the credit union does not limit the account balance, it may assume any maximum amount for the purposes of computing the annual percentage yield for the high end of the third tier. For an assumed maximum balance amount of $100,000, dividends would be figured on $2,500 at 5.25% dividend rate, plus dividends on $12,500 at 5.50% dividend rate, plus dividends on $85,000 at 5.75% dividend rate. For the high end of the third tier, therefore, the annual percentage yield, using the simple formula, is 5.87%:

Thus, the annual percentage yield that would be stated for the third tier is 5.61% to 5.87%. If the assumed maximum balance amount is $1,000,000, credit unions would use $985,000 rather than $85,000 in the last calculation. In that case for the high end of the third tier, the annual percentage yield, using the simple formula, is 5.91%:

Thus, the annual percentage yield range that would be stated for the third tier is 5.61% to 5.91%.

1. For term share accounts with a stated maturity greater than one year, that do not compound dividends on an annual or more frequent basis, and that require the member to withdraw dividends at least annually, the annual percentage yield may be disclosed as equal to the dividend rate.

If a credit union offers a $1,000 two-year term share account that does not compound and that pays out dividends semi-annually by check or transfer at a 6.00% dividend rate, the annual percentage yield may be disclosed as 6.00%.

2. For term share accounts covered by this paragraph that are also stepped-rate accounts, the annual percentage yield may be disclosed as equal to the composite dividend rate.

(1) If a credit union offers a $1,000 three-year term share account that does not compound and that pays out dividends annually by check or transfer at a 5.00% dividend rate for the first year, 6.00% dividend rate for the second year, and 7.00% dividend rate for the third year, the credit union may compute the composite dividend rate and APY as follows:

(a) Multiply each dividend rate by the number of days it will be in effect;

(b) Add these figures together; and

(c) Divide by the total number of days in the term.

(2) Applied to the example, the products of the dividend rates and days the rates are in effect are (5.00% x 365 days) 1825, (6.00% x 365 days) 2190, and (7.00% x 365) 2555, respectively. The sum of these products, 6570, is divided by 1095, the total number of days in the term. The composite dividend rate and APY are both 6.00%.

The annual percentage yield earned for statements under ยง 707.6 is an annualized rate that reflects the relationship between the amount of dividends actually earned (accrued or paid and credited) to the member's account during the period and the average daily balance in the account for the period over which the dividends were earned.

Pursuant to ยง 707.6(a), when dividends are paid less frequently than statements are sent, the APY Earned may reflect the number of days over which dividends were earned rather than the number of days in the statement period, e.g., if a credit union uses the average daily balance method and calculates dividends for a period other than the statement period, the annual percentage yield earned shall reflect the relationship between the amount of dividends earned and the average daily balance in the account for the other period, such as a crediting or dividend period.

The annual percentage yield shall be calculated by using the following formulas ("APY Earned" is used for convenience in the formulas):

"Balance" is the average daily balance in the account for the period.

"Dividends earned" is the actual amount of dividends accrued or paid and credited to the account for the period.

"Days in period" is the actual number of days over which the dividends disclosed on the statement were earned.

(1) If a credit union calculates dividends for the statement period (and uses either the daily balance or the average daily balance method), and the account had a balance of $1,500 for 15 days and a balance of $500 for the remaining 15 days of a 30-day statement period, the average daily balance for the period is $1,000. Assume that $5.25 in dividends was earned during the period. The annual percentage yield earned (using the formula above) is 6.58%:

(2) Assume a credit union calculates dividends on the average daily balance for the calendar month and provides periodic statements that cover the period from the 16th of one month to the 15th of the next month. The account has a balance of $2,000 September 1 through September 15 and a balance of $1,000 for the remaining 15 days of September. The average daily balance for the month of September is $1,500, which results in $6.50 in dividends earned for the month. The annual percentage yield earned for the month of September would be shown on the periodic statement covering September 16 through October 15. The annual percentage yield earned (using the formula above) is 5.40%:

(3) Assume a credit union calculates dividends on the average daily balance for a quarter (for example, the calendar months of September through November), and provides monthly periodic statements covering calendar months. The account has a balance of $1,000 throughout the 30 days of September, a balance of $2,000 throughout the 31 days of October, and a balance of $3,000 throughout the 30 days of November. The average daily balance for the quarter is $2,000, which results in $21 in dividends earned for the quarter. The annual percentage yield earned would be shown on the periodic statement for November. The annual percentage yield earned (using the formula above) is 4.28%:

Credit unions that use the daily balance method to accrue dividends and that issue periodic statements more often than the period for which dividends are compounded shall use the following special formula:

The following definition applies for use in this formula (all other terms are defined under Part II):

"Compounding" is the number of days in each compounding period.

Assume a credit union calculates dividends for the statement period using the daily balance method, pays a 5.00% dividend rate, compounded annually, and provides periodic statements for each monthly cycle. The account has a daily balance of $1000.00 for a 30-day statement period. The dividend earned of $4.11 for the period, and the annual percentage yield earned (using the special formula above) is 5.00%:
