
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 707 - TRUTH IN SAVINGS
##### Appendix B to Part 707 - Model Clauses and Sample Forms

As discussed in the supplementary information to ยง 707.3(a), this final rule provides for flexibility in designing the format of the disclosures. Credit unions can choose to prepare a single document or brochure that incorporates disclosures for all accounts offered, or to prepare different documents for each type of account. Credit unions may also use inserts to a document, or fill in blanks to show current rates, fees and other terms.

In the model clauses, words in parentheses indicate the type of disclosure a credit union should insert in the space provided (for example, a credit union might insert "July 23, 1995" in the blank for a "(date)" disclosure). Brackets and "/" indicate that a credit union must choose the alternative that best describes its practice (for example, "[daily balance/ average daily balance]"). It should be noted that only in sections B-6 through B-10 of this appendix have specific examples of disclosures been given, with dates and figures. Sections B-1 through B-5, and section B-11 provide only unspecific model clauses or blank forms. The Board felt, as articulated in the appendix A to Regulation DD, that a mix of blank clauses and forms and application of the model clauses to real specific situations would benefit those who must comply with TISA.
