
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 707 - TRUTH IN SAVINGS
##### Appendix B to Part 707 - Model Clauses and Sample Forms
###### Average Daily Balance Method

(ii)

[Dividends/Interest] [are/is] calculated by the average daily balance method which applies a periodic rate to the average daily balance in the account for the period. The average daily balance is calculated by adding the balance in the account for each day of the period and dividing that figure by the number of days in the period.

[Dividends/Interest] will begin to accrue on the business day you [place/deposit] noncash items (e.g. checks) to your account.

[Dividends/Interest] will begin to accrue no later than the business day we receive provisional credit for the [placement/deposit] of noncash items (e.g. checks) to your account.

The EFAA and Regulation CC control, and any modifications to them should occasion credit unions to revisit this disclosure with a view to revising it to reflect current law.

The following fees and charges may be assessed against your account:

The minimum amount you may [withdraw/write a draft for] is $________

During any statement period, you may not make more than six withdrawals or transfers to another credit union account of yours or to a third party by means of a preauthorized or automatic transfer or telephonic order or instruction. No more than three of the six transfers may be made by check, draft, debit card, if applicable, or similar order to a third party. If you exceed the transfer limitations set forth above in any statement period, your account will be subject to [closure by the credit union/a fee of $________.

The credit union reserves the right to require a member intending to make a withdrawal from any account (except a share draft account) to give written notice of such intent not less than seven days and up to 60 days before such withdrawal.
