
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 707 - TRUTH IN SAVINGS
##### Appendix B to Part 707 - Model Clauses and Sample Forms
###### Fixed-rate,Variable-rate

[-You will be paid this rate for [(time period)/at least 30 calendar days]./-The dividend rate and APY may change every (dividend period) as determined by the credit union board of directors.]

1* [As of [the last dividend declaration date/ (date)], a dividend rate of ________% was paid only on the portion of your [daily balance/average daily balance] that was greater than $________. The annual percentage yield (APY) for this tier ranged from ________% to ________%, depending on the balance in the account. /or A prospective dividend rate of ________% will be paid only on the portion of your [daily balance/average daily balance] that is greater than $________ with a prospective annual percentage yield (APY) ranging from ________% to ________%, depending on the balance in the account, for this dividend period.]

2* [As of [the last dividend declaration date/ (date)], a dividend rate of ________% was paid only on the portion of your [daily balance/average daily balance] that was greater than $________ but less than $________. The annual percentage yield (APY) for this tier ranged from ________% to ________%, depending on the balance in the account. /or A prospective dividend rate of ________% will be paid only on the portion of your [daily balance/average daily balance] that is greater than $________, but less than $________] with a prospective annual percentage yield (APY) ranging from ________% to ________%, depending on the balance in the account, for this dividend period.]

3* [As of [the last dividend declaration date/ (date)], if your [daily balance/average daily balance] was $________ or less, the dividend rate paid on the entire balance was ________%, with an annual percentage yield (APY) of ________%. /or If your [daily balance/average daily balance] was $______ or less, the prospective dividend rate paid on the entire balance in your account will be ______% with a prospective annual percentage yield (APY) of ______% for this dividend period.

Dividends are paid from current income and available earnings, after required transfers to reserves at the end of a dividend period.

[Dividends/Interest] will be compounded (frequency) and will be credited (frequency).

If you close your [share/deposit] account before [dividends/interest] [are/is] paid, you will not receive the accrued [dividends/interest].

For this account type, the dividend period is (frequency), for example, the beginning date of the first dividend period of the calendar year is (date) and the ending date of such dividend period is (date). All other dividend periods follow this same pattern of dates. The dividend declaration date follows the ending date of a dividend period, and for the example is (date).
