
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 707 - TRUTH IN SAVINGS
##### Appendix B to Part 707 - Model Clauses and Sample Forms
###### Required dividend distribution.

(v)

This account requires the distribution of dividends and does not allow dividends to remain in the account.

You will [be paid/receive] [$__________/(description of item)] as a bonus [when you open the account/on (date)].

You must maintain a minimum [daily balance/average daily balance] of $__________ to obtain the bonus.

To earn the bonus, [$__________/your entire principal] must remain on deposit [for (time period)/until (date)].

On (date), the (type of fee) will increase to $__________.

On (date), the [dividend/interest] rate on your account will decrease to ______%, with an annual percentage yield (APY) of ______%.

On (date), the [minimum daily balance/average daily balance] required to avoid imposition of a fee will increase to $__________.

Your term share account will mature on __________.

Unless your term share account is renewed, it will not accrue further [dividends/interest] after the maturity date.

The [dividend/interest] rate and annual percentage yield that will apply to your term share account if it is renewed have not yet been determined. That information will be available on ________. After that date, you may call the credit union during regular business hours at (telephone number) to find out the [dividend/interest] rate and annual percentage yield (APY) that will apply to your term share account if it is renewed.

I hereby make application for membership in and agree to conform to the Bylaws, as amended, of __________ Credit Union (the "Credit Union"). I certify that: I am within the field of membership of this Credit Union; the information provided on this application is true and correct; and my signature on this card applies to all accounts under my name at this Credit Union. I also agree to be bound to the terms and conditions of any account that I have in the Credit Union now or in the future.

This application approved________(date) by the (Check one)

This is to certify that (name(s)) __________________ [is/ are] the owner(s) of a term share certificate account in the __________ Credit Union (the "Credit Union") in the amount of __________ Dollars ($__________). This term share certificate account may be redeemed on (maturity date) __________ only upon presentation of the certificate to the Credit Union. The dividend rate of this certificate account is ____% with an annual percentage yield of ____%. The annual percentage yield and dividend rate assume that dividends are to be [check one] ( ) added to principal/( ) paid to regular share account number __________/ ( ) mailed to owner(s). This account is subject to all terms and conditions stated in the Term Share Certificate Account Disclosures, as they may be amended from time to time, and incorporates the same by reference into this agreement.
