
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 707 - TRUTH IN SAVINGS
##### Appendix C to Part 707 - Official Staff Interpretations
###### Sample dividend resolutions.

4.(i) The following resolution may be used where the dividend rates are set after the close of a dividend period.

A. I, ________________, certify that I am Secretary of ________________ Credit Union Board of Directors, and that the following is a correct copy of the resolution for declaring dividend adopted by the ________________ Credit Union at a meeting of the Board of Directors duly and properly held on __________________, 19____. This resolution appears in the minutes of this meeting and has not been rescinded or modified.

B. Resolved, that

(1) The Board of Directors has developed a nondiscriminatory dividend policy, by establishing dividend periods, dividend credit determination dates, dividend distribution dates, any associated penalties (if applicable), and the method of dividend computation for each type of share account;

(2) The required transfers to reserves have been made; and

(3) Sufficient and available prior and/or current earnings are available at the end of this dividend period.

C. Resolved, further, that the Board of Directors now formally makes a dividend declaration in accordance with the Credit Union's dividend policy and authorizes that on ________________, 19____, dividends must be paid to members by a credit to the appropriate share account, payment by share draft or by a combination of the two methods.

D. I further certify that the Board of Directors of this Credit Union has, and at the time of adoption of this resolution had, full power and lawful authority to adopt the foregoing resolutions and that this resolution revokes any prior resolution.

In witness whereof, this is my signature and the date on which I signed this Resolution.

(ii) The following resolution may be used where the dividend rates are set before the close of a dividend period.

A. I, ________________, certify that I am the Secretary of ________________ Credit Union, and that the following is a correct copy of the resolution for declaring dividends adopted by the ________________ Credit Union at a meeting of the Board of Directors duly and properly held on ____________________, 19____. This resolution appears in the minutes of that meeting and has not been rescinded or modified.

B. Resolved, that the Board of Directors has adopted a nondiscriminatory dividend policy, by establishing dividend periods, dividend credit determination dates, dividend distribution dates, any associated penalties (if applicable) and the method of dividend computation for each type of share account.

C. Resolved, that it is the policy and practice of the Board of Directors to meet periodically to establish prospective dividend rates for each type of dividend-bearing share account.

D. Resolved, that if the required transfers to reserves have been made and there are sufficient and available prior and/or current earnings available at the end of a dividend period, the officers of the Credit Union are authorized to pay dividends at the rate prospectively established by the Board of Directors for each account for the dividend period. The officers may pay the dividends without any further action of the Board of Directors. The act of paying the dividends shall constitute the declaration of the dividends and shall be a ratification of the prospective dividend rate.

In witness whereof, this is my signature and the date on which I signed this Resolution.
