
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 707 - TRUTH IN SAVINGS
##### Appendix C to Part 707 - Official Staff Interpretations
###### Examples.

10.Examples of advertisements that would ordinarily be misleading, inaccurate, or misrepresent the deposit contract are:

i. Representing an overdraft service as a "line of credit," unless the service is subject to 12 CFR part 1026 (Regulation Z).

ii. Representing that the credit union will honor all checks or authorize payment of all transactions that overdraw an account, with or without a specified dollar limit, when the credit union retains discretion at any time not to honor checks or authorize transactions.

iii. Representing that members with an overdrawn account can maintain a negative balance when the terms of the account's overdraft service require members promptly to return the share account to a positive balance.

iv. Describing a credit union's overdraft service solely as protection against bounced checks when the credit union also permits overdrafts for a fee for overdrawing their accounts by other means, such as ATM withdrawals, debit card transactions, or other electronic fund transfers.

v. Advertising an account-related service for which the credit union charges a fee in an advertisement that also uses the word "free" or "no cost" or a similar term to describe the account, unless the advertisement clearly and conspicuously indicates that there is a cost associated with the service. If the fee is a maintenance or activity fee under ยง 707.8(a)(2) of this part, however, an advertisement may not describe the account as "free" or "no cost" or contain a similar term even if the fee is disclosed in the advertisement.
