
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 707 - TRUTH IN SAVINGS
##### Appendix C to Part 707 - Official Staff Interpretations
###### Retail sweep programs.

2.In a retail sweep program, a credit union establishes two legally distinct subaccounts, a share draft subaccount and a share savings subaccount, which together make up the member's account. The credit union allocates and transfers funds between the two subaccounts in order to maximize the balance in the share savings account while complying with the monthly limitations on transfers out of savings accounts under the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation D, 12 CFR 204.2(d)(2). Retail sweep programs are generally not established for the purpose of covering overdrafts. Rather, credit unions typically establish retail sweep programs by agreement with the member in order for the credit union to minimize its transaction account reserve requirements and, in some cases, to provide a higher interest rate than the member would earn on a share draft account alone. Section 707.11(c) does not require a credit union to exclude funds from the member's balance that may be transferred from another account pursuant to a retail sweep program that is established for such purposes and that has the following characteristics:

i. The account involved complies with the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation D, 12 CFR 204.2(d)(2),

ii. The member does not have direct access to the share savings subaccount that is part of the retail sweep program, and

iii. The member's periodic statements show the account balance as the combined balance in the subaccounts.
