
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 707 - TRUTH IN SAVINGS
##### Appendix C to Part 707 - Official Staff Interpretations
###### Accrued but uncredited dividends.

1.To calculate the annual percentage yield earned, accrued but uncredited dividends:

i. May not be included in the balance for statements that are issued at the same time or less frequently than the account's compounding and crediting frequency. For example, if monthly statements are sent for an account that compounds dividends daily and credits dividends monthly, the balance may not be increased each day to reflect the effect of daily compounding. Assume a credit union will pay $13.70 in dividends on $100,000 for the first day, $6.85 in dividends on $50,013.70 for the second day, and $3.43 in dividends on $25,020.55 for the third day. The sum of each days balance is $175,000 (does not include accrued, but uncredited, dividends amounts $13.70, $6.85, and $3.43), thereby resulting in an average daily balance for the three days of $58,333.33.

ii. Must be included in the balance for succeeding statements if a statement is issued more frequently than compounded dividends is credited on an account. For example, if monthly statements are sent for an account that compounds dividends daily and credits dividends quarterly, the balance for the second monthly statement would include dividends that had accrued for the prior month. Assume a credit union will pay $411.78 in dividends on 30 days of $100,000, $427.28 in dividends on 31 days of $100,411.78, and $415.23 in dividends on 30 days of $100,839.06. The balance (average daily balance in the account for the period) for the second 31 days is $100,411.78.
