
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 708a - BANK CONVERSIONS AND MERGERS
##### Subpart C - Merger of Insured Credit Unions Into Banks
###### ยง 708a.303 Board of directors' approval and members' opportunity to comment.
####### Advance notice.

(b)A credit union that does not conduct a public auction as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must comply with the following notice requirements before voting on a proposal to merge.

(1) No later than 30 days before a board of directors votes on a proposal to merge, it must publish a notice in a general circulation newspaper, or in multiple newspapers if necessary, serving all areas where the credit union has an office, branch, or service center. It must also post the notice in a clear and conspicuous fashion in the lobby of the credit union's home office and branch offices and on the credit union's Web site, if it has one. If the notice is not on the home page of the Web site, the home page must have a clear and conspicuous link, visible on a standard monitor without scrolling, to the notice.

(2) The public notice must include the following:

(i) The name and address of the credit union;

(ii) The name and type of institution into which the credit union's board is considering a proposal to merge;

(iii) A brief statement of why the board is considering the merger and the major positive and negative effects of the proposed merger;

(iv) A statement that directs members to submit any comments on the proposal to the credit union's board of directors by regular mail, electronic mail, or facsimile;

(v) The date on which the board plans to vote on the proposal and the date by which members must submit their comments for consideration; which submission date may not be more than 5 days before the board vote;

(vi) The street address, electronic mail address, and facsimile number of the credit union where members may submit comments; and

(vii) A statement that, in the event the board approves the proposal to merge, the proposal will be submitted to the membership of the credit union for a vote following a notice period that is no shorter than 90 days.

(3) The board of directors must approve publication of the notice.
