
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 708b - MERGERS OF INSURED CREDIT UNIONS INTO OTHER CREDIT UNIONS; VOLUNTARY TERMINATION OR CONVERSION OF INSURED STATUS
##### Subpart A - Mergers
###### ยง 708b.102 Special provisions for federal insurance.

(a) Where the continuing credit union is federally insured, the NCUSIF will assess a deposit and a prorated insurance premium (unless waived in whole or in part for all insured credit unions during that year) on the additional share accounts insured as a result of the merger of a non-federally insured or uninsured credit union with a federally insured credit union.

(b) Where the continuing credit union is non-federally insured or uninsured but desires to be federally insured as of the date of the merger, it must submit an application to the appropriate Regional Director when the merging credit union requests approval of the merger proposal. If the Regional Director approves the merger, the NCUSIF will assess a deposit and a prorated insurance premium (unless waived in whole or in part for all insured credit unions during that year) on any additional share accounts insured as a result of the merger.

(c) Where the continuing credit union is non-federally insured or uninsured and does not make application for insurance, but the merging credit union is federally insured, the continuing credit union is entitled to a refund of the merging credit union's NCUSIF deposit and to a refund of the unused portion of the NCUSIF share insurance premium (if any). If the continuing credit union is uninsured, the NCUSIF will make the refund only after expiration of the one-year period of continued insurance coverage noted in paragraph (e) of this section.

(d) Where the continuing credit union is non-federally insured, NCUSIF insurance of the member accounts of a merging federally insured credit union ceases as of the effective date of the merger.

(e) Where the continuing credit union is uninsured, NCUSIF insurance of the member accounts of the merging federally insured credit union will continue for a period of one year, subject to the restrictions in section 206(d)(1) of the Act.
