
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 708b - MERGERS OF INSURED CREDIT UNIONS INTO OTHER CREDIT UNIONS; VOLUNTARY TERMINATION OR CONVERSION OF INSURED STATUS
##### Subpart B - Voluntary Termination or Conversion of Insured Status
###### ยง 708b.202 Notice to members of proposal to terminate insurance.

(a) When the board of directors of a federally insured credit union adopts a resolution proposing to terminate federal insurance, including termination due to a merger or conversion of charter, it must provide its members with written notice of the proposal to terminate and of the date set for the membership vote. The first written communication following the resolution that is made by or on behalf of the credit union and that informs the members that the credit union will seek termination is the notice of the proposal to terminate. This notice must:

(1) Inform the members of the requirement for a membership vote and the date for the vote;

(2) Explain that the insurance provided by the NCUA is federal insurance and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government; and

(3) Include a conspicuous statement that if the termination or merger is approved, and the credit union, or the continuing credit union in the case of a merger, subsequently fails, the federal government does not guarantee the member will get his or her money back.

(b) The credit union must deliver the notice in person to each member, or mail it to each member at the address for the member as it appears on the records of the credit union, not more than 30 nor less than 7 days before the date of the vote. The membership must be given the opportunity to vote by mail ballot. The credit union may provide the notice of the proposal and the ballot to members at the same time.

(c) If the membership and the NCUA approve the proposition for termination of insurance, the credit union must give the members prompt and reasonable notice of termination.
