
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 708b - MERGERS OF INSURED CREDIT UNIONS INTO OTHER CREDIT UNIONS; VOLUNTARY TERMINATION OR CONVERSION OF INSURED STATUS
##### Subpart B - Voluntary Termination or Conversion of Insured Status
###### ยง 708b.203 Conversion of insurance.

(a) A federally insured state credit union may convert to non-Federal insurance, if permitted by state law, either on its own or by merging into a non-federally insured credit union.

(b) A federal credit union may convert to non-Federal insurance only by merging into, or converting its charter to, a non-federally insured credit union.

(c) Conversion to non-Federal insurance requires the prior written approval of the NCUA. After the credit union board of directors resolves to seek a conversion, the credit union must notify the Regional Director promptly, in writing, of the desired conversion and request NCUA approval of the conversion. The notification must be in the form specified in subpart C of this part, unless the Regional Director approves a different form. The credit union must provide this notification and request for approval to the Regional Director at least 14 days before the credit union notifies its members and seeks their vote and at least 90 days before the proposed conversion date. NCUA will approve or disapprove the conversion as described in paragraph (g) of this section.

(d) Approval of a conversion of Federal to non-Federal insurance requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the credit union's members who vote on the proposition, provided at least 20 percent of the total membership participates in the voting. The vote must be taken by secret ballot and conducted by an independent entity.

(e) For all conversions, the notice to the NCUA must include:

(1) A written statement from the credit union that "it is aware of the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 1831t(b), including all notification and acknowledgment requirements;" and

(2) Proof that the non-Federal insurer is authorized to issue share insurance in the state where the credit union is located and that the insurer will insure the credit union.

(f) The board of directors of the credit union and the independent entity that conducts the membership vote must certify the results of the membership vote to the NCUA within 14 calendar days after the deadline for receipt of votes. The certification must include the total number of members of record of the credit union, the number who voted on the conversion, the number who voted in favor of the conversion, and the number who voted against. The certification must be in the form specified in subpart C of this part.

(g) Generally, the NCUA will conditionally approve or disapprove the conversion in writing within 14 days after receiving the certification of the vote. The credit union must complete the conversion within six months of the date of conditional approval. If a credit union fails to complete the conversion within six months the Regional Director will disapprove the conversion. The credit union's board of directors, if it still wishes to convert, must then adopt a new conversion proposal and solicit another member vote.

(h) For conversions by merger, the merging credit unions must follow the procedures specified in subparts A and B of this part and use the forms specified in subpart C of this part. In the event the procedures of subpart A and B conflict, the credit union must follow subpart B.
