
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 709 - INVOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION OF FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS AND ADJUDICATION OF CREDITOR CLAIMS INVOLVING FEDERALLY INSURED CREDIT UNIONS IN LIQUIDATION
##### ยง 709.6 Initial determination of creditor claims by the liquidating agent.

(a)(1) Any party wishing to submit a claim against the liquidated credit union must submit a written proof of claim in accordance with the requirements set forth in the notice to creditors. A failure to submit a written claim within the time provided in the notice to creditors shall be deemed a waiver of said claim and claimant shall have no further rights or remedies with respect to such claim.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the liquidating agent may, at his discretion, consider an untimely claim provide the following two criteria are present:

(i) The claimant did not receive notice of the appointment of the liquidating agent in time to file a claim before the date provided for in the notice; and

(ii) The claim is filed in time to permit payment of the claim.

(b) The liquidating agent may require submission of supplemental evidence by the claimant and by interested parties in the event of a dispute concerning a claim against any asset of the liquidated credit union. In requiring the submission of supplemental evidence, the liquidating agent may set such limitations of time, scope, and size as the liquidating agent deems reasonable in the circumstances, and may refuse to include in the record submissions or portions of submissions not in compliance with such limitations or requirements. The liquidating agent shall compile such written record of a claim or dispute as, in its discretion, is deemed sufficient to provide a reasonable basis for allowing or disallowing a claim or resolving a dispute. This written record shall be considered the administrative record.

(c) The liquidating agent shall determine whether to allow or disallow a claim and shall notify the claimant within 180 days from the date a claim against a credit union is filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of the section. This 180-day period may be extended by written agreement between the claimant and the liquidating agent. Failure by the liquidating agent to determine a claim and notify the claimant within the 180-day period or, if the period is extended, within the extended period, shall be deemed a denial of the claim.

(d) If a claim or any portion thereof is disallowed, the notice to the claimant shall contain a statement of the reasons for the disallowance and an explanation of appeal rights pursuant to ยง 709.7 of this part.

(e) Notice of any determination with respect to a claim shall be sufficient if mailed to the most recent address of the claimant which appears:

(1) On the credit union's books;

(2) In the claim filed by the claimant; or

(3) In the documents submitted in the proof of claim.

(f) In the event the liquidating agent disallows all or part of a claim, the liquidating agent shall file with the Board, or its designated agent, a report of its determination. This report shall become part of the record and shall include the notice to the claimant and findings on all issues raised and decided by the liquidating agent.
