
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 710 - VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION
##### ยง 710.5 Notice of liquidation to creditors.

(a) When approval for liquidation is obtained from the members, the board of directors or the liquidating agent shall cause notice to be given to creditors to present their claims.

(1) Federal credit unions with assets equal to or greater than $50 million as of the month end prior to the liquidation date shall publish the notice once a week in each of three successive weeks, in a newspaper of general circulation in each county in which the Federal credit union maintains an office or branch for the transaction of business on the liquidation date, or through any alternative publication through an electronic medium that is reasonably calculated to reach the general public in the relevant area or areas. The first notice shall be published within seven days of the liquidation date.

(2) Federal credit unions with assets equal to or greater than $1 million but less than $50 million as of the month end prior to the liquidation date shall publish the notice described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at least once. The notice shall be published within seven days of the liquidation date.

(3) Federal credit unions with assets less than $1 million as of the month end prior to the liquidation date shall not be required to publish the notice.

(b) Within 10 days of the liquidation date, a copy of the notice of liquidation shall be mailed to all creditors reflected on the records of the Federal credit union.

(c) Creditors shall be provided 30 days from the liquidation date to submit their claims.
