
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 710 - VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION
##### ยง 710.2 Responsibility for conducting voluntary liquidation.

(a) The board of directors shall be responsible for conserving the assets, for expediting the liquidation, and for equitable distribution of the assets to the members.

(b) After voting to present the question of liquidation to the members, the board of directors may appoint a liquidating agent and delegate all or part of the board's responsibility to such agent and authorize reasonable compensation for the services provided.

(c) The board of directors shall determine that the liquidating agent and all persons who handle or have access to funds of the Federal credit union are adequately covered by surety bond and that either such coverage remains in effect, or the discovery period is extended, for at least four months after final distribution of assets.

(d) Within three days after the decision of the board of directors to submit the question of liquidation to the members, the Regional Director will be notified in writing, setting forth in detail the reasons for the proposed action. A balance sheet and income statement as of the previous month-end will be included with the notification. During the liquidation process, financial statements will be submitted to the Regional Director as requested.

(e) Promptly after the decision to present the question of liquidation to the members, the board of directors or liquidating agency shall develop a written plan for the liquidation of the assets and payment of shares (liquidation plan). The plan should provide for the liquidation of assets and payment of creditors and shareholders within one year of the liquidation date. If the liquidation period is projected to exceed one year, an explanation must be provided in the liquidation plan. A copy of the liquidation plan will be mailed to the Regional Director within 30 days of the date the board of directors votes to present the question of liquidation to the members.
