
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 723-MEMBER BUSINESS LOANS; COMMERCIAL LENDING
##### § 723.1 Purpose and scope.
###### Other regulations that apply.

(c)(1) For federal credit unions, the requirements of § 701.21(a) through (g) of this chapter apply to commercial loans granted by a federal credit union to the extent they are consistent with this part. As required by § 741.203 of this chapter, a federally insured state-chartered credit union must comply with § 701.21(c)(8) of this chapter concerning prohibited fees, and § 701.21(d)(5) of this chapter concerning non-preferential loans.

(2) If a Federal credit union makes a commercial loan through a program in which a federal or state agency (or its political subdivision) insures repayment, guarantees repayment, or provides an advance commitment to purchase the loan in full, and that program has requirements that are less restrictive than those required by this rule, then the Federal credit union may follow the loan requirements of the relevant guaranteed loan program. A federally insured state-chartered credit union that is subject to this part and that makes a commercial loan as part of a loan program in which a federal or state agency (or its political subdivision) insures repayment, guarantees repayment, or provides an advance commitment to purchase the loan in full, and that program has requirements that are less restrictive than those required by this rule, then the federally insured state-chartered credit union may follow the loan requirements of the relevant guaranteed loan program, provided that its state supervisory authority has determined that it has authority to do so under state law.

(3) The requirements of § 701.23 of this chapter apply to a Federal credit union's purchase, sale, or pledge of a commercial loan as an eligible obligation.

(4) The requirements of § 701.22 of this chapter apply to a federally insured credit union's purchase of a participation interest in a commercial loan.
