
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 725-NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION CENTRAL LIQUIDITY FACILITY
##### ยง 725.6 Termination of membership.

(a) A member of the Facility whose stock subscription constitutes less than 5 percent of total subscribed Facility stock may withdraw from membership in the Facility six months after notifying the NCUA Board in writing of its intention to do so.

(b) A member of the Facility whose stock subscription constitutes 5 percent or more of total subscribed Facility stock may withdraw from membership in the Facility twenty-four months after notifying the NCUA Board in writing of its intention to do so.

(c) The NCUA Board may terminate membership in the Facility if, after the opportunity for a hearing, the NCUA Board determines the member has failed to comply with any provision of the National Credit Union Central Liquidity Facility Act or any regulation issued pursuant thereto. If membership is terminated under this subsection, the credit union will be required to obtain the approval of the NCUA Board before becoming a member of the Facility again. Such approval will be granted only if the NCUA Board is satisfied that the credit union will comply with such Act and regulations.

(d)(1) If membership is terminated under any provision of this section, the terminated member's stock shall be redeemed upon termination. In such event, the Facility may retain any amount owed to the Facility by the member.

(2) When a member natural person credit union withdraws from membership in a corporate credit union which is an Agent or a member of an Agent group, the stock subscription of the Agent, or in the case of an Agent group, the stock subscription of the Agent group representative, will be adjusted after the waiting period which would apply under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section if the withdrawing credit union were a member of the Facility.
