
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 725-NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION CENTRAL LIQUIDITY FACILITY
##### § 725.5 Capital stock.

(a) The capital stock of the Facility is divided into nonvoting shares having a par value of $50 each. The Facility issues whole and fractional shares. Shares are issued in book entry form upon receipt of payment for such shares, and cannot be transferred or hypothecated except to the Facility.

(b) The capital stock subscriptions provided for in §§ 725.3 and 725.4 shall be:

(1) Based on an arithmetic average of paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus over the six months preceding application for membership, and

(2) Adjusted at the close of each calendar year in accordance with an arithmetic average of paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus over the twelve months in such calendar year. Payments for adjustments to the capital stock subscription must be received by the Facility no later than March 31 of the following year.

(c) That part of a member's stock subscription which is not paid-in shall be held by the member on call of the NCUA Board and shall be invested in liquid assets.

(d) Any member may at any time purchase additional shares of capital stock in the Facility. Any shares in excess of the member's required paid-in portion of its stock subscription can be redeemed by the member as long as the member maintains investments in other assets sufficient to meet the requirement of paragraph (c) of this section. The member's required paid-in portion of its stock subscription includes one-half of its stock subscription plus any "calls" that may have been issued by the NCUA Board against the "on-call" portion of such stock subscription.

(e) Dividends will be paid on capital stock at such times and rates as are determined by the NCUA Board. The NCUA Board shall declare such dividends no less frequently than annually. All issued (paid for) capital stock shall share in dividend distributions without preference. Payment of dividends will be made by the issuance of capital stock to the member in the amount of the dividend.
