
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 725-NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION CENTRAL LIQUIDITY FACILITY
##### ยง 725.17 Applications for extensions of credit.

(a) A Regular member may apply for a Facility advance to meet its liquidity needs by filing an application on a Facility-approved form, or by any other method approved by the Facility.

(b)(1) An Agent member may apply for a Facility advance by filing an application on a Facility-approved form, or by any other method approved by the Facility.

(2) The Agent's application shall be based on the following:

(i) Approved applications to the Agent by its member natural person credit unions for pending loans to meet liquidity needs; or

(ii) Outstanding loans previously made by the Agent to meet liquidity needs of its member natural person credit unions; or

(iii) Such other demonstrable liquidity needs as the NCUA Board may specify; or

(iv) For the period beginning April 29, 2020, and ending on December 31, 2021, the applicant Agent's own liquidity needs. After the aforementioned period, an Agent is prohibited from submitting an application for an extension for its own liquidity needs.

(3) An Agent shall not submit an application to the Facility based on the liquidity needs of any member natural person credit union which has not agreed to the repayment, security and credit reporting terms prescribed by the Facility for Agent loans;

(4) Any loan to meet liquidity needs which have been or will be the basis for an application by the Agent for a Facility advance must be applied for on an application form approved by the Facility.

(5) Unless approved by the Facility, an Agent shall not submit an application to the Facility based on the liquidity needs of any credit union which became a member natural person credit union of the Agent after February 2, 1980, unless such credit union has been a member natural person credit union of the Agent for six months, was chartered within six months before becoming a member natural person credit union of the Agent, or had access to the Facility either as a Regular member or through another Agent within six months before becoming a member natural person credit union of the Agent.

(c) In emergency circumstances, the applications for extensions of credit required under paragraph (a) and paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(4) of this section may be verbal, but must be confirmed within five working days by an application as required by such subsection or paragraphs.

(d) Applications of Regular and Agent members shall be filed with a Facility lending officer. Each application for credit which is completed and properly filed will be approved or denied within five working days after the day of receipt.
