
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 741-REQUIREMENTS FOR INSURANCE
##### Subpart A-Regulations That Apply to Both Federal Credit Unions and Federally Insured State-Chartered Credit Unions and That Are Not Codified Elsewhere in NCUA's Regulations
###### ยง 741.4 Insurance premium and one percent deposit.
####### Assessment of administrative fee and interest for delinquent payment.

(k)Each federally insured credit union must pay to the NCUA an administrative fee, the costs of collection, and interest on any delinquent payment of its capitalization deposit or insurance premium. A payment will be considered delinquent if it is postmarked or electronically posted later than the date stated in the invoice provided to the credit union. The NCUA may waive or abate charges or collection of interest, if circumstances warrant.

(1) The administrative fee for a delinquent payment shall be an amount as fixed from time to time by the NCUA Board based upon the administrative costs of such delinquent payments to the NCUA in the preceding year.

(2) The costs of collection shall be calculated as the actual hours expended by NCUA personnel multiplied by the average hourly cost of the salaries and benefits of such personnel.

(3) The interest rate charged on any delinquent payment shall be the U.S. Department of the Treasury Tax and loan Rate in effect on the date when the loan payment is due as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717.

(4) The Act contains specific penalties and other consequences for delinquent payments, including, but not limited to:

(i) Section 202(d)(2)(B) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1782(d)(2)(B)) provides that the Board may assess and collect a penalty from an insured credit union, up to the amount specified in ยง 747.1001 of this chapter, for each day the credit union fails or refuses to pay any deposit or premium due to the fund; and

(ii) Section 202(d)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1782(d)(3)) provides, generally, that no insured credit union shall pay any dividends on its insured shares or distribute any of its assets while it remains in default in the payment of its deposit or any premium charge due to the fund. Section 202(d)(3) further provides that any director or officer of any insured credit union who knowingly participates in the declaration or payment of any such dividend or in any such distribution shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned more than one year, or both.
