
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 741-REQUIREMENTS FOR INSURANCE
##### Subpart A-Regulations That Apply to Both Federal Credit Unions and Federally Insured State-Chartered Credit Unions and That Are Not Codified Elsewhere in NCUA's Regulations
###### ยง 741.8 Purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities.

(a) Any credit union insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF) must receive approval from the NCUA before purchasing loans or assuming an assignment of deposits, shares, or liabilities from:

(1) Any credit union that is not insured by the NCUSIF;

(2) Any other financial-type institution (including depository institutions, mortgage banks, consumer finance companies, insurance companies, loan brokers, and other loan sellers or liability traders); or

(3) Any successor in interest to any institution identified in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.

(b) Approval is not required for:

(1) Purchases of student loans or real estate secured loans to facilitate the packaging of a pool of loans to be sold or pledged on the secondary market under ยง 701.23(b)(1)(iii) or (iv) of this chapter or comparable state law for state-chartered credit unions, or purchases of member loans under ยง 701.23(b)(1)(i) of this chapter or comparable state law for state-chartered credit unions;

(2) Assumption of deposits, shares or liabilities as rollovers or transfers of member retirement accounts or in which a federally insured credit union perfects a security interest in connection with an extension of credit to any member.

(3) Purchases of assets, including loans, or assumptions of deposits, shares, or liabilities by any credit union insured by the NCUSIF from another credit union insured by the NCUSIF, except a purchase or assumption as a part of a merger under part 708b; or

(4) Purchases of loan participations as defined in and meeting the requirements of ยง 701.22 of this chapter.

(c) A credit union seeking approval under paragraph (a) of this section must submit a request for approval to the appropriate regional director. The request must state the nature of the transaction and include copies of all relevant transaction documents. The regional director will approve or disapprove the request as soon as possible depending on the complexity of the proposed transaction. Credit unions should submit a request for approval in sufficient time to close the transaction.
