
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 741-REQUIREMENTS FOR INSURANCE
##### Subpart A-Regulations That Apply to Both Federal Credit Unions and Federally Insured State-Chartered Credit Unions and That Are Not Codified Elsewhere in NCUA's Regulations
###### ยง 741.12 Liquidity and contingency funding plans.

(a) Any credit union insured pursuant to Title II of the Act that has assets of less than $50 million must maintain a basic written policy that provides a credit union board-approved framework for managing liquidity and a list of contingent liquidity sources that can be employed under adverse circumstances.

(b) Any credit union insured pursuant to Title II of the Act that has assets of $50 million or more must establish and document a contingency funding plan (CFP) that meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) In addition to the requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section to establish and maintain a CFP, any credit union insured pursuant to Title II of the Act that has assets of $250 million or more must establish and document access to at least one contingent federal liquidity source for use in times of financial emergency and distressed economic circumstances. These credit unions must conduct advance planning and periodic testing to ensure that contingent funding sources are readily available when needed. A credit union subject to this paragraph may demonstrate access to a contingent federal liquidity source by:

(1) Maintaining regular membership in the Central Liquidity Facility (Facility), as described in part 725 of this chapter;

(2) Maintaining membership in the Facility through an Agent, as described in part 725 of this chapter; or

(3) Establishing borrowing access at the Federal Reserve Discount Window by filing the necessary lending agreements and corporate resolutions to obtain credit from a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to 12 CFR part 201.

(d) Contingency Funding Plan: A credit union must have a written CFP commensurate with its complexity, risk profile, and scope of operations that sets out strategies for addressing liquidity shortfalls in emergency situations. The CFP may be a separate policy or may be incorporated into an existing policy such as an asset/liability policy, a funds management policy, or a business continuity policy. The CFP must address, at a minimum, the following:

(1) The sufficiency of the institution's liquidity sources to meet normal operating requirements as well as contingent events;

(2) The identification of contingent liquidity sources;

(3) Policies to manage a range of stress environments, identification of some possible stress events, and identification of likely liquidity responses to such events;

(4) Lines of responsibility within the institution to respond to liquidity events;

(5) Management processes that include clear implementation and escalation procedures for liquidity events; and

(6) The frequency that the institution will test and update the plan.

(e) A credit union is subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section when two consecutive Call Reports show its assets to be at least $50 million or $250 million, respectively. A FICU then has 120 days from the effective date of that second Call Report to meet the greater requirements.
