
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 741-REQUIREMENTS FOR INSURANCE
##### Appendix B to Part 741-Loan Workouts, Nonaccrual Policy, and Regulatory Reporting of Troubled Debt Restructured Loans
###### past due

The lack of a sound written policy on workouts can mask the true performance andstatus of the loan portfolio. Accordingly, the credit union board and management must adopt and adhere to an explicit written policy and standards that control the use of loan workouts, and establish controls to ensure the policy is consistently applied. The loan workout policy and practices should be commensurate with a credit union's size and complexity, and must conform with a credit union's broader risk mitigation strategies. The policy must define eligibility requirements (that is, under what conditions the credit union will consider a loan workout), including establishing limits on the number of times an individual loan may be modified.The policy must also ensure credit unions make loan workout decisions based on a borrower's renewed willingness and ability to repay the loan. If a credit union restructures a loan more frequently than once a year or twice in five years, examiners will have higher expectations for the documentation of the borrower's renewed willingness and ability to repay the loan. The NCUA is concerned about restructuring activity that pushes existing losses into future reporting periods without improving a loan's collectability. One way a credit union can provide convincing evidence that multiple restructurings improve collectability is to validate completed multiple restructurings that substantiate the claim. Examiners will ask for such validation documentation if a credit union engages in multiple restructurings of a loan.

In addition, the policy must establish sound controls to ensure loan workout actions are appropriately structured.The policy must explicitly prohibit the authorization of additional advances to finance credit union fees and commissions. The credit union may, however, make advances to cover third-party fees, such as force-placed insurance or property taxes. For loan workouts granted, a credit union must document the determination that the borrower is willing and able to repay the loan.

Modifications of loans that result in capitalization of unpaid interest are appropriate only when a borrower has the ability to repay the debt. At a minimum, if a FICU's loan modification policy permits capitalization of unpaid interest, the policy must require:

1. Compliance with all applicable federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Truth In Lending Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, and the prohibitions against the use of unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010.

2. Documentation that reflects a borrower's ability to repay, a borrower's source(s) of repayment, and when appropriate, compliance with the FICU's valuation policies at the time the modification is approved.

3. Providing borrowers with written disclosures that are accurate, clear and conspicuous and that are consistent with Federal and state consumer protection laws.

4. Appropriate reporting of loan status for modified loans in accordance with applicable law and accounting practices. The FICU shall not report a modified loan as past due if the loan was current prior to modification and the borrower is complying with the terms of the modification.

5. Prudent policies and procedures to help borrowers resume affordable and sustainable repayments that are appropriately structured, while at the same time minimizing losses to the credit union. The prudent policies and procedures must consider

i. Whether the loan modifications are well-designed, consistently applied, and provide a favorable outcome for borrowers.

ii. The available options for borrowers to repay any missed payments at the end of their modifications to avoid delinquencies or other adverse consequences.

6. Appropriate safety and soundness safeguards to prevent the following:

i. Masking deteriorations in loan portfolio quality and understating charge-off levels;

ii. Delaying loss recognition resulting in an understated allowance for loan and lease losses account or inaccurate loan valuations;

iii. Overstating net income and net worth (regulatory capital) levels; and

iv. Circumventing internal controls.

The credit union's risk management framework must include thresholds, based on aggregate volume of loan workout activity, which trigger enhanced reporting to the board of directors. This reporting will enable the credit union's board of directors to evaluate the effectiveness of the credit union's loan workout program, understand any implications to the organization's financial condition, and make any compensating adjustments to the overall business strategy. This information will also be available to examiners upon request.
