
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 741-REQUIREMENTS FOR INSURANCE
##### Appendix B to Part 741-Loan Workouts, Nonaccrual Policy, and Regulatory Reporting of Troubled Debt Restructured Loans
###### well secured,in the process of collection;

- It otherwise becomes bothandor

- The asset is a purchased impaired loan and it meets the criteria under GAAP for accrual of interest income under the accretable yield method. See ASC 310-30.

In restoring all loans to accrual status, if the credit union applied any interest payments received while the loan was in nonaccrual status to reduce the recorded investment in the loan, the credit union must not reverse the application of these payments to the loan's recorded investment (and must not credit interest income). Likewise, a credit union cannot restore the accrued but uncollected interest reversed or charged-off at the point the loan was placed on nonaccrual status to accrual; it can only be recognized as income if collected in cash or cash equivalents from the member.

A formally restructured commercial or member business loan workout need not be maintained in nonaccrual status, provided the restructuring and any charge-off taken on the loan are supported by a current, well-documented credit evaluation of the borrower's financial condition and prospects for repayment under the revised terms. Otherwise, the restructured loan must remain in nonaccrual status.

The credit union's evaluation must include consideration of the borrower's sustained historical repayment performance for a reasonable period prior to the date on which the loan is returned to accrual status. A sustained period of repayment performance is a minimum of six consecutive payments, and includes timely payments under the restructured loan's terms of principal and interest in cash or cash equivalents. In returning the commercial or member business workout loan to accrual status, a credit union may consider sustained historical repayment performance for a reasonable time prior to the restructuring. Such a restructuring must improve the collectability of the loan in accordance with a reasonable repayment schedule and does not relieve the credit union from the responsibility to promptly charge off all identified losses.
