
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 741-REQUIREMENTS FOR INSURANCE
##### Appendix B to Part 741-Loan Workouts, Nonaccrual Policy, and Regulatory Reporting of Troubled Debt Restructured Loans
###### sustained historical repayment performance for a reasonable time prior to the restructuring"

The following graph provides an example of a schedule of repayment performance to demonstrate a determination of six consecutive payments. If the original loan terms required a monthly payment of $1,500, and the credit union lowered the borrower's payment to $1,000 through formal commercial or member business loan restructure, then based on the first row of the graph, the "would encompass five of the pre-workout consecutive payments that were at least $1,000 (months 1 through 5). In total, the six consecutive repayment burden would be met by the first month post workout (month 6).

In the second row, only one of the pre-workout payments would count toward the six consecutive repayment requirement (month 5), because it is the first month in which the borrower made a payment of at least $1,000 after failing to pay at least that amount. Therefore, the loan would remain on nonaccrual for at least five post-workout consecutive payments (months 6 through 10) provided the borrower continues to make payments consistent with the restructured terms.

After a formal restructure of a commercial or member business loan, if the restructured loan has been returned to accrual status, the loan otherwise remains subject to the nonaccrual standards of this policy. If any interest payments received while the commercial or member business loan was in nonaccrual status were applied to reduce the recorded investment in the loan the application of these payments to the loan's recorded investment must not be reversed (and interest income must not be credited). Likewise, accrued but uncollected interest reversed or charged-off at the point the commercial or member business workout loan was placed on nonaccrual status cannot be restored to accrual; it can only be recognized as income if collected in cash or cash equivalents from the member.

The following tables summarize nonaccrual and restoration to accrual requirements previously discussed:
