
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 745-SHARE INSURANCE AND APPENDIX
##### Subpart A-Clarification and Definition of Account Insurance Coverage
###### ยง 745.2 General principles applicable in determining insurance of accounts.
####### Records.

(c)(1) The account records of the insured credit union shall be conclusive as to the existence of any relationship pursuant to which the funds in the account are deposited and on which a claim for insurance coverage is founded. Examples would be trustee, agent, custodian, or executor. No claim for insurance based on such a relationship will be recognized in the absence of such disclosure.

(2) If the account records of an insured credit union disclose the existence of a relationship which may provide a basis for additional insurance, the details of the relationship and the interest of other parties in the account must be ascertainable either from the records of the credit union or the records of the member maintained in good faith and in the regular course of business.

(3) The account records of an insured credit union in connection with a trust account shall disclose the name of both the settlor (grantor) and the trustee of the trust and shall contain an account signature card executed by the trustee.

(4) The interests of the co-owners of a joint account shall be deemed equal, unless otherwise stated on the insured credit union's records in the case of a tenancy in common.
