
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 747-ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS, ADJUDICATIVE HEARINGS, RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE, AND INVESTIGATIONS
##### Subpart D-Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Suspensions and Prohibitions Where Felony Charged
###### ยง 747.307 Hearing.

(a) Upon receipt of a request for a hearing which complies with ยง 747.306, the NCUA Board will order an informal hearing to commence within the following 30 days in the Washington, DC metropolitan area or at such other place as the NCUA Board designates before a Presiding Officer designated by the NCUA Board to conduct the hearing. At the request of the concerned party, the NCUA Board may order the hearing to commence at a time more than 30 days after the receipt of the request for such hearing.

(b) The notice of hearing shall be served by the NCUA Board upon the party or parties afforded the hearing and shall set forth the time and place of the hearing and the name and address of the Presiding Officer.

(c) The subject individual may appear at the hearing personally, through counsel, or personally with counsel. The individual shall have the right to introduce relevant and material written materials (or, at the discretion of the NCUA Board, oral testimony), and to present an oral argument before the Presiding Officer. A member of the enforcement staff of the Office of General Counsel of the NCUA may attend the hearing and may participate as a party. Neither the formal rules of evidence nor the adjudicative procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557), nor subpart A of this part shall apply to the hearing. The proceedings shall be recorded and a transcript furnished to the individual upon request and after the payment of the cost thereof. The NCUA Board shall have the discretion to permit the presentation of witnesses, within specified time limits, so long as a list of such witnesses is furnished to the Presiding Officer at least ten days prior to the hearing. Witnesses shall not be sworn, unless specifically requested by either party or directed by the Presiding Officer. The Presiding Officer may examine any witnesses and each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine any witness presented by an opposing party. Upon the request of either the subject individual or the representative of the Office of General Counsel, the record shall remain open for a period of five business days following the hearing, during which time the parties may make any additional submissions to the record. Thereafter, the record shall be closed.

(d) In the course of or in connection with any proceeding under this subpart, the NCUA Board and the Presiding Officer will have the power to administer oaths and affirmations, to take or cause depositions to be taken, and to issue, revoke, quash, or modify subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum. If the NCUA Board permits the presentation of witnesses, the NCUA Board or the Presiding Officer may require the attendance of witnesses from any place in any state or in any territory or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States at any designated place where such proceeding is being conducted. Witnesses subpoenaed shall be paid the same fees and mileage as are paid witnesses in the District Courts of the United States. The NCUA Board or the Presiding Officer may require the production of documents from any place in any such state, territory, or other place.

(e) The Presiding Officer will make his or her recommendations to the Board, where possible, within ten business days following the close of the record.
