
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 747-ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS, ADJUDICATIVE HEARINGS, RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE, AND INVESTIGATIONS
##### Subpart G-Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Recovery of Attorneys Fees and Other Expenses Under the Equal Access to Justice Act in NCUA Board Adjudications
###### ยง 747.610 Answer to application.

(a) Within 30 days after service of an application, counsel for NCUA may file an answer to the application. Unless counsel for NCUA requests and is granted an extension of time for filing or files a statement of intent to negotiate under paragraph (b) of this section, failure to file an answer within the 30-day period will be treated as a consent to the award requested.

(b) If counsel for NCUA and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate a settlement. The filing of this statement shall extend the time for filing an answer for an additional 30 days, and further extensions may be granted by the NCUA Board upon the joint request of counsel for NCUA and the applicant.

(c) The answer shall explain in detail any objections to the award requested and identify the facts relied on in support of counsel's position. If the answer is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, counsel shall include with the answer a request for further proceedings under ยง 747.613.

(d)(1) The applicant may file a reply if counsel for NCUA has addressed in his or her answer any of the following issues:

(i) That the position of NCUA in the proceeding was substantially justified;

(ii) That the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings; or

(iii) That special circumstances make an award unjust.

(2) The reply shall be filed within 15 days after service of the answer. If the reply is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, the applicant shall include with the reply a request for further proceedings under ยง 747.613.
