
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 747-ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS, ADJUDICATIVE HEARINGS, RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE, AND INVESTIGATIONS
##### Subpart G-Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Recovery of Attorneys Fees and Other Expenses Under the Equal Access to Justice Act in NCUA Board Adjudications
###### ยง 747.607 Statement of net worth.

(a) Each applicant (other than a qualified tax-exempt organization or cooperative association) must provide a detailed statement showing the net worth of the applicant and any affiliates, as defined in ยง 747.602(a), when the proceeding was initiated. The exhibit may be in any form convenient to the applicant that provides full disclosure of the applicant's and its affiliates' assets and liabilities and is sufficient to determine whether the applicant is an eligible party. The administrative law judge or the NCUA Board may require additional information from the applicant to determine eligibility. Unless otherwise ordered by the Board or required by law, the statement shall be kept confidential and used by the NCUA Board only in making its determination of an award.

(b) If the applicant or any of its affiliates is a Federal credit union, the portion of the statement of net worth which relates to the Federal credit union shall consist of a copy of the Federal credit union's last Statement of Financial Condition filed before the initiation of the underlying proceeding.

(c) All statements of net worth shall describe any transfers of assets from or obligations incurred by the applicant or any affiliate, occurring in the six-month period prior to the date on which the proceeding was initiated, which reduced the net worth of the applicant and its affiliates below the applicable net-worth ceiling. If there were none, the applicant shall so state.
