
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 747-ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS, ADJUDICATIVE HEARINGS, RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE, AND INVESTIGATIONS
##### Subpart G-Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Recovery of Attorneys Fees and Other Expenses Under the Equal Access to Justice Act in NCUA Board Adjudications
###### § 747.606 Contents of application.

(a) A prevailing eligible party, as defined in §§ 747.602, 747.603, and 747.604, seeking an award under this section, must file an application for an award of fees and expenses with the Secretary of the NCUA Board. The application shall include the following information:

(1) The identity of the applicant and the proceeding for which an award is sought;

(2) A showing that the applicant has prevailed and an identification of the issues in the proceeding on which the applicant believes that the position of NCUA was not substantially justified;

(3) A statement, with supporting documentation, that the applicant is an eligible party, as defined by § 747.602. If the applicant is an individual, he or she must state that his or her net worth does not exceed $2 million. If the applicant is not an individual, it shall state the number of its employees and that its net worth does not exceed $7 million as of the date the proceeding was initiated. However, an applicant may omit a statement of net worth if:

(i) It attaches a copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or, in the case of a tax-exempt organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status, a statement that describes the basis for the applicant's belief that it qualifies under such section; or

(ii) It states that it is a cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)).

(4) A Statement of the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought; and

(5) Any other matters that the applicant believes may assist or wishes the NCUA Board to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made.

(b) The application shall be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney of the applicant. It shall also contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application is true and correct.

(c) The application and documentation requirements of this subpart are required by law as a prerequisite to obtaining a benefit under the EAJA and this subpart.
