
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 25 - COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT AND INTERSTATE DEPOSIT PRODUCTION REGULATIONS
#### Subpart B - Standards for Assessing Performance
##### ยง 25.22 Lending test.
###### Scope of test.

(a)(1) The lending test evaluates a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its assessment area(s) through its lending activities by considering a bank's or savings association's home mortgage, small business, small farm, and community development lending. If consumer lending constitutes a substantial majority of a bank's or savings association's business, the appropriate Federal banking agency will evaluate the bank's or savings association's consumer lending in one or more of the following categories: motor vehicle, credit card, other secured, and other unsecured loans. In addition, at a bank's or savings association's option, the appropriate Federal banking agency will evaluate one or more categories of consumer lending, if the bank or savings association has collected and maintained, as required in ยง 25.42(c)(1), the data for each category that the bank or savings association elects to have the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluate.

(2) The appropriate Federal banking agency considers originations and purchases of loans. The appropriate Federal banking agency will also consider any other loan data the bank or savings association may choose to provide, including data on loans outstanding, commitments and letters of credit.

(3) A bank or savings association may ask the appropriate Federal banking agency to consider loans originated or purchased by consortia in which the bank or savings association participates or by third parties in which the bank or savings association has invested only if the loans meet the definition of community development loans and only in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The appropriate Federal banking agency will not consider these loans under any criterion of the lending test except the community development lending criterion.
