
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 747-ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS, ADJUDICATIVE HEARINGS, RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE, AND INVESTIGATIONS
##### Subpart G-Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Recovery of Attorneys Fees and Other Expenses Under the Equal Access to Justice Act in NCUA Board Adjudications
###### ยง 747.614 Recommended decision.

The administrative law judge shall file a recommended decision on the application with the NCUA Board within 60 days after completion of the proceedings on the application. The recommended decision shall include written findings and conclusions on the applicant's eligibility and status as a prevailing party, and an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount awarded. The recommended decision shall also include, if at issue, findings on whether NCUA's position was substantially justified, whether the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust. If the applicant has sought an award against more than one agency, the recommended decision shall allocate responsibility for payment of any award made among the agencies, and shall explain the reasons for the allocation made. The administrative law judge shall file with and certify to the NCUA Board the record of the proceeding on the fee application, the recommended decision and proposed order. Promptly upon such filing, the NCUA Board shall serve upon each party to the proceeding a copy of the administrative law judge's recommended decision, findings, conclusions and proposed order. The provisions of this section and ยง 747.613 shall not apply, however, in any case where the hearing was held before the NCUA Board.
