
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 747-ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS, ADJUDICATIVE HEARINGS, RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE, AND INVESTIGATIONS
##### Subpart I-Local Rules Applicable to Formal Investigative Proceedings
###### ยง 747.807 Rights of witnesses.

(a) In the event that a formal investigative proceeding is conducted pursuant to a specific order entered by the NCUA Board or by its General Counsel, then any party who is compelled or requested to provide documentary evidence or testimony as part of such proceeding shall, upon request, be shown a copy of the NCUA Board's or its delegate's order. Copies of such orders shall not be provided for their retention to such persons requesting same except in the sole discretion of the General Counsel or his designee.

(b) Any party compelled to appear, or who appears by request or permission of the officer conducting the investigation, in person at a formal investigative proceeding may be accompanied, represented and advised by counsel who is a member of the bar of the highest court of any state; provided however, that all witnesses in such proceeding shall be sequestered, and unless permitted in the discretion of the officer conducting the investigation, no witness or the counsel accompanying any such witness shall be permitted to be present during the examination of any other witness called in such proceeding.

(c)(1) The right of a witness to be accompanied, represented and advised by counsel shall mean the right to have an attorney present during any formal investigative proceeding and to have the attorney-

(i) Advise such person before, during and after such testimony;

(ii) Question such person briefly at the conclusion of his testimony to clarify any answers such person has given; and

(iii) Make summary notes during such testimony solely for the use of such person.

(2) From time to time, in the discretion of the officer, it shall be necessary for persons other than the witness and his or her counsel to attend non-public investigative proceedings. For example, the officer may deem it appropriate that outside counsel to the NCUA Board attend and advise him or her concerning the proceeding including the examination of a particular witness. In these circumstances, outside counsel would not be an officer as that term is used. In other circumstances, it may be appropriate that a technical expert (such as an accountant) accompany the witness and his or her counsel in order to assist counsel in understanding technical issues. These latter circumstances should be rare, are left to the discretion of the officer conducting the investigation, and shall not in any event be allowed to serve as a ruse to coordinate testimony between witnesses, to oversee or supervise the testimony of any witnesses, or otherwise defeat the beneficial effects of the witness sequestration rule.

(d) The officer conducting the investigation may report to the NCUA Board any instances where any witness or counsel has been guilty of dilatory, obstructionist or contumacious conduct during the course of a formal investigative proceeding or any other instance of violations of these rules. The NCUA Board will thereupon take such further action as the circumstance may warrant including barring the offending person from further participation in the particular formal investigative proceeding or even from further practice before the Board.
