
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter A - Regulations Affecting Credit Unions
#### PART 747-ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS, ADJUDICATIVE HEARINGS, RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE, AND INVESTIGATIONS
##### Subpart L-Issuance, Review and Enforcement of Orders Imposing Prompt Corrective Action
###### § 747.2004 Review of order to dismiss a director or senior executive officer.
####### Procedures for informal hearing.

(e)(1) A Respondent may appear at the hearing personally or through counsel. A Respondent shall have the right to introduce relevant documents and to present oral argument at the hearing. A Respondent may introduce witness testimony only if expressly authorized by the NCUA Board or by the presiding officer. Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure (12 CFR part 747) apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the NCUA Board orders otherwise.

(2) The informal hearing shall be recorded, and a transcript shall be furnished to the Respondent upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officer. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness.

(3) The presiding officer may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period following completion of witness testimony or oral argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.

(4) A Respondent shall bear the burden of demonstrating that his or her continued employment by or service with the credit union would materially strengthen the credit union's ability to-

(i) Become "adequately capitalized," to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of the credit union's net worth category classification or its failure to submit or implement a net worth restoration plan or revised business plan; and

(ii) Correct the unsafe or unsound condition or unsafe or unsound practice, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of reclassification of the credit union pursuant to §§ 702.102(b) and 702.302(d) of this chapter.

(5) Within 20 calendar days following the date of closing of the hearing and the record, the presiding officer shall make a recommendation to the NCUA Board concerning the Respondent's request for reinstatement with the credit union.
