
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 790-DESCRIPTION OF NCUA; REQUESTS FOR AGENCY ACTION
##### § 790.2 Central and field office organization.
###### Office of the Executive Director.

(6)The Executive Director reports to the entire NCUA Board. The Executive Director translates the NCUA Board policy decisions into workable programs, delegates responsibility for these programs to appropriate staff members, and coordinates the activities of the senior executive staff, which includes: The General Counsel; the Regional Directors; and the Office Directors for the Asset Management and Assistance Center, Chief Economist, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Information Officer, Consumer Financial Protection, Continuity and Security Management, Credit Union Resources and Expansion, Examination and Insurance, Human Resources, Minority and Women Inclusion, National Examinations and Supervision, and External Affairs and Communications. Because of the nature of the attorney/client relationship between the Board and General Counsel, the General Counsel may be directed by the Board not to disclose discussions and/or assignments with anyone, including the Executive Director. The Executive Director is otherwise to be privy to all matters within senior executive staff's responsibility. The Office of the Executive Director also supervises the agency's ombudsman. The ombudsman investigates complaints and recommends solutions on regulatory issues that cannot be resolved at the regional level.
