
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 790-DESCRIPTION OF NCUA; REQUESTS FOR AGENCY ACTION
##### § 790.2 Central and field office organization.
###### The Office of Human Resources.

(8)The Office of Human Resources provides a comprehensive program for the management of NCUA's human resources. This is done in support of NCUA's goal to recruit, develop, and retain a quality and representative workforce. The Director is responsible for managing NCUA's compensation program, for facilitating good organization design, for staffing positions through recruitment and merit promotion programs, and for maintaining an automated personnel records system. The Director is also responsible for the Board's performance management, incentive awards, employee assistance, and benefit programs. These programs are geared to foster healthy employee/management relations and to provide employees with good working conditions. The Director is also responsible for providing a comprehensive program for the training and development of NCUA's staff, including developing policy consistent with the Government Employees Training Act; providing training opportunities equitably so that all employees have the skills necessary to help meet the agency's mission; evaluating the agency's training and development efforts; and ensuring that the agencies training monies are spent in a cost efficient manner and in accordance with the law.
