
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 790-DESCRIPTION OF NCUA; REQUESTS FOR AGENCY ACTION
##### § 790.2 Central and field office organization.
###### Office of National Examinations and Supervision.

(2)Similar to a Regional Director, the Director of the Office of National Examinations and Supervision manages NCUA's supervisory program over credit unions; however, it oversees the activities for corporate credit unions and of natural person credit unions defined as ONES credit unions under part 700 of this chapter, in accordance with established policies. The Director's duties include directing insurance, examination, and supervision programs to promote and assure safety and soundness; managing office resources to meet program objectives in the most economical and practical manner; and maintaining good public relations with public, private and governmental organizations, credit union officials, credit union organizations, and other groups which have an interest in credit union matters in the assigned office. The Director maintains liaison and cooperation with other regional offices of federal departments and agencies, state agencies, and other governmental units that affect credit unions. The Director is aided by a Deputy Director. Staff working in the office report to the Director of Supervision, who in turn reports to the Deputy Director. Field staff is divided into examiner districts, each assigned to a National Field Supervisor, each of whom in turn reports directly to the Deputy Director.
