
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 790-DESCRIPTION OF NCUA; REQUESTS FOR AGENCY ACTION
##### § 790.2 Central and field office organization.
###### Regional Offices.

(1)(i) The NCUA has three Regional Offices:

(ii) A Regional Director is in charge of each Regional Office. The Regional Director manages NCUA's programs in the Region assigned in accordance with established policies. A Regional Director's duties include: Directing examination and supervision programs to promote and assure safety and soundness; assisting other offices in chartering and insurance issues; managing regional resources to meet program objectives in the most economical and practical manner; and maintaining good public relations with public, private, and governmental organizations, federal credit union officials, credit union organizations, and other groups which have an interest in credit union matters in the assigned region. The Regional Director maintains liaison and cooperation with other regional offices of federal departments and agencies, state agencies, city and county officials, and other governmental units that affect credit unions. The Regional Director is aided by Associate Regional Directors. Each region is divided into examiner districts, each assigned to a Supervisory Credit Union Examiner; groups of examiners are directed by a Supervisory Credit Union Examiner, each of whom in turn reports directly to one of the Associate Regional Directors.
