
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 791-RULES OF NCUA BOARD PROCEDURE; PROMULGATION OF NCUA RULES AND REGULATIONS; PUBLIC OBSERVATION OF NCUA BOARD MEETINGS
##### Subpart C-Public Observation of NCUA Board Meetings Under the Sunshine Act
###### § 791.17 Maintenance of meeting records.

(a) Except in those circumstances which are beyond the control of the agency, the Board shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting, or any portion thereof, closed to public observation. However, for meetings closed under § 791.12(a) (8), (9)(i) or (10), the Board shall maintain either a transcript, a recording or a set of minutes. The Board shall maintain a complete electronic recording for each open meeting or any portion thereof. All records shall clearly identify each speaker.

(b) A set of minutes shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons for taking such action. Minutes shall also include a description of each of the views expressed by each person in attendance on any item and the record of any roll call vote, reflecting the vote of each member. All documents considered in connection with any action shall be identified in the minutes.

(c) The agency shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or any portion of a meeting, closed to public observation, for at least two years after such meeting or for one year after the conclusion of any agency proceeding with respect to which the meeting or any portion was held, whichever occurs later. The agency shall maintain a complete electronic recording of each open meeting for at least three months after the meeting date. A complete set of minutes shall be maintained on a permanent basis for all meetings.
