
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 791-RULES OF NCUA BOARD PROCEDURE; PROMULGATION OF NCUA RULES AND REGULATIONS; PUBLIC OBSERVATION OF NCUA BOARD MEETINGS
##### Subpart C-Public Observation of NCUA Board Meetings Under the Sunshine Act
###### § 791.13 Public announcement of meetings.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Board shall, for each meeting, make a public announcement, at least one week in advance of the meeting, of the time, place and subject matter of the meeting, whether it will be open or closed to public observation, and the name and telephone number of the Secretary of the Board or the person designated by the Board to respond to requests for information about the meeting.

(b) Advance notice is required unless a majority of the members of the Board determine by a recorded vote that agency business requires that a meeting be called at an earlier date, in which case, the information to be announced in paragraph (a) of this section shall be publicly announced at the earliest practicable time.

(c) A change, including a postponement or a cancellation, in the time or place of a meeting after a published announcement may be made only if announced at the earliest practicable time.

(d) A change in or deletion of the subject matter of a meeting or any portion of a meeting or a redetermination to open or close a meeting or any portion of a meeting after a published announcement may be made only if:

(1) A majority of the Board determines by recorded vote that agency business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible and

(2) Public announcement of the change and of the vote of each member on such change shall be made at the earliest practicable time.

(e) Each meeting announcement or amendment thereof shall be posted on the Public Notice Bulletin Board in the reception area of the agency headquarters and may be made available by other means deemed desirable by the Board. Immediately following each public announcement required by this section, the stated information shall be submitted to thefor publication.

(f) No announcement shall contain information which is determined to be exempt from disclosure under § 791.12(a).

(g) The agency shall maintain a mailing list of names and addresses of all persons who wish to receive copies of agency announcements of meetings open to public observation and amendments to such announcements. Requests to be placed on the mailing list should be made by telephoning or by writing to the Secretary of the Board.
