
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 792-REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT AND PRIVACY ACT, AND BY SUBPOENA; SECURITY PROCEDURES FOR CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
##### Subpart A-The Freedom of Information Act
###### Records Available Upon Request
####### § 792.08 What must I include in my request?

Until an Information Center receives your FOIA request, it is not obligated to search for responsive records, meet time deadlines, or release any records. A request will not be considered received if it does not include all of the items in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

(a) Your request must be in writing and include the words "FOIA REQUEST" on both the envelope and request letter. The request letter must also include your name, address and a telephone number where you can be reached during normal business hours. If you would like us to respond to your FOIA request by electronic mail (e-mail), you should include your e-mail address.

(b) A reasonable description of the records you seek. A reasonable description is one that enables an NCUA employee, who is familiar with the subject area of the request, to locate the record with a reasonable amount of effort.

(c) A statement agreeing to pay all applicable fees or to pay fees up to a certain maximum amount, or requesting a fee reduction or waiver in accordance with § 792.27. If the actual fees are expected to exceed the maximum amount you indicate in your request, NCUA will contact you to see if you are willing to pay the estimated fees. If you do not want to pay the estimated fees, your request will be closed and no bill will be sent.

(d) If other than paper copy, you must identify the form and format of responsive information you are requesting.
