
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 792-REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT AND PRIVACY ACT, AND BY SUBPOENA; SECURITY PROCEDURES FOR CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
##### Subpart C-Production of Nonpublic Records and Testimony of NCUA Employees in Legal Proceedings
###### § 792.40 What does this subpart prohibit?
####### Duty of persons who are not NCUA employees.

(b)(1) If you are not an NCUA employee but have custody of nonpublic records and are served with a subpoena requiring you to appear as a witness or produce records, you must promptly notify the NCUA about the subpoena. Also, you must notify the issuing court or authority and the person or entity for whom the subpoena was issued of the contents of this subpart. Notice to the NCUA is made by sending a copy of the subpoena to the General Counsel of the NCUA, Office of General Counsel, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428. After receiving notice, the NCUA may advise the issuing court or authority and the person or entity for whom the subpoena was issued that this subpart applies and, in addition, may intervene, attempt to have the subpoena quashed or withdrawn, or register appropriate objections.

(2) After notifying the Office of General Counsel, you should respond to a subpoena by appearing at the time and place stated in the subpoena. Unless authorized by the General Counsel, you should decline to produce any records or give any testimony, basing your refusal on this subpart. If the issuing court or authority orders the disclosure of records or orders you to testify, you should continue to decline to produce records or testify and should advise the Office of General Counsel.
