
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 792-REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT AND PRIVACY ACT, AND BY SUBPOENA; SECURITY PROCEDURES FOR CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
##### Subpart C-Production of Nonpublic Records and Testimony of NCUA Employees in Legal Proceedings
###### § 792.46 What will the NCUA do with my request?
####### Factors the NCUA will consider.

(a)The NCUA may consider various factors in reviewing a request for nonpublic records or testimony of NCUA employees, including:

(1) Whether disclosure would assist or hinder the NCUA in performing its statutory duties or use NCUA resources unreasonably, including whether responding to the request will interfere with NCUA employees' ability to do their work.

(2) Whether disclosure is necessary to prevent the perpetration of a fraud or other injustice in the matter or if you can get the records or testimony you want from sources other than the NCUA.

(3) Whether the request is unduly burdensome.

(4) Whether disclosure would violate a statute, executive order, or regulation, for example, the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a.

(5) Whether disclosure would reveal confidential, sensitive or privileged information, trade secrets or similar, confidential commercial or financial information, or would otherwise be inappropriate for release and, if so, whether a confidentiality agreement or protective order as provided in § 792.48(a) can adequately limit the disclosure.

(6) Whether the disclosure would interfere with law enforcement proceedings, compromise constitutional rights, or hamper NCUA research or investigatory activities.

(7) Whether the disclosure could result in NCUA appearing to favor one litigant over another.

(8) Any other factors the NCUA determines to be relevant to the interests of the NCUA.
