
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 792-REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT AND PRIVACY ACT, AND BY SUBPOENA; SECURITY PROCEDURES FOR CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
##### Subpart E-The Privacy Act
###### § 792.59 Appeal of initial determination.

(a) A rejection, in whole or in part, of a request to amend or correct a record may be appealed to the General Counsel within 30 working days of receipt of notice of the rejection. Appeals shall be in writing, and shall set forth the specific item of information sought to be corrected and the documentation justifying the correction. Appeals must be addressed to the Office of General Counsel, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428 with the words "PRIVACY ACT-APPEAL" written on the letter and the envelope. Appeals shall be decided within 30 working days of receipt unless the General Counsel, for good cause, extends such period for an additional 30 working days.

(b) Within the time limits set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the General Counsel shall either advise the individual of a decision to amend or correct the record, or advise the individual of a determination that an amendment or correction is not warranted on the facts, in which case the individual shall be advised of the right to provide for the record a "Statement of Disagreement" and of the right to further appeal pursuant to the Privacy Act. For records under the jurisdiction of the Office of Personnel Management, appeals will be made pursuant to that agency's regulations.

(c) If an appeal under this section is denied in whole or in part, an individual may file a statement of disagreement concisely stating the reason(s) for disagreeing with the denial for amendment or correction, and clearly identifying each part of any record that is disputed. The statement must be sent within 30 working days of the date of receipt of the notice of General Counsel's refusal to authorize amendment or correction, to the General Counsel, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428. Upon receipt of a statement of disagreement in accordance with this section, the General Counsel shall take steps to ensure that the statement is included in the system of records containing the disputed item and that the original item is so marked to indicate that there is a statement of dispute and where, within the system of records, that statement may be found.

(d) When a record has been amended or corrected or a statement of disagreement has been furnished, the system manger for the system of records containing the record shall, within 30 days thereof, advise all prior recipients of information to which the amendment or statement of disagreement relates whose identity can be determined by an accounting made as required by the Privacy Act of 1974 or any other accounting previously made, of the amendment or statement of disagreement. When a statement of disagreement has been furnished, the system manager shall also provide any subsequent recipient of a disclosure containing information to which the statement relates with a copy of the statement and note the disputed portion of the information disclosed. A concise statement of the reasons for not making the requested amendment may also be provided if deemed appropriate.

(e) If access is denied because of an exemption, the individual will be notified of the right to appeal that determination to the General Counsel within 30 days after receipt. Appeals will be determined within 20 working days.
