
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 793-TORT CLAIMS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT
##### Subpart B-Procedures
###### § 793.2 Administrative claim; when presented; place of filing.

(a) For purposes of the regulations in this part, a claim shall be deemed to have been presented when the National Credit Union Administration receives, at a place designated in paragraph (b) of this section, an executed Standard Form 95 or other written notification of an incident accompanied by a claim for money damages in a sum certain for damage to or loss of property, for personal injury, or for death, alleged to have occurred by reason of the incident. A claim which should have been presented to the National Credit Union Administration but which was mistakenly addressed to or filed with another Federal agency, shall be deemed to be presented to the National Credit Union Administration as of the date that the claim is received by the National Credit Union Administration. A claim mistakenly addressed to or filed with the National Credit Union Administration shall forthwith be transferred to the appropriate Federal agency, if ascertainable, or returned to the claimant.

(b) A claim presented in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section may be amended by the claimant at any time prior to final action by the Office of General Counsel, National Credit Union Administration or prior to the exercise of the claimant's option to bring suit under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a). Amendments shall be submitted in writing and signed by the claimant or his duly authorized agent or legal representative. Upon the timely filing of an amendment to a pending claim, the National Credit Union Administration shall have 6 months in which to make a final disposition of the claim as amended and the claimant's option under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a) shall not accrue until 6 months after the filing of an amendment.

(c) Forms may be obtained and claims may be filed with the regional office of the National Credit Union Administration having jurisdiction over the employee involved in the accident or incident, or with the Office of General Counsel, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428.
