
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 792-REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT AND PRIVACY ACT, AND BY SUBPOENA; SECURITY PROCEDURES FOR CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
##### Subpart E-The Privacy Act
###### § 792.66 Exemptions.

(a) NCUA maintains several systems of records that are exempted from some provisions of the Privacy Act. The system number and name, description of records contained in the system, exempted provisions and reasons for exemption are as follows:

(b)(1) System NCUA-1, entitled "Employee Suitability Security Investigations Containing Adverse Information," consists of adverse information about NCUA employees that had been obtained as a result of routine U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) security investigations. To the extent that NCUA maintains records in this system pursuant to OPM guidelines that may require retrieval of information by use of individual identifiers, those records are encompassed by and included in the OPM Central system of records number Central-9 entitled, "Personnel Investigations Records," and thus are subject to the exemptions promulgated by OPM. Additionally, in order to ensure the protection of properly confidential sources, particularly as to those records which are not maintained pursuant to such Office of Personnel Management requirements, the records in these systems of records are exempted, pursuant to section k(5) of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5)), from section (d) of the Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(d)). To the extent that disclosure of a record would reveal the identity of a confidential source, NCUA need not grant access to that record by its subject. Information which would reveal a confidential source shall, however, whenever possible, be extracted or summarized in a manner which protects the source and the summary or extract shall be provided to the requesting individual.

(2) System NCUA-8, entitled, "Investigative Reports Involving Any Crime or Suspicious Activity Against a Credit Union, NCUA," consists of investigatory or enforcement records about individuals suspected of involvement in violations of laws or regulations, whether criminal or administrative. These records are maintained in an overall context of general investigative information concerning crimes against credit unions. To the extent that individually identifiable information is maintained for purposes of protecting the security of any investigations by appropriate law enforcement authorities and promoting the successful prosecution of all actual criminal activity, the records in this system are exempted, pursuant to section k(2) of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(2)), from sections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (f), and (g). The records in this system are also exempted pursuant to section (j)(2) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), from sections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (f), and (g). Where possible, information that would identify a confidential source will be extracted or summarized in a manner that protects the source and the summary or extract will be provided to the requesting individual.

(3) System NCUA-20, entitled, "Office of Inspector General (OIG) Investigative Records," consists of OIG records of closed and pending investigations of individuals alleged to have been involved in criminal violations. The records in this system are exempted pursuant to sections (k)(2) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), from sections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f). The records in this system are also exempted pursuant to section (j)(2) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), from sections (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), and (g). NCUA need not make an accounting of previous disclosures of a record in this system of records available to its subject, and NCUA need not grant access to any records in this system of records by their subject. Further, whenever individuals request records about themselves and maintained in this system of records, the NCUA will advise the individuals only that no records available to them pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974 have been identified. However, if review of the record reveals that the information contained therein has been used or is being used to deny the individuals any right, privilege or benefit for which they are eligible or to which they would otherwise be entitled under federal law, the individuals will be advised of the existence of the information and will be provided the information, except to the extent disclosure would identify a confidential source. Where possible, information which would identify a confidential source will be extracted or summarized in a manner which protects the source and the summary or extract will be provided to the requesting individual.

(4) System NCUA-13, entitled, "Litigation Case Files," consists of investigatory materials compiled for law enforcement purposes. Records in the Litigation Case Files system are used in connection with the execution of NCUA's legal and enforcement responsibilities. Because the system covers investigatory materials compiled for law enforcement purposes, it is eligible for exemption under subsection (k)(2) of the Privacy Act. 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). The Litigation Case Files system is exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), (I) and (f) of the Privacy Act. 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), (I) and (f). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit to which he would otherwise be entitled by federal law, or for which he otherwise would be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such records, the records or information will be made available to him, provided the identity of a confidential source is not disclosed. NCUA need not make an accounting of previous disclosures of a record in this system of records available to its subject, and NCUA need not grant access to any records in this system of records by their subject. Further, whenever individuals request records about themselves and maintained in this system of records, the NCUA will advise the individuals only that no records available to them pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974 have been identified. However, if review of the record reveals that the information contained therein has been used or is being used to deny the individuals any right, privilege or benefit for which they are eligible or to which they would otherwise be entitled under federal law, the individuals will be advised of the existence of the information and will be provided the information, except to the extent disclosure would identify a confidential source. Where possible, information that would identify a confidential source will be extracted or summarized in a manner which protects the source and the summary or extract will be provided to the requesting individual.

(c) For purposes of this section, a "confidential source" means a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would remain confidential, or, prior to September 27, 1976, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence.
