
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter VII - National Credit Union Administration
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting the Operations of the National Credit Union Administration
#### PART 793-TORT CLAIMS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT
##### Subpart B-Procedures
###### § 793.4 Administrative claims; evidence and information to be submitted.
####### Personal injury.

(b)In support of a claim based on personal injury, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:

(1) A written report by his attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injury, nature and extent of the treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability, the prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity. In addition, the claimant may be required to submit to a physical and/or mental examination by a physician employed or designated by the National Credit Union Administration. A copy or report of the examining physician shall be made available to the claimant upon the claimant's written request provided that claimant has, upon request, furnished the report referred to in the first sentence of this paragraph and has made or agrees to make available to the National Credit Union Administration any other physician's reports previously or thereafter made of the physical or mental condition which is the subject of his claim.

(2) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred, or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.

(3) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement of expected duration of and expenses for such treatment.

(4) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from his employer showing actual time lost from his employment, whether he is a full or part time employee, and wages or salary actually lost.

(5) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings actually lost.

(6) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
