
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1003-HOME MORTGAGE DISCLOSURE (REGULATION C)
#### § 1003.5 Disclosure and reporting.
##### Quarterly reporting.

(ii)Within 60 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter except the fourth quarter, a financial institution that reported for the preceding calendar year at least 60,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, shall submit to the appropriate Federal agency its loan/application register containing all data required to be recorded for that quarter pursuant to § 1003.4(f). The financial institution shall submit its quarterly loan/application register pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1)(ii) in electronic format at the address identified by the appropriate Federal agency for the institution.

(iii) When the last day for submission of data prescribed under this paragraph (a)(1) falls on a Saturday or Sunday, a submission shall be considered timely if it is submitted on the next succeeding Monday.

(2) A financial institution that is a subsidiary of a bank or savings association shall complete a separate loan/application register. The subsidiary shall submit the loan/application register, directly or through its parent, to the appropriate Federal agency for the subsidiary's parent at the address identified by the agency.

(3) A financial institution shall provide with its submission:

(i) Its name;

(ii) The calendar year the data submission covers pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section or calendar quarter and year the data submission covers pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section;

(iii) The name and contact information of a person who may be contacted with questions about the institution's submission;

(iv) Its appropriate Federal agency;

(v) The total number of entries contained in the submission;

(vi) Its Federal Taxpayer Identification number; and

(vii) Its Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) as described in § 1003.4(a)(1)(i)(A).

(4) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, "appropriate Federal agency" means the appropriate agency for the financial institution as determined pursuant to section 304(h)(2) of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (12 U.S.C. 2803(h)(2)) or, with respect to a financial institution subject to the Bureau's supervisory authority under section 1025(a) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5515(a)), the Bureau.
