
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1003-HOME MORTGAGE DISCLOSURE (REGULATION C)
#### § 1003.4 Compilation of reportable data.
##### 3

() Must not include any information that could be used to directly identify the applicant or borrower; and

(C) Ends with a two-character check digit, as prescribed in appendix C to this part.

(D) For a purchased covered loan that any financial institution has previously assigned or reported with a ULI under this part, the financial institution that purchases the covered loan must use the ULI that was assigned or previously reported for the covered loan.

(E) For an application that was previously reported with a ULI under this part and that results in an origination during the same calendar year that is reported in a subsequent reporting period pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), the financial institution may report the same ULI for the origination that was previously reported for the application.

(ii) Except for purchased covered loans, the date the application was received or the date shown on the application form.

(2) Whether the covered loan is, or in the case of an application would have been, insured by the Federal Housing Administration, guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or guaranteed by the Rural Housing Service or the Farm Service Agency.

(3) Whether the covered loan is, or the application is for, a home purchase loan, a home improvement loan, a refinancing, a cash-out refinancing, or for a purpose other than home purchase, home improvement, refinancing, or cash-out refinancing.

(4) Whether the application or covered loan involved a request for a preapproval of a home purchase loan under a preapproval program.

(5) Whether the construction method for the dwelling related to the property identified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section is site-built or a manufactured home.

(6) Whether the property identified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section is or will be used by the applicant or borrower as a principal residence, as a second residence, or as an investment property.

(7) The amount of the covered loan or the amount applied for, as applicable.

(i) For a closed-end mortgage loan, other than a purchased loan, an assumption, or a reverse mortgage, the amount to be repaid as disclosed on the legal obligation. For a purchased closed-end mortgage loan or an assumption of a closed-end mortgage loan, the unpaid principal balance at the time of purchase or assumption.

(ii) For an open-end line of credit, other than a reverse mortgage open-end line of credit, the amount of credit available to the borrower under the terms of the plan.

(iii) For a reverse mortgage, the initial principal limit, as determined pursuant to section 255 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20) and implementing regulations and mortgagee letters issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(8) The following information about the financial institution's action:

(i) The action taken by the financial institution, recorded as one of the following:

(A) Whether a covered loan was originated or purchased;

(B) Whether an application for a covered loan that did not result in the origination of a covered loan was approved but not accepted, denied, withdrawn by the applicant, or closed for incompleteness; and

(C) Whether a preapproval request that did not result in the origination of a home purchase loan was denied or approved but not accepted.

(ii) The date of the action taken by the financial institution.

(9) The following information about the location of the property securing the covered loan or, in the case of an application, proposed to secure the covered loan:

(i) The property address; and

(ii) If the property is located in an MSA or MD in which the financial institution has a home or branch office, or if the institution is subject to paragraph (e) of this section, the location of the property by:

(A) State;

(B) County; and

(C) Census tract if the property is located in a county with a population of more than 30,000 according to the most recent decennial census conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau.

(10) The following information about the applicant or borrower:

(i) Ethnicity, race, and sex, and whether this information was collected on the basis of visual observation or surname;

(ii) Age; and

(iii) Except for covered loans or applications for which the credit decision did not consider or would not have considered income, the gross annual income relied on in making the credit decision or, if a credit decision was not made, the gross annual income relied on in processing the application.

(11) The type of entity purchasing a covered loan that the financial institution originates or purchases and then sells within the same calendar year.

(12)(i) For covered loans and applications that are approved but not accepted, and that are subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 1026, other than assumptions, purchased covered loans, and reverse mortgages, the difference between the covered loan's annual percentage rate and the average prime offer rate for a comparable transaction as of the date the interest rate is set.

(ii) "Average prime offer rate" means an annual percentage rate that is derived from average interest rates and other loan pricing terms currently offered to consumers by a set of creditors for mortgage loans that have low-risk pricing characteristics. The Bureau publishes tables of average prime offer rates by transaction type at least weekly and also publishes the methodology it uses to derive these rates.

(13) For covered loans subject to the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994, as implemented in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.32, whether the covered loan is a high-cost mortgage under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.32(a).

(14) The lien status (first or subordinate lien) of the property identified under paragraph (a)(9) of this section.

(15)(i) Except for purchased covered loans, the credit score or scores relied on in making the credit decision and the name and version of the scoring model used to generate each credit score.

(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(15), "credit score" has the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 1681g(f)(2)(A).

(16) The principal reason or reasons the financial institution denied the application, if applicable.

(17) For covered loans subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.43(c), the following information:

(i) If a disclosure is provided for the covered loan pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), the amount of total loan costs, as disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(f)(4); or

(ii) If the covered loan is not subject to the disclosure requirements in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), and is not a purchased covered loan, the total points and fees charged in connection with the covered loan, expressed in dollars and calculated pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1).

(18) For covered loans subject to the disclosure requirements in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), the total of all itemized amounts that are designated borrower-paid at or before closing, as disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(f)(1).

(19) For covered loans subject to the disclosure requirements in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), the points paid to the creditor to reduce the interest rate, expressed in dollars, as described in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.37(f)(1)(i), and disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(f)(1).

(20) For covered loans subject to the disclosure requirements in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), the amount of lender credits, as disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(h)(3).

(21) The interest rate applicable to the approved application, or to the covered loan at closing or account opening.

(22) For covered loans or applications subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 1026, other than reverse mortgages or purchased covered loans, the term in months of any prepayment penalty, as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(6)(i) or (ii), as applicable.

(23) Except for purchased covered loans, the ratio of the applicant's or borrower's total monthly debt to the total monthly income relied on in making the credit decision.

(24) Except for purchased covered loans, the ratio of the total amount of debt secured by the property to the value of the property relied on in making the credit decision.

(25) The scheduled number of months after which the legal obligation will mature or terminate or would have matured or terminated.

(26) The number of months, or proposed number of months in the case of an application, until the first date the interest rate may change after closing or account opening.

(27) Whether the contractual terms include or would have included any of the following:

(i) A balloon payment as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.18(s)(5)(i);

(ii) Interest-only payments as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.18(s)(7)(iv);

(iii) A contractual term that would cause the covered loan to be a negative amortization loan as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.18(s)(7)(v); or

(iv) Any other contractual term that would allow for payments other than fully amortizing payments, as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.43(b)(2), during the loan term, other than the contractual terms described in this paragraph (a)(27)(i), (ii), and (iii).

(28) The value of the property securing the covered loan or, in the case of an application, proposed to secure the covered loan relied on in making the credit decision.

(29) If the dwelling related to the property identified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section is a manufactured home and not a multifamily dwelling, whether the covered loan is, or in the case of an application would have been, secured by a manufactured home and land, or by a manufactured home and not land.

(30) If the dwelling related to the property identified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section is a manufactured home and not a multifamily dwelling, whether the applicant or borrower:

(i) Owns the land on which it is or will be located or, in the case of an application, did or would have owned the land on which it would have been located, through a direct or indirect ownership interest; or

(ii) Leases or, in the case of an application, leases or would have leased the land through a paid or unpaid leasehold.

(31) The number of individual dwelling units related to the property securing the covered loan or, in the case of an application, proposed to secure the covered loan.

(32) If the property securing the covered loan or, in the case of an application, proposed to secure the covered loan includes a multifamily dwelling, the number of individual dwelling units related to the property that are income-restricted pursuant to Federal, State, or local affordable housing programs.

(33) Except for purchased covered loans, the following information about the application channel of the covered loan or application:

(i) Whether the applicant or borrower submitted the application for the covered loan directly to the financial institution; and

(ii) Whether the obligation arising from the covered loan was, or in the case of an application, would have been initially payable to the financial institution.

(34) For a covered loan or application, the unique identifier assigned by the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry for the mortgage loan originator, as defined in Regulation G, 12 CFR 1007.102, or Regulation H, 12 CFR 1008.23, as applicable.

(35)(i) Except for purchased covered loans, the name of the automated underwriting system used by the financial institution to evaluate the application and the result generated by that automated underwriting system.

(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(35), an "automated underwriting system" means an electronic tool developed by a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit that provides a result regarding the credit risk of the applicant and whether the covered loan is eligible to be originated, purchased, insured, or guaranteed by that securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor. A person is a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit, respectively, if it has ever securitized, provided Federal government insurance, or provided a Federal government guarantee for a closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit.

(36) Whether the covered loan is, or the application is for, a reverse mortgage.

(37) Whether the covered loan is, or the application is for, an open-end line of credit.

(38) Whether the covered loan is, or the application is for a covered loan that will be, made primarily for a business or commercial purpose.
