
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1003-HOME MORTGAGE DISCLOSURE (REGULATION C)
#### Appendix B to Part 1003-Form and Instructions for Data Collection on Ethnicity, Race, and Sex

You may list questions regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant on your loan application form, or on a separate form that refers to the application. (See the sample data collection form below for model language.)

1. You must ask the applicant for this information (but you cannot require the applicant to provide it) whether the application is taken in person, by mail or telephone, or on the internet. For applications taken by telephone, you must state the information in the collection form orally, except for that information which pertains uniquely to applications taken in writing, for example, the italicized language in the sample data collection form.

2. Inform the applicant that Federal law requires this information to be collected in order to protect consumers and to monitor compliance with Federal statutes that prohibit discrimination against applicants on these bases. Inform the applicant that if the information is not provided where the application is taken in person, you are required to note the information on the basis of visual observation or surname.

3. If you accept an application through electronic media with a video component, you must treat the application as taken in person. If you accept an application through electronic media without a video component (for example, facsimile), you must treat the application as accepted by mail.

4. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(10)(i), if a covered loan or application includes a guarantor, you do not report the guarantor's ethnicity, race, and sex.

5. If there are no co-applicants, you must report that there is no co-applicant. If there is more than one co-applicant, you must provide the ethnicity, race, and sex only for the first co-applicant listed on the collection form. A co-applicant may provide an absent co-applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex on behalf of the absent co-applicant. If the information is not provided for an absent co-applicant, you must report "information not provided by applicant in mail, internet, or telephone application" for the absent co-applicant.

6. When you purchase a covered loan and you choose not to report the applicant's or co-applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex, you must report that the requirement is not applicable.

7. You must report that the requirement to report the applicant's or co-applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex is not applicable when the applicant or co-applicant is not a natural person (for example, a corporation, partnership, or trust). For example, for a transaction involving a trust, you must report that the requirement to report the applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex is not applicable if the trust is the applicant. On the other hand, if the applicant is a natural person, and is the beneficiary of a trust, you must report the applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex.

8. You must report the ethnicity, race, and sex of an applicant as provided by the applicant. For example, if an applicant selects the "Asian" box the institution reports "Asian" for the race of the applicant. Only an applicant may self-identify as being of a particular Hispanic or Latino subcategory (Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Other Hispanic or Latino) or of a particular Asian subcategory (Asian Indian, Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, Other Asian) or of a particular Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander subcategory (Native Hawaiian, Guamanian or Chamorro, Samoan, Other Pacific Islander) or of a particular American Indian or Alaska Native enrolled or principal tribe. An applicant may select an ethnicity or race subcategory even if the applicant does not select an aggregate ethnicity or aggregate race category. For example, if an applicant selects only the "Mexican" box, the institution reports "Mexican" for the ethnicity of the applicant but does not also report "Hispanic or Latino."

9. You must offer the applicant the option of selecting more than one ethnicity or race. If an applicant selects more than one ethnicity or race, you must report each selected designation, subject to the limits described below.
