
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1003-HOME MORTGAGE DISCLOSURE (REGULATION C)
#### Appendix B to Part 1003-Form and Instructions for Data Collection on Ethnicity, Race, and Sex
##### Race-Other subcategories.

iv.An applicant may select the Other Asian race subcategory or the Other Pacific Islander race subcategory, an applicant may provide a particular Asian race or Pacific Islander race not listed in the standard subcategories, or an applicant may do both. If the applicant provides only a particular Asian race or Pacific Islander race in the space provided, you are permitted, but are not required, to report Other Asian or Other Pacific Islander, as applicable, in addition to reporting the particular Asian race or Pacific Islander race provided by the applicant. For example, if an applicant provides only "Hmong," you should report "Hmong." You are permitted, but not required, to report Other Asian as well. If an applicant selects the Other Asian race or the Other Pacific Islander race subcategory and provides a particular Asian race or Pacific Islander race not listed in the standard subcategories, you must report both the selection of Other Asian or Other Pacific Islander, as applicable, and the additional information provided by the applicant, subject to the five-race maximum. For purposes of the maximum of five reportable race categories and race subcategories combined, as set forth in paragraph 9.iii, the Other race subcategory and additional information provided by the applicant together constitute only one selection. Thus, using the same facts in the example offered in paragraph 9.iii above, if the applicant also selects Other Asian and enters "Thai" in the space provided, Other Asian and Thai are considered one selection. Similarly, if the applicant enters only "Thai" in the space provided and you report both "Thai" and Other Asian as permitted by this paragraph 9.iv, the reported items together are considered one selection. In the same example, you must report any two (at your option) of the four race subcategories selected by the applicant, Korean, Vietnamese, Other Asian-Thai, and Samoan, in addition to the three aggregate race categories selected by the applicant.
