
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1003-HOME MORTGAGE DISCLOSURE (REGULATION C)
#### Supplement I to Part 1003-Official Interpretations
##### Exempt or not applicable.

3.i. If a financial institution would otherwise report that a transaction is partially exempt pursuant to § 1003.3(d) and a particular requirement to report optional data is not applicable to the transaction, the insured depository institution or insured credit union complies with the particular requirement by reporting either that the transaction is exempt from the requirement or that the requirement is not applicable. For example, assume that an insured depository institution or insured credit union originates a partially exempt reverse mortgage. The requirement to report lender credits is not applicable to reverse mortgages, as comment 4(a)(20)-1 explains. Accordingly, the institution could report either exempt or not applicable for lender credits for the reverse mortgage transaction.

ii. An institution is considered as reporting data in a data field for purposes of § 1003.3(d)(4)(i) and (ii) when it reports not applicable for that data field for a partially exempt transaction. For example, assume an insured depository institution or insured credit union originates a covered loan that is eligible for a partial exemption and is made primarily for business or commercial purposes. The requirement to report total loan costs or total points and fees is not applicable to loans made primarily for business or commercial purposes, as comments 4(a)(17)(i)-1 and (ii)-1 explain. The institution can report not applicable for both total loan costs and total points and fees, or it can report exempt for both total loan costs and total points and fees for the loan. Pursuant to § 1003.3(d)(4)(ii), the institution is not permitted to report not applicable for total loan costs and report exempt for total points and fees for the business or commercial purpose loan.
