
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1003-HOME MORTGAGE DISCLOSURE (REGULATION C)
#### Supplement I to Part 1003-Official Interpretations
##### Quarterly reporting-coverage.

1.i. Section 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) requires that, within 60 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter except the fourth quarter, a financial institution that reported for the preceding calendar year at least 60,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, must submit its loan/application register containing all data required to be recorded for that quarter pursuant to § 1003.4(f). For example, if for calendar year 2019 Financial Institution A reports 60,000 covered loans, excluding purchased covered loans, it must comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) in calendar year 2020. Similarly, if for calendar year 2019 Financial Institution A reports 20,000 applications and 40,000 covered loans, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, it must comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) in calendar year 2020. If for calendar year 2020 Financial Institution A reports fewer than 60,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, it is not required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) in calendar year 2021.

ii. In the calendar year of a merger or acquisition, the surviving or newly formed financial institution is required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), effective the date of the merger or acquisition, if a combined total of at least 60,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, is reported for the preceding calendar year by or for the surviving or newly formed financial institution and each financial institution or branch office merged or acquired. For example, Financial Institution A and Financial Institution B merge to form Financial Institution C in 2020. Financial Institution A reports 40,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, for 2019. Financial Institution B reports 21,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, for 2019. Financial Institution C is required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) effective the date of the merger. Similarly, for example, Financial Institution A acquires a branch office of Financial Institution B in 2020. Financial Institution A reports 58,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, for 2019. Financial Institution B reports 3,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, for 2019 for the branch office acquired by Financial Institution A. Financial Institution A is required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) in 2020 effective the date of the branch acquisition.

iii. In the calendar year following a merger or acquisition, the surviving or newly formed financial institution is required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) if a combined total of at least 60,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, is reported for the preceding calendar year by or for the surviving or newly formed financial institution and each financial institution or branch office merged or acquired. For example, Financial Institution A and Financial Institution B merge to form Financial Institution C in 2019. Financial Institution C reports 21,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, each for Financial Institution A, B, and C for 2019, for a combined total of 63,000 covered loans and applications reported, excluding purchased covered loans. Financial Institution C is required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) in 2020. Similarly, for example, Financial Institution A acquires a branch office of Financial Institution B in 2019. Financial Institution A reports 58,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, for 2019. Financial Institution A or B reports 3,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, for 2019 for the branch office acquired by Financial Institution A. Financial Institution A is required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) in 2020.
