
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1004-ALTERNATIVE MORTGAGE TRANSACTION PARITY (REGULATION D)
#### Appendix A to Part 1004-Official Commentary on Regulation D
##### Examples of State laws that are preempted.

2.The following are examples of State laws that are preempted by § 1004.3:

i. Restrictions on the adjustment or renegotiation of an interest rate or finance charge, including restrictions on the circumstances under which a rate or charge may be adjusted, the method by which a rate or charge may be adjusted, and the amount of the adjustment to the rate or charge. For example, if a provision of State law prohibits creditors from increasing an adjustable rate more than two percentage points or from increasing an adjustable rate more than once during a year, that provision is preempted by § 1004.3 with respect to alternative mortgage transactions that comply with § 1004.4(a) through (c), as applicable. Similarly, if a provision of State law prohibits housing creditors from renewing balloon transactions that meet the definition of an alternative mortgage transaction in § 1004.2(a) on different terms, that provision is preempted by § 1004.3 only to the extent that it restricts a state housing creditor's ability to adjust or renegotiate the interest rate or finance charge at renewal. See also comment 1004.3-3.i.

ii. Restrictions on the ability of a housing creditor to change the amount of interest or finance charges included in regular periodic payments as a result of the adjustment or renegotiation of an interest rate or finance charge. For example, if a provision of State law prohibits housing creditors from increasing payments or limits the amount of such increases with respect to both alternative mortgage transactions and other mortgage or consumer credit transactions, that provision is preempted by § 1004.3 to the extent that it restricts a housing creditor's ability to adjust payments as a result of the adjustment or renegotiation of an interest rate on an alternative mortgage transaction. Other restrictions on changes to payments are not preempted, including restrictions on transactions in which one or more of the regular periodic payments may result in an increase in the principal balance (a negative amortization feature) or may be applied solely to accrued interest and not to loan principal (an interest-only feature).

iii. Restrictions on the creditor and the consumer sharing some or all of the appreciation in the value of the property (shared equity/shared appreciation).

iv. Underwriting requirements that address the adjustment or renegotiation of interest rates or finance charges. For example, if a provision of State law requires housing creditors to underwrite based on the maximum contractual rate, that provision is preempted by § 1004.3 with respect to alternative mortgage transactions, regardless of whether the provision applies solely to alternative mortgage transactions or to both alternative mortgage transactions and other mortgage or consumer credit transactions.
