
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1004-ALTERNATIVE MORTGAGE TRANSACTION PARITY (REGULATION D)
#### Appendix A to Part 1004-Official Commentary on Regulation D
##### Examples of alternative mortgage transactions.

2.Examples of alternative mortgage transactions include:

i. Transactions in which the interest rate changes in accordance with fluctuations in an index.

ii. Transactions in which the interest rate or finance charge may be increased or decreased after a specified period of time or under specified circumstances.

iii. Balloon transactions in which payments are based on an amortization schedule and a large final payment is due after a shorter term, where the creditor makes a commitment to renew the transaction at specified intervals throughout the amortization period, but the interest rate may be renegotiated at renewal. For example, a fixed-rate mortgage loan with a 30-year amortization period but a balloon payment due five years after consummation is an alternative mortgage transaction under § 1004.2(a) if the creditor commits to renew the mortgage at five-year intervals for the entire 30-year amortization period.

iv. Transactions in which the creditor and the consumer agree to share some or all of the appreciation in the value of the property (shared equity/shared appreciation).

However, this part preempts State law only to the extent provided in § 1004.3 and only to the extent that the requirements of § 1004.4(a) through (c) (as applicable) are met.
