
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Subpart A-General
##### § 1005.18 Requirements for financial institutions offering prepaid accounts.
###### Fees.

(ii)All fees that may be imposed in connection with a prepaid account. For each fee, the financial institution must disclose the amount of the fee and the conditions, if any, under which the fee may be imposed, waived, or reduced. A financial institution may not use any symbols, such as an asterisk, to explain conditions under which any fee may be imposed. A financial institution may, but is not required to, include in the long form disclosure any service or feature it provides or offers at no charge to the consumer. The financial institution must also disclose any third-party fee amounts known to the financial institution that may apply. For any such third-party fee disclosed, the financial institution may, but is not required to, include either or both a statement that the fee is accurate as of or through a specific date or that the third-party fee is subject to change. If a third-party fee may apply but the amount of that fee is not known by the financial institution, it must include a statement indicating that the third-party fee may apply without specifying the fee amount. A financial institution is not required to revise the long form disclosure required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section to reflect a fee change by a third party until such time that the financial institution manufactures, prints, or otherwise produces new prepaid account packaging materials or otherwise updates the long form disclosure.
