
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Determining applicable regulation related to liability and error resolution.

5.i. Under § 1005.12(a)(1)(iv)(B), with respect to a transaction that involves a covered separate credit feature and an asset feature on a prepaid account that are both accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as those terms are defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, where credit is extended under a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card that is incident to an electronic fund transfer when the hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses both funds in the asset feature of a prepaid account and credit extensions from the credit feature with respect to a particular transaction, Regulation E's liability limitations and error resolution provisions apply to the transaction, in addition to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.13(d) and (g) (which apply because of the extension of credit associated with the covered separate credit feature). Section 1005.12(a)(1)(iv)(C) provides that with respect to transactions that involves credit extended through a negative balance to the asset feature of a prepaid account that meets the conditions set forth in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61(a)(4), these transactions are governed solely by the liability limitations and error resolution procedures in Regulation E, and Regulation Z does not apply. Section 1005.12(a)(1)(iv)(D) and (a)(2)(iii), taken together, provide that with respect to transactions involving a prepaid account and a non-covered separate credit feature as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, a financial institution must comply with Regulation E's liability limitations and error resolution procedures with respect to transactions that access the prepaid account as applicable, and the creditor must comply with Regulation Z's liability limitations and error resolution procedures with respect to transactions that access the non-covered separate credit feature, as applicable.

ii. Under § 1005.12(a)(1)(iv)(A), with respect to an account (other than a prepaid account) where credit is extended incident to an electronic fund transfer under an agreement to extend overdraft credit between the consumer and the financial institution, Regulation E's liability limitations and error resolution provisions apply to the transaction, in addition to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.13(d) and (g) (which apply because of the extension of credit associated with the overdraft feature on the asset account).

iii. For transactions involving access devices that also function as credit cards under Regulation Z (12 CFR part 1026), whether Regulation E or Regulation Z applies depends on the nature of the transaction. For example, if the transaction solely involves an extension of credit, and does not access funds in a consumer asset account, such as a checking account or prepaid account, the liability limitations and error resolution requirements of Regulation Z apply. If the transaction accesses funds in an asset account only (with no credit extended), the provisions of Regulation E apply. If the transaction access funds in an asset account but also involves an extension of credit under the overdraft credit feature subject to Regulation Z attached to the account, Regulation E's liability limitations and error resolution provisions apply, in addition to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.13(d) and (g) (which apply because of the extension of credit associated with the overdraft feature on the asset account). If a consumer's access device is also a credit card and the device is used to make unauthorized withdrawals from an asset account, but also is used to obtain unauthorized cash advances directly from a credit feature that is subject to Regulation Z that is separate from the asset account, both Regulation E and Regulation Z apply.

iv. The following examples illustrate these principles:

A. A consumer has a card that can be used either as a credit card or an access device that draws on the consumer's checking account. When used as a credit card, the card does not first access any funds in the checking account but draws only on a separate credit feature subject to Regulation Z. If the card is stolen and used as a credit card to make purchases or to get cash advances at an ATM from the line of credit, the liability limits and error resolution provisions of Regulation Z apply; Regulation E does not apply.

B. In the same situation, if the card is stolen and is used as an access device to make purchases or to get cash withdrawals at an ATM from the checking account, the liability limits and error resolution provisions of Regulation E apply; Regulation Z does not apply.

C. In the same situation, assume the card is stolen and used both as an access device for the checking account and as a credit card; for example, the thief makes some purchases using the card to access funds in the checking account and other purchases using the card as a credit card. Here, the liability limits and error resolution provisions of Regulation E apply to the unauthorized transactions in which the card was used as an access device for the checking account, and the corresponding provisions of Regulation Z apply to the unauthorized transactions in which the card was used as a credit card.
