
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Disclosing the short and long form before acquisition.

1.Section 1005.15(c)(1) requires that, before a consumer acquires an account governed by § 1005.15, a government agency must comply with the pre-acquisition disclosure requirements applicable to prepaid accounts as set forth in § 1005.18(b). Section 1005.18(b)(1)(i) generally requires delivery of both the short form disclosure required by § 1005.18(b)(2), accompanied by the information in § 1005.18(b)(5), and the long form disclosure required by § 1005.18(b)(4) before a consumer acquires a prepaid account. For purposes of § 1005.15(c), a consumer is deemed to have received the disclosures required by § 1005.18(b) prior to acquisition when the consumer receives the disclosures before choosing to receive benefits via the government benefit account. The following example illustrates when a consumer receives disclosures before acquisition of an account for purposes of § 1005.15(c):

i. A government agency informs a consumer that she can receive distribution of benefits via a government benefit account in the form of a prepaid card. The consumer receives the prepaid card and the disclosures required by § 1005.18(b) to review at the time the consumer receives benefits eligibility information from the agency. After receiving the disclosures, the consumer chooses to receive benefits via the government benefit account. These disclosures were provided to the consumer pre-acquisition, and the agency has complied with § 1005.15(c). By contrast, if the consumer does not receive the disclosures required by § 1005.18(b) to review until the time at which the consumer received the first benefit payment deposited into the government benefit account, these disclosures were provided to the consumer post-acquisition, and were not provided in compliance with § 1005.15(c).
