
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Disclosures provided electronically.

2.Disclosures required by § 1005.18(b) may be provided before or after a consumer has initiated the process of acquiring a prepaid account electronically. When the disclosures required by § 1005.18(b) are presented after a consumer has initiated the process for acquiring a prepaid account online or via a mobile device, but before a consumer chooses to accept the prepaid account, such disclosures are also made pre-acquisition in accordance with § 1005.18(b)(1)(i). The disclosures required by § 1005.18(b) that are provided electronically when a consumer acquires a prepaid account electronically are not considered to be given pre-acquisition unless a consumer must view the web page containing the disclosures before choosing to accept the prepaid account. The following examples illustrate several methods by which a financial institution may present § 1005.18(b) disclosures before a consumer acquires a prepaid account electronically in compliance with § 1005.18(b)(1)(i):

i. A financial institution presents the short form disclosure required by § 1005.18(b)(2), together with the information required by § 1005.18(b)(5), and the long form disclosure required by § 1005.18(b)(4) on the same web page. A consumer must view the web page before choosing to accept the prepaid account.

ii. A financial institution presents the short form disclosure required by § 1005.18(b)(2), together with the information required by § 1005.18(b)(5), on a web page. The financial institution includes, after the short form disclosure or as part of the statement required by § 1005.18(b)(2)(xiii), a link that directs the consumer to a separate web page containing the long form disclosure required by § 1005.18(b)(4). The consumer must view the web page containing the long form disclosure before choosing to accept the prepaid account.

iii. A financial institution presents on a web page the short form disclosure required by § 1005.18(b)(2), together with the information required by § 1005.18(b)(5), followed by the initial disclosures required by § 1005.7(b), which contains the long form disclosure required by § 1005.18(b)(4), in accordance with § 1005.18(f)(1). The financial institution includes, after the short form disclosure or as part of the statement required by § 1005.18(b)(2)(xiii), a link that directs the consumer to the section of the initial disclosures containing the long form disclosure pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(4). A consumer must view this web page before choosing to accept the prepaid account.
