
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 27 - FAIR HOUSING HOME LOAN DATA SYSTEM
#### ยง 27.3 Recordkeeping requirements.
##### Quarterly recordkeeping requirement.

(a)(1) A bank that is required to collect data on home loans under part 203 of this title shall present the data on Federal Reserve Form FR HMDA-LAR or in an automated format in accordance with the instructions, except that:

(i) A bank shall maintain the reason(s) it denied a loan application, using the codes provided in part 203 of this title; and

(ii) A bank shall record all information required by this paragraph and part 203 of this title within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter.

(2) A bank that receives 50 or more home loan applications a year, as measured by the previous calendar year, and that is not required to collect data under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, shall record and maintain for each decision center the following information on home loan activity:

(i) Number of applications received for each of the following: Purchase; construction-permanent; refinance.

(ii) Number of loans closed for each of the following: Purchase; construction-permanent; refinance.

(iii) Number of loans denied for each of the following: Purchase; construction-permanent; refinance.

(iv) Number of loans withdrawn by applicant, for each of the following: Purchase; construction-permanent; refinance.

(3) The information required to be maintained under paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be updated quarterly, within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter, in a format consistent with the bank's recordkeeping procedures.

(4) A bank exempted under paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be covered by that requirement beginning the month following any quarter in which their average monthly volume of home loan applications exceeds four applications per month. Banks which are subject to this paragraph may discontinue keeping this information beginning the month following two consecutive quarters in which their average monthly volume of home loan applications drops to four or fewer applications per month. A bank which is otherwise exempted under this paragraph may be required upon notification received from the Comptroller, to record and maintain such information where there is cause to believe that the bank is not in compliance with the fair housing laws based on prior examinations and/or has substantive consumer complaints, among other factors.

(5) A bank required to maintain information under paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(4) of this section may choose to comply with the quarterly recordkeeping requirement by maintaining information in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
