
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 27 - FAIR HOUSING HOME LOAN DATA SYSTEM
#### ยง 27.3 Recordkeeping requirements.
##### Information required on applications for home loan.s

(b)(1) Each bank shall attempt to obtain all of the information listed below, as part of completed applications for home loans:

(i) Loan Amount requested by the applicant(s).

(ii) Interest rate requested by the applicant(s).

(iii) Number of months requested to maturity by the applicant(s).

(iv) Location. Complete street address, city, county, state and zip code of the dwelling which will secure the loan.

(v) Number of residential units (1-4) of the dwelling which will secure the loan.

(vi) Year built. The year in which the dwelling which will secure the loan was built. If the exact year is unknown, approximate to the nearest decade.

(vii) Purpose of the loan. Purchase; refinance; or construction-permanent.

(viii) Name and present address of applicant(s).

(ix) Age of applicant(s).

(x) Marital status of applicant(s) using the categories married, unmarried and separated.

(xi) Number of years employed in present line of work or profession for the applicant(s).

(xii) Years on present job. Number of continuous years employed by the current employer of the applicant(s). For self-employed persons, the number of continuous years self-employed.

(xiii) Gross total monthly income of each applicant, comprising the sum of normal base salary, wages, overtime pay, bonuses, commissions, dividends, interest, rental income, retirement or disability income and income from part-time employment. For self-employed persons, include the average or normal monthly income. Include alimony, separate maintenance and child support income information only if the applicant has been advised that such information need not be provided and nevertheless elects to have it considered.

(xiv) Proposed monthly housing payment, comprising the sum of principal and interest. The bank may also include insurance, real estate taxes and any monthly assessments for home owner dues or condominium fees, and/or utilities if the bank considers these factors in computing housing costs. However, if the bank includes any of these factors for computing the monthly housing payment, it must do so consistently. When a bank changes its regular practice, such change and its effective date should be identifiable with respect to the bank's new policy.

(xv) Purchase price. Sales price or approximate current market value of the property which will secure the loan.

(xvi) Applicant's or applicants' total monthly payments on all outstanding liabilities. Include installment debts, real estate loans and any alimony, child support or separate maintenance payments. Exclude any payments on liabilities which will be satisfied upon sale of real estate owned or upon refinancing of property associated with this application.

(xvii) Net worth. Applicant's or applicants' total assets, including cash checking and savings accounts, stocks and bonds, cash value of life insurance, value of real estate owned, net worth of business owned, automobile, furniture and personal property and other assets, minus total liabilities, including installment debts, automobile loans, real estate loans, and any other debts, including stock pledges.

(xviii) Date of application. The date on which a signed application is received by the bank.

(xix) Sex of applicant(s).

(xx) Race/national origin of applicant(s) using the categories: American Indian or Alaskan Native; Asian or Pacific Islander; Black, not of Hispanic origin; White, not of Hispanic origin; Hispanic; Other.

(2) Information on race/national origin and sex.

(i) Disclosure to applicant.

(A) In collecting the information required under ยง 27.3(b)(1) (xix) and (xx), the bank shall advise an applicant, either orally or in writing, that:
