
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Total of all charges.

1.Pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(2)(iv), a financial institution must disclose the total of all charges imposed when a consumer reloads cash into a prepaid account, including charges imposed by the financial institution as well as any charges that may be imposed by third parties for the cash reload. The cash reload fee includes the cost of adding cash to the prepaid account at a point-of-sale terminal, the cost of purchasing an additional card or other device on which cash is loaded and then transferred into the prepaid account, or any other method a consumer may use to reload cash into the prepaid account. For example, a financial institution does not have its own proprietary cash reload network and instead contracts with a third-party reload network for this service. The financial institution itself does not charge any fee related to cash reloads but the third-party reload network charges a fee of $3.95 per cash reload. The financial institution must disclose the cash reload fee as $3.95. If the financial institution offers more than one method to reload cash into the prepaid account, § 1005.18(b)(3)(i) requires disclosure of the highest cash reload fee. For example, a financial institution contracts with two third-party cash reload networks; one third party charges $3.95 for a point-of-sale reload and the other third party charges $2.95 for purchase of a reload pack. In addition to the third-party cash reload charge, the financial institution charges a $1 fee for every cash reload. The financial institution must disclose the cash reload fee on the short form as $4.95, that is, the highest third-party fee plus the financial institution's $1 fee. See comment 18(b)(3)(v)-1 for additional guidance regarding third-party fees for cash reloads.
