
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 27 - FAIR HOUSING HOME LOAN DATA SYSTEM
#### ยง 27.3 Recordkeeping requirements.
##### Additional information required in the loan file.

(c)In addition to the information required by ยง 27.3(b), each bank shall maintain the following information in each of its home loan files:

(1) If an appraisal is completed:

(i) The appraised value; and

(ii) The census tract number, where available, for those properties which are in a Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA) in which the bank has a home office or branch office.

(2) Disposition of loan application. The disposition of the completed applications using the following categories:

(i) Withdrawn before terms were offered;

(ii) Withdrawn after terms were offered;

(iii) Denied;

(iv) Terms offered and accepted by applicant(s).

(3) If final terms are offered, whether or not accepted:

(i) The loan amount.

(ii) Whether private mortgage insurance is required, and if so, the terms of the insurance.

(iii) Whether a deposit balance is required, and if so, the amount.

(iv) The note (simple) interest rate.

(v) The number of months to maturity of the loan offered.

(vi) Points. The loan origination or discount fee(s) charged to the buyer, computed as a percentage of the loan amount.

(4) Commitment date. The date final terms were offered.

(5) The type of mortgage using the following categories: Standard Fixed Payment; Variable Rate; Graduated Payment; Rollover; Other.

(6) The name or identification of the bank office where the application was submitted.

(7) Whenever credit is denied, copy(s) of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act credit notice and statement of credit denial.

(8) Any additional information used by the bank in determining whether or not to extend credit, or in establishing the terms, including, but not limited to, credit reports, employment verification forms, Federal Income Tax Forms, availability of insurance, and the complete appraisal.
