
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### More than two fee variations.

ii.A financial institution offers two methods of bill payment-via ACH and paper check-and offers two modes of delivery for bill payments made by paper check-regular standard mail service and expedited delivery. The financial institution charges $0.25 for bill pay via ACH, $0.50 for bill pay via paper check sent by regular standard mail service, and $3 for bill pay via paper check sent via expedited delivery. The financial institution must calculate the total revenue generated from consumers for all methods of bill pay and all modes of delivery during the required time period to determine whether it must disclose bill payment as an additional fee type pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(2)(ix). Because there are more than two fee variations for the fee type "bill payment," if bill payment is required to be disclosed as an additional fee type pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(2)(ix)(A), the financial institution has two options for the disclosure. The financial institution may disclose the highest fee, $3, followed by a symbol, such as an asterisk, linked to a statement explaining that the fee could be lower depending on how and where the prepaid account is used, pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(3)(i). Thus, the financial institution would disclose on the short form the fee type as "Bill payment" and the fee amount as "$3.00*". Alternatively, the financial institution may consolidate the fee variations into two categories, such as regular delivery and expedited delivery. In this case, the financial institution would make this disclosure on the short form as: "Bill payment (regular or expedited delivery)" and the fee amount as "$0.50* or $3.00".
