
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Third-party fees.

4.Section 1005.18(b)(4)(ii) requires disclosure in the long form of any third-party fee amounts known to the financial institution that may apply. Fees imposed by another party, such as a program manager, for services performed on behalf of the financial institution are not third-party fees and therefore must be disclosed on the long form pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(4)(ii). Also pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(4)(ii), for any third-party fee disclosed, a financial institution may, but is not required to, include either or both a statement that the fee is accurate as of or through a specific date or that the third-party fee is subject to change. For example, a financial institution that contracts with a third-party remote deposit capture service must include in the long form disclosure the amount of the fee known to the financial institution that is charged by the third party for remote deposit capture services. The financial institution may, but is not required to, also state that the third-party remote deposit capture fee is accurate as of or through a specific date, such as the date the financial institution prints the long form disclosure. The financial institution may also state that the fee is subject to change. Section 1005.18(b)(4)(ii) also provides that, if a third-party fee may apply but the amount of the fee is not known by the financial institution, it must include a statement indicating that a third-party fee may apply without specifying the fee amount. For example, a financial institution that permits out-of-network ATM withdrawals would disclose that, for ATM withdrawals that occur outside the financial institution's network, the ATM operator may charge the consumer a fee for the withdrawal, but the financial institution is not required to disclose the out-of-network ATM operator's fee amount if it does not know the amount of the fee.
