
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Location of disclosure.

2.In addition to setting forth the required content for disclosures outside the short form disclosure, § 1005.18(b)(5) requires that, in a setting other than a retail location, the information required by § 1005.18(b)(5) must be disclosed in close proximity to the short form. For example, if the financial institution provides the short form disclosure online, the information required by § 1005.18(b)(5) is deemed disclosed in close proximity to the short form if it appears on the same web page as the short form disclosure. If the financial institution offers the prepaid account in its own branch locations and provides the short form disclosure on the exterior of its preprinted packaging materials, the information required by § 1005.18(b)(5) is deemed disclosed in close proximity to the short form disclosure if it appears on the exterior of the packaging. If the financial institution provides a written short form disclosure in a manner other than on preprinted packaging materials, such as on paper, the information required by § 1005.18(b)(5) is deemed disclosed in close proximity if it appears on the same piece of paper as the short form disclosure. If the financial institution provides the short form disclosure orally, the information required by § 1005.18(b)(5) is deemed disclosed in close proximity to the short form disclosure if it is provided immediately before or after disclosing the fees and information required pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(2). For prepaid accounts sold in a retail location pursuant to the retail location exception in § 1005.18(b)(1)(ii), § 1005.18(b)(5) requires the information other than purchase price be disclosed on the exterior of the access device's packaging material. If the purchase price, if any, is not also disclosed on the exterior of the packaging, disclosure of the purchase price on or near the sales rack or display for the packaging material is deemed in close proximity to the access device's packaging material.
