
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Examples of situations in which foreign language disclosures are required.

i.The following examples illustrate situations in which a financial institution must provide the pre-acquisition disclosures in a foreign language in connection with the acquisition of that prepaid account:

A. The financial institution principally uses a foreign language on the packaging material of a prepaid account sold in a retail location or distributed at a bank or credit union branch, even though a few words appear in English on the packaging.

B. The financial institution principally uses a foreign language in a television advertisement for a prepaid account. That advertisement includes a telephone number a consumer can call to acquire the prepaid account, whether by speaking to a customer service representative or interacting with an interactive voice response (IVR) system.

C. The financial institution principally uses a foreign language in an online advertisement for a prepaid account. That advertisement includes a website URL through which a consumer can acquire the prepaid account.

D. The financial institution principally uses a foreign language on a printed advertisement for a prepaid account. That advertisement includes a telephone number or a website URL a consumer can call or visit to acquire the prepaid account. The pre-acquisition disclosures must be provided to the consumer in that same foreign language prior to the consumer acquiring the prepaid account.

E. The financial institution does not principally use a foreign language on prepaid account packaging material nor does it principally use a foreign language to advertise, solicit, or market a prepaid account. A consumer calls the financial institution and has the option to proceed with the prepaid account acquisition process in a foreign language, whether by speaking to a customer service representative or interacting with an IVR system. (But see § 1005.18(b)(9)(i)(C), which limits the obligation to provide foreign language disclosures for payroll card accounts and government benefit accounts acquired orally by telephone in certain circumstances.)

F. The financial institution does not principally use a foreign language on prepaid account packaging material nor does it principally use a foreign language to advertise, solicit, or market a prepaid account. A consumer visits the financial institution's website. On that website, the consumer has the option to proceed with the prepaid account acquisition process in a foreign language.
