
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Examples of situations in which foreign language disclosures are not required.

ii.The following examples illustrate situations in which a financial institution is not required to provide the pre-acquisition disclosures in a foreign language:

A. A consumer visits the financial institution's branch location in person and speaks to an employee in a foreign language about acquiring a prepaid account. The consumer proceeds with the acquisition process in that foreign language.

B. The financial institution does not principally use a foreign language on prepaid account packaging material nor does it principally use a foreign language to advertise, solicit, or market a prepaid account. A consumer calls the financial institution's customer service line and speaks to a customer service representative in a foreign language. However, if the customer service representative proceeds with the prepaid account acquisition process over the telephone, the financial institution would be required to provide the pre-acquisition disclosures in that foreign language. (But see § 1005.18(b)(9)(i)(C), which limits the obligation to provide foreign language disclosures for payroll card accounts and government benefit accounts acquired orally by telephone in certain circumstances.)

C. The financial institution principally uses a foreign language in an advertisement for a prepaid account. That advertisement includes a telephone number a consumer can call to acquire the prepaid account. The consumer calls the telephone number provided on the advertisement and has the option to proceed with the prepaid account acquisition process in English or in a foreign language. The consumer chooses to proceed with the acquisition process in English.

D. A consumer calls a government agency to enroll in a government benefits program. The government agency does not offer through its telephone system an option for consumers to proceed in a foreign language. An employee of the government agency assists the consumer with the enrollment process, including helping the consumer acquire a government benefits account. The employee also happens to speak the foreign language in which the consumer is most comfortable communicating, and chooses to communicate with the consumer in that language to facilitate the enrollment process. In this case, the employee offered language interpretation assistance on an informal or ad hoc basis to accommodate the prospective government benefits account holder.
