
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Fees.,See

5.i. With respect to a prepaid account program where consumers may be offered a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined by Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, § 1005.18(g) only permits a financial institution to charge the same or higher fees on the asset feature of a prepaid account with a covered separate credit feature than the amount of a comparable fee it charges on prepaid accounts in the same prepaid account program that do not have a such a credit feature. Section 1005.18(g) prohibits a financial institution from imposing a lower fee or charge on prepaid accounts with a covered separate credit feature than the amount of a comparable fee or charge it charges on prepaid accounts in the same prepaid account program without such a credit feature. With regard to a covered separate credit feature and an asset feature of a prepaid account that are both accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, a fee or charge imposed on the asset feature of the prepaid account generally is a finance charge under Regulation Z (12 CFR part 1026) to the extent that the amount of the fee or charge exceeds the amount of a comparable fee or charge imposed on prepaid accounts in the same prepaid account program that do not have such a credit feature.Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.4(b)(11)(ii). With regard to a covered separate credit feature and an asset feature of a prepaid account that are both accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, this comment below provides illustrations of how § 1005.18(g) applies to fees or charges imposed on the asset feature of a prepaid account. The term "non-covered separate credit feature" refers to a separate credit feature that is not accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61.

ii. The following examples illustrate how § 1005.18(g) applies to per transaction fees for each transaction to access funds available in the asset feature of the prepaid account.

A. Assume that a consumer has selected a prepaid account program where a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card may be offered. For prepaid accounts without such a credit feature, the financial institution charges $0.50 for each transaction conducted that accesses funds available in the prepaid account. For prepaid accounts with a credit feature, the financial institution also charges $0.50 on the asset feature for each transaction conducted that accesses funds available in the asset feature of the prepaid account. In this case, for purposes of § 1005.18(g), the financial institution is imposing the same fee for each transaction that accesses funds in the asset feature of the prepaid account, regardless of whether the prepaid account has a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card. Also, with regard to a covered separate credit feature and an asset feature of a prepaid account that are both accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as those terms are defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, the $0.50 per transaction fee imposed on the asset feature for each transaction that accesses funds available in the asset feature of the prepaid account is not a finance charge under 12 CFR 1026.4(b)(11)(ii). See Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.4(b)(11)(ii) and comment 4(b)(11)(ii)-1, for a discussion of the definition of finance charge with respect to fees or charges imposed on the asset feature of a prepaid account with regard to a covered separate credit feature and an asset feature of a prepaid account that are both accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in 12 CFR 1026.61.

B. Same facts as in paragraph A, except that for prepaid accounts with a covered separate credit feature, the financial institution imposes a $1.25 fee for each transaction conducted that accesses funds available in the asset feature of the prepaid account. In this case, the financial institution is permitted to charge a higher fee under § 1005.18(g)(2) on prepaid accounts with a covered separate credit feature than it charges on prepaid accounts without such a credit feature. The $0.75 excess is a finance charge under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.4(b)(11)(ii).

C. Same facts as in paragraph A, except that for prepaid accounts with a covered separate credit feature, the financial institution imposes a $0.25 fee for each transaction conducted that accesses funds available in the asset feature of the prepaid account. In this case, the financial institution is in violation of § 1005.18(g) because it is imposing a lower fee on the asset feature of a prepaid account with a covered separate credit feature than it imposes on prepaid accounts in the same program without such a credit feature.

iii. Where the hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses credit from a covered separate credit feature in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing a transaction conducted with the card to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers, any per transaction fees imposed on the asset feature of prepaid accounts, including load and transfer fees, with such a credit feature are comparable only to per transaction fees for each transaction to access funds in the asset feature of a prepaid account that are imposed on prepaid accounts in the same prepaid account program that does not have such a credit feature. Per transaction fees for a transaction that is conducted to load or draw funds into a prepaid account from a source other than the funds in the asset feature are not comparable for purposes of § 1005.18(g). To illustrate:

A. Assume a financial institution charges $0.50 on prepaid accounts for each transaction that accesses funds in the asset feature of the prepaid accounts without a covered separate credit feature. Also, assume that the financial institution charges $0.50 per transaction on the asset feature of prepaid accounts in the same prepaid program where the hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses credit from a covered separate credit feature in the course of a transaction. In this case, for purposes of § 1005.18(g), the financial institution is imposing the same fee for each transaction it pays, regardless of whether the transaction accesses funds available in the asset feature of the prepaid accounts without a covered separate credit feature, or is paid from credit from a covered separate credit feature in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing a transaction conducted with the card to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers. Also, for purposes of Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.4(b)(11)(ii), the $0.50 per transaction fee imposed on the asset feature of the prepaid account with a covered separate credit feature is not a finance charge.

B. Assume same facts as in paragraph A above, except that assume the financial institution charges $1.25 on the asset feature of a prepaid account for each transaction where the hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses credit from the covered separate credit feature in the course of the transaction. The financial institution is permitted to charge the higher fee under § 1005.18(g) for transactions that access the covered separate credit feature in the course of the transaction than the amount of the comparable fee it charges for each transaction that accesses funds available in the asset feature of the prepaid accounts without such a credit feature. The $0.75 excess is a finance charge under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.4(b)(11)(ii).

C. Same facts as in paragraph A, except that the financial institution imposes $0.25 on the asset feature of the prepaid account for each transaction conducted where the hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses credit from the covered separate credit feature in the course of the transaction. In this case, the financial institution is in violation of § 1005.18(g) because it is imposing a lower fee on the asset feature of a prepaid account with a covered separate credit feature than the amount of the comparable fee it imposes on prepaid accounts in the same program without such a credit feature.
