
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Substantive changes.

1.A change to an agreement is substantive, and therefore is deemed an amendment of the agreement, if it alters the rights or obligations of the parties. Section 1005.19(a)(2) provides that any change in the fee information, as defined in § 1005.19(a)(3), is deemed to be substantive. Examples of other changes that generally would be considered substantive include:

i. Addition or deletion of a provision giving the issuer or consumer a right under the agreement, such as a clause that allows an issuer to unilaterally change the terms of an agreement.

ii. Addition or deletion of a provision giving the issuer or consumer an obligation under the agreement, such as a clause requiring the consumer to pay an additional fee.

iii. Changes that may affect the cost of the prepaid account to the consumer, such as changes in a provision describing how the prepaid account's monthly fee will be calculated.

iv. Changes that may affect how the terms of the agreement are construed or applied, such as changes to a choice of law provision.

v. Changes that may affect the parties to whom the agreement may apply, such as changes to provisions regarding authorized users or assignment of the agreement.

vi. Changes to the corporate name of the issuer or program manager, or to the issuer's address or identifying number, such as its RSSD ID number or tax identification number.

vii. Changes to the list of names of other relevant parties, such as the employer for a payroll card program or the agency for a government benefit program. But see § 1005.19(b)(2)(ii) regarding the timing of submitting such changes to the Bureau.

viii. Changes to the name of the prepaid account program to which the agreement applies.
