
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Third-party websites.

3.As explained in comment 19(c)-2, if an issuer provides consumers with access to specific information about their individual accounts, such as making available to consumers their electronic account transaction history, pursuant to § 1005.18(c)(1)(ii), through a third-party website, the issuer is deemed to maintain that website for purposes of § 1005.19. Such a website is deemed to be maintained by the issuer for purposes of § 1005.19 even where, for example, an unaffiliated entity designs the website and owns and maintains the information technology infrastructure that supports the website, consumers with prepaid accounts from multiple issuers can access individual account information through the same website, and the website is not labeled, branded, or otherwise held out to the public as belonging to the issuer. A partner institution's website is an example of a third-party website that may be deemed to be maintained by the issuer for purposes of § 1005.19. For example, Program Manager and Bank work together to issue prepaid accounts. Under the § 1005.19(a)(4) definition of issuer, Bank is the issuer of these prepaid accounts for purposes of § 1005.19. Bank does not maintain a website specifically related to prepaid accounts. However, consumers can access information about their individual accounts, such as an electronic account transaction history, through a website maintained by Program Manager. Program Manager designs the website and owns and maintains the information technology infrastructure that supports the website. The website is branded and held out to the public as belonging to Program Manager. Because consumers can access information about their individual accounts through this website, the website is deemed to be maintained by Bank for purposes of § 1005.19. Bank therefore may comply with § 1005.19(c) or (d)(1) by ensuring that agreements offered by Bank are posted on Program Manager's website in accordance with § 1005.19(c) or (d)(1), respectively. Bank need not create and maintain a website branded and held out to the public as belonging to Bank in order to comply with § 1005.19(c) and (d) as long as Bank ensures that Program Manager's website complies with these sections.
