
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Use of third-party service providers.

2.An issuer has a legal obligation to comply with the requirements of § 1005.19. However, an issuer generally may use a third-party service provider to satisfy its obligations under § 1005.19, provided that the issuer acts in accordance with regulatory guidance regarding use of third-party service providers and other applicable regulatory guidance. In some cases, an issuer may wish to arrange for the entity with which it partners to issue prepaid accounts to fulfill the requirements of § 1005.19 on the issuer's behalf. For example, Program Manager and Bank work together to issue prepaid accounts. Under the § 1005.19(a)(4) definition of issuer, Bank is the issuer of these prepaid accounts for purposes of § 1005.19. However, Program Manager services the prepaid accounts, including mailing to consumers account opening materials and making available to consumers their electronic account transaction history, pursuant to § 1005.18(c)(1)(ii). While Bank is responsible for ensuring compliance with § 1005.19, Bank may arrange for Program Manager (or another appropriate third-party service provider) to make submissions of prepaid account agreements to the Bureau under § 1005.19 on Bank's behalf. Bank must comply with regulatory guidance regarding use of third-party service providers and other applicable regulatory guidance.
