
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Option to withdraw agreements.

5.Section 1005.19(b)(4) provides that if an issuer that did not previously qualify for the de minimis exception newly qualifies for the de minimis exception, the issuer must continue to make rolling submissions to the Bureau as required by § 1005.19(b)(1) until the issuer notifies the Bureau that the issuer is withdrawing all agreements it previously submitted to the Bureau. For example, an issuer offers three agreements and has 3,001 open accounts as of December 31. The issuer submitted each of the three agreements to the Bureau by January 30 as required under § 1005.19(b). As of March 31, the issuer has only 2,999 open accounts. The issuer has two options. First, the issuer may notify the Bureau that the issuer is withdrawing each of the three agreements it previously submitted. Once the issuer has notified the Bureau, the issuer is no longer required to make rolling submissions to the Bureau under § 1005.19(b) unless it later ceases to qualify for the de minimis exception. Alternatively, the issuer may choose not to notify the Bureau that it is withdrawing its agreements. In this case, the issuer must continue making rolling submissions to the Bureau as required by § 1005.19(b). The issuer might choose not to withdraw its agreements if, for example, the issuer believes it will likely cease to qualify for the de minimis exception again in the near future.
