
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Eligibility for multiple exclusions.,See, however,

2.A card, code, or other device may qualify for one or more exclusions. For example, a corporation may give its employees a gift card that is marketed solely to businesses for incentive-related purposes, such as to reward job performance or promote employee safety. In this case, the card may qualify for the exclusion for loyalty, award, or promotional gift cards under § 1005.20(b)(3), or for the exclusion for cards, codes, or other devices not marketed to the general public under § 1005.20(b)(4). In addition, as long as any one of the exclusions applies, a card, code, or other device is not covered by § 1005.20, even if other exclusions do not apply. In the above example, the corporation may give its employees a type of gift card that can also be purchased by a consumer directly from a merchant. Under these circumstances, while the card does not qualify for the exclusion for cards, codes, or other devices not marketed to the general public under § 1005.20(b)(4) because the card can also be obtained through retail channels, it is nevertheless exempt from the substantive requirements of § 1005.20 because it is a loyalty, award, or promotional gift card.§ 1005.20(a)(4)(iii), requiring certain disclosures for loyalty, award, or promotional gift cards. Similarly, a person may market a reloadable card to teenagers for occasional expenses that enables parents to monitor spending. Although the card does not qualify for the exclusion for cards, codes, or other devices not marketed to the general public under § 1005.20(b)(4), it may nevertheless be exempt from the requirements of § 1005.20 under § 1005.20(b)(2) if it is reloadable and not marketed or labeled as a gift card or gift certificate.
