
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Determining whether a consumer is located in a State.

1.Under § 1005.30(g), the definition of "sender" means a consumer in a State who, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, requests a remittance transfer provider to send a remittance transfer to a designated recipient. A sender located on a U.S. military installation that is physically located in a foreign country is located in a State. For transfers sent from a prepaid account (other than a prepaid account that is a payroll card account or a government benefit account), whether the consumer is located in a State depends on the location of the consumer. If the provider does not know where the consumer is at the time the consumer requests the transfer from the consumer's prepaid account (other than a prepaid account that is a payroll card account or a government benefit account) the provider may make the determination of whether a consumer is located in a State based on information that is provided by the consumer and on any records associated with the consumer that the provider may have, such as an address provided by the consumer. For transfers from all other accounts belonging to a consumer, whether a consumer is located in a State depends on where the consumer's account is located. If the account is located in a State, the consumer will be located in a State for purposes of the definition of "sender" in § 1005.30(g), notwithstanding comment 3(a)-3. For these accounts, if they are located on a U.S. military installation that is physically located in a foreign country, then these accounts are located in a State. Where a transfer is requested electronically or by telephone and the transfer is not from an account, the provider may make the determination of whether a consumer is located in a State based on information that is provided by the consumer and on any records associated with the consumer that the provider may have, such as an address provided by the consumer.
