
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1005-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
#### Supplement I to Part 1005-Official Interpretations
##### Threshold.

3.For purposes of determining whether an insured institution made 500 or fewer remittance transfers in the prior calendar year to a particular designated recipient's institution pursuant to § 1005.32(b)(5)(i)(C):

i. The number of remittance transfers provided includes remittance transfers in the prior calendar year to that designated recipient's institution regardless of whether the covered third-party fees were estimated for those transfers. For example, an insured institution exceeds the 500-transfer threshold in the prior calendar year if an insured institution provides 300 remittance transfers to the designated recipient's institution in the prior calendar year when the covered third-party fees were estimated for those transfers and also sends 400 remittance transfers to the designated recipient's institution in the prior calendar year and the covered third-party fees for those transfers were not estimated.

ii. The number of remittance transfers includes remittance transfers provided to the designated recipient's institution in the prior calendar year regardless of whether the designated recipients received the funds in the country's local currency or in another currency. For example, an insured institution exceeds the 500-transfer threshold in the prior calendar year if the insured institution provides 300 remittance transfers to the designated recipient's institution in the prior calendar year when the designated recipients of those transfers received funds in the country's local currency and also sends 400 remittance transfers to the same designated recipient's institution in the prior calendar year when the designated recipients of those transfers did not receive funds in the country's local currency.

iii. The number of remittance transfers includes remittance transfers provided to the designated recipient's institution and any of its branches in the country to which the particular transfer described in § 1005.32(b)(5) is being sent. For example, if the particular remittance transfer described in § 1005.32(b)(5) is being sent to the designated recipient's institution Bank XYZ in Nigeria, the number of remittance transfers for purposes of the 500-transfer threshold would include remittances transfers in the previous calendar year that were sent to Bank XYZ, or to its branches, in Nigeria. The 500-transfer threshold would not include remittance transfers that were sent to branches of Bank XYZ that were located in any country other than Nigeria.
