
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1006-DEBT COLLECTION PRACTICES (REGULATION F)
#### Supplement I to Part 1006-Official Interpretations
##### Communications or attempts to communicate at unusual or inconvenient places.

1.Section 1006.6(b)(1)(ii) prohibits a debt collector from communicating or attempting to communicate with a consumer in connection with the collection of any debt at any unusual place, or at a place that the debt collector knows or should know is inconvenient to the consumer. Some communication media, such as mailing addresses and landline telephone numbers, are associated with a place. Pursuant to § 1006.6(b)(1)(ii), a debt collector must not communicate or attempt to communicate with a consumer through media associated with an unusual place, or with a place that the debt collector knows or should know is inconvenient to the consumer. Other communication media, such as email addresses and mobile telephone numbers, are not associated with a place. Section 1006.6(b)(1)(ii) does not prohibit a debt collector from communicating or attempting to communicate with a consumer through such media unless the debt collector knows that the consumer is at an unusual place, or at a place that the debt collector knows or should know is inconvenient to the consumer. For example:

i. Assume the same facts as in comment 6(b)(1)-1.iii. Unless the debt collector knows that the consumer is at home, a telephone call to the consumer's mobile telephone number or an electronic communication, including, for example, an email message or a text message to the consumer's mobile telephone, does not violate § 1006.6(b)(1)(ii) even if the consumer receives or views the communication while at home.
