
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1006-DEBT COLLECTION PRACTICES (REGULATION F)
#### Supplement I to Part 1006-Official Interpretations
##### Statement required by § 1006.18(e).

1.Section 1006.34(c)(1) provides that validation information includes the statement required by § 1006.18(e). Section 1006.18(e)(1) requires a debt collector to disclose in its initial communication that the debt collector is attempting to collect a debt and that any information obtained will be used for that purpose. Section 1006.18(e)(2) requires a debt collector to disclose in each subsequent communication that the communication is from a debt collector. A debt collector who provides a validation notice as described in § 1006.34(a)(1)(i)(A) complies with § 1006.34(c)(1) by providing on the validation notice the disclosure required by § 1006.18(e)(1). A debt collector who provides a validation notice as described in § 1006.34(a)(1)(i)(B) complies with § 1006.34(c)(1) by providing either the disclosure required by § 1006.18(e)(1) or the disclosure required by § 1006.18(e)(2). The following example illustrates the rule:

i. ABC debt collector has an initial communication with the consumer by telephone. Within five days of that initial communication, ABC debt collector sends the consumer a validation notice using Model Form B-1 in appendix B to this part. ABC debt collector has complied with § 1006.34(c)(1) even though Model Form B-1 includes the disclosure described in § 1006.18(e)(1) rather than the disclosure described in § 1006.18(e)(2).
