
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart A - General Requirements
##### § 1010.4 Exemptions - general.

(a) The exemptions available under §§ 1010.5 through 1010.16 are not applicable when the method of sale, lease or other disposition of land or an interest in land is adopted for the purpose of evasion of the Act.

(b) With the exception of the sales or leases which are exempt under § 1010.5, the anti-fraud provisions of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1703(a)(2)) apply to exempt transactions. The anti-fraud provisions make it unlawful for a developer or agent to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to:

(1) Defraud;

(2) To obtain money or property by means of any untrue statement of a material fact, or

(3) To omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made not misleading, with respect to any information pertinent to the lot or subdivision; or

(4) To engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon a purchaser.

(c) The anti-fraud provisions of the Act require that certain representations be included in the contract in transactions which are not exempt under § 1010.5. Specifically, the Act requires that if a developer or agent represents that roads, sewers, water, gas or electric service or recreational amenities will be provided or completed by the developer, the contract must stipulate that the services or amenities will be provided or completed.

(d) Eligibility for exemptions available under §§ 1010.5 through 1010.14 is self-determining. With the exception of the exemptions available under §§ 1010.15 and 1010.16, a developer is not required to file notice with or obtain the approval of the Director in order to take advantage of an exemption. If a developer elects to take advantage of an exemption, the developer is responsible for maintaining records to demonstrate that the requirements of the exemption have been met.

(e) A developer may present evidence, or otherwise discuss, in an informal hearing before the Office of Supervision Examinations, the Bureau's position on the jurisdiction or non-exempt status of a particular subdivision.
