
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart A - General Requirements
##### § 1010.13 Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) exemption.
###### liens

(6) The lot being sold must be free and clear of liens such as mortgages, deeds of trust, tax liens, mechanics' liens, or judgments. For purposes of this exemption, the termdoes not include the following:

(i) Mortgages or deeds of trust which contain release provisions for the individual lot purchased if:

(A) The contract of sale obligates the developer to deliver, within 180 days, a warranty deed (or its equivalent under local law), which at the time of delivery is free from any monetary liens or encumbrances; and

(B) The purchaser's payments are deposited in an escrow account independent of the developer until a deed is delivered.

(ii) Liens which are subordinate to the leasehold interest and do not affect the lessee's right to use or enjoy the lot.

(iii) Property reservations which are for the purpose of bringing public services to the land being developed, such as easements for water and sewer lines.

(iv) Taxes or assessments which constitute liens before they are due and payable if imposed by a state or other public body having authority to assess and tax property or by a property owners' association.

(v) Beneficial property restrictions that are mutually enforceable by the lot owners in the subdivision. Restrictions, whether separately recorded or incorporated into individual deeds, must be applied uniformly to every lot or group of lots. To be considered beneficial and enforceable, any restriction or covenant that imposes an assessment on lot owners must apply to the developer on the same basis as other lot owners. Developers who maintain control of a subdivision through a Property Owners' Association, Architectural Control Committee, restrictive covenants, or otherwise, shall transfer such control to the lot owners no later than when the developer ceases to own a majority of total lots in, or planned for, the subdivision. Relinquishment of developer control shall require affirmative action, usually in the form of an election based upon one vote per lot.

(vi) Reservations contained in United States land patents and similar Federal grants or reservations.

(7) Before the sale the developer gives a written MSA Exemption Statement to the purchaser and obtains a written receipt acknowledging that the statement was received. A sample MSA Exemption Statement is included in the exemption guidelines. A State-approved disclosure document may be used to satisfy this requirement if all of the information required by this section is included. The statement(s) given to purchasers must contain neither advertising nor promotion on behalf of the developer or the subdivision nor references to the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection or the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. In descriptive and concise terms, the statement that the developer must give the purchaser shall disclose the following:

(i) All liens, reservations, taxes, assessments, beneficial property restrictions which are enforceable by other lot owners in the subdivision, and adverse claims which are applicable to the lot to be purchased.

(ii) Good faith estimates of the cost to the purchaser of providing electric, water, sewer, gas and telephone service to the lot. The estimates for unsold lots must be updated every two years, or more frequently if the developer has reason to believe that significant cost increases have occurred. The dates on which the estimates were made must be included in the statement.

(8) The developer executes and gives to the purchaser a written instrument designating a person within the state of residence of the purchaser as the developer's agent for service of process. The developer must also acknowledge in writing that it submits to the legal jurisdiction of the state in which the purchaser or lessee resides.

(9) The developer executes a written affirmation for each sale made under this exemption. By January 31 of each year, the developer submits to the Director a copy of the executed affirmation for each sale made during the preceding calendar year or a master affirmation in which are listed all purchasers' names and addresses and the identity of the lots purchased. Individual affirmations must be available for the Director's review at all times during the year. The affirmation must be in the form provided in section I of the appendix to this part: Form for Developer's Affirmation for Land Sale.
