
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart A - General Requirements
##### § 1010.15 Regulatory exemption - multiple site subdivision - determination required.
###### Eligibility requirements.

(b)The sale of each lot must meet the following requirements to be eligible for this exemption.

(1) The lot is sold "as is" with all advertised improvements and amenities completed and in the condition advertised.

(2) The lot is in conformance with all local codes and standards.

(3) The lot is accessible, both legally and physically. For lots which are advertised or otherwise represented as "residential," either primary or secondary, with any inference that a permanent or temporary dwelling unit of any description (excluding collapsible tents) can be built or installed, physical access must be available by automobile, pick-up truck or equivalent "on-road" vehicle.

(4) At the time of closing, a title insurance binder or title opinion reflecting the condition of title must be issued to the purchaser showing that, subject only to exceptions approved in writing by the purchaser at the time of closing, marketable title is vested in the seller.

(5) Each contract or agreement and any promissory notes:

(i) Contain the non-waivable provision found in section II of the appendix to this part: Language Notifying Buyer of Option to Cancel Contract in bold face type (which must be distinguished from the type used for the rest of the document) on the face or signature page above all signatures. If the purchaser is entitled to a longer revocation period by operation of state or local law, that period becomes the Federal revocation period and the contract must reflect the requirement of the longer period rather than the seven days. The revocation provisions may not be limited or qualified in the contract or other document by requiring a specific type of notice or by requiring that notice be given at a specified place.

(ii) Obligate the developer to deliver, within 180 days, a warranty deed (or its equivalent under local law) for the lot which at the time of delivery is free from any monetary liens or encumbrances.

(6) The purchaser or purchaser's spouse makes a personal on-the-lot inspection of the lot to be purchased before signing a contract.

(7) The purchaser's payments are deposited in an escrow account independent of the developer until a deed is delivered.

(8) Prior to the purchaser signing a contract or agreement of sale, the developer discloses in a written Lot Information Statement all liens, reservations, taxes, assessments, easements and restrictions applicable to the lot purchased (see paragraph (b)(11) of this section).

(9) Prior to the purchaser signing a contract or agreement of sale, the developer discloses in a written Lot Information Statement the name, address and telephone number of the local governmental agency or agencies from which information on permits or other requirements for water, sewer and electrical installations can be obtained. This Statement will also contain the name, address and telephone number of the suppliers which would or could provide the foregoing services.

(10) The lot sale must comply with the anti-fraud provisions of 12 CFR 1010.4(b) and (c) and the sales practices and standards in §§ 1011.10 through 1011.28.

(11) A written Lot Information Statement must be delivered to, and acknowledged by, each purchaser prior to his or her signing a contract or agreement of sale, and must contain the information shown in the format below. The Statement must be typed or printed in at least 10 point font. A copy of the acknowledgement will be maintained by the developer for three years and will be made available to ILSRP upon request. If the Statement is not delivered as required, the contract or agreement of sale may be revoked and a full refund paid, at the option of the purchaser, within two years of the signing date and the contract or agreement of sale will clearly provide this right. A sample format for the Statement is provided in section III of the appendix to this part: Sample Lot Information Statement and Sample Receipt.
