
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.102 General instructions for completing the Statement of Record.
###### Headings, subheadings, captions, introductory paragraphs, warnings.,e.g.

(e)Property Report subject "headings" are those descriptive introductory words which appear immediately after section numbers 1010.106 through 1010.116 (§ 1010.108 has "General Information" and § 1010.111 has "Utilities"). Each such heading shall be printed in the Property Report in underlined capital letters and centered at the top of a new page. Section numbers shall not be printed in the Property Report. Property Report subheadings are those descriptive introductory words which appear in italics in the regulations at the beginning of paragraphs designated by paragraph letters (a), (b), (c) etc. An example of a subheading is "water" found immediately after the paragraph letter (a) in § 1010.111. These subheadings will be printed in the Property Report only if they are relevant to the subject subdivision. If printed these subheadings shall be capitalized and shall begin at the left hand margin of the page. Property Report "captions" are those descriptive introductory words which appear in italics in the Regulations at the beginning of paragraphs designated by numbers (1), (2), (3), etc. An example of such captions is "Sales Contract and Delivery of Deed" found immediately after the paragraph number "(1)" in § 1010.109(b). These captions are to be printed in the Property Report only if they are applicable to the subject subdivision. If printed, these captions shall be centered on the page from the side margins, and shall have only the first letter of each word capitalized. Headings and subheadings will be used in the Property Report in accordance with the sample page appearing in section IX of the appendix to this part. Introductory paragraphs will follow headings if they are applicable and necessary for a readable entry into the subject matters, but note, the introductory paragraphs for "Title to the Property and Land Use" are to be used in every case as provided in § 1010.109(a)(1). Subheadings and captions which do not apply to the subdivision should be omitted from the Property Report portion and answered "not applicable" in the Additional Information and Documentation portion, unless specifically required to be included elsewhere in these instructions. Warnings shall be printed substantially as they appear in the instructions in §§ 1010.105 through 1010.118. They shall be printed in capital letters and may be enclosed in a box. The paragraphs in the Property Report portion need not be numbered. A sample page is set forth in section IX of the appendix to this part: Sample Page for Statement of Record.
