
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.102 General instructions for completing the Statement of Record.
###### Format of the Additional Information and Documentation portion of the Statement of Record.

(g)The supporting information and documentation required by these regulations shall be identified by affixing a tab on the right side of the cover sheet of the required information or documentation and by identifying on the tab the section number of the Statement of Record instructions to which the information or documentation corresponds. This information or documentation shall then be placed immediately after the page(s) on which the section number and answers for that section appear. If the data in a document is applicable to more than one section of instructions, the developer may substitute as a document in the second case a statement incorporating the earlier document. Deeds, title policies, subdivision plats or maps and other documentary information required to be contained in the Additional Information and Documentation portion of the Statement of Record need not be on the same size paper as the Statement of Record but, if larger, shall be folded to a size no larger than 8x 14 inches. Supporting documents shall be inserted into the binding in such a manner as to permit them to be examined without the necessity of removing them from the binding. This may be accomplished by proper folding or through the use of envelopes.
