
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.102 General instructions for completing the Statement of Record.
###### Final version of Property Report.

(m)On the date that a Statement of Record becomes effective, the Property Report portion shall become the Property Report for the subject subdivision. The version of the Property Report delivered to prospective lot purchasers shall be verbatim to that found effective by the Director and shall have no covers, pictures, emblems, logograms or identifying insignia other than as required by these regulations. It shall meet the same standards as to grade of paper, type size, margins, style and color of print as those set herein for the Statement of Record, except where required otherwise by these regulations. However, the date of typing or preparation of the pages and the ILSRP number shall not appear in the final version. If the final version of the Property Report is commercially printed, or photocopied by a process which results in a commercial printing quality, and is bound on the left side, both sides of the pages may be used for printed material. If it is typed or photocopied by a process which does not result in a clear and legible product on both sides of the page or is bound at the top, printing shall be done on only one side of the page. If a Statement of Record is filed with the Bureau via electronic means pursuant to § 1010.20(a), the version of the Property Report delivered to prospective lot purchasers shall meet the same standards that apply under these regulations to a Statement of Record not filed with the Bureau via electronic means. One copy of the final version of the Property Report, in the exact form in which it is delivered to prospective lot purchasers, shall be sent to ILSRP Office within 20 days of the date on which the Statement of Record, amendment, or consolidation is allowed to become effective by the Director. If a Property Report in a foreign language is used as required by § 1011.25(g), a copy of that Property Report together with a copy of the translated documents shall be furnished the Director within 20 days of the date on which the advertising is first used. A Property Report prepared pursuant to these regulations shall not be distributed to potential lot purchasers until after the Statement of Record of which it is a part or any amendment to that Statement of Record has been made effective by the Director.
