
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.105 Cover page.

The cover page of the Property Report shall be prepared in accordance with the following directions:

(a) The margins shall be at least 1 inch.

(b) The next 3 inches shall contain a warning, centered, ininch capital letters in red type withinch space between the lines which reads as follows: "READ THIS PROPERTY REPORT BEFORE SIGNING ANYTHING".

(c) The remainder of the page shall contain the language set forth in section X of the appendix to this part: Language for Warning on Cover Page of Property Report beginning-inch below the last line of the warning.

(d)(1) If the purchaser is entitled to a longer revocation period by operation of state law, that period becomes the Federal revocation period and the Cover Page must reflect the requirements of the longer period, rather than the seven days.

(2)(i) If a deed is not delivered within 180 days of the signing of the contract or agreement of sale or unless certain provisions are included in the contract or agreement, the purchaser is entitled to cancel the contract within two years from the date of signing the contract or agreement.

(ii) The deed must be a warranty deed, or where such a deed is not commonly used, a similar deed legally acceptable in the jurisdiction where the lot is located. The deed must be free and clear of liens and encumbrances.

(iii) The contract provisions are:

(A) A legally sufficient and recordable lot description; and

(B) A provision that the seller will give the purchaser written notification of purchaser's default or breach of contract and the opportunity to have at least 20 days from the receipt of notice to correct the default or breach; and

(C) A provision that, if the purchaser loses rights and interest in the lot because of the purchaser's default or breach of contract after 15% of the purchase price, exclusive of interest, has been paid, the seller shall refund to the purchaser any amount which remains from the payments made after subtracting 15% of the purchase price, exclusive of interest, or the amount of the seller's actual damages, whichever is the greater.

(iv) If a deed is not delivered within 180 days of the signing of the contract or if the necessary provisions are not included in the contract, the following statement shall be used in place of any other rescission language: "Under Federal law you may cancel your contract or agreement of sale any time within two years from the date of signing."

(e) At the time of submission, the developer may indicate its intention to comply with the red printing by an illustration or by a statement to that effect.

(f) The "Date of This Report" shall be the date on which the Director allows the Statement of Record to become effective and shall not be entered until the submission has become effective.
