
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.111 Utilities.
###### Individual system.

(i)(A) If water is to be supplied by an individual private well, cistern or other individual system, what are the total estimated costs of the system, including but not limited to, the costs of installation, storage, any treatment facilities and other necessary equipment?

(B) If individual cisterns or similar storage tanks are to be used, state where water to fill them can be secured; the cost of the water, and its delivery costs for a supply sufficient to serve the monthly needs of a family of four living in a house on a year-round basis. Include a statement to the effect that water stored for extended periods tends to become stale and may acquire an unpleasant taste or odor.

(C) If individual wells are to be used and if the sales contract contains no provisions for refund or exchange in the event a productive well cannot be installed, include a statement to the effect that there is no assurance a productive well can be installed and, if it cannot, no refund of the purchase price of the lot will be made.

(D) If individual wells or individual cisterns are to be used, include a brief statement to the effect that the purity and chemical content of the water cannot be determined until each individual well or source of water is completed and tested.

(E) If there have been no hydrological surveys in connection with the use of individual wells or sources of hauled water for cisterns, include a warning to the effect that there is no assurance of a sufficient supply of water for the anticipated population.

(F) Is a permit required to install the individual system to be used? If so, from whom and where is the permit secured? State the cost of a permit.
