
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.111 Utilities.
###### i.e.,

(C) What is the present capacity of the central plant (how many connections can be supplied)? If the capacity is not sufficient to serve all lots in the Statement of Record and is to be expanded in phases, what is the time-table for each phase to be in service and what will trigger the beginning of the expansion for each phase? If an entity other than the developer or an affiliate or subsidiary of the developer will supply the water for the central system; if the operation of that entity is supervised by a governmental agency and if that entity states it can supply the anticipated population of the development, then information as to the capacity of the plant and a hydrological survey is not necessary. If the entity does not indicate it can supply enough water for the anticipated population or if the capacity of any central system is not sufficient to serve all lots in the Statement of Record, include a warning which describes the limitations and sets forth the number of lots which can now be served.

(D) Have there been any hydrological surveys to determine that a sufficient source of water is available to serve the anticipated population of the subdivision? Has the water in the central system been tested for purity and chemical content? If so, did the results show that the water meets all standards for a public water supply? If there have been no hydrological surveys showing a sufficient supply of water or no tests for purity and chemical content for the central system, include a warning to the effect that there is no assurance of a sufficient supply or that the water is drinkable.

(E) Is there any financial assurance of completion of the central system and any future expansion? If not, include a warning to the effect that no funds have been set aside in an escrow or trust account nor have any other financial arrangements been made to assure completion of the water system.

(F) If the developer or an affiliate or subsidiary of the developer operates the central system, have all permits been obtained from the proper agencies for the construction, use and operation of the central system? If not, include a warning to the effect that the required permits, approvals or licenses for construction, operation or use of the water system have not been obtained, therefore there is no assurance the system can be constructed or used.

(G) If previous completion dates given in prior Statements of Record have not been met, state that previous completion dates have not been met and give the previous dates. Underline the answer. If the central water system is 100 percent completed, no dates are needed.

(H) Is the purchaser to pay any construction costs, one-time connection fees, availability fees, special assessments or deposits for the central system? If so, what are the amounts? If not, state that there are no charges other than use fees. If the purchaser will be responsible for construction costs of the water mains, state the cost to install the mains to the most remote lot covered by this report.

(I) If a purchaser wishes to use a lot prior to the date central water is available to it, may the purchaser install an individual system? If so, include the information required for individual systems in § 1010.111(a)(1)(i). Will the purchaser be required to discontinue use of any individual system and connect to the central system when service is available to the lot? If the purchaser is not required to connect to the central system, must any construction costs, connection fees, availability fees, special assessments or deposits in connection with the central system still be paid? If an individual system may not be installed, so state and indicate water will not be available until the central system is extended to the lot.

(J) If connection to the system is voluntary and not all purchasers elect to use the system, will the cost to those who do use the system be increased? If so, include a statement to the effect that connection to the central system is voluntary and those who use the system may have to pay a disproportionate share of the cost of the system and its operation.

(K) If the developer is to construct the system and will later turn it over to a property owners' association for operation and maintenance, state the estimated date and conditions of the conveyance and if it will be conveyed free and clear of any encumbrance. If there is a charge or if the association must assume an encumbrance, state the estimated amount of either and the terms for retirement of either obligation.

(L) If the supplier of water is other than a governmental agency or an entity which is regulated and supervised by a governmental agency, state that neither the operation of the water system nor the rates are regulated by a public authority.

(M) The warning "We do not own or operate the central water system so we cannot assure its continued availability for your use" shall be included unless:
