
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.111 Utilities.
###### Individual systems.

(i)(A) If individual systems are to be used, have the local authorities given general approval to the use of these systems in the subdivision or have they given specific approval for each lot? Are permits necessary? From whom and where are they obtained? Must testing of the lot be done prior to the issuance of a permit? State the cost of a permit and the estimated costs of the system and any necessary tests.

(B) If holding tanks are to be used, state whether pumping and hauling service is available and the estimated monthly costs of that service for a family of four living in a house on a year-round basis.

(C) If each and every lot has not been approved for the use of an individual on-site system, include a warning to the effect that there is no assurance permits can be obtained for the installation and use of individual on-site systems. If the sales contract contains no provisions for refund or exchange in the event a permit cannot be obtained, include a statement to the effect that there is no assurance an individual on-site system can be installed and, if it cannot, no refund of the purchase price of the lot will be made.

(D) If no permit is required for the installation and use of individual on-site systems, explain whether this may have an effect upon the purchaser or the availability of construction or permanent financing.

(E) If the developer has knowledge that permits for the installation of individual on-site systems have been denied; that there have been unsatisfactory percolation tests or that systems have not operated satisfactory in the subdivision, state the number of these rejections, unsatisfactory tests or operations.
