
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.111 Utilities.
###### Comfort stations.

(ii)(A) If comfort stations are to be used, how many lots will be served by each station? When will construction be started? When will the station or stations be completed and ready for use? Have the necessary permits been obtained for the construction and use of comfort stations? If the necessary permits have not been obtained, include a warning that the necessary permits, approvals or licenses have not been obtained for the construction and use of the comfort stations; therefore there is no assurance they can be constructed or used. If there are comfort stations located in different units and having different completion dates, the chart found in section XXII of the appendix to this part: Comfort Station Chart shall be used to show the estimated construction starting date (month and year), the present percentage of completion and the date on which they will be used rather than a narrative paragraph.

(B) Who is to construct the comfort stations? Is there any financial assurance of their completion? If not, include a warning to the effect that no funds have been set aside in an escrow or trust account nor have any other financial arrangements been made to assure completion of the comfort stations and there is no assurance the facilities will be completed.

(C) Who will be responsible for maintenance of the comfort stations? Is there any cost to the purchaser for construction, use or maintenance?
