
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.111 Utilities.
###### i.e.,

(B) What is the present percentage of completion and the present capacity of the system (number of connections which can be served)? If the present capacity is not sufficient to serve all lots in the Statement of Record and it is to be expanded in phases, what is the time-table for expansion and what will trigger that expansion? If the central system is not complete and there are separate units or sections of the subdivision which have different service availability dates, the chart found in section XXIII of the appendix to this part: Sewer Chart shall be used to show the construction starting date (month and year); the percentage of completion and service availability date (month and year) in each unit or section rather than a narrative paragraph. If sewage treatment facilities are to be supplied by an entity which is regulated by a governmental agency and which is not the developer or an affiliate or subsidiary of the developer and the entity has stated it can serve the anticipated population of the development, then information on capacity need not appear.

(C) If the developer or an affiliate or subsidiary of the developer operates the central system, have all necessary permits been obtained for the construction, operation and use of the central system? Do these permits limit the number of connections or homes which the system may serve? If the permits have not been obtained, enter a warning to the effect that the necessary permits, approvals or licenses have not been obtained for the central sewage system; therefore there is no assurance that the system can be completed, operated or used.

(D) If the system cannot now serve all lots included in the Statement of Record, either because the supplier of the service has not stated it can and will serve all lots or if construction has not reached a stage where all lots can be served or permits to serve all lots have not been obtained, include a warning which states that all lots cannot now be served; the number which can be served and the reason for the lack of capacity.

(E) Will the purchaser pay any construction costs, special assessments, one time connection fees or availability fees? What are the amounts of these charges? If the purchaser is to pay construction costs of the sewer mains, state the cost of installation of the mains to the most remote lot in this Report.

(F) If the purchaser wishes to use the lot prior to the date central sewer service is available, may the purchaser install an individual system? If so, include the information on individual systems required by § 1010.111(b)(1)(i). Will the purchaser be required to discontinue use of the individual system and connect to the central system when service is available? If the purchaser is not required to connect to the central system, must the purchaser still pay any construction costs, connection fees, availability fees, or special assessments? If the purchaser may not install an individual system, so state and indicate service will not be available until the central system reaches the lot.

(G) If connection to the system is voluntary and not all purchasers elect to use the system, will the cost to those who do use the system be increased? If so, include a statement to the effect that connection to the central system is voluntary and those who use the system may have to pay a disproportionate share of the cost of the system and its operation.

(H) Is there any financial assurance of completion of the central system and any future expansion? If not, include a warning that no funds have been set aside in an escrow or trust account nor have any other financial arrangements been made to assure the completion of the central system; therefore there is no assurance that it will be completed.

(I) If previous completion dates given in prior Statements of Record have not been met, state that previous dates have not been met and give the previous dates. Underline the answer. If the central sewage treatment and collection system are 100 percent completed, no dates are needed.

(J) If the developer is to construct the system and will later turn it over to a property owners' association for operation and maintenance, state the date of the transfer and whether there will be any charge for the conveyance and if it will be conveyed free and clear of any encumbrance. If there is a charge or if the association must assume an encumbrance, state the estimated amount of either and the terms for retirement of either obligation.

(K) If the owner or operator of the central sewer system is other than a governmental agency or an entity which is regulated and supervised by a governmental agency, state that neither the operation of the sewer system nor the rates are regulated by a public authority.

(L) The warning "We do not own or operate the central sewer system so we cannot assure its continued availability for your use." shall be included unless:
