
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.111 Utilities.
###### Electricity.

(c)(1) Who will provide electrical services to the subdivision?

(2) Have primary electrical service lines been extended in front of, or adjacent to, all of the lots? If not, when (month and year) or under what conditions will construction begin and when will service be available? If they have not been installed, who is responsible for their construction? If electrical service lines have not been extended in front of, or adjacent to, all lots and there are separate units or sections having different service availability dates, the chart found in section XXIV of the appendix to this part: Electric Service Chart shall be used rather than a narrative paragraph.

(3) If construction of the lines or service to the ultimate consumer is provided by an entity other than a publicly regulated utility, who provides, or will provide, the service? Who will be responsible for maintenance? What is the assurance of completion? If service is not provided by a publicly regulated utility, what charges or assessments will the purchaser pay?

(4) If the primary service lines have not been extended in front of, or adjacent to each lot, will the purchaser be responsible for any construction costs? If so, what is the utility company's policy and charges for extension of primary lines? Based on that policy, what would be the cost to the purchaser for extending primary service to the most remote lot in this Report?
