
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.116 Additional information.
###### Violations and litigations.

(c)This information need appear only if any of the questions are answered in the affirmative. Unless the Director gives prior approval for it to be omitted, a brief description of the action and its present status or disposition shall be given.

(1) With respect to activities relating to or in violation of a Federal, state or local law concerned with the environment, land sales, securities sales, construction or sale of homes or home improvements, consumer fraud or similar activity, has the developer, the owner of the land or any of their principals, officers, directors, parent corporation, subsidiaries or an entity in which any of them hold a 10% or more financial interest, been:

(i) Disciplined, debarred or suspended by any governmental agency, or is there now pending against them an action which could result in their being disciplined, debarred or suspended or,

(ii) Convicted by any court, or is there now pending against them any criminal proceedings in any court? ILSRP suspension notices on pre-effective Statements of Record and amendments need not be listed.

(2) Has the developer, the owner of the land, any principal, any person holding a 10% or more financial or ownership interest in either, or any officer or director of either, filed a petition in bankruptcy? Has an involuntary petition in bankruptcy been filed against it or them or have they been an officer or director of a company which became insolvent or was involved, as a debtor, in any proceedings under the Bankruptcy Act during the last 13 years?

(3) Is the developer or any of its principals, any parent corporation or subsidiary, any officer or director a party to any litigation which may have a material adverse impact upon its financial condition or its ability to transfer title to a purchaser or to complete promised facilities? If so, include a warning which describes the possible effects which the action may have upon the subdivision.
