
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.116 Additional information.
###### Property Owners' Association.

(a)(1) Will there be a property owners' association for the subdivision? Has it been formed? What is its name? Is it operating? If not yet formed, when will it be formed? Who is responsible for its formation?

(2) Does the developer exercise, or have the right to exercise, any control over the Association because of voting rights or placement of officers or directors? For how long will this control last?

(3) Is membership in the association voluntary? Will non-member lot owners be subject to the payment of dues or assessments? What are the association dues? Can they be increased? Are members subject to special assessments? For what purpose? If membership in the association is voluntary and if the association is responsible for operating or maintaining facilities which serve all lot owners, include the following statement: "Since membership in the association is voluntary, you may be required to pay a disproportionate share of the association costs or it may not be able to carry out its responsibilities."

(4) What are the functions and responsibilities of the association? Will the association hold architectural control over the subdivision?

(5) Are there any functions or services that the developer now provides at no charge for which the association may be required to assume responsibility in the future? If so, will an increase in assessments or fees be necessary to continue these functions or services?

(6) Does the current level of assessments, fees, charges or other income provide the capability for the association to meet its present, or planned, financial obligations including operating costs, maintenance and repair costs and reserves for replacement? If not, how will any deficit be made up?
