
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.209 Title and land use.
###### General information.,e.g.,

(a)(1) State whether the developer has reserved the right to exchange or withdraw lots after a purchaser has signed a sales contract (for prior sales, failure to pass credit check). If yes, indicate this authority and make reference to the applicable paragraph in the sales contract or other document.

(2) State whether there is a provision giving purchasers an option to exchange lots. If yes, indicate this and make reference to the applicable paragraph in the sales contract or other document.

(3) State whether the developer knows of any instruments not of record which, if recorded, would affect title to the subdivision. If yes, copies of these instruments shall be submitted, except that copies of unrecorded contracts for sales of lots in the subdivision need not be submitted.

(4)(i) Identify the Federal, State, and local agencies or similar organizations which have the authority to regulate or issue permits, approvals or licenses which may have a material effect on the developer's plans with respect to the proposed division of the land, and any existing or proposed facilities, common areas or improvements to the subdivision.

(ii) Describe or identify the land or facilities affected; the permit, approval or license required; and indicate whether the permit, approval or license has been obtained by the developer.

(iii) If no agency regulates the division of the land or issues any permits, approvals or licenses with respect to improvements, so state.

(iv) Answers must specifically cover the areas of environmental protection; environmental impact statements; and construction, dredging, bulkheading, etc. that affect bodies of water within or around the subdivision. Also include licenses or permits required by water resources boards, pollution control boards, river basin commissions, conservation agencies or similar organizations.

(5) State whether it is unlawful to sell lots prior to the final approval and recording of a plat map in the jurisdiction where the subdivision is located.
