
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.208 General information.
###### Developer information.

(c)(1) State the name, address, Internal Revenue Service number and telephone number of the owner of the land. If the owner is other than an individual, name the type of legal entity and list the interest, and extent thereof, of each principal. Identify the officers and directors.

(2) If the developer is not the owner of the land, state the developer's name, address, Internal Revenue Service number and telephone number. If the developer is other than an individual, name the type of legal entity and list the interest, and the extent thereof, of each principal. Identify the officers and directors.

(3) If you wish to appoint an authorized agent, state the agent's name, address and telephone number and scope of responsibility. This shall be the party designated by the developer to receive correspondence, service of process and notice of any action taken by ILSRP. In all Statements of Record, including those for foreign subdivisions, the authorized agent shall be a resident of the United States. A change of the authorized agent will require an appropriate amendment.

(4) State whether the owner of the land, the developer, its parent, subsidiaries or any of the principals, officers or directors of any of them are directly or indirectly involved in any other subdivision containing 100 or more lots. If so, identify the subdivision by name, location, and ILSRP number, if any.

(5) State whether the owner or developer is a subsidiary corporation. If either the owner or developer is a subsidiary corporation or if any of the principals of the owner or developer are corporate entities, name the parent and/or corporate entity and state the principals of each to the ultimate parent entity.
