
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.208 General information.
###### Documentation.

(d)(1) Submit a copy of the property report, subdivision report, offering statement or similar document filed with the state or states with which the subdivision has been registered.

(2) Submit a copy of a general plan of the subdivision. This general plan must consist of a map, prepared to scale, and it must identify the various proposed sections or blocks within the subdivision, the existing or proposed roads or streets, and the location of the existing or proposed recreational and/or common facilities. In an initial filing, this map must at least show the area included in the Statement of Record. In a consolidated Statement of Record, show areas being added, as well as the areas previously registered. If a map of the entire subdivision is submitted with the initial Statement of Record, and if no substantial changes are made when material for a consolidated Statement of Record is submitted, the original map may be included by reference.

(3)(i) If the developer is a corporation, submit a copy of the articles of incorporation, with all amendments; a copy of the certificate of incorporation or a certificate of a corporation in good standing and, if the subdivision is located in a state other than the one in which the original certificate of corporation was issued, a certificate of registration as a foreign corporation with the state where the subdivision is located.

(ii) If the developer is a partnership, unincorporated association, joint stock company, joint venture or other form of organization, submit a copy of the articles of partnership or association and all other documents relating to its organization.

(iii) If the developer is not the owner of the land, submit copies of the above documents for the owner.
