
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.209 Title and land use.
###### Items to be included in the title evidence.

(e)The acceptable title evidence must include the following information, instruments and statements and need not be repeated or duplicated elsewhere in the Statement of Record.

(1) A legal description of the land on which the lots, common areas, and facilities covered by the title evidence are located. This legal description shall be adequate for conveying land in the jurisdiction in which the subdivision is located. If this legal description is based on a recorded plat, the lot numbers, recording place, book name, book number, and page number shall be stated in the description. If this legal description is given by metes and bounds, the title evidence shall include or be accompanied by a certified statement of the preparer of the title evidence, a licensed attorney, or an engineer or surveyor, indicating that all subject lots, common areas, and common facilities are encompassed within the metes and bounds description in the evidence. If at any time after the submission of the legal description required above, the description of the subject land is changed or found to be in error, a correcting amendment shall be made to the Statement of Record.

(2) The name of the person(s) or other legal entity(ies) holding fee title to the property described.

(3) The name of any person(s) or other legal entity(ies) holding a leasehold estate or other interest of record in the property described.

(4) A listing of any and all exceptions or objections to the title, estate or interest of the person(s) or legal entity(ies) referred to in paragraph (e)(2) or (3) of this section, including any encumbrances, easements, covenants, conditions, reservations, limitations or restrictions of record. Any reference to exceptions or objections to title shall include specific references to the instruments in the public records upon which they are based. When an objection or exception to title affects less than all of the property covered by this Statement of Record, the title evidence shall specifically note what portion of the property is so affected.

(5) Copies of all instruments in the public records specifically referred to in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. Abstracts of such instruments are acceptable if prepared by an attorney or professional or official abstractor qualified and authorized by law to prepare and certify such abstracts and if the abstracts contain a material portion of the recorded instruments sufficient to determine the nature and effect of such instruments. Also include copies of any release provisions, relating to encumbrances on the property described, which are not included in the documents otherwise required by this section.

(6) If an attorney's title opinion has been submitted pursuant to this section which has been based on a Torrens land registration certificate of title, submit a copy of such certificate.
