
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.209 Title and land use.
###### Title searches.

(d)The required evidence of the status of title shall be based on a search of all public records which may contain documents affecting title to the land or the developer's ability to deliver marketable title. The search must cover a period which is required or generally considered adequate for insuring marketability of title in the jurisdiction in which the subdivision is located. Such search shall include an examination of at least the documents listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section. This search may be accomplished through the use of a title insurance company title plant, the information in which is based on current searches of the appropriate and necessary documents, including as a minimum those listed immediately above. For any attorney's title opinion based on Torrens certificates of title, the title search need only go beyond the original time of registration of the certificate of title for those types of encumbrances which were not conclusively settled by the proceedings at the time of such registration. In such cases, the required statement shall clearly reflect the documents and periods searched.

(1) The records of the recorder of deeds or similar authority;

(2) U.S. Internal Revenue Liens;

(3) The records of the circuit, probate, or other courts including Federal courts and bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings which have jurisdiction to affect the title to the land;

(4) The tax records;

(5) Financing statements filed pursuant to the Uniform Commercial Code or similar law. If it is held that the financing statements do not affect the title of the land, include a statement of the legal authority for that opinion.
