
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.208 General information.
###### Administrative information.

(a)(1) State whether the material represents an initial Statement of Record or a consolidated Statement of Record. If it is a consolidated Statement of Record, identify the original ILSRP number assigned to the initial Statement of Record. State whether subsequent Statements of Record will be submitted for additional lots in the subdivision.

(2) Has the developer submitted a request for an exemption for the subdivision?

(3) List the states in which registration has been made by the developer for the sale of lots in the subdivision.

(4) If any state listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section has not permitted a registration to become effective or has suspended the registration or prohibited sales, name the state involved and give the reasons cited by the state for their action.

(5) State whether the developer has made, or intends to make, a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) which is related in any way to the subdivision. If a filing has been made with the SEC, give the SEC identification number; identify the prospectus by name; date of filing and state the page number of the prospectus upon which specific reference to the subdivision is made. Any disciplinary action taken against the developer by the SEC should be disclosed in §§ 1010.116 and 1010.216.
