
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.211 Utilities.
###### Water.

(a)(1) State the estimated cost to the developer of the central water system.

(2) If water is to be supplied by a central system, furnish a letter from the supplier that it will supply the water. If the system is operated by a governmental division or by an entity whose operations are regulated by a governmental agency but which is not affiliated with or under the control of the developer, the letter shall include a statement that the supply of water will be sufficient to serve the anticipated population of the subdivision or how many homes or connections it can and will serve and that the water is tested at regular intervals and has been found to meet all standards for a public water supply.

(3) If the water is to be supplied by individual wells, by an entity which is not regulated by a governmental agency, by the developer or by an entity which is affiliated with or controlled by the developer, submit a copy of any engineers' reports or hydrological surveys which indicate there is a sufficient supply of water to serve the anticipated population of the subdivision.

(4) If the supplier of water is not in one of the categories in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, submit a copy of a letter or report from a cognizant health officer, or from a private laboratory licensed by the state to perform tests and issue reports on water, to the effect that the water was found to meet all drinking water standards required by the state for a public water system.

(5) If any bond, escrow agreement or other financial assurance of the completion of the central system, including any phases which are to be constructed in the future, has been posted by the developer or an entity not regulated by a government agency, furnish a copy of the document.

(6) Furnish a copy of any permits which have been obtained by the developer or any entity affiliated with or under the control of the developer in connection with the construction and operation of the central system. If a permit is required to install individual wells, submit a letter from the proper authority which states the requirements for obtaining the permit and that there is no objection to the use of individual wells in the subdivision.

(7) Furnish a copy of any membership agreement or contract which allows or requires lot owners to use the central water system. If this document is furnished elsewhere in the Statement of Record, reference to it may be made here.
