
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.211 Utilities.
###### Sewer.

(b)(1) State the estimated cost to the developer of the central sewer system.

(2) If sewage disposal is to be by individual on-site systems, furnish a letter from the local health authorities giving general approval to the use of these systems in the subdivision or giving specific approval for each and every lot.

(3) If sewage disposal is to be through a central system which is owned and operated by a governmental division, or by an entity whose operations are regulated by a governmental agency but which is not affiliated with, or under the control of, the developer, furnish a letter from the entity that it will provide this service and that its treatment facilities have the capacity to serve the anticipated population of the subdivision or how many homes or connections it can and will serve.

(4) Furnish a copy of any permits obtained by the developer or any entity affiliated with or under the control of the developer, for the construction and operation of the central sewer system or construction and use of any other method of sewage disposal contemplated for the subdivision except those to be obtained by individual lot owners at a later date.

(5) If any bond, escrow agreement or other financial assurance of the completion of the central system or other system for which the developer is responsible, and any future expansion, has been posted, furnish a copy of the document.

(6) Furnish a copy of any membership agreement of contract which allows, or requires, the lot owners to use the central system. If this document is furnished elsewhere in the Statement of Record, it may be included here by reference.
