
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.209 Title and land use.
###### Plat maps, environmental studies and restrictions,Plat maps.

(g)-(1)(i) In those jurisdictions where it is unlawful to sell lots prior to final approval and recording of the plat, and in those cases where a plat has been recorded, submit a copy of the recorded plat. This plat should be an exact copy of the recorded document. It should reflect the signatures of the approving authorities and bear a stamp or notation by the recorder of deeds, or similarly constituted officer, as to the recording data.

(ii) If the plat has not been approved by the local authorities nor recorded, and if it is not unlawful to sell lots prior to final approval and recording, submit a map which has been prepared to scale and which shows the proposed division of the land, the lot dimensions and their relation to proposed or existing streets and roads. The map shall contain sufficient engineering data to enable a surveyor to locate the lots.

(iii) Whether recorded or unrecorded, the plat or map should show:

(A) The dimensions of each lot, stated in the standard unit of measure acceptable for such purposes in the political subdivision where the land is located.

(B) A clear delineation of each of the lots and any common areas or facilities.

(C) Any encroachments or rights-of-way on, over, or under the land, or a notation of these items together with the identity of the lots affected.

(D) The courses, distances and monuments, natural or otherwise, of the land's boundaries; contiguous boundaries and identification or ownership of adjoining land and names of abutting streets, ways, etc.

(E) The location of the section or unit encompassing the lots in relationship to the larger tract, or tracts, in the subdivision.

(F) The delineation of any flood plains or flood control easements affecting any of the lots.

(iv) The plat, or map shall be prepared by a licensed surveyor or engineer.

(v) If all lots on each page of the plat are not included in the Statement of Record with which the plat or map is submitted, then the lots which are to be included in the Statement of Record shall be identified on the plat or map; a legend describing the method of identification shall be entered on the face of the plat or map and the number of lots so identified entered in the lower right hand corner of the plat map. The Director must be able to reconcile the totals of these numbers with the information given in §§ 1010.108 and 1010.208 of the Statement of Record and the title evidence.
