
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.209 Title and land use.
###### Supplemental title information.

(f)(1) If there is a holder of an ownership interest in the land other than the developer, submit a copy of any documentation which evidences the developers' authorization to develop and/or sell the land.

(2) Submit copies of any trust deeds, deeds in trust, escrow agreements or other instruments which purport to protect the purchaser in the event of default or bankruptcy by the developer on any instrument or instruments which create a blanket encumbrance upon the property unless they have been previously provided as part of "title evidence" submitted pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.

(3)(i) Submit copies of all forms of contracts or agreements and notes to be used in selling or leasing lots. The contracts or agreements, including promissory notes, must contain the following language in boldface type (which must be distinguished from the type used for the rest of the contract) on the face or signature page above all signatures: "You have the option to cancel your contract or agreement of sale by notice to the seller until midnight of the seventh day following the signing of the contract or agreement. If you did not receive a Property Report prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, in advance of your signing the contract or agreement, the contract or agreement of sale may be cancelled at your option for two years from the date of signing."

(ii) If the purchaser is entitled to a longer revocation period by operation of state law or the Act, that period becomes the Federal revocation period and the contract or agreement must reflect the requirements of the longer period, rather than the seven days. This language shall be consistent with that shown on the cover page (see § 1010.105).

(iii) The revocation provisions may not be limited or qualified in the contract or other document by requiring a specific type of notice or by requiring that notice be given at a specified place.

(iv) If it is represented that the developer will provide or complete roads or facilities for waters, sewer, gas, electric service or recreational amenities, the contract must contain a provision that the developer is obligated to provide or complete such roads, facilities and amenities.

(4) Submit copies of deeds and leases by which the developer will lease or convey title to the lots to purchasers or lessees.
