
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.212 Financial information.
###### Financing of improvements.

(a)Describe the financing plan that is to be used in financing on-site or off-site improvements proposed in the Statement of Record.

(b) Complete the following format (If the subdivision or common promotional plan contains, or will contain, 1000 or more lots, furnish this information in its entirety. If the subdivision or common promotional plan contains, or will contain, less than 1,000 lots, only paragraphs (b)(3)(iii) and (iv) of this section need be completed.)

(1) Estimated date for full completion of amenities

(2) Projected date for complete sell out of subdivision

(3) Cost and expense recap for lots included in this Statement of Record:

(i) Land acquisition cost or current fair market value of land.

(ii) Development and improvement costs (include the estimated cost of such items as roads, utilities, and amenities which the developer will incur).

(iii) Estimated marketing and advertising costs.

(iv) Estimated sales commission.

(v) Interest (include cost in financing the land purchase, improvements, or other borrowings).

(vi) Estimated other expenses (include general costs, administrative costs, profit, etc.).

(vii) Total.

(4) Total land sales revenue:

(i) Estimated total land sales income.

(ii) Estimated other income.

(iii) Total income.
