
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.212 Financial information.
###### Financial statements.

(c)(1) Submit a copy of the developer's financial statements for the last full fiscal year. These statements shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as prescribed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and generally accepted auditing standards as prescribed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and shall be audited by an independent licensed public accountant. They shall include a balance sheet, a statement of profit and loss, a statement of changes in financial condition and a certified opinion by the accountant. The statements shall be no more than six months old on the date the Statement of Record is submitted.

(2) If the audited statements are more than six months old at the date of submission of the Statement of Record, or if the last full fiscal year has ended within the last 90 days and audited Statements are not yet available, the developer may submit a copy of the audited statements for the previous full fiscal year and supplement them with unaudited, interim statements so that the financial information is no more than six months old on the date that the Statement of Record is submitted. The interim statements may be prepared by company personnel but must contain a balance sheet, a statement of profit and loss and a statement of changes in financial condition and be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
