
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 28 - INTERNATIONAL BANKING ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart B - Federal Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks
##### ยง 28.18 Recordkeeping and reporting.
###### Maintenance of accounts, books, and records.

(c)(1) Each Federal branch or agency shall maintain a set of accounts and records reflecting its transactions that are separate from those of the foreign bank and any other branch or agency. The Federal branch or agency shall keep a set of accounts and records in English sufficient to permit the OCC to examine the condition of the Federal branch or agency and its compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Federal branch or agency shall promptly provide any additional records requested by the OCC for examination or supervisory purposes.

(2) A foreign bank with more than one Federal branch or agency in a state shall designate one of those offices to maintain consolidated asset, liability, and capital equivalency accounts for all Federal branches or agencies in that state.

(3) A foreign bank with a Federal branch or agency in more than one state that consolidates its CEDs into one account in accordance with ยง 28.15(e) shall designate a participating Federal branch or agency to maintain consolidated asset, liability, and capital equivalency account information for all Federal branches and agencies covered by the consolidated deposit. A foreign bank with a consolidated CED shall maintain a book entry accounting of assets designated under the consolidated CED for each office of that foreign bank.
