
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.216 Additional information.
###### i.e.,

(2) State the type of sales to be made,contract for deed, cash, deed with security instrument, etc.

(3) Describe the methods of advertising and marketing to be used for the subdivision. The description should include, but need not be limited to, information on such matters as to:

(i) Whether the developer will employ his own sales force or will contract with an outside group;

(ii) Whether wide area telephone solicitation will be employed;

(iii) Whether presentations will be made away from the immediate vicinity of the subdivision and/or if prospective purchasers will be furnished transportation from distant cities to the subdivision;

(iv) Whether mass mailing techniques will be used and gifts offered to those who respond.

(4) For any subdivision that meets any of the criteria in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, submit a copy of any advertising or promotional material that is, or has been, used for the subdivision. Amendments to reflect changes in advertising or promotional material need be filed only when there is a material change related to one of the above factors. Depending upon the content of the material submitted, the Director may require additional warnings in the Property Report portion. This requirement applies to any subdivision that:

(i) Mentions or refers to recreational facilities which are not disclosed in § 1010.114, or;

(ii) Promotes the sale of lots based on the investment potential or expected profits, or;

(iii) Contains information which is in conflict with that disclosed in this Statement of Record.
