
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart C - Certification of Substantially Equivalent State Law
##### § 1010.504 Cooperation among certified states and between certified states and the Director.

(a) By filing an Application for Certification of State Land Sales Program pursuant to this subpart, a state agrees that, if it is certified by the Director, it will:

(1) Accept for filing and allow to be distributed as the sole disclosure document, a disclosure document currently in effect in the situs certified state. Only those documents filed with the situs state after certification by the Director must automatically be accepted by other certified states;

(2) Certify copies of all disclosure documents, amendments and consolidations filed with it by developers of land located within its borders for and as needed by developers required to submit certified copies to the Director and all other certified states. The certification shall indicate whether the documents are currently in effect. The certification should be in the format set forth in section XXIX of the appendix to this part: Form for Certification for Disclosure Documents.

(3) Assist and cooperate with the Director and other certified states by requiring that developers of land within its borders amend disclosure documents if any change occurs in any representation of material fact required to be stated in the disclosure documents, including a change resulting from the developer's compliance with the requirements of the law in another certified state. The state shall require developers to send certified copies of the amended documents to the Director and requesting certified states. All amendments to such materials, which reflect changes in material facts regarding the subdivision, shall be submitted to the situs certified state authorities within 15 days of the date on which the developer knows, or should have known, of such change. Certified copies of the disclosure documents shall be submitted by the developer to the Director and the other certified states within 15 days after it becomes effective under the situs certified state laws.

(4) Continue to effectively operate its Land Sales Program as that Program is described in the Application for Certification and as it was certified by the Director.

(5) Assist and cooperate with the Director by monitoring the sales practices of developers registered with it directly or through another certified state, and by reporting to the Director any violations of the Act, including but not limited to the required contract provisions, revocation rights and anti-fraud provisions of 15 U.S.C. 1703, or the regulations.

(b) A state required to accept the disclosure documents of another situs certified state pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, may, in its discretion, require the developer to furnish it with copies certified pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(c) No state shall be prevented from establishing substantive or disclosure requirements which exceed the Federal standard provided that such requirements are not in conflict with the Act or these regulations. For example, a certified state may impose additional disclosure requirements on developers of land located within its borders but may not impose additional disclosure requirements on developers whose disclosure documents it is required to accept pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section. However, a certified state may impose additional nondisclosure requirements on out of state developers even though the developer is registered in the certified state in which the land is located.

(d) After a developer is effectively registered with a certified state through a situs certified state, either or both certified states may exercise full enforcement authorities and powers over that developer according to applicable law and regulations.

(e) The Director shall cooperate with the certified states by offering a forum for nonbinding arbitration of disputes between two or more certified States arising out of the State Certification Program.
