
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart C - Certification of Substantially Equivalent State Law
##### § 1010.500 General.

(a) This subpart establishes procedures and criteria for certifying state land sale or lease disclosure programs and state land development standards programs. The purpose of State Certification is to lessen the administrative burden on the individual developer, arising where there are duplicative state and Federal registration and disclosure requirements, without affecting the level of protection given to the individual purchaser or lessee. If the Director determines that a state has adopted and is effectively administering a program that gives purchasers and lessees the same level of protection given to them by the Interstate Land Sales Registration Program, then the Director shall certify that state. Developers who accomplish an effective registration with a state in which the land is located after the Director has certified the state may satisfy the registration requirements of the Director by filing with the Director materials designated by agreement with certified states in lieu of the Federal Statement of Record and Property Report.

(b) A state that is certified by the Director shall be known as the situs certified state for all land located within its borders.

(c) After a developer is effectively registered with the Director through a certified state, the Director has the same authority over that developer as the Director has over developers who file directly with the Director. This includes the authority to subpoena information and to examine, evaluate and suspend a developer's registration under sections 1407(d) and (e) of the Act and § 1010.45(b)(1) and (b)(2) of these regulations.

(d) The prohibitions against the use of the Property Report contained in § 1010.29 apply to state disclosure materials and substantive development standards. In addition, for purposes of this paragraph, references made to the Director, ILSRP and the Bureau in § 1010.29 will include a reference to the equivalent state officer or agency.

(e) The Purchaser's Revocation Rights, Sales Practices and Standards rules contained in part 1011 of these regulations apply to developers who register with the Director through certified States. All of the rules in part 1011 apply, excepting the disclaimer statement in § 1011.50(a) which is modified to read as follows: "Obtain the Property Report or its equivalent, required by Federal and State law and read it before signing anything. No Federal or State agency has judged the merits or value, if any, of this property."

(f) Developers are obliged to pay filing fees as set forth in § 1010.35 of this part.
