
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.310 Annual report of activity.

(a) As an integral part of the Statement of Record, the developer shall file with the Director an Annual Report of Activity on any initial or consolidated registration not under suspension. For this purpose, only one Annual Report of Activity will be expected for subdivisions on which developers have filed consolidations. For registrations certified by a state as provided for in § 1010.500, a developer need file only one Annual Report of Activity for any registration for which the ILSRP number is the same (alphabetic designators indicate that the registration has been treated as a consolidation).

(b) The report shall be submitted within 30 days of the annual anniversary of the effective date of the initial Statement of Record. The report may be submitted via the electronic means described in § 1010.20(a).

(c) The report shall contain the following information:

(1) Subdivision name and address.

(2) Developer's name, address and telephone number.

(3) Agent's name, address and telephone number.

(4) Interstate Land Sales Registration number.

(5) The date on which the initial filing first became effective.

(6) The number of registered lots, parcels or units which are unsold as of the date on which the report is due.

(7) One of the following:

(i) A statement that the developer is still engaged in land sales activity at the subject subdivision and that there have been no changes in material fact since the last effective date was issued which would require an amendment to the Statement of Record; or

(ii) A statement that the developer is still engaged in land sales activity at the subject subdivision, that material changes have occurred since the last effective date, and that corrected pages to the Property Report portion or Additional Information and Documentation portion of the Statement accompany the report; or
