
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
##### § 1010.310 Annual report of activity.
###### e.g.,

(iii) A statement that the developer is no longer engaged in land sales activity at the subject subdivision, together with the reason the developer is no longer selling (all lots sold to the public or the remaining lots sold to another developer, along with the date of sale and the new developer's name, address and telephone number). A request may be made that the Statement of Record be voluntarily suspended. The request should be submitted in duplicate and will become effective upon the counter-signature of the Director (or an authorized Designee) with the duplicate being returned to the developer.

(8) The report shall be dated and shall be signed by the senior executive officer of the developer on a signature line above his typed name and title. The senior executive officer's acknowledgement shall be attested to or certified by a notary public or similar public official authorized to attest or certify acknowledgements in the jurisdiction in which the report is executed.

(d) If the report indicates that there are 101 or more registered lots, parcels or units remaining for sale, the report shall be accompanied by an amendment fee in the amount and form prescribed in § 1010.35.

(e) Failure to submit the report when due shall be grounds for an action to suspend the effective Statement of Record.
