
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Appendix A to Part 1010 - Standard and Model Forms and Clauses

I hereby affirm that all of the requirements of the MSA exemption as set forth in 15 U.S.C. 1702(b)(8) and 12 CFR 1010.13 have been met in the sale or lease of the lot(s) described above.

I also affirm that I submit to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act with regard to the sale or lease cited above.

You have the option to cancel your contract or agreement of sale by notice to the seller until midnight of the seventh day following the date of signing of the contract or agreement.

If you did not receive a Lot Information Statement prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection in advance of your signing the contract or agreement, the contract or agreement of sale may be cancelled at your option for two years from the date of signing.

(Use of the following headings and first paragraph are mandatory.)

The developer has obtained a regulatory exemption from registration under the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act. One requirement of that exemption is that you must receive this Statement prior to the time you sign an agreement (contract) to purchase a lot.

(Under this heading the developer is to state the specific rescission rights provided for in the contract pursuant to 1010.15(b)(5)(i)).

(Under this heading the developer is to list the following information:)

There are certain risks in purchasing real estate that you should be aware of. The following are some of those risks:

The future value of land is uncertain and dependent upon many factors. Do not expect all land to automatically increase in value.

Any value which your lot may have will be affected if roads, utilities and/or amenities cannot be completed or maintained.

Any development will likely have some impact on the surrounding environment. Development which adversely affects the environment may cause governmental agencies to impose restriction on the use of the land.

In the purchase of real estate, many technical requirements must be met to assure that you receive proper title and that you will be able to use the land for its intended purpose. Since this purchase involves a major expenditure of money, it is recommended that you seek professional advice before you obligate yourself.

If adequate provisions have not been made for maintenance of the roads or if the land is not served by publicly maintained roads, you may have to maintain the roads at your expense.

If the land is not served by a central sewage system and/or water system, you should contact the local authorities to determine whether a permit will be given for an on-site sewage disposal system and/or well and whether there is an adequate supply of water. You should also become familiar with the requirements for, and the cost of, obtaining electrical service to the lot.

(Under this heading the developer is to list the following information:)

(Under this heading the developer is to list the following information:)

(Enter a statement disclosing all liens, reservations, taxes, assessments, easements and restrictions applicable to the lot. A copy of the restrictions may be attached in lieu of recitation.)

(Under this heading the developer is to list the name, address and phone number of the appropriate governmental agency or agencies, if any, that will provide information on permits or other requirements for water, sewer and electrical installations. The information will also contain the name, address and telephone number of the suppliers of such utilities which can provide information to the purchaser on costs and availability of such services. A chart similar to the one below may be used to supply this information).

Listed below are contact points for determining permit requirements, if any, and to obtain information on approximate costs and availability for the listed services:

If misrepresentations are made in the sale of this lot to you, you may have rights under the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act. If you have evidence of any scheme, artifice or device used to defraud you, you may wish to contact: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Interstate Land Sales Registration Program, 1700 G Street NW., Washington DC 20552.

(The Receipt is to be in the following form:)

Developer:

Agent:

(Insert a general description of the developer's method of operation.)

I affirm that I am, or will be, the developer of the property and/or method of operation described above.

I affirm that the lots in said property will be sold in compliance with all of the requirements of 12 CFR 1010.15.

I further affirm that the statements contained in all documents submitted with this request for an Exemption Order are true and complete.

WARNING: 18 U.S.C. 1001 provides, among other things, that whoever knowingly and willingly makes or uses a document or writing containing any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned for not more than 5 years or both.

I affirm that I am the developer or owner of the property described above or will be the developer or owner at the time the lots are offered for sale to the public, or that I am the agent authorized by the developer or owner to complete this statement. I further affirm that the statements contained in all documents submitted with the request for an exemption order are true and complete.

WARNING: Section 15 U.S.C. 1717 provides: "Any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of this title or of the rules and regulations or any person who willfully, in a Statement of Record filed under, or in a Property Report issued pursuant to this title, makes any untrue statement of a material fact shall upon conviction be fined not more than $10,000.00 or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both."

I affirm that I am the developer or owner of the property described above or will be the developer or owner at the time the lots are offered for sale to the public, or that I am the agent authorized by the developer or owner to complete this statement.I further affirm that the statements contained in all documents submitted with the request for an Advisory Opinion are true and complete.

WARNING: 15 U.S.C. 1717 provides: "Any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of this title or of the rules and regulations or any person who willfully, in a Statement of Record filed under, or in a Property Report issued pursuant to this title, makes any untrue statement of a material fact shall upon conviction be fined not more than $10,000.00 or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both."

(a) General Instructions

(b) Method of Sale

(c) Encumbrances, Mortgages and Liens

(d) Recording the Contract and Deed

(e) Payments

(f) Restrictions

(g) Plats, Zoning, Surveying, Permits, Environment

(a) Water

(b) Sewer

(c) Electricity

(d) Telephone

(e) Fuel or other Energy Source

(a) General Topography

(b) Water Coverage

(c) Drainage and Fill

(d) Flood Plain

(e) Flooding and Soil Erosion

(f) Nuisances

(g) Hazards

(h) Climate

(i) Occupancy

(a) Property Owners' Association

(b) Taxes

(c) Violations and Litigation

(d) Resale or Exchange Program

(e) Unusual Situations

1. Leases

2. Foreign Subdivision

3. Time Sharing

4. Membership

(f) Equal Opportunity in Lot Sales

(g) Listing of lots

The Bureau's OMB control number for this information collection is: 3170-0012.

Here we discuss the roads that lead to the subdivision, those within the subdivision and the location of nearby communities.

ACCESS TO THE SUBDIVISION.

County road #43 leads to the subdivision. It has two lanes and the width of the wearing surface is 22 feet. It's paved with a macadam surface.

This road is maintained by Bottineau County with County funds. No improvements are planned at this time.

ACCESS WITHIN THE SUBDIVISION.

The roads within the subdivision will be located on rights of way dedicated to the public.

We are responsible for constructing the interior roads. There will be no additional cost to you for this construction.

WE HAVE NOT SET ASIDE ANY FUNDS IN AN ESCROW OR TRUST ACCOUNT OR MADE ANY OTHER FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS TO ASSURE COMPLETION OF THE ROADS, SO THERE IS NO ASSURANCE WE WILL BE ABLE TO COMPLETE THE ROADS.

At present, the roads are under construction and do not provide access to the lots in Units 2 and 3 during wet weather. The succeeding chart describes their present condition and estimated completion dates.
