
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart C - Certification of Substantially Equivalent State Law
##### § 1010.556 Previously accepted state filings - amendments and consolidations.
###### Amendments,General requirements.

(a)-(1)State accepted materials, filed with the Director pursuant to § 1010.552, shall be amended to reflect any amendment to such materials made effective by the state or any change of a material fact regarding the subdivision. All amendments to such materials, which reflect changes in material facts regarding the subdivision, shall be submitted to the state authorities within 15 days of the date on which the developer knows, or should have known, of such change and to the Director within 15 days after it becomes effective under the applicable State laws. However, such amendment shall not be effective as a Federal registration until the Director has determined that the amendment meets all applicable requirements of these regulations.

(2) Amendments shall include or be accompanied by:

(i) A letter from the developer giving a narrative statement fully explaining the purpose and significance of the amendment and referring to that section and page of the Statement of Record which is being amended, and;

(ii) All amended pages of the state accepted materials filed with the Director. These pages shall be copied together with their amendments. Each such page shall have its date of preparation in the lower right hand corner, and;

(iii) A signed state acceptance certification, and;

(iv) The appropriate fees as indicated in § 1010.35.
