
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Appendix A to Part 1010 - Standard and Model Forms and Clauses
##### not

This Report is prepared and issued by the developer of this subdivision. It isprepared or issued by the Federal Government.

Federal law requires that you receive this Report prior to your signing a contract or agreement to buy or lease a lot in this subdivision. However, NO FEDERAL AGENCY HAS JUDGED THE MERITS OR VALUE, IF ANY, OF THIS PROPERTY.

If you received this Report prior to signing a contract or agreement, you may cancel your contract or agreement by giving notice to the seller any time before midnight of the seventh day following the signing of the contract or agreement.

If you did not receive this Report before you signed a contract or agreement, you may cancel the contract or agreement any time within two years from the date of signing.

Title and Land Use # Page #

Method of Sale

Encumbrances, Mortgages and Liens

Recording the Contract and Deed

Payments

Restrictions on the Use of Your Lot

Plat Maps, Zoning, Surveying, Permits and Environment

(1) The future value of any land is uncertain and dependent upon many factors. DO NOT expect all land to increase in value.

(2) Any value which your lot may have will be affected if the roads, utilities and all proposed improvements are not completed. This paragraph may be omitted if all improvements have been completed or if no improvements are proposed.

(3) Resale of your lot may be difficult or impossible, since you may face the competition of our own sales program and local real estate brokers may not be interested in listing your lot.

(4) Any subdivision will have an impact on the surrounding environment. Whether or not the impact is adverse and the degree of impact, will depend on the location, size, planning and extent of development. Subdivisions which adversely affect the environment may cause governmental agencies to impose restrictions on the use of the land. Changes in plant and animal life, air and water quality and noise levels may affect your use and enjoyment of your lot and your ability to sell it.

(5) In the purchase of real estate, many technical requirements must be met to assure that you receive proper title. Since this purchase involves a major expenditure of money, it is recommended that you seek professional advice before you obligate yourself.
