
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Subpart C - Certification of Substantially Equivalent State Law
##### § 1010.556 Previously accepted state filings - amendments and consolidations.
###### Consolidations,When consolidations allowed.

(b)-(1)If lots are to be registered pursuant to § 1010.552 which are in the same common promotional plan with other lots already registered with the Director, then new consolidated state accepted materials including such lots may be filed with the Director as a Statement of Record following the format of the previously accepted filing.

(2) Consolidated Statements of Record shall include or be accompanied by:

(i) State accepted consolidation materials which are also acceptable to the Director as a Statement of Record (state property report inclusive). These state accepted consolidation materials shall cover all lots previously registered in the common promotional plan except those deleted pursuant to other provisions in these regulations. These materials shall also include information and items required for state accepted materials filed as an initial registration Statement of Record, except that, supporting documentation in materials previously made effective by the Director for other lots in the subject common promotional plan may be included incorporated by reference into the new consolidation materials submitted as a Statement of Record. However, such documentation may be incorporated by reference included only if it is applicable to the new consolidated lots as well as to the previously registered lots.

(ii) A signed state acceptance certification.

(iii) The appropriate fees as indicated in § 1010.35.
