
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1010 - LAND REGISTRATION (REGULATION J)
#### Appendix A to Part 1010 - Standard and Model Forms and Clauses
##### State

"This Report covers ____ lots located in ____________ County, (). See Page ____ for a listing of these lots. It is estimated that this subdivision will eventually contain ____ lots."

"The developer of this subdivision is:

"Answers to questions and information about this subdivision may be obtained by telephoning the developer at the number listed above."

"A person with legal title to property generally has the right to own, use and enjoy the property. A contract to buy a lot may give you possession but doesn't give you legal title. You won't have legal title until you receive a valid deed. A restriction or an encumbrance on your lot, or on the subdivision, could adversely affect your title."

"Here we will discuss the sales contract you will sign and the deed you will receive. We will also provide you with information about any land use restrictions and encumbrances, mortgages, or liens affecting your lot and some important facts about payments, recording, and title insurance."

"The release provisions for the (indicate all or particular lots) have not been recorded. Therefore, they may not be honored by subsequent holders of the mortgage. If they are not honored, you may not be able to obtain clear title to a lot covered by this mortgage until we have paid the mortgage in full, even if you have paid the full purchase price of the lot. If we should default on the mortgage prior to obtaining a release of your lot, you may lose your lot and all monies paid."

"The (state type of encumbrance) on (indicate all or particular lots) in this subdivision does not contain any provisions for the release of an individual lot when the full purchase price of the lot has been paid. Therefore, if your lot is subject to this (state type of encumbrance), you may not be able to obtain clear title to your lot until we have paid the (state type of encumbrance) in full, even though you may have received a deed and paid the full purchase price of the lot. If we should default on the (state type of encumbrance) prior to obtaining a release, you may lose your lot and all monies paid."

"Unless your contract or deed is recorded you may lose your lot through the claims of subsequent purchasers or subsequent creditors of anyone having an interest in the land".

"You may lose your (indicate deposit, down payment and/or installment payments) on your lot if we fail to deliver legal title to you as called for in the contract, because (they are/it is) not held in an escrow account which fully protects you."

In addition to the purchase price of your lot, there are other expenditures which must be made.

Listed below are the major costs. There may be other fees for use of the recreational facilities.

All costs are subject to change.

The information contained in this Property Report is an accurate description of our subdivision and development plans.

We must give you a copy of this Property Report and give you an opportunity to read it before you sign any contract or agreement. By signing this receipt, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of our Property Report.

If any representations are made to you which are contrary to those in this Report, please notify the:

I certify that I have made no representations to the person(s) receiving this Property Report which are contrary to the information contained in this Property Report.

If you are entitled to cancel your purchase contract, and wish to do so, you may cancel by personal notice, or in writing. If you cancel in person or by telephone, it is recommended that you immediately confirm the cancellation by certified mail. You may use the form below.

This will confirm that I/we wish to cancel our purchase contract.

I hereby affirm that I am the Senior Executive Officer of the developer of the lots herein described or will be the Senior Executive Officer of the developer at the time lots are offered for sale or lease to the public, or that I am the agent authorized by the Senior Executive Officer of such developer to complete this statement (if agent, submit written authorization to act as agent); and,

That the statements contained in this Statement of Record and any supplement hereto, together with any documents submitted herein, are full, true, complete, and correct; and,

That the developer is bound to carry out the promises and obligations set forth in this Statement of Record and Property Report or I have clearly stated who is or will be responsible; and

That the fees accompanying this submission are in the amount required by the rules and regulations of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.

WARNING: 15 U.S.C. 1717 provides: "Any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of this title or of the rules and regulations or any person who willfully, in a Statement of Record filed under, or in a Property Report issued pursuant to this title, makes any untrue statement of a material fact shall upon conviction be fined not more than $10,000.00 or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both."

The (indicate the State Department of Real Estate or other appropriate entity) has reviewed the attached materials and finds they are true copies of (1) the (indicate Property Report or other similar state accepted document or amendment to such document) for (indicate the name of the subdivision), made effective by the state of ____________ on ____________ (give date) and still in effect; and (2) the supporting documentation upon which such (indicate the document or amendment) is based.

"If you received this Report prior to signing a contract or agreement, you may cancel your contract or agreement by giving notice to the seller anytime before midnight of the seventh day following the signing of the contract or agreement.

"If you did not receive this Report before you signed a contract or agreement, you may cancel the contract or agreement anytime within two years from the date of signing."

You have the option to cancel your contract or agreement of sale by notice to the seller until midnight of the seventh day following the signing of the contract or agreement. If you did not receive a Property Report prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, in advance of your signing the contract or agreement, this contract or agreement may be revoked at your option for two years from the date of signing.
