
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1012 - SPECIAL RULES OF PRACTICE (REGULATION L)
#### Subpart D - Adjudicatory Proceedings
##### § 1012.210 Hearings - suspension notice prior to effective date.

(a) A developer, upon receipt of a suspension notice issued pursuant to § 1010.45(a) of this chapter, may obtain a hearing by filing a written request in accordance with the instructions regarding such request contained in the suspension notice. Such a request must be filed within 15 days of receipt of the suspension notice and must be accompanied by an answer and 3 copies thereof signed by the respondent or the respondent's attorney conforming to the requirements of 1081.201(b) and (c).

(b) When a hearing is requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, such hearing shall be held within 20 days of receipt of the request. The time and place for hearing shall be fixed with due regard for the public interest and the convenience and necessity of the parties or their representatives.

(c) A request for hearing filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall not interrupt or annul the effectiveness of the suspension notice, and suspension of the effective date of the Statement or amendment shall continue until vacated by order of the Director or administrative law judge. Except in cases in which the developer shall waive or withdraw the request for such hearing, or shall fail to pursue the same by appropriate appearance at a hearing duly scheduled, noticed and convened, the suspended filing shall be reinstated in the event of failure of the Director to schedule, give notice of or hold a duly-requested hearing within the time specified in paragraph (b) of this section, or in the event of a finding that the Director has failed to support at such hearing the propriety of the suspension with respect to the material issues of law and fact raised by the answer. Such reinstatement shall be effective on the date on which the filing would have become effective had no notice of suspension been issued with respect to it.

(d) If there is an outstanding suspension notice under § 1010.45(a) with respect to the same matter for which a suspension order under § 1010.45(b)(3) is issued, the notice and order shall be consolidated for the purposes of hearing. In the event that allegations upon which the suspension notice and suspension order are based are identical, only one answer need be filed.
