
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1013 - CONSUMER LEASING (REGULATION M)
#### Supplement I to Part 1013-Official Interpretations
##### Basis of disclosures.

1.Lessors have flexibility in making disclosures so long as they reflect the legal obligation under the renegotiated lease. For example, assume that a 24-month lease is replaced by a 36-month lease. The initial lease began on January 1, 1998, and was renegotiated and replaced on July 1, 1998, so that the new lease term ends on January 1, 2001.

i. If the renegotiated lease covers the 36-month period beginning January 1, 1998, the new disclosures would reflect all payments made by the lessee on the initial lease and all payments on the renegotiated lease. In this example, since the renegotiated lease covers a 36-month period beginning January 1, 1998, the disclosures must reflect payments made since that date. On the model form, the "total of base periodic payments" disclosed under § 1013.4(f)(7) should reflect periodic payments to be made over the entire 36-month term. Payments received since January 1, 1998, are added as a new line item disclosed as "total of payments received" and are subtracted from the "total of base periodic payments" in calculating a new item disclosed as the "total of base periodic payments remaining." For example, if 6 monthly payments of $300 were received since January 1, 1998, the disclosure form should include a "total of base periodic payments" line from which $1,800 is subtracted to arrive at the "total of base periodic payments remaining." The remainder of the disclosures would not change.

ii. If the renegotiated lease covers only the remaining 30 months, from July 1, 1998, to January 1, 2001, the disclosures would reflect only the charges incurred in connection with the renegotiation and the payments for the remaining period.
