
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 3 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY STANDARDS
#### Subpart B - Capital Ratio Requirements and Buffers
##### § 3.12 Community bank leverage ratio framework.
###### Treatment when ceasing to meet the qualifying community banking organization requirements.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(5) and (6) of this section, if a national bank or Federal savings association ceases to meet the definition of a qualifying community banking organization, the national bank or Federal savings association has two reporting periods under its Call Report (grace period) to either satisfy the requirements to be a qualifying community banking organization or to comply with § 3.10(a)(1) and report the required capital measures under § 3.10(a)(1) on its Call Report.

(2) The grace period begins as of the end of the calendar quarter in which the national bank or Federal savings association ceases to satisfy the criteria to be a qualifying community banking organization provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The grace period ends on the last day of the second consecutive calendar quarter following the beginning of the grace period.

(3) During the grace period, the national bank or Federal savings association continues to be treated as a qualifying community banking organization for the purpose of this part and must continue calculating and reporting its leverage ratio under this section unless the national bank or Federal savings association has opted out of using the community bank leverage ratio framework under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(4) During the grace period, the qualifying community banking organization continues to be considered to have met the minimum capital requirements under § 3.10(a)(1), the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category under § 6.4(b)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this chapter, and any other capital or leverage requirements to which the qualifying community banking organization is subject, and must continue calculating and reporting its leverage ratio under this section.

(5) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association that no longer meets the definition of a qualifying community banking organization as a result of a merger or acquisition has no grace period and immediately ceases to be a qualifying community banking organization. Such a national bank or Federal savings association must comply with the minimum capital requirements under § 3.10(a)(1) and must report the required capital measures under § 3.10(a)(1) for the quarter in which it ceases to be a qualifying community banking organization.

(6) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association that has a leverage ratio of 8 percent or less does not have a grace period and must comply with the minimum capital requirements under § 3.10(a)(1) and must report the required capital measures under § 3.10(a)(1) for the quarter in which it reports a leverage ratio of 8 percent or less.
