
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1022-FAIR CREDIT REPORTING (REGULATION V)
#### Appendix H to Part 1022-Model Forms for Risk-Based Pricing and Credit Score Disclosure Exception Notices
##### www.federalreserve.gov,,www.ftc.gov.,www.consumerfinance.gov/learnmore.

ix. Until January 1, 2013, substituting "For more information about credit reports and your rights under Federal law, visit the Federal Reserve Board's Web site ator the Federal Trade Commission's Web site at" for "For more information about credit reports and your rights under Federal law, visit the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's Web site at"

b. Unacceptable changes include, for example:

i. Providing model forms on register receipts or interspersed with other disclosures.

ii. Eliminating empty lines and extra spaces between sentences within the same section.

4. If a person uses an appropriate appendix H model form, or modifies a form in accordance with the above instructions, that person shall be deemed to be acting in compliance with the provisions of § 1022.73 or § 1022.74, as applicable, of this part. It is intended that appropriate use of Model Form H-3 also will comply with the disclosure that may be required under section 609(g) of the FCRA. Optional language in model forms H-6 and H-7 may be used to direct the consumer to the entity (which may be a consumer reporting agency or the creditor itself, for a proprietary score that meets the definition of a credit score) that provided the credit score for any questions about the credit score, along with the entity's contact information. Creditors may use or not use the additional language without losing the safe harbor, since the language is optional.

H-1 Model form for risk-based pricing notice.

H-2 Model form for account review risk-based pricing notice.

H-3 Model form for credit score disclosure exception for credit secured by one to four units of residential real property.

H-4 Model form for credit score disclosure exception for loans not secured by residential real property.

H-5 Model form for credit score disclosure exception for loans where credit score is not available.

H-6 Model form for risk-based pricing notice with credit score information.

H-7 Model form for account review risk-based pricing notice with credit score information.
