
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1024-REAL ESTATE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES ACT (REGULATION X)
#### Subpart C-Mortgage Servicing
##### § 1024.39 Early intervention requirements for certain borrowers.
###### Fair Debt Collection Practices Act,partial exemption.

(d)-With regard to a mortgage loan for which any borrower has provided a notification pursuant to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) section 805(c) (15 U.S.C. 1692c(c)), a servicer subject to the FDCPA with respect to that borrower's loan:

(1) Is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section;

(2) Is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section if no loss mitigation option is available, or while any borrower on that mortgage loan is a debtor in bankruptcy under title 11 of the United States Code as referenced in paragraph (c) of this section; and

(3) If the conditions of paragraph (d)(2) of this section are not met, must comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, as modified by this paragraph (d)(3):

(i) In addition to the information required pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the written notice must include a statement that the servicer may or intends to invoke its specified remedy of foreclosure. Model clause MS-4(D) in appendix MS-4 to this part may be used to comply with this requirement.

(ii) The written notice may not contain a request for payment.

(iii) A servicer is prohibited from providing the written notice more than once during any 180-day period. If a borrower is 45 days or more delinquent at the end of any 180-day period after the servicer has provided the written notice, a servicer must provide the written notice again no later than 190 days after the provision of the prior written notice. If a borrower is less than 45 days delinquent at the end of any 180-day period after the servicer has provided the written notice, a servicer must provide the written notice again no later than 45 days after the payment due date for which the borrower remains delinquent or 190 days after the provision of the prior written notice, whichever is later.
