
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1024-REAL ESTATE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES ACT (REGULATION X)
#### Appendix C to Part 1024 - Instructions for Completing Good Faith Estimate (GFE) Form
##### Summary of your loan

"."-In this section, for all loans the loan originator must fill in, where indicated:

(i) The initial loan amount;

(ii) The loan term; and

(iii) The initial interest rate.

For reverse mortgage transactions:

(i) The initial loan amount disclosed on the GFE is the amount of the initial principal limit of the loan;

(ii) The loan term is disclosed as "N/A" when the loan term is conditioned upon the occurrence of a specified event, such as the death of the borrower or the borrower no longer occupying the property for a certain period of time; and

(iii) The initial interest rate is the interest rate indicated on the legal obligation.

The loan originator must fill in the initial monthly amount owed for principal, interest, and any mortgage insurance. The amount shown must be the greater of: (1) The required monthly payment for principal and interest for the first regularly scheduled payment, plus any monthly mortgage insurance payment; or (2) the accrued interest for the first regularly scheduled payment, plus any monthly mortgage insurance payment. For reverse mortgage transactions where there are no regular payment periods, the loan originator must disclose "Not Applicable" or "N/A" for the initial monthly amount owed for principal, interest, and any mortgage insurance.

The loan originator must indicate whether the interest rate can rise, and, if it can, must insert the maximum rate to which it can rise over the life of the loan. The loan originator must also indicate the period of time after which the interest rate can first change.

The loan originator must indicate whether the loan balance can rise even if the borrower makes payments on time, for example in the case of a loan with negative amortization. If it can, the loan originator must insert the maximum amount to which the loan balance can rise over the life of the loan. For Federal, State, local, or tribal housing programs that provide payment assistance, any repayment of such program assistance should be excluded from consideration in completing this item. If the loan balance will increase only because escrow items are being paid through the loan balance, the loan originator is not required to check the box indicating that the loan balance can rise. For reverse mortgage transactions, the loan originator must indicate that the loan balance can rise even if the borrower makes payments on time and the maximum amount to which the loan balance can rise must be disclosed as "Unknown."

The loan originator must indicate whether the monthly amount owed for principal, interest, and any mortgage insurance can rise even if the borrower makes payments on time. If the monthly amount owed can rise even if the borrower makes payments on time, the loan originator must indicate the period of time after which the monthly amount owed can first change, the maximum amount to which the monthly amount owed can rise at the time of the first change, and the maximum amount to which the monthly amount owed can rise over the life of the loan. The amount used for the monthly amount owed must be the greater of: (1) The required monthly payment for principal and interest for that month, plus any monthly mortgage insurance payment; or (2) the accrued interest for that month, plus any monthly mortgage insurance payment. For reverse mortgage transactions, the loan originator must disclose that the monthly amount owed for principal, interest, and any mortgage insurance cannot rise.

The loan originator must indicate whether the loan includes a prepayment penalty, and, if so, the maximum amount that it could be.

The loan originator must indicate whether the loan requires a balloon payment and, if so, the amount of the payment and in how many years it will be due. Reverse mortgage transactions are not considered to be balloon transactions for the purposes of this disclosure on the GFE.
