
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1024-REAL ESTATE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES ACT (REGULATION X)
#### Appendix C to Part 1024 - Instructions for Completing Good Faith Estimate (GFE) Form

The following are instructions for completing the GFE required under section 5 of RESPA and 12 CFR 1024.7 of the Bureau regulations. The standardized form set forth in this Appendix is the required GFE form and must be provided exactly as specified; provided, however, preparers may replace HUD's OMB approval number listed on the form with the Bureau's OMB approval number when they reproduce the GFE form. The instructions for completion of the GFE are primarily for the benefit of the loan originator who prepares the form and need not be transmitted to the borrower(s) as an integral part of the GFE. The required standardized GFE form must be prepared completely and accurately. A separate GFE must be provided for each loan where a transaction will involve more than one mortgage loan.

The loan originator preparing the GFE may fill in information and amounts on the form by typewriter, hand printing, computer printing, or any other method producing clear and legible results. Under these instructions, the "form" refers to the required standardized GFE form. Although the standardized GFE is a prescribed form, Blocks 3, 6, and 11 on page 2 may be adapted for use in particular loan situations, so that additional lines may be inserted there, and unused lines may be deleted.

All fees for categories of charges shall be disclosed in U.S. dollar and cent amounts.
