
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 30 - SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS STANDARDS
#### Appendix C to Part 30 - OCC Guidelines Establishing Standards for Residential Mortgage Lending Practices
##### Prudent Consideration of Certain Loan Terms, Conditions and Features.

B.Certain loan terms, conditions and features, may, under particular circumstances, be susceptible to abusive, predatory, unfair or deceptive practices, yet may be appropriate and acceptable risk mitigation measures, consistent with safe and sound lending, and benefit customers under other circumstances. A national bank or Federal savings association should prudently consider the circumstances, including the characteristics of a targeted market and applicable consumer and safety and soundness safeguards, under which the national bank or Federal savings association will engage directly or indirectly in making residential mortgage loans with the following loan terms, conditions and features:

1. Financing single premium credit life, disability or unemployment insurance.

2. Negative amortization, involving a payment schedule in which regular periodic payments cause the principal balance to increase.

3. Balloon payments in short-term transactions.

4. Prepayment penalties that are not limited to the early years of the loan, particularly in subprime loans.

5. Interest rate increases upon default at a level not commensurate with risk mitigation.

6. Call provisions permitting the national bank or Federal savings association to accelerate payment of the loan under circumstances other than the borrower's default under the credit agreement or to mitigate the bank's or savings association's exposure to loss.

7. Absence of an appropriate assessment and documentation of the consumer's ability to repay the loan in accordance with its terms, commensurate with the type of loan, as required by appendix A of this part.

8. Mandatory arbitration clauses or agreements, particularly if the eligibility of the loan for purchase in the secondary market is thereby impaired.
