
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1024-REAL ESTATE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES ACT (REGULATION X)
#### Supplement I to Part 1024-Official Bureau Interpretations
##### Obtaining loss mitigation documents and information.

1.i. In connection with a transfer, a transferor servicer must timely transfer, and a transferee servicer must obtain from the transferor servicer, documents and information submitted by a borrower in connection with a loss mitigation application, consistent with policies and procedures adopted pursuant to § 1024.38(b)(4). A transferee servicer must comply with the applicable requirements of § 1024.41 with respect to a loss mitigation application received as a result of a transfer, even if the transferor servicer was not required to comply with § 1024.41 with respect to that application (for example, because § 1024.41(i) precluded applicability of § 1024.41 with respect to the transferor servicer). If an application was not subject to § 1024.41 prior to a transfer, then for purposes of § 1024.41(b) and (c), a transferee servicer is considered to have received the loss mitigation application on the transfer date. Any such application is subject to the timeframes for compliance set forth in § 1024.41(k).

ii. A transferee servicer must, in accordance with § 1024.41(b)(1), exercise reasonable diligence to complete a loss mitigation application, including a facially complete application, received as a result of a transfer. In the transfer context, reasonable diligence includes ensuring that a borrower is informed of any changes to the application process, such as a change in the address to which the borrower should submit documents and information to complete the application, as well as ensuring that the borrower is informed about which documents and information are necessary to complete the application.

iii. A borrower may provide documents and information necessary to complete an application to a transferor servicer after the transfer date. Consistent with policies and procedures maintained pursuant to § 1024.38(b)(4), the transferor servicer must timely transfer, and the transferee servicer must obtain, such documents and information.
