
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1024-REAL ESTATE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES ACT (REGULATION X)
#### Supplement I to Part 1024-Official Bureau Interpretations
##### Examples of prohibitions.

1.Section 1024.41(k)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) adjusts the timeframes for certain borrower rights and foreclosure protections where § 1024.41(k)(2)(i) applies. These provisions are illustrated as follows: Assume a transferor servicer receives a borrower's initial loss mitigation application on October 1, and the loan is transferred five days (excluding legal public holidays, Saturdays, or Sundays) later, on October 8. Assume that Columbus Day, a legal public holiday, occurs on October 14, and the transferee servicer provides the notice required by § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B) 10 days (excluding legal public holidays, Saturdays, or Sundays) after the transfer date, on October 23. Assume the transferee servicer discloses a 30-day reasonable date, November 22, under § 1024.41(b)(2)(ii).

i. If the transferor servicer receives the borrower's initial loss mitigation application when the borrower's mortgage loan is 101 days delinquent, the borrower's mortgage loan would be 123 days delinquent on October 23, the date the transferee servicer provides the notice required by § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B). Pursuant to § 1024.41(k)(2)(ii)(A), the transferee servicer cannot make the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process until after November 22, the reasonable date disclosed under § 1024.41(b)(2)(ii), and then only if the borrower has not submitted a complete application by that date.

ii. If the transferor servicer receives the borrower's initial loss mitigation application 55 days before the foreclosure sale, the date that the transferee servicer provides the notice required by § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B), October 23, is 33 days before the foreclosure sale. Pursuant to § 1024.41(k)(2)(ii)(B), the transferee servicer must comply with § 1024.41(c), (d), and (g) if the borrower submits a complete loss mitigation application on or before November 22, the reasonable date disclosed under § 1024.41(b)(2)(ii).
