
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1024-REAL ESTATE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES ACT (REGULATION X)
#### Supplement I to Part 1024-Official Bureau Interpretations
##### Permissible changes.

2.Servicers may make certain changes to the format or content of the forms and clauses and may delete any disclosures that are inapplicable without losing the protection from liability so long as those changes do not affect the substance, clarity, or meaningful sequence of the forms and clauses. Servicers making revisions to that effect will lose their protection from civil liability. Except as otherwise specifically required, acceptable changes include, for example:

i. Use of "borrower" and "servicer" instead of pronouns.

ii. Substitution of the words "lender" and "servicer" for each other.

iii. Addition of graphics or icons, such as the servicer's corporate logo.

iv. Modifications to remove language that could suggest liability under the mortgage loan agreement if such language is not applicable. For example, in the case of a confirmed successor in interest who has not assumed the mortgage loan obligation under State law and is not otherwise liable on the mortgage loan obligation, this could include:

A. Use of "the mortgage loan" or "this mortgage loan" instead of "your mortgage loan" and "the monthly payments" instead of "your monthly payments."

B. Use of "Payments due on or after [Date] may be sent to" instead of "Send all payments due on or after [Date] to" in notices of transfer.

C. Use of "We will charge the loan account" instead of "You must pay us" in notices relating to force-placed insurance.

1. Where the model forms MS-3(A), MS-3(B), MS-3(C), and MS-3(D) use the term "hazard insurance," the servicer may substitute "hazard insurance" with "homeowners' insurance" or "property insurance."
