
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Subpart C-Closed-End Credit
##### § 1026.18 Content of disclosures.
###### Definitions.

(7)For purposes of this § 1026.18(s):

(i) The term "adjustable-rate mortgage" means a transaction secured by real property or a dwelling for which the annual percentage rate may increase after consummation.

(ii) The term "step-rate mortgage" means a transaction secured by real property or a dwelling for which the interest rate will change after consummation, and the rates that will apply and the periods for which they will apply are known at consummation.

(iii) The term "fixed-rate mortgage" means a transaction secured by real property or a dwelling that is not an adjustable-rate mortgage or a step-rate mortgage.

(iv) The term "interest-only" means that, under the terms of the legal obligation, one or more of the periodic payments may be applied solely to accrued interest and not to loan principal; an "interest-only loan" is a loan that permits interest-only payments.

(v) The term "amortizing loan" means a loan in which payment of the periodic payments does not result in an increase in the principal balance under the terms of the legal obligation; the term "negative amortization" means payment of periodic payments that will result in an increase in the principal balance under the terms of the legal obligation; the term "negative amortization loan" means a loan, other than a reverse mortgage subject to § 1026.33, that provides for a minimum periodic payment that covers only a portion of the accrued interest, resulting in negative amortization.

(vi) The term "fully-indexed rate" means the interest rate calculated using the index value and margin at the time of consummation.
