
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Appendix D to Part 1026 - Multiple Advance Construction Loans

Section 1026.17(c)(6) permits creditors to treat multiple advance loans to finance construction of a dwelling that may be permanently financed by the same creditor either as a single transaction or as more than one transaction. If the actual schedule of advances is not known, the following methods may be used to estimate the interest portion of the finance charge and the annual percentage rate and to make disclosures. If the creditor chooses to disclose the construction phase separately, whether interest is payable periodically or at the end of construction, part I may be used. If the creditor chooses to disclose the construction and the permanent financing as one transaction, part II may be used.

A. If interest is payable only on the amount actually advanced for the time it is outstanding:

1. Estimated interest-Assume that one-half of the commitment amount is outstanding at the contract interest rate for the entire construction period.

2. Estimated annual percentage rate-Assume a single payment loan that matures at the end of the construction period. The finance charge is the sum of the estimated interest and any prepaid finance charge. The amount financed for computation purposes is determined by subtracting any prepaid finance charge from one-half of the commitment amount.

3. Repayment schedule-The number and amounts of any interest payments may be omitted in disclosing the payment schedule under § 1026.18(g). The fact that interest payments are required and the timing of such payments shall be disclosed.

4. Amount financed-The amount financed for disclosure purposes is the entire commitment amount less any prepaid finance charge.

B. If interest is payable on the entire commitment amount without regard to the dates or amounts of actual disbursement:

1. Estimated interest-Assume that the entire commitment amount is outstanding at the contract interest rate for the entire construction period.

2. Estimated annual percentage rate-Assume a single payment loan that matures at the end of the construction period. The finance charge is the sum of the estimated interest and any prepaid finance charge. The amount financed for computation purposes is determined by subtracting any prepaid finance charge from one-half of the commitment amount.

3. Repayment schedule-Interest payments shall be disclosed in making the repayment schedule disclosure under § 1026.18(g).

4. Amount financed-The amount financed for disclosure purposes is the entire commitment amount less any prepaid finance charge.

A. The creditor shall estimate the interest payable during the construction period to be included in the total finance charge as follows:

1. If interest is payable only on the amount actually advanced for the time it is outstanding, assume that one-half of the commitment amount is outstanding at the contract interest rate for the entire construction period.

2. If interest is payable on the entire commitment amount without regard to the dates or amounts of actual disbursements, assume that the entire commitment amount is outstanding at the contract rate for the entire construction period.

B. The creditor shall compute the estimated annual percentage rate as follows:

1. Estimated interest payable during the construction period shall be treated for computation purposes as a prepaid finance charge (although it shall not be treated as a prepaid finance charge for disclosure purposes).

2. The number of payment shall not include any payments of interest only that are made during the construction period.

3. The first payment period shall consist of one-half of the construction period plus the period between the end of the construction period and the amortization payment.

C. The creditor shall disclose the repayment schedule as follows:

1. For loans under paragraph A.1 of part II, other than loans that are subject to § 1026.19(e) and (f), without reflecting the number or amounts of payments of interest only that are made during the construction period. The fact that interest payments must be made and the timing of such payments shall be disclosed.

2. For loans under paragraph A.2 of part II and loans under paragraph A.1 of part II that are subject to § 1026.19(e) and (f), including any payments of interest only that are made during the construction period.

D. The creditor shall disclose the amount financed as the entire commitment amount less any prepaid finance charge.
