
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Appendix A to Part 1026 - Effect on State Laws

A request for a determination that a state law is inconsistent or that a state law is substantially the same as the Act and regulation shall be in writing and addressed to the Executive Secretary, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, 1700 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20006. The request shall be made pursuant to the procedures herein.

A request for a determination shall include the following items:

(1) The text of the state statute, regulation, or other document that is the subject of the request.

(2) Any other statute, regulation, or judicial or administrative opinion that implements, interprets, or applies the relevant provision.

(3) A comparison of the state law with the corresponding provision of the Federal law, including a full discussion of the basis for the requesting party's belief that the state provision is either inconsistent or substantially the same.

(4) Any other information that the requesting party believes may assist the Bureau in its determination.

Notice that the Bureau intends to make a determination (either on request or on its own motion) will be published in thewith an opportunity for public comment, unless the Bureau finds that notice and opportunity for comment would be impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest and publishes its reasons for such decision.

Subject to the Bureau's rules on Disclosure of Records and Information (12 CFR Part 1070), all requests made, including any documents and other material submitted in support of the requests, will be made available for public inspection and copying.

Notice of a final determination will be published in theand the Bureau will furnish a copy of such notice to the party who made the request and to the appropriate state official.

The Bureau reserves the right to reverse a determination for any reason bearing on the coverage or effect of state or Federal law.

Notice of reversal of a determination will be published in theand a copy furnished to the appropriate state official.
