
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Appendix K to Part 1026 - Total Annual Loan Cost Rate Computations for Reverse Mortgage Transactions
##### Reverse mortgage model form and sample form,Model form.

(d)-(1)

Age of youngest borrower:

Appraised property value:

Interest rate:

Monthly advance:

Initial draw:

Line of credit:

Closing costs:

Mortgage insurance premium:

Annuity cost:

Servicing fee:

Mortgage insurance:

Shared Appreciation:

The cost of any reverse mortgage loan depends on how long you keep the loan and how much your house appreciates in value. Generally, the longer you keep a reverse mortgage, the lower the total annual loan cost rate will be.

This table shows the estimated cost of your reverse mortgage loan, expressed as an annual rate. It illustrates the cost for three [four] loan terms: 2 years, [half of life expectancy for someone your age,] that life expectancy, and 1.4 times that life expectancy. The table also shows the cost of the loan, assuming the value of your home appreciates at three different rates: 0%, 4% and 8%.

The total annual loan cost rates in this table are based on the total charges associated with this loan. These charges typically include principal, interest, closing costs, mortgage insurance premiums, annuity costs, and servicing costs (but not costs when you sell the home).

The rates in this table are estimates. Your actual cost may differ if, for example, the amount of your loan advances varies or the interest rate on your mortgage changes.

Signing an Application or Receiving These Disclosures Does Not Require You To Complete This Loan

(2) Sample Form.

Age of youngest borrower: 75

Appraised property value: $100,000

Interest rate: 9%

Monthly advance: $301.80

Initial draw: $1,000

Line of credit: $4,000

Closing costs: $5,000

Mortgage insurance premium: None

Annuity cost: None

Servicing fee: None

Mortgage insurance: None

Shared Appreciation: None

Net proceeds estimated at 93% of projected home sale

The cost of any reverse mortgage loan depends on how long you keep the loan and how much your house appreciates in value. Generally, the longer you keep a reverse mortgage, the lower the total annual loan cost rate will be.

This table shows the estimated cost of your reverse mortgage loan, expressed as an annual rate. It illustrates the cost for three [four] loan terms: 2 years, [half of life expectancy for someone your age,] that life expectancy, and 1.4 times that life expectancy. The table also shows the cost of the loan, assuming the value of your home appreciates at three different rates: 0%, 4% and 8%.

The total annual loan cost rates in this table are based on the total charges associated with this loan. These charges typically include principal, interest, closing costs, mortgage insurance premiums, annuity costs, and servicing costs (but not disposition costs-costs when you sell the home).

The rates in this table are estimates. Your actual cost may differ if, for example, the amount of your loan advances varies or the interest rate on your mortgage changes.

Signing an Application or Receiving These Disclosures Does Not Require You To Complete This Loan
