
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Appendix M1 to Part 1026 - Repayment Disclosures
##### Tolerance.

(5)A minimum payment repayment estimate shall be considered accurate if it is not more than 2 months above or below the minimum payment repayment estimate determined in accordance with the guidance in this appendix (prior to rounding described in § 1026.7(b)(12)(i)(B) and without use of the assumptions listed in paragraph (b)(4) of this appendix to the extent a card issuer chooses instead to use the account terms that apply to a consumer's account). For example, assume the minimum payment repayment estimate calculated using the guidance in this appendix is 28 months (2 years, 4 months), and the minimum payment repayment estimate calculated by the issuer is 30 months (2 years, 6 months). The minimum payment repayment estimate should be disclosed as 2 years, due to the rounding rule set forth in § 1026.7(b)(12)(i)(B). Nonetheless, based on the 30-month estimate, the issuer disclosed 3 years, based on that rounding rule. The issuer would be in compliance with this guidance by disclosing 3 years, instead of 2 years, because the issuer's estimate is within the 2 months' tolerance, prior to rounding. In addition, even if an issuer's estimate is more than 2 months above or below the minimum payment repayment estimate calculated using the guidance in this Appendix, so long as the issuer discloses the correct number of years to the consumer based on the rounding rule set forth in § 1026.7(b)(12)(i)(B), the issuer would be in compliance with this guidance. For example, assume the minimum payment repayment estimate calculated using the guidance in this appendix is 32 months (2 years, 8 months), and the minimum payment repayment estimate calculated by the issuer is 38 months (3 years, 2 months). Under the rounding rule set forth in § 1026.7(b)(12)(i)(B), both of these estimates would be rounded and disclosed to the consumer as 3 years. Thus, if the issuer disclosed 3 years to the consumer, the issuer would be in compliance with this guidance even though the minimum payment repayment estimate calculated by the issuer is outside the 2 months' tolerance amount.
