
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### In general.

1.An application means the submission of a consumer's financial information for purposes of obtaining an extension of credit. For transactions subject to § 1026.19(e), (f), or (g) of this part, the term consists of the consumer's name, the consumer's income, the consumer's social security number to obtain a credit report, the property address, an estimate of the value of the property, and the mortgage loan amount sought. This definition does not prevent a creditor from collecting whatever additional information it deems necessary in connection with the request for the extension of credit. However, once a creditor has received these six pieces of information, it has an application for purposes of the requirements of Regulation Z. A submission may be in written or electronic format and includes a written record of an oral application. The following examples for a transaction subject to § 1026.19(e), (f), or (g) are illustrative of this provision:

i. Assume a creditor provides a consumer with an application form containing 20 questions about the consumer's credit history and the collateral value. The consumer submits answers to nine of the questions and informs the creditor that the consumer will contact the creditor the next day with answers to the other 11 questions. Although the consumer provided nine pieces of information, the consumer did not provide a social security number. The creditor has not yet received an application for purposes of § 1026.2(a)(3).

ii. Assume a creditor requires all applicants to submit 20 pieces of information. The consumer submits only six pieces of information and informs the creditor that the consumer will contact the creditor the next day with answers to the other 14 questions. The six pieces of information provided by the consumer were the consumer's name, income, social security number, property address, estimate of the value of the property, and the mortgage loan amount sought. Even though the creditor requires 14 additional pieces of information to process the consumer's request for a mortgage loan, the creditor has received an application for the purposes of § 1026.2(a)(3) and therefore must comply with the relevant requirements under § 1026.19.
