
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 32 - LENDING LIMITS
#### Appendix A to Part 32 - Interpretations
##### i.e.,

Numerous questions have been received regarding the allocation of loans between the different lending limit "baskets,"the 15 percent General Limitation basket and the 30 percent Residential Development basket. In general, the inquiries concern the manner in which a savings association may "move" a loan from the General Limitation basket to the Residential Development basket. The following example is intended to provide guidance:

2. In June, Savings Association A receives authorization to lend under the Residential Development exception. In July, Savings Association A lends $3 million to Borrower to develop domestic residential housing units. In August, Borrower seeks an additional $12 million commercial loan from Savings Association A. Savings Association A cannot make the loan to Borrower, however, because it already has an outstanding $10 million loan to Borrower that counts against Savings Association A's General Limitation of $15 million. Thus, Savings Association A may lend only up to an additional $5 million to Borrower under the General Limitation.

3. However, Savings Association A may be able to reallocate the $10 million loan it made to Borrower in January to its Residential Development basket provided that: (1) Savings Association A has obtained authority under an order issued by the appropriate Federal banking agency to avail itself of the additional lending authority for residential development and maintains compliance with all prerequisites to such lending authority; (2) the original $10 million loan made in January constitutes a loan to develop domestic residential housing units as defined; and (3) the housing unit(s) constructed with the funds from the January loan remain in a stage of "development" at the time Savings Association A reallocates the loan to the domestic residential housing basket. The project must be in a stage of acquisition, development, construction, rehabilitation, or conversion in order for the loan to be reallocated.

4. If Savings Association A is able to reallocate the $10 million loan made to Borrower in January to its Residential Development basket, it may make the $12 million commercial loan requested by Borrower in August. Once the January loan is reallocated to the Residential Development basket, however, the $10 million loan counts towards Savings Association A's 150 percent aggregate limitation on loans to all borrowers under the residential development basket (ยง 32.3(d)(2)).

5. If Savings Association A reallocates the January loan to its domestic residential housing basket and makes an additional $12 million commercial loan to Borrower, Savings Association A's totals under the respective limitations would be: $12 million under the General Limitation; and $13 million under the Residential Development limitation. The full $13 million residential development loan counts toward Savings Association A's aggregate 150 percent limitation.
