
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### See

i. A separate credit feature that meets the conditions of § 1026.61(a)(2)(i) is defined as a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card.§ 1026.61(a)(2)(i) and comment 61(a)(2)-4. In this case, the hybrid prepaid-credit card can access both the covered separate credit feature and the asset feature of the prepaid account. The rules for classification of fees or charges as finance charges with respect to the covered separate credit feature are specified in § 1026.4(b)(11) and related commentary.

ii. If a prepaid card can access a non-covered separate credit feature as described in § 1026.61(a)(2)(ii), the card is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to that credit feature. In that case:

A. Section 1026.4(b)(11) and related commentary do not apply to fees or charges imposed on the non-covered separate credit feature; instead, the general rules set forth in § 1026.4 determine whether these fees or charges are finance charges; and

B. Fees or charges on the asset feature of the prepaid account are not finance charges under § 1026.4 with respect to the non-covered separate credit feature. See comment 61(a)(2)-5.iii for guidance on the applicability of this regulation in connection with non-covered credit features accessible by prepaid cards.

iii. If the prepaid card is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to credit extended through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account pursuant to § 1026.61(a)(4), with regard to that credit, fees charged on the asset feature of the prepaid account in accordance with § 1026.61(a)(4)(ii)(B) are not finance charges.
