
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### See

iii. A consumer may choose in a particular circumstance to draw or transfer credit from the covered separate credit feature outside the course of a transaction conducted with the card to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers. For example, a consumer may use the prepaid card at the prepaid account issuer's website to load funds from the covered separate credit feature outside the course of a transaction conducted with the card to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers.§ 1026.61(a)(2)(i)(B) and comment 61(a)(2)-4.ii. In these situations, load or transfer fees imposed for draws or transfers of credit from the covered separate credit feature outside the course of a transaction are compared only with fees, if any, to load funds as a direct deposit of salary from an employer or a direct deposit of government benefits that are charged on prepaid accounts without a covered separate credit feature. Fees imposed on prepaid accounts without a covered separate credit feature for a one-time load or transfer of funds from a separate asset account or from a non-covered separate credit feature are not comparable for purposes of § 1026.4(b)(11)(ii). To illustrate:

A. Assume a prepaid account issuer charges a $1.25 load fee to transfer funds from a non-covered separate credit feature, such as a non-covered separate credit card account, into prepaid accounts that do not have a covered separate credit feature and does not charge a fee for a direct deposit of salary from an employer or a direct deposit of government benefits on those prepaid accounts. Assume the prepaid account issuer charges $1.25 on the asset feature of a prepaid account with a covered separate credit feature to load funds from the covered separate credit feature outside the course of a transaction. In this case, the $1.25 fee imposed on the asset feature of the prepaid account with a covered separate credit feature is a finance charge because no fee is charged for a direct deposit of salary from an employer or a direct deposit of government benefits on prepaid accounts without such a credit feature. Fees imposed on prepaid accounts without a covered separate credit feature for a one-time load or transfer of funds from a non-covered separate credit feature are not comparable for purposes of § 1026.4(b)(11)(ii).

B. Assume that a prepaid account issuer charges a $1.25 load fee for a one-time transfer of funds from a separate asset account, such as from a deposit account via a debit card, to a prepaid account without a covered separate credit feature and does not charge a fee for a direct deposit of salary from an employer or a direct deposit of government benefits on those prepaid accounts. Assume the prepaid account issuer charges $1.25 on the asset feature of a prepaid account with a covered separate credit feature to load funds from the covered separate credit feature outside the course of a transaction. In this case, the $1.25 fee imposed on the asset feature of the prepaid account with a covered separate credit feature is a finance charge because no fee is charged for a direct deposit of salary from an employer or a direct deposit of government benefits on prepaid accounts without a covered separate credit feature. Fees imposed on prepaid accounts without a covered separate credit feature for a one-time load or transfer of funds from a separate asset account are not comparable for purposes of § 1026.4(b)(11)(ii).
