
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Fees or charges imposed on the asset feature of a prepaid account.,See

1.i. Under § 1026.4(b)(11)(ii), with regard to a covered separate credit feature and an asset feature of a prepaid account that are both accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined § 1026.61, any fee or charge imposed on the asset feature of the prepaid account is a finance charge to the extent that the amount of the fee or charge exceeds comparable fees or charges imposed on prepaid accounts in the same prepaid account program that do not have a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card. This comment provides guidance with respect to comparable fees under § 1026.4(b)(11)(ii) for the two types of credit extensions on a covered separate credit feature.§ 1026.61(a)(2)(i)(B) and comment 61(a)(2)-4.ii. Comment 4(b)(11)(ii)-1.ii provides guidance for credit extensions where the hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses credit from the covered separate credit feature in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing a transaction conducted with the card to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers. Comment 4(b)(11)(ii)-1.iii provides guidance for credit extensions where a consumer draws or transfers credit from the covered separate credit feature outside the course of a transaction conducted with the card to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers.

ii. Where the hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses credit from a covered separate credit feature in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing a transaction conducted with the card to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers, any per transaction fees imposed on the asset feature of prepaid accounts, including load and transfer fees, for such credit from the credit feature are comparable only to per transaction fees for each transaction to access funds in the asset feature of a prepaid account that are imposed on prepaid accounts in the same prepaid account program that does not have such a credit feature. Per transaction fees for a transaction that is conducted to load or draw funds into a prepaid account from some other source are not comparable for purposes of § 1026.4(b)(11)(ii). To illustrate:

A. Assume a prepaid account issuer charges $0.50 on prepaid accounts without a covered separate credit feature for each transaction that accesses funds in the asset feature of the prepaid accounts. Also, assume that the prepaid account issuer charges $0.50 per transaction on the asset feature of prepaid accounts in the same prepaid program where the hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses credit from a covered separate credit feature in the course of a transaction. In this case, the $0.50 per transaction fee imposed on the asset feature of the prepaid account with a covered separate credit feature is not a finance charge.

B. Assume same facts as in paragraph A above, except that assume the prepaid account issuer charges $1.25 on the asset feature of a prepaid account for each transaction where the hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses credit from the covered separate credit feature in the course of the transaction. In this case, the additional $0.75 is a finance charge.
