
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 3 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY STANDARDS
#### Subpart C - Definition of Capital
##### ยง 3.22 Regulatory capital adjustments and deductions.
###### Regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital.

(b)(1) A national bank or Federal savings association must adjust the sum of common equity tier 1 capital elements pursuant to the requirements set forth in this paragraph (b). Such adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital must be made net of the associated deferred tax effects.

(i) A national bank or Federal savings association that makes an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section), must make the adjustments required under ยง 3.22(b)(2)(i).

(ii) A national bank or Federal savings association that is an advanced approaches national bank or Federal savings association, and a national bank or Federal savings association that has not made an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section), must deduct any accumulated net gains and add any accumulated net losses on cash flow hedges included in AOCI that relate to the hedging of items that are not recognized at fair value on the balance sheet.

(iii) A national bank or Federal savings association must deduct any net gain and add any net loss related to changes in the fair value of liabilities that are due to changes in the national bank's or Federal savings association's own credit risk. An advanced approaches national bank or Federal savings association must deduct the difference between its credit spread premium and the risk-free rate for derivatives that are liabilities as part of this adjustment.
