
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Fees imposed on the asset feature of the prepaid account in connection with a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card.

1.Under § 1026.6(b)(3)(iii)(D), with regard to a covered separate credit feature and an asset feature on a prepaid account that are both accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in § 1026.61, a fee or charge imposed on the asset feature of the prepaid account is not a charge imposed as part of the plan under § 1026.6(b)(3) with respect to a covered separate credit feature to the extent that the amount of the fee or charge does not exceed comparable fees or charges imposed on prepaid accounts in the same prepaid account program that do not have a covered separate credit feature accessed by a hybrid prepaid-credit card. To illustrate:

i. Assume a prepaid account issuer charges a $0.50 per transaction fee on an asset feature of the prepaid account for purchases when a hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses a covered separate credit feature in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing purchase transactions conducted with the card and a $0.50 transaction fee for purchases that access funds in the asset feature of a prepaid account in the same program without such a credit feature. The $0.50 fees are comparable fees and the $0.50 fee for purchases when a hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses a covered separate credit feature in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing purchase transactions conducted with the card is not a charge imposed as part of the plan. However, if in this example, the prepaid account issuer imposes a $1.25 per transaction fee on an asset feature of the prepaid account for purchases when a hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses a covered separate credit feature in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing purchase transactions conducted with the card, the $0.75 excess is a charge imposed as part of the plan. This $0.75 excess also is a finance charge under § 1026.4(b)(11)(ii).

ii. See comment 4(b)(11)(ii)-1 for additional illustrations of when a prepaid account issuer is charging comparable per transaction fees or load or transfer fees on the prepaid account.
