
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Nonsale credit.

1.The term "nonsale credit" refers to any form of loan credit including, for example:

i. A cash advance.

ii. An advance on a credit plan that is accessed by overdrafts on an asset account other than a prepaid account as defined in § 1026.61.

iii. The use of a "supplemental credit device" in the form of a check or draft or the use of the overdraft credit plan accessed by a debit card, even if such use is in connection with a purchase of goods or services.

iv. Miscellaneous debits to remedy mispostings, returned checks, and similar entries.

v. An advance at an ATM on a covered separate credit feature accessed by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in § 1026.61. If a hybrid prepaid-credit card is used to obtain an advance at an ATM and the transaction is partially paid with funds from the asset feature of the prepaid account, and partially paid with a credit extension from the covered separate credit feature, the amount to be disclosed under § 1026.8(b) is the amount of the credit extension, not the total amount of the ATM transaction.

vi. A transaction where a consumer uses a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in § 1026.61 to make a purchase to obtain goods or services from a merchant and credit is transferred from a covered separate credit feature accessed by the hybrid prepaid-credit card into the asset feature of the prepaid account to cover the amount of the purchase, as described in comment 8(a)-9.ii. In this scenario, the amount to be disclosed under § 1026.8(b) is the amount of the credit extension, not the total amount of the purchase transaction.
