
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Account becomes more than 60 days delinquent after rejection.

ii.Assume that a credit card account is opened on January 1 of year one and that the payment due date for the account is the fifteenth day of the month. On April 20 of year two, the creditor has not received the required minimum periodic payment due on April 15. On April 20, the creditor provides a notice pursuant to § 1026.9(c) informing the consumer that an annual fee of $100 will be charged beginning on June 4. The notice further states that the consumer may reject the fee by calling a specified toll-free telephone number before June 4 but that, if the consumer does so, credit availability for the account will be terminated. On May 5, the consumer calls the toll-free telephone number and rejects the fee. Section 1026.9(h)(2)(i) prohibits the creditor from charging the $100 fee to the account. If, however, the creditor does not receive the minimum payments due on April 15 and May 15 by June 15, § 1026.9(h)(3) permits the creditor to charge the $100 fee. The creditor must provide a second notice of the fee pursuant to § 1026.9(c), but § 1026.9(c)(2)(iv)(B) does not require the creditor to disclose the right to reject and § 1026.9(h)(3) does not allow the consumer to reject the fee. Similarly, the restrictions in § 1026.9(h)(2)(ii) and (iii) no longer apply.
