
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Examples.

2.The following are examples of reasonable procedures that satisfy this rule:

i. A card issuer may decline future transactions and terminate the account upon receiving reasonable notice of the consumer's death.

ii. A card issuer may credit the account for fees and charges imposed after the date of receiving reasonable notice of the consumer's death.

iii. A card issuer may waive the estate's liability for all charges made to the account after receiving reasonable notice of the consumer's death.

iv. A card issuer may authorize an agent to handle matters in accordance with the requirements of this rule.

v. A card issuer may require administrators of an estate to provide documentation indicating authority to act on behalf of the estate.

vi. A card issuer may establish or designate a department, business unit, or communication channel for administrators, such as a specific mailing address or toll-free number, to handle matters in accordance with the requirements of this rule.

vii. A card issuer may direct administrators, who call a general customer service toll-free number or who send correspondence by mail to an address for general correspondence, to an appropriate customer service representative, department, business unit, or communication channel to handle matters in accordance with the requirements of this rule.
