
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Security interest-limitations.

1.In order to qualify for the exception stated in § 1026.12(d)(2), a security interest must be affirmatively agreed to by the consumer and must be disclosed in the issuer's account-opening disclosures under § 1026.6. The security interest must not be the functional equivalent of a right of offset; as a result, routinely including in agreements contract language indicating that consumers are giving a security interest in any deposit accounts maintained with the issuer does not result in a security interest that falls within the exception in § 1026.12(d)(2). For a security interest to qualify for the exception under § 1026.12(d)(2) the following conditions must be met:

i. The consumer must be aware that granting a security interest is a condition for the credit card account (or for more favorable account terms) and must specifically intend to grant a security interest in a deposit account.

ii. With respect to a credit card account other than a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in § 1026.61, indicia of the consumer's awareness and intent to grant a security interest in a deposit account include at least one of the following (or a substantially similar procedure that evidences the consumer's awareness and intent):

A. Separate signature or initials on the agreement indicating that a security interest is being given.

B. Placement of the security agreement on a separate page, or otherwise separating the security interest provisions from other contract and disclosure provisions.

C. Reference to a specific amount of deposited funds or to a specific deposit account number.

iii. With respect to a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in § 1026.61, in order for a consumer to show awareness and intent to grant a security interest in a deposit account, including a prepaid account, all of the following conditions must be met:

A. In addition to being disclosed in the issuer's account-opening disclosures under § 1026.6, the security agreement must be provided to the consumer in a document separate from the deposit account agreement and the credit card account agreement;

B. The separate document setting forth the security agreement must be signed by the consumer;

C. The separate document setting forth the security agreement must refer to the deposit account number and to a specific amount of funds in the deposit account in which the card issuer is taking a security interest and these two elements of the document must be separately signed or initialed by the consumer;

D. The separate document setting forth the security agreement must specifically enumerate the conditions under which the card issuer will enforce the security interest and each of those conditions must be separately signed or initialed by the consumer.

iv. The security interest must be obtainable and enforceable by creditors generally. If other creditors could not obtain a security interest in the consumer's deposit accounts to the same extent as the card issuer, the security interest is prohibited by § 1026.12(d)(2).
