
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Credit under a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card.

4.For transactions involving a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in § 1026.61, whether Regulation E (12 CFR part 1005) or Regulation Z applies depends on the nature of the transaction. For example:

i. If the transaction solely involves an extension of credit under a covered separate credit feature and does not access funds from the asset feature of the prepaid account, the error resolution requirements of Regulation Z apply. To illustrate, assume that there is $0 in the asset feature of the prepaid account, and the consumer makes a $25 transaction with the card. The error resolution requirements of Regulation Z apply to the transaction. This is true regardless of whether the $25 of credit is drawn directly from the covered separate credit feature without a transfer to the asset feature of the prepaid account to cover the amount of the transaction, or whether the $25 of credit is transferred from the covered separate credit feature to the asset feature of the prepaid account to cover the amount of the transaction.

ii. If the transaction accesses funds from the asset feature of a prepaid account only (with no credit extended under the credit feature), the provisions of Regulation E apply.

iii. If the transaction accesses funds from the asset feature of a prepaid account but also involves an extension of credit under the covered separate credit feature, a creditor must comply with the requirements of Regulation E, 12 CFR 1005.11, and 1005.18(e) as applicable, governing error resolution rather than those of § 1026.13(a), (b), (c), (e), (f), and (h). To illustrate, assume that there is $10 in the asset feature of the prepaid account, and the consumer makes a $25 transaction with the card. The error resolution requirements of Regulations E and Z apply as described above to the transaction. This is true regardless of whether $10 is debited from the asset feature and $15 of credit is drawn directly from the covered separate credit feature without a transfer to the asset feature of the prepaid account to cover the amount of the transaction, or whether $15 of credit is transferred from the covered separate credit feature to the asset feature of the prepaid account and a $25 transaction is debited from the asset feature to cover the amount of the transaction. When this paragraph applies:

A. An error asserted with respect to the transaction is subject, for error resolution purposes, to the applicable Regulation E (12 CFR part 1005) provisions (such as timing and notice) for the entire transaction.

B. The creditor need not provisionally credit the consumer's account, under Regulation E, 12 CFR 1005.11(c)(2)(i), for any portion of the unpaid extension of credit.

C. The creditor must credit the consumer's account under § 1005.11(c) with any finance or other charges incurred as a result of the alleged error.

D. The provisions of § 1026.13(d) and (g) apply only to the credit portion of the transaction.
