
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Third-party buydowns.

3.In certain transactions, a seller or other third party may pay an amount, either to the creditor or to the consumer, in order to reduce the consumer's payments for all or a portion of the credit term. For example, a consumer and a bank agree to a mortgage with an interest rate of 15% and level payments over 25 years. By a separate agreement, the seller of the property agrees to subsidize the consumer's payments for the first two years of the mortgage, giving the consumer an effective rate of 12% for that period.

i. If the third-party buydown is reflected in the credit contract between the consumer and the bank, the finance charge and all other disclosures affected by it must take the buydown into account as an amendment to the contract's interest rate provision. For example, the annual percentage rate must be a composite rate that takes account of both the lower initial rate and the higher subsequent rate, and the disclosures required under §§ 1026.18(g), 1026.18(s), 1026.37(c), and 1026.38(c), as applicable, must reflect the two payment levels, except as otherwise provided in those paragraphs. However, the amount paid by the seller would not be specifically reflected in the disclosure of the finance charge and other disclosures affected by it given by the bank, since that amount constitutes seller's points and thus is not part of the finance charge. The seller-paid amount is disclosed, however, as a credit from the seller in the summaries of transactions disclosed pursuant to § 1026.38(j) and (k).

ii. If the third-party buydown is not reflected in the credit contract between the consumer and the bank and the consumer is legally bound to the 15% rate from the outset, the disclosure of the finance charge and other disclosures affected by it given by the bank must not reflect the seller buydown in any way. For example, the annual percentage rate and disclosures required under §§ 1026.18(g), 1026.18(s), 1026.37(c), and 1026.38(c), as applicable, would not take into account the reduction in the interest rate and payment level for the first two years resulting from the buydown. The seller-paid amount is, however, disclosed as a credit from the seller in the summaries of transactions disclosed pursuant to § 1026.38(j) and (k).
