
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Basis of disclosures in variable-rate transactions.

8.Except as otherwise provided in §§ 1026.18(s), 1026.37 and 1026.38, as applicable, the disclosures for a variable-rate transaction must be given for the full term of the transaction and must be based on the terms in effect at the time of consummation. Creditors should base the disclosures only on the initial rate and should not assume that this rate will increase, except as otherwise provided in §§ 1026.18(s), 1026.37 and 1026.38. For example, in a loan with an initial rate of 10 percent and a 5 percentage points rate cap, creditors should base the disclosures on the initial rate and should not assume that this rate will increase 5 percentage points. However, in a variable-rate transaction with a seller buydown that is reflected in the credit contract, a consumer buydown, or a discounted or premium rate, disclosures should not be based solely on the initial terms. In those transactions, the disclosed annual percentage rate should be a composite rate based on the rate in effect during the initial period and the rate that is the basis of the variable-rate feature for the remainder of the term. See the commentary to § 1026.17(c) for a discussion of buydown, discounted, and premium transactions and the commentary to § 1026.19(a)(2), (e), and (f) for a discussion of the redisclosure in certain mortgage transactions with a variable-rate feature. See §§ 1026.37(c) and 1026.38(c) for rules regarding disclosure of variable-rate transactions in the projected payments table for transactions subject to § 1026.19(e) and (f).
