
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Labeling estimates.

2.Estimates must be designated as such in the segregated disclosures. For the disclosures required by § 1026.19(e) and (f), use of the Loan Estimate form H-24 of appendix H to this part pursuant to § 1026.37(o) or the Closing Disclosure form H-25 of appendix H to this part pursuant to § 1026.38(t), respectively, satisfies the requirement that the disclosure state clearly that the disclosure is an estimate. For all other disclosures, even though they are based on the same assumption on which a specific estimated disclosure was based, the creditor has flexibility in labeling the estimates. Generally, only the particular disclosure for which the exact information is unknown is labeled as an estimate. However, when several disclosures are affected because of the unknown information, the creditor has the option of labeling either every affected disclosure or only the disclosure primarily affected. For example, when the finance charge is unknown because the date of consummation is unknown, the creditor must label the finance charge as an estimate and may also label as estimates the total of payments and the payment schedule. When many disclosures are estimates, the creditor may use a general statement, such as "all numerical disclosures except the late payment disclosure are estimates," as a method to label those disclosures as estimates.
