
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Basis for estimates.

1.Except as otherwise provided in §§ 1026.19, 1026.37, and 1026.38, disclosures may be estimated when the exact information is unknown at the time disclosures are made. Information is unknown if it is not reasonably available to the creditor at the time the disclosures are made. The "reasonably available" standard requires that the creditor, acting in good faith, exercise due diligence in obtaining information. For example, the creditor must at a minimum utilize generally accepted calculation tools, but need not invest in the most sophisticated computer program to make a particular type of calculation. The creditor normally may rely on the representations of other parties in obtaining information. For example, the creditor might look to the consumer for the time of consummation, to insurance companies for the cost of insurance, or to realtors for taxes and escrow fees. The creditor may utilize estimates in making disclosures even though the creditor knows that more precise information will be available by the point of consummation. However, new disclosures may be required under § 1026.17(f) or § 1026.19. For purposes of § 1026.17(c)(2)(i), creditors must provide the actual amounts of the information required to be disclosed under §§ 1026.37 and 1026.38, pursuant to § 1026.19(e) and (f), subject to the estimation and redisclosure rules in those provisions.
