
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Prepaid finance charges.

1.i. Prepaid finance charges that are paid separately in cash or by check should be deducted under § 1026.18(b)(3) in calculating the amount financed. To illustrate:

A. A consumer applies for a loan of $2,500 with a $40 loan fee. The face amount of the note is $2,500 and the consumer pays the loan fee separately by cash or check at closing. The principal loan amount for purposes of § 1026.18(b)(1) is $2,500 and $40 should be deducted under § 1026.18(b(3), thereby yielding an amount financed of $2,460.

ii. In some instances, as when loan fees are financed by the creditor, finance charges are incorporated in the face amount of the note. Creditors have the option, when the charges are not add-on or discount charges, of determining a principal loan amount under § 1026.18(b)(1) that either includes or does not include the amount of the finance charges. (Thus the principal loan amount may, but need not, be determined to equal the face amount of the note.) When the finance charges are included in the principal loan amount, they should be deducted as prepaid finance charges under § 1026.18(b)(3). When the finance charges are not included in the principal loan amount, they should not be deducted under § 1026.18(b)(3). The following examples illustrate the application of § 1026.18(b) to this type of transaction. Each example assumes a loan request of $2,500 with a loan fee of $40; the creditor assesses the loan fee by increasing the face amount of the note to $2,540.

A. If the creditor determines the principal loan amount under § 1026.18(b)(1) to be $2,540, it has included the loan fee in the principal loan amount and should deduct $40 as a prepaid finance charge under § 1026.18(b)(3), thereby obtaining an amount financed of $2,500.

B. If the creditor determines the principal loan amount under § 1026.18(b)(1) to be $2,500, it has not included the loan fee in the principal loan amount and should not deduct any amount under § 1026.18(b)(3), thereby obtaining an amount financed of $2,500.

iii. The same rules apply when the creditor does not increase the face amount of the note by the amount of the charge but collects the charge by withholding it from the amount advanced to the consumer. To illustrate, the following examples assume a loan request of $2,500 with a loan fee of $40; the creditor prepares a note for $2,500 and advances $2,460 to the consumer.

A. If the creditor determines the principal loan amount under § 1026.18(b)(1) to be $2,500, it has included the loan fee in the principal loan amount and should deduct $40 as a prepaid finance charge under § 1026.18(b)(3), thereby obtaining an amount financed of $2,460.

B. If the creditor determines the principal loan amount under § 1026.18(b)(1) to be $2,460, it has not included the loan fee in the principal loan amount and should not deduct any amount under § 1026.18(b)(3), thereby obtaining an amount financed of $2,460.
