
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Scope of coverage.

3.i. Section 1026.18 applies to closed-end consumer credit transactions, other than transactions that are subject to § 1026.19(e) and (f). Section 1026.19(e) and (f) applies to closed-end consumer credit transactions that are secured by real property or a cooperative unit, other than reverse mortgages subject to § 1026.33. Accordingly, the disclosures required by § 1026.18 apply only to closed-end consumer credit transactions that are:

A. Unsecured;

B. Secured by personal property that is not a dwelling;

C. Secured by personal property (other than a cooperative unit) that is a dwelling and are not also secured by real property; or

D. Reverse mortgages subject to § 1026.33.

ii. Of the foregoing transactions that are subject to § 1026.18, the creditor discloses a payment schedule under § 1026.18(g) for those described in paragraphs i.A and i.B of this comment. For transactions described in paragraphs i.C and i.D of this comment, the creditor discloses an interest rate and payment summary table under § 1026.18(s). See also comments 18(g)-6 and 18(s)-4 for additional guidance on the applicability to different transaction types of §§ 1026.18(g) or (s) and 1026.19(e) and (f).

iii. Because § 1026.18 does not apply to transactions secured by real property or a cooperative unit, other than reverse mortgages, references in the section and its commentary to "mortgages" refer only to transactions described in paragraphs i.C and i.D of this comment, as applicable.
