
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Add-on or discount charges.

2.All finance charges must be deducted from the amount of credit in calculating the amount financed. If the principal loan amount reflects finance charges that meet the definition of a prepaid finance charge in § 1026.2, those charges are included in the § 1026.18(b)(1) amount and deducted under § 1026.18(b)(3). However, if the principal loan amount includes finance charges that do not meet the definition of a prepaid finance charge, the § 1026.18(b)(1) amount must exclude those finance charges. The following examples illustrate the application of § 1026.18(b) to these types of transactions. Each example assumes a loan request of $1000 for 1 year, subject to a 6 percent precomputed interest rate, with a $10 loan fee paid separately at consummation.

i. The creditor assesses add-on interest of $60 which is added to the $1000 in loan proceeds for an obligation with a face amount of $1060. The principal for purposes of § 1026.18(b)(1) is $1000, no amounts are added under § 1026.18(b)(2), and the $10 loan fee is a prepaid finance charge to be deducted under § 1026.18(b)(3). The amount financed is $990.

ii. The creditor assesses discount interest of $60 and distributes $940 to the consumer, who is liable for an obligation with a face amount of $1000. The principal under § 1026.18(b)(1) is $940, which results in an amount financed of $930, after deduction of the $10 prepaid finance charge under § 1026.18(b)(3).

iii. The creditor assesses $60 in discount interest by increasing the face amount of the obligation to $1060, with the consumer receiving $1000. The principal under § 1026.18(b)(1) is thus $1000 and the amount financed $990, after deducting the $10 prepaid finance charge under § 1026.18(b)(3).
