
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Mortgage insurance or any functional equivalent.

2.For purposes of § 1026.18(s), "mortgage insurance or any functional equivalent" means the amounts identified in § 1026.4(b)(5). "Mortgage guarantees" (such as a United States Department of Veterans Affairs or United States Department of Agriculture guarantee) provide coverage similar to mortgage insurance, even if not technically considered insurance under State or other applicable law. For purposes of § 1026.18(s), "mortgage insurance or any functional equivalent" includes any mortgage guarantee. Payment amounts under § 1026.18(s)(3)(i) should reflect the consumer's mortgage insurance payments or any functionally equivalent fee until the date on which the creditor must automatically terminate coverage under applicable law, even though the consumer may have a right to request that the insurance be cancelled earlier. The payment amount must reflect the terms of the legal obligation, as determined by applicable State or other law. For example, assume that under applicable law, mortgage insurance must terminate after the 130th scheduled monthly payment, and the creditor collects at closing and places in escrow two months of premiums. If, under the legal obligation, the creditor will include mortgage insurance premiums in 130 payments and refund the escrowed payments when the insurance is terminated, payment amounts disclosed through the 130th payment should reflect premium payments. If, under the legal obligation, the creditor will apply the amount escrowed to the two final insurance payments, payments disclosed through the 128th payment should reflect premium payments. The escrow amount reflected on the disclosure should include mortgage insurance premiums even if they are not escrowed and even if there is no escrow account established for the transaction.
