
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Multiple-advance construction loans.

5.Section 1026.19(e)(1)(iii) generally requires a creditor to deliver the Loan Estimate or place it in the mail not later than the third business day after the creditor receives the consumer's application and not later than the seventh business day before consummation. When a multiple-advance loan to finance the construction of a dwelling may be permanently financed by the same creditor, § 1026.17(c)(6)(ii) and comment 17(c)(6)-2 permit creditors to treat the construction phase and the permanent phase as either one transaction, with one combined disclosure, or more than one transaction, with a separate disclosure for each transaction. For construction-permanent transactions disclosed as one transaction, the creditor complies with § 1026.19(e)(1)(iii) by delivering or placing in the mail one combined disclosure required by § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) not later than the third business day after the creditor receives an application and not later than the seventh business day before consummation. For construction-permanent transactions disclosed as a separate construction phase and a separate permanent phase for which an application for both the construction and permanent financing has been received, the creditor complies with § 1026.19(e)(1)(iii) by delivering or placing in the mail the separate disclosures required by § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) for both the construction financing and the permanent financing not later than the third business day after the creditor receives the application and not later than the seventh business day before consummation. A creditor may also provide a separate disclosure required by § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) for the permanent phase before receiving an application for permanent financing at any time not later than the seventh business day before consummation. To illustrate:

i. Assume a creditor receives a consumer's application for construction financing only on Monday, June 1. The creditor must deliver or place in the mail the disclosures required by § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) for only the construction financing no later than Thursday, June 4, the third business day after the creditor received the consumer's application, and not later than the seventh business day before consummation of the transaction.

ii. Assume the creditor receives a consumer's application for both construction and permanent financing on Monday, June 1. The creditor must deliver or place in the mail the disclosures required by § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) for both the construction and permanent financing, disclosed as either one transaction or separate transactions, no later than Thursday, June 4, the third business day after the creditor received the consumer's application, and not later than the seventh business day before consummation of the transaction.

iii. Assume the creditor receives a consumer's application for construction financing only on Monday, June 1. Assume further that the creditor receives the consumer's application for permanent financing on Monday, June 8. The creditor must deliver or place in the mail the disclosures required by § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) for the construction financing no later than Thursday, June 4, the third business day after the creditor received the consumer's application for the construction financing only, and not later than the seventh business day before consummation of the construction transaction. The creditor must deliver or place in the mail the disclosures required by § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) for the permanent financing no later than Thursday, June 11, the third business day after the creditor received the consumer's application for the permanent financing, and not later than the seventh business day before consummation of the permanent financing transaction.

iv. Assume the same facts as in comment 19(e)(1)(iii)-5.ii, under which the creditor provides the disclosures required by § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) for both construction financing and permanent financing. If the creditor generally conducts separate closings for the construction financing and the permanent financing or expects that the construction financing and the permanent financing may have separate closings, providing separate Loan Estimates for the construction financing and for the permanent financing allows the creditor to deliver separate Closing Disclosures for the separate phases. For example, assume further that the consumer has requested permanent financing after receiving separate Loan Estimates for the construction financing and for the permanent financing, that consummation of the construction financing is scheduled for July 1, and that consummation of the permanent financing is scheduled on or about June 1 of the following year. The creditor may provide the construction financing Closing Disclosure at least three business days before consummation of that transaction on July 1 and delay providing the permanent financing Closing Disclosure until three business days before consummation of that transaction on or about June 1 of the following year, in accordance with § 1026.19(f)(1)(ii). The creditor may also issue a revised Loan Estimate for the permanent financing at any time prior to 60 days before consummation, following the procedures under § 1026.19(e)(3)(iv)(F).
