
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Requirements.,See

1.Section 1026.19(e)(2)(ii) requires the creditor or other person to include a clear and conspicuous statement on the top of the front of the first page of a written estimate of terms or costs specific to the consumer if it is provided to the consumer before the consumer receives the disclosures required by § 1026.19(e)(1)(i). For example, if the creditor provides a document showing the estimated monthly payment for a mortgage loan, and the estimate was based on the estimated loan amount and the consumer's estimated credit score, then the creditor must include the statement on the document. In contrast, if the creditor provides the consumer with a preprinted list of closing costs common in the consumer's area, the creditor need not include the statement. Similarly, the statement would not be required on a preprinted list of available rates for different loan products. This requirement does not apply to an advertisement, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(2). Section 1026.19(e)(2)(ii) requires that the notice must be in a font size that is no smaller than 12-point font, and must state: "Your actual rate, payment, and costs could be higher. Get an official Loan Estimate before choosing a loan."form H-26 of appendix H to this part for a model statement. Section 1026.19(e)(2)(ii) also prohibits the creditor or other person from making these written estimates with headings, content, and format substantially similar to form H-24 or H-25 of appendix H to this part.
