
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Lender credits.

5.The disclosure of "lender credits," as identified in § 1026.37(g)(6)(ii), is required by § 1026.19(e)(1)(i). "Lender credits," as identified in § 1026.37(g)(6)(ii), represents the sum of non-specific lender credits and specific lender credits. Non-specific lender credits are generalized payments from the creditor to the consumer that do not pay for a particular fee on the disclosures provided pursuant to § 1026.19(e)(1). Specific lender credits are specific payments, such as a credit, rebate, or reimbursement, from a creditor to the consumer to pay for a specific fee. Non-specific lender credits and specific lender credits are negative charges to the consumer. The actual total amount of lender credits, whether specific or non-specific, provided by the creditor that is less than the estimated "lender credits" identified in § 1026.37(g)(6)(ii) and disclosed pursuant to § 1026.19(e) is an increased charge to the consumer for purposes of determining good faith under § 1026.19(e)(3)(i). For example, if the creditor discloses a $750 estimate for "lender credits" pursuant to § 1026.19(e), but only $500 of lender credits is actually provided to the consumer, the creditor has not complied with § 1026.19(e)(3)(i) because the actual amount of lender credits provided is less than the estimated "lender credits" disclosed pursuant to § 1026.19(e), and is therefore, an increased charge to the consumer for purposes of determining good faith under § 1026.19(e)(3)(i). However, if the creditor discloses a $750 estimate for "lender credits" identified in § 1026.37(g)(6)(ii) to cover the cost of a $750 appraisal fee, and the appraisal fee subsequently increases by $150, and the creditor increases the amount of the lender credit by $150 to pay for the increase, the credit is not being revised in a way that violates the requirements of § 1026.19(e)(3)(i) because, although the credit increased from the amount disclosed, the amount paid by the consumer did not. However, if the creditor discloses a $750 estimate for "lender credits" to cover the cost of a $750 appraisal fee, but subsequently reduces the credit by $50 because the appraisal fee decreased by $50, then the requirements of § 1026.19(e)(3)(i) have been violated because, although the amount of the appraisal fee decreased, the amount of the lender credit decreased. See also § 1026.19(e)(3)(iv)(D) and comment 19(e)(3)(iv)(D)-1 for a discussion of lender credits in the context of interest rate dependent charges.
