
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Requirement.

1.If changed circumstances cause a change in the consumer's eligibility for specific loan terms disclosed pursuant to § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) and revised disclosures are provided because the change in eligibility resulted in increased cost for a settlement service beyond the applicable tolerance threshold, the charge paid by or imposed on the consumer for the settlement service for which cost increased due to the change in eligibility is compared to the revised estimated cost for the settlement service to determine if the actual fee has increased above the estimated fee. For example, assume that, prior to providing the disclosures required by § 1026.19(e)(1)(i), the creditor believed that the consumer was eligible for a loan program that did not require an appraisal. The creditor then provides the estimated disclosures required by § 1026.19(e)(1)(i), which do not include an estimated charge for an appraisal. During underwriting it is discovered that the consumer was delinquent on mortgage loan payments in the past, making the consumer ineligible for the loan program originally identified on the estimated disclosures, but the consumer remains eligible for a different program that requires an appraisal. If the creditor provides revised disclosures reflecting the new program and including the appraisal fee, then the actual appraisal fee will be compared to the appraisal fee included in the revised disclosures to determine if the actual fee has increased above the estimated fee. However, if the revised disclosures also include increased estimates for title fees, the actual title fees must be compared to the original estimates assuming that the increased title fees do not stem from the change in eligibility or any other change warranting a revised disclosure. See also § 1026.19(e)(3)(iv)(A) and comment 19(e)(3)(iv)(A)-2 regarding the definition of changed circumstances.
