
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Changed circumstance.

2.A changed circumstance may be an extraordinary event beyond the control of any interested party. For example, a war or a natural disaster would be an extraordinary event beyond the control of an interested party. A changed circumstance may also be an unexpected event specific to the consumer or the transaction. For example, if the creditor provided an estimate of title insurance on the disclosures required under § 1026.19(e)(1)(i), but the title insurer goes out of business during underwriting, then this unexpected event specific to the transaction is a changed circumstance. A changed circumstance may also be information specific to the consumer or transaction that the creditor relied upon when providing the disclosures required under § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) and that was inaccurate or changed after the disclosures were provided. For example, if the creditor relied on the consumer's income when providing the disclosures required under § 1026.19(e)(1)(i), and the consumer represented to the creditor that the consumer had an annual income of $90,000, but underwriting determines that the consumer's annual income is only $80,000, then this inaccuracy in information relied upon is a changed circumstance. Or, assume two co-applicants applied for a mortgage loan. One applicant's income was $30,000, while the other applicant's income was $50,000. If the creditor relied on the combined income of $80,000 when providing the disclosures required under § 1026.19(e)(1)(i), but the applicant earning $30,000 becomes unemployed during underwriting, thereby reducing the combined income to $50,000, then this change in information relied upon is a changed circumstance. A changed circumstance may also be the discovery of new information specific to the consumer or transaction that the creditor did not rely on when providing the original disclosures required under § 1026.19(e)(1)(i). For example, if the creditor relied upon the value of the property in providing the disclosures required under § 1026.19(e)(1)(i), but during underwriting a neighbor of the seller, upon learning of the impending sale of the property, files a claim contesting the boundary of the property to be sold, then this new information specific to the transaction is a changed circumstance.
