
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Actual term unknown.

i.An actual term is unknown if it is not reasonably available to the creditor at the time the disclosures are made. The "reasonably available" standard requires that the creditor, acting in good faith, exercise due diligence in obtaining the information. For example, the creditor must at a minimum utilize generally accepted calculation tools, but need not invest in the most sophisticated computer program to make a particular type of calculation. The creditor normally may rely on the representations of other parties in obtaining information. For example, the creditor might look to the consumer for the time of consummation, to insurance companies for the cost of insurance, to realtors for taxes and escrow fees, or to a settlement agent for homeowner's association dues or other information in connection with a real estate settlement. The following examples illustrate the reasonably available standard for purposes of § 1026.19(f)(1)(i).

A. Assume a creditor provides the disclosure under § 1026.19(f)(1)(ii)(A) for a transaction in which the title insurance company that is providing the title insurance policies is acting as the settlement agent in connection with the transaction, but the creditor does not request the actual cost of the lender's title insurance policy that the consumer is purchasing from the title insurance company and instead discloses an estimate based on information from a different transaction. The creditor has not exercised due diligence in obtaining the information about the cost of the lender's title insurance policy required under the "reasonably available" standard in connection with the estimate disclosed for the lender's title insurance policy.

B. Assume that in the prior example the creditor obtained information about the terms of the consumer's transaction from the settlement agent regarding the amounts disclosed under § 1026.38(j) and (k). The creditor has exercised due diligence in obtaining the information about the costs under § 1026.38(j) and (k) for purposes of the "reasonably available" standard in connection with such disclosures under § 1026.38(j) and (k).
