
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Requirements.

1.Under § 1026.19(f)(2)(i), if the disclosures provided under § 1026.19(f)(1)(i) become inaccurate before consummation, other than as provided under § 1026.19(f)(2)(ii), the creditor shall provide corrected disclosures reflecting any changed terms to the consumer so that the consumer receives the corrected disclosures at or before consummation. The creditor need not comply with the timing requirements in § 1026.19(f)(1)(ii) if an event other than one identified in § 1026.19(f)(2)(ii) occurs, and such changes occur after the creditor provides the consumer with the disclosures required by § 1026.19(f)(1)(i). For example:

i. Assume consummation is scheduled for Thursday, the consumer received the disclosures required under § 1026.19(f)(1)(i) on Monday, and a walk-through inspection occurs on Wednesday morning. During the walk-through the consumer discovers damage to the dishwasher. The seller agrees to credit the consumer $500 towards a new dishwasher. The creditor complies with the requirements of § 1026.19(f) if the creditor provides corrected disclosures so that the consumer receives them at or before consummation on Thursday.

ii. Assume consummation is scheduled for Friday and on Monday morning the creditor sends the disclosures via overnight delivery to the consumer, ensuring that the consumer receives the disclosures on Tuesday. On Monday night, the seller agrees to sell certain household furnishings to the consumer for an additional $1,000, to be paid at the real estate closing, and the consumer immediately informs the creditor of the change. The creditor must provide corrected disclosures so that the consumer receives them at or before consummation. The creditor does not violate § 1026.19(f) because the change to the transaction resulting from negotiations between the seller and consumer occurred after the creditor provided the final disclosures, regardless of the fact that the change occurred before the consumer had received the final disclosures.

iii. Assume consummation is scheduled for Thursday, the consumer received the disclosures required under § 1026.19(f)(1)(i) on Monday, and a walk-through inspection occurs on Wednesday morning. As a result of consumer and seller negotiations, the total amount due from the buyer increases by $500. Also on Wednesday, the creditor discovers that the homeowner's insurance premium that was disclosed as $800 is actually $850. The new $500 amount due and the $50 insurance premium understatements are not violations of § 1026.19(f)(1)(i), and the creditor complies with § 1026.19(f)(1)(i) by providing corrected disclosures reflecting the $550 increase so that the consumer receives them at or before consummation, pursuant to § 1026.19(f)(2)(ii).
