
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Requirements.

1.Under § 1026.19(f)(2)(iii), if during the 30-day period following consummation, an event in connection with the settlement of the transaction occurs that causes the disclosures to become inaccurate, and such inaccuracy results in a change to an amount actually paid by the consumer from that amount disclosed under § 1026.19(f)(1)(i), the creditor shall deliver or place in the mail corrected disclosures not later than 30 days after receiving information sufficient to establish that such event has occurred. The following examples illustrate this requirement. (See also comment 19(e)(4)(i)-1 for further guidance on when sufficient information has been received to establish an event has occurred.)

i. Assume consummation occurs on a Monday and the security instrument is recorded on Tuesday, the day after consummation. If the creditor learns on Tuesday that the fee charged by the recorder's office differs from that previously disclosed pursuant to § 1026.19(f)(1)(i), and the changed fee results in a change in the amount actually paid by the consumer, the creditor complies with § 1026.19(f)(1)(i) and (f)(2)(iii) by revising the disclosures accordingly and delivering or placing them in the mail no later than 30 days after Tuesday.

ii. Assume consummation occurs on a Tuesday, October 1 and the security instrument is not recorded until 15 days after October 1 on Thursday, October 16. The creditor learns on Monday, November 4 that the transfer taxes owed to the State differ from those previously disclosed pursuant to § 1026.19(f)(1)(i), resulting in an increase in the amount actually paid by the consumer. The creditor complies with § 1026.19(f)(1)(i) and § 1026.19(f)(2)(iii) by revising the disclosures accordingly and delivering or placing them in the mail no later than 30 days after Monday, November 4. Assume further that the increase in transfer taxes paid by the consumer also exceeds the amount originally disclosed under § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) above the limitations prescribed by § 1026.19(e)(3)(i). Pursuant to § 1026.19(f)(2)(v), the creditor does not violate § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) if the creditor refunds the excess to the consumer no later than 60 days after consummation, and the creditor does not violate § 1026.19(f)(1)(i) if the creditor delivers disclosures corrected to reflect the refund of such excess no later than 60 days after consummation. The creditor satisfies these requirements under § 1026.19(f)(2)(v) if it revises the disclosures accordingly and delivers or places them in the mail by November 30.

iii. Assume consummation occurs on a Monday and the security instrument is recorded on Tuesday, the day after consummation. During the recording process on Tuesday the settlement agent and the creditor discover that the property is subject to an unpaid $500 nuisance abatement assessment, which was not disclosed pursuant to § 1026.19(f)(1)(i), and learns that pursuant to an agreement with the seller, the $500 assessment will be paid by the seller rather than the consumer. Because the $500 assessment does not result in a change to an amount actually paid by the consumer, the creditor is not required to provide a corrected disclosure pursuant to § 1026.19(f)(2)(iii). However, the assessment will result in a change to an amount actually paid by the seller from the amount disclosed under § 1026.19(f)(4)(i). Pursuant to § 1026.19(f)(4)(ii), the settlement agent must deliver or place in the mail corrected disclosures to the seller no later than 30 days after Tuesday and provide a copy to the creditor pursuant to § 1026.19(f)(4)(iv).

iv. Assume consummation occurs on a Monday and the security instrument is recorded on Tuesday, the day after consummation. Assume further that ten days after consummation the municipality in which the property is located raises property tax rates effective after the date on which settlement concludes. Section 1026.19(f)(2)(iii) does not require the creditor to provide the consumer with corrected disclosures because the increase in property tax rates is not in connection with the settlement of the transaction.
