
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Requirements.

1.Section 1026.19(f)(2)(v) provides that, if amounts paid at consummation exceed the amounts specified under § 1026.19(e)(3)(i) or (ii), the creditor does not violate § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) if the creditor refunds the excess to the consumer no later than 60 days after consummation, and the creditor does not violate § 1026.19(f)(1)(i) if the creditor delivers or places in the mail disclosures corrected to reflect the refund of such excess no later than 60 days after consummation. For example, assume that at consummation the consumer must pay four itemized charges that are subject to the good faith determination under § 1026.19(e)(3)(i). If the actual amounts paid by the consumer for the four itemized charges subject to § 1026.19(e)(3)(i) exceed their respective estimates on the disclosures required under § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) by $30, $25, $25, and $15, then the total would exceed the limitations prescribed by § 1026.19(e)(3)(i) by $95. If, further, the amounts paid by the consumer for services that are subject to the good faith determination under § 1026.19(e)(3)(ii) totaled $1,190, but the respective estimates on the disclosures required under § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) totaled only $1,000, then the total would exceed the limitations prescribed by § 1026.19(e)(3)(ii) by $90. The creditor does not violate § 1026.19(e)(1)(i) if the creditor refunds $185 to the consumer no later than 60 days after consummation. The creditor does not violate § 1026.19(f)(1)(i) if the creditor delivers or places in the mail corrected disclosures reflecting the $185 refund of the excess amount collected no later than 60 days after consummation. See comments 38-4 and 38(h)(3)-2 for additional guidance on disclosing refunds.
