
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Adjustments based on retrospective analysis required.

5.Creditors using average charges must ensure that the total amount paid by or imposed on consumers for a service does not exceed the total amount paid to the providers of that service for the particular class of transactions. A creditor may find that, even though it developed an average-cost pricing program in accordance with the requirements of § 1026.19(f)(3)(ii), over time it has collected more from consumers than it has paid to settlement service providers. For example, assume a creditor defines a class of transactions and uses that class to develop an average charge of $135 for pest inspections. The creditor then charges $135 per transaction for 100 transactions from January 1 through April 30, but the actual average cost to the creditor of pest inspections during this period is $115. The creditor then decreases the average charge for the May to August period to account for the lower average cost during the January to April period. At this point, the creditor has collected $2,000 more than it has paid to settlement service providers for pest inspections. The creditor then charges $115 per transaction for 70 transactions from May 1 to August 30, but the actual average cost to the creditor of pest inspections during this period is $125. Based on the average cost to the creditor from the May to August period, the average charge to the consumer for the September to December period should be $125. However, while the creditor spent $700 more than it collected during the May to August period, it collected $1,300 more than it spent from January to August. In cases such as these, the creditor remains responsible for ensuring that the amount collected from consumers does not exceed the total amounts paid for the corresponding settlement services over time. The creditor may develop a variety of methods that achieve this outcome. For example, the creditor may choose to refund the proportional overage paid to the affected consumers. Or the creditor may choose to factor in the excess amount collected to decrease the average charge for an upcoming period. Although any method may comply with this requirement, a creditor is deemed to have complied if it defines a six-month time period and establishes a rolling monthly period of reevaluation. For example, assume a creditor defines a six-month time period from January 1 to June 30 and the creditor uses the average charge starting July 1. If, at the end of July, the creditor recalculates the average cost from February 1 to July 31, and then uses the recalculated average cost for transactions starting August 1, the creditor complies with the requirements of § 1026.19(f)(3)(ii), even if the creditor actually collected more from consumers than was paid to providers over time.
