
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Uniform use.

3.If a creditor chooses to use an average charge for a settlement service for a particular loan within a class, § 1026.19(f)(3)(ii)(C) requires the creditor to use that average charge for that service on all loans within the class. For example:

i. Assume a creditor elects to use an average charge for appraisal fees. The creditor defines a class of transactions as all fixed rate loans originated between January 1 and April 30 secured by real property or a cooperative unit located within a particular metropolitan statistical area. The creditor must then charge the average appraisal charge to all consumers obtaining fixed rate loans originated between May 1 and August 30 secured by real property or a cooperative unit located within the same metropolitan statistical area.

ii. The example in paragraph i of this comment assumes that a consumer would not be required to pay the average appraisal charge unless an appraisal was required on that particular loan. Using the example above, if a consumer applies for a loan within the defined class, but already has an appraisal report acceptable to the creditor from a prior loan application, the creditor may not charge the consumer the average appraisal fee because an acceptable appraisal report has already been obtained for the consumer's application. Similarly, although the creditor defined the class broadly to include all fixed rate loans, the creditor may not require the consumer to pay the average appraisal charge if the particular fixed rate loan program the consumer applied for does not require an appraisal.
