
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Defining the class of transactions.

2.Section 1026.19(f)(3)(ii)(B) requires a creditor to use an appropriate period of time, appropriate geographic area, and appropriate type of loan to define a particular class of transactions. For purposes of § 1026.19(f)(3)(ii)(B), a period of time is appropriate if the sample size is sufficient to calculate average costs with reasonable precision, provided that the period of time is not less than 30 days and not more than six months. For purposes of § 1026.19(f)(3)(ii)(B), a geographic area and loan type are appropriate if the sample size is sufficient to calculate average costs with reasonable precision, provided that the area and loan type are not defined in a way that pools costs between dissimilar populations. For example:

i. Assume a creditor defines a geographic area that contains two subdivisions, one with a median appraisal cost of $200, and the other with a median appraisal cost of $1,000. This geographic area would not satisfy the requirements of § 1026.19(f)(3)(ii) because the cost characteristics of the two populations are dissimilar. However, a geographic area would be appropriately defined if both subdivisions had a relatively normal distribution of appraisal costs, even if the distribution for each subdivision ranges from below $200 to above $1,000.

ii. Assume a creditor defines a type of loan that includes two distinct rate products. The median recording fee for one product is $80, while the median recording fee for the other product is $130. This definition of loan type would not satisfy the requirements of § 1026.19(f)(3)(ii) because the cost characteristics of the two products are dissimilar. However, a type of loan would be appropriately defined if both products had a relatively normal distribution of recording fees, even if the distribution for each product ranges from below $80 to above $130.
