
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Requirement.

1.Section 1026.19(f)(4)(ii) provides that the settlement agent shall provide the disclosures required under § 1026.19(f)(4)(i) no later than the day of consummation. If during the 30-day period following consummation, an event in connection with the settlement of the transaction occurs that causes such disclosures to become inaccurate and such inaccuracy results in a change to the amount actually paid by the seller from that amount disclosed under § 1026.19(f)(4)(i), the settlement agent shall deliver or place in the mail corrected disclosures not later than 30 days after receiving information sufficient to establish that such event has occurred. Section 1026.19(f)(4)(i) requires disclosure of the items that relate to the seller's transaction. Thus, the settlement agent need only redisclose if an item related to the seller's transaction becomes inaccurate and such inaccuracy results in a change to the amount actually paid by the seller. For example, assume a transaction where the seller pays the transfer tax, the consummation occurs on Monday, and the security instrument is recorded on Tuesday, the day after consummation. If the settlement agent receives information on Tuesday sufficient to establish that transfer taxes owed to the State differ from those disclosed pursuant to § 1026.19(f)(4)(i), the settlement agent complies with § 1026.19(f)(4)(ii) by revising the disclosures accordingly and delivering or placing them in the mail not later than 30 days after Tuesday. See comment 19(e)(4)(i)-1 for guidance on when sufficient information has been received to establish an event has occurred. See also comment 19(f)(2)(iii)-1.iii for another example in which corrected disclosures must be provided to the seller.
