
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Disclosures.

6.For transactions that are assumptions within this provision, the creditor must make disclosures based on the "remaining obligation." For example:

i. The amount financed is the remaining principal balance plus any arrearages or other accrued charges from the original transaction.

ii. If the finance charge is computed from time to time by application of a percentage rate to an unpaid balance, in determining the amount of the finance charge and the annual percentage rate to be disclosed, the creditor should disregard any prepaid finance charges paid by the original obligor, but must include in the finance charge any prepaid finance charge imposed in connection with the assumption.

iii. If the creditor requires the assuming consumer to pay any charges as a condition of the assumption, those sums are prepaid finance charges as to that consumer, unless exempt from the finance charge under § 1026.4. If a transaction involves add-on or discount finance charges, the creditor may make abbreviated disclosures, as outlined in § 1026.20(b)(1) through (5). Creditors providing disclosures pursuant to this section for assumptions of variable-rate transactions secured by the consumer's principal dwelling with a term longer than one year need not provide new disclosures under § 1026.18(f)(2)(ii) or § 1026.19(b). In such transactions, a creditor may disclose the variable-rate feature solely in accordance with § 1026.18(f)(1).
