
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Preemption determination-Arizona.

8.The Bureau recognizes state law preemption determinations made by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System prior to July 21, 2011, until and unless the Bureau makes and publishes any contrary determination. Effective October 1, 1983, the Board of Governors determined that the following provisions in the state law of Arizona are preempted by the Federal law:

i. Section 44-287 B.5-Disclosure of final cash price balance. This provision is preempted in those transactions in which the amount of the final cash price balance is the same as the Federal amount financed, since in such transactions the state law requires the use of a term different from the Federal term to represent the same amount.

ii. Section 44-287 B.6-Disclosure of finance charge. This provision is preempted in those transactions in which the amount of the finance charge is different from the amount of the Federal finance charge, since in such transactions the state law requires the use of the same term as the Federal law to represent a different amount.

iii. Section 44-287 B.7-Disclosure of the time balance. The time balance disclosure provision is preempted in those transactions in which the amount is the same as the amount of the Federal total of payments, since in such transactions the state law requires the use of a term different from the Federal term to represent the same amount.
