
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Preemption determination-Florida.

9.The Bureau recognizes state law preemption determinations made by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System prior to July 21, 2011, until and unless the Bureau makes and publishes any contrary determination. Effective October 1, 1983, the Board of Governors determined that the following provisions in the state law of Florida are preempted by the Federal law:

i. Sections 520.07(2)(f) and 520.34(2)(f)-Disclosure of amount financed. This disclosure is preempted in those transactions in which the amount is different from the Federal amount financed, since in such transactions the state law requires the use of the same term as the Federal law to represent a different amount.

ii. Sections 520.07(2)(g), 520.34(2)(g), and 520.35(2)(d)-Disclosure of finance charge and a description of its components. The finance charge disclosure is preempted in those transactions in which the amount of the finance charge is different from the Federal amount, since in such transactions the state law requires the use of the same term as the Federal law to represent a different amount. The requirement to describe or itemize the components of the finance charge, which is also included in these provisions, is not preempted.

iii. Sections 520.07(2)(h) and 520.34(2)(h)-Disclosure of total of payments. The total of payments disclosure is preempted in those transactions in which the amount differs from the amount of the Federal total of payments, since in such transactions the state law requires the use of the same term as the Federal law to represent a different amount than the Federal law.

iv. Sections 520.07(2)(i) and 520.34(2)(i)-Disclosure of deferred payment price. This disclosure is preempted in those transactions in which the amount is the same as the Federal total sale price, since in such transactions the state law requires the use of a different term than the Federal law to represent the same amount as the Federal law.
