
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Laws not preempted.

3.State laws relating to disclosures concerning credit and charge cards other than in applications, solicitations, or renewal notices are not preempted under § 1026.28(d). In addition, state laws regulating the terms of credit and charge card accounts are not preempted, nor are laws preempted that regulate the form or content of information unrelated to the information required to be disclosed under §§ 1026.60 and 1026.9(e). Finally, state laws concerning the enforcement of the requirements of §§ 1026.60 and 1026.9(e) and state laws prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices concerning credit and charge card applications, solicitations and renewals are not preempted. Examples of laws that are not preempted include:

i. A state law that requires card issuers to offer a grace period or that prohibits certain fees in credit and charge card transactions.

ii. A state retail installment sales law or a state plain language law, except to the extent that it regulates the disclosure of credit information in applications, solicitations and renewals of accounts of the type subject to §§ 1026.60 and 1026.9(e).

iii. A state law requiring notice of a consumer's rights under antidiscrimination or similar laws or a state law requiring notice about credit information available from state authorities.
