
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### General.

1.Section 1026.32(b)(1)(i) includes in the total "points and fees" items included in the finance charge under § 1026.4(a) and (b). However, certain items that may be included in the finance charge are excluded from points and fees under § 1026.32(b)(1)(i)(A) through (F). Items excluded from the finance charge under other provisions of § 1026.4 are not included in the total points and fees under § 1026.32(b)(1)(i), but may be included in points and fees under § 1026.32(b)(1)(ii) through (vi). To illustrate: A fee imposed by the creditor for an appraisal performed by an employee of the creditor meets the definition of "finance charge" under § 1026.4(a) as "any charge payable directly or indirectly by the consumer and imposed directly or indirectly by the creditor as an incident to or a condition of the extension of credit." However, § 1026.4(c)(7) specifies that appraisal fees are not included in the finance charge. A fee imposed by the creditor for an appraisal performed by an employee of the creditor therefore would not be included in the finance charge and would not be counted in points and fees under § 1026.32(b)(1)(i). Section 1026.32(b)(1)(iii), however, expressly includes in points and fees items listed in § 1026.4(c)(7) (including appraisal fees) if the creditor receives compensation in connection with the charge. A creditor would receive compensation for an appraisal performed by its own employee. Thus, the appraisal fee in this example must be included in the calculation of points and fees.
