
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Total loan amount; examples.

1.Below are several examples showing how to calculate the total loan amount for closed-end mortgage loans, each using a $10,000 amount borrowed, a $300 appraisal fee, and $400 in prepaid finance charges. A $500 single premium for optional credit unemployment insurance is used in one example.

i. If the consumer finances a $300 fee for a creditor-conducted appraisal and pays $400 in prepaid finance charges at closing, the amount financed under § 1026.18(b) is $9,900 ($10,000 plus the $300 appraisal fee that is paid to and financed by the creditor, less $400 in prepaid finance charges). The $300 appraisal fee paid to the creditor is added to other points and fees under § 1026.32(b)(1)(iii). It is deducted from the amount financed ($9,900) to derive a total loan amount of $9,600.

ii. If the consumer pays the $300 fee for the creditor-conducted appraisal in cash at closing, the $300 is included in the points and fees calculation because it is paid to the creditor. However, because the $300 is not financed by the creditor, the fee is not part of the amount financed under § 1026.18(b). In this case, the amount financed is the same as the total loan amount: $9,600 ($10,000, less $400 in prepaid finance charges).

iii. If the consumer finances a $300 fee for an appraisal conducted by someone other than the creditor or an affiliate, the $300 fee is not included with other points and fees under § 1026.32(b)(1)(iii). In this case, the amount financed is the same as the total loan amount: $9,900 ($10,000 plus the $300 fee for an independently-conducted appraisal that is financed by the creditor, less the $400 paid in cash and deducted as prepaid finance charges).

iv. If the consumer finances a $300 fee for a creditor-conducted appraisal and a $500 single premium for optional credit unemployment insurance, and pays $400 in prepaid finance charges at closing, the amount financed under § 1026.18(b) is $10,400 ($10,000, plus the $300 appraisal fee that is paid to and financed by the creditor, plus the $500 insurance premium that is financed by the creditor, less $400 in prepaid finance charges). The $300 appraisal fee paid to the creditor is added to other points and fees under § 1026.32(b)(1)(ii), and the $500 insurance premium is added under 1026.32(b)(1)(iv). The $300 and $500 costs are deducted from the amount financed ($10,400) to derive a total loan amount of $9,600.
