
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### 5.

Advertising or communicating to the public that one can or will perform any loan origination services. Advertising the services of a third party that engages or intends to engage in loan origination activities does not make the advertiser a loan originator.

B. The term "loan originator" includes employees, agents, and contractors of a creditor as well as employees, agents, and contractors of a mortgage broker that satisfy this definition.

C. The term "loan originator" includes any creditor that satisfies the definition of loan originator but makes use of "table funding" by a third party. See comment 36(a)-1.ii discussing table funding. Solely for purposes of § 1026.36(f) and (g) concerning loan originator qualifications, the term loan originator includes any creditor that satisfies the definition of loan originator, even if the creditor does not make use of table funding. Such a person is a creditor, not a loan originator, for general purposes of this part, including the provisions of § 1026.36 other than § 1026.36(f) and (g).

D. A "loan originator organization" is a loan originator other than a natural person. The term includes any legal person or organization such as a sole proprietorship, trust, partnership, limited liability partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company, corporation, bank, thrift, finance company, or credit union. An "individual loan originator" is limited to a natural person. (Under § 1026.2(a)(22), the term "person" means a natural person or an organization.)

E. The term "loan originator" does not include consumers who obtain extensions of consumer credit on their own behalf.
