
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Returns on equity interests and dividends on equity holdings.

vi.The term "compensation" for purposes of § 1026.36(d) and (e) also includes, for example, awards of stock, stock options and equity interests. Thus, the awarding of stock, stock options, or equity interests to loan originators is subject to the restrictions in § 1026.36(d) and (e). For example, a person may not award additional stock or a preferable type of equity interest to a loan originator based on the terms of a consumer credit transaction subject to § 1026.36 originated by that loan originator. However, bona fide returns or dividends paid on stock or other equity holdings, including those paid to owners or shareholders of a loan originator organization who own such stock or equity interests, are not compensation for purposes of § 1026.36(d) and (e). Bona fide returns or dividends are those returns and dividends that are paid pursuant to documented ownership or equity interests and that are not functionally equivalent to compensation. Ownership and equity interests must be bona fide. Bona fide ownership and equity interests are allocated according to a loan originator's respective capital contribution where the allocation is not a mere subterfuge for the payment of compensation based on terms of a transaction. Ownership and equity interests also are not bona fide if the formation or maintenance of the business from which returns or dividends are paid is a mere subterfuge for the payment of compensation based on the terms of a transaction. For example, assume that three individual loan originators form a loan originator organization that is a limited liability company (LLC). The three individual loan originators are members of the LLC, and the LLC agreement governing the loan originator organization's structure calls for regular distributions based on the members' respective equity interests. If the members' respective equity interests are allocated based on the members' terms of transactions, rather than according to their respective capital contributions, then distributions based on such equity interests are not bona fide and, thus, are compensation for purposes of § 1026.36(d) and (e).
