
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Compensation in connection with a particular transaction.

1.Under § 1026.36(d)(2)(i)(A), if any loan originator receives compensation directly from a consumer in a transaction, no other person may provide any compensation to any loan originator, directly or indirectly, in connection with that particular credit transaction, whether before, at, or after consummation. See comment 36(d)(2)(i)-2 discussing compensation received directly from the consumer. The restrictions imposed under § 1026.36(d)(2)(i) relate only to payments, such as commissions, that are specific to, and paid solely in connection with, the transaction in which the consumer has paid compensation directly to a loan originator. In a transaction where a loan originator receives compensation directly from a consumer, a creditor still may provide funds for the benefit of the consumer in that transaction, provided such funds are applied solely toward costs of the transaction other than loan originator compensation. Section 1026.36(d)(2)(i)(C) provides that, if a loan originator organization receives compensation directly from a consumer, the loan originator organization may provide compensation to individual loan originators, and the individual loan originator may receive compensation from the loan originator organization, subject to the restriction in § 1026.36(d)(1). (See comment 36(a)(1)-1.i for an explanation of the use of the term "loan originator organization" and "individual loan originator" for purposes of § 1026.36(d)(2)(i)(C).) For example, payments by a mortgage broker to an individual loan originator as compensation for originating a specific credit transaction do not violate § 1026.36(d)(2)(i)(A) even if the consumer directly pays the mortgage broker a fee in connection with that transaction. However, neither the mortgage broker nor the individual loan originator can receive compensation from the creditor in connection with that particular credit transaction.
