
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### e.g.,,e.g.,

i. Because certain closing costs, individually, are generally subject to the limitations on increases in closing costs under § 1026.19(e)(3)(i) (fees paid to the creditor, transfer taxes, fees paid to an affiliate of the creditor), while other closing costs are collectively subject to the limitations on increases in closing costs under § 1026.19(e)(3)(ii) (recording fees, fees paid to an unaffiliated third party identified by the creditor if the creditor permitted the consumer to shop for the service provider), § 1026.38(i)(1)(iii)(A) requires the creditor or closing agent to calculate subtotals for each type of excess amount, and then add such subtotals together to yield the dollar amount to be disclosed in the table. See commentary to § 1026.19(e)(3) for additional guidance on calculating excess amounts above the limitations on increases in closing costs under § 1026.19(e)(3).

ii. Under § 1026.38(i)(1)(iii)(A), calculation of the excess amounts above the limitations on increases in closing costs takes into account that the itemized, estimated closing costs disclosed on the Loan Estimate will not result in charges to the consumer if the service is not actually provided at or before consummation. For example, if the Loan Estimate included under "Services You Cannot Shop For" a $30 charge for a "title courier fee," but the title company elects to hand-deliver the title documents package to the creditor at no charge, the $30 fee is not factored into the calculation of the "Total Closing Costs" that are subject to the limitations on increases in closing costs. However, if the title courier fee was assessed, but at only $15, the charge is factored into the calculation because the third-party service was actually provided, albeit at a lower amount than estimated.

iii. Under § 1026.38(i)(1)(iii)(A), calculation of the excess amounts above the limitations on increases in closing costs takes into account that certain itemized charges listed on the Loan Estimate under the subheading "Services You Can Shop For" may be subject to different limitations depending on the circumstances. Although § 1026.19(e)(3)(iii) provides exceptions to the general rule, such a charge would generally be subject to the limitations under § 1026.19(e)(3)(i) if the consumer decided to use a provider affiliated with the creditor. However, the same charge would instead be subject to the limitations under § 1026.19(e)(3)(ii) if the consumer selected a third-party service provider unaffiliated with but identified by the creditor, and the creditor permitted the consumer to shop for the service provider. See commentary to § 1026.19(e)(3) for additional guidance on calculating excess amounts above the limitations on increases in closing costs under § 1026.19(e)(3).
