
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### More prominent disclosures.

1.Section 1026.38(i)(1)(iii), (2)(iii), (3)(iii), (4)(iii), (5)(iii), (6)(iii), (7)(iii), and (8)(iii) requires that statements are given as to whether the "Final" amount disclosed under each subparagraph (ii) of § 1026.38(i)(1) through (i)(8) is different or equal to, and in some cases whether the amount is greater than or less than, the corresponding "Loan Estimate" amount disclosed under each subparagraph (i) of § 1026.38(i)(1) through (i)(8). These statements are more prominent than the other disclosures under § 1026.38(i). The statement of whether the estimated and final amounts are different, stated as a "Yes" or "No" in capital letters and in boldface font, under the subheading "Did this change?," as shown on form H-25 of appendix H to this part, complies with the requirement to state whether the amounts are different more prominently. Such statement of "No" satisfies the requirement to state that the estimated and final amounts are equal, and these sections do not provide for any narrative text to be included with such statement. The prominence requirement also requires that, in the event an increase or decrease in costs has occurred, certain words within the narrative text to be included under the subheading "Did this change?" for a "Yes" answer are displayed more prominently than other disclosures. For example, under § 1026.38(i)(1)(iii)(A), this more prominent statement could take the form of the phrases "Total Loan Costs" and "Total Other Costs" being shown in boldface, as shown on form H-25 of appendix H to this part. See comments 38(i)-3 and -4 for further guidance regarding the prominence of such statements.
