
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Examples.

1.Section 1026.38(o)(1) and (2) sets forth the accuracy requirements for the total of payments and the finance charge, respectively. The following examples illustrate the interaction of these provisions:

i. Assume that loan costs that are designated borrower-paid at or before closing and that are part of the finance charge (see § 1026.4 for calculation of the finance charge) are understated by more than $100. For example, assume that borrower-paid loan origination fees (see § 1026.4(a)) are cumulatively understated by $150, resulting in the amounts disclosed as the total of payments and the finance charge both being understated by more than $100. Both the disclosed total of payments and the disclosed finance charge would not be accurate for purposes of § 1026.38(o)(1) and (2), respectively.

ii. Assume that loan costs that are designated borrower-paid at or before closing and that are not part of the finance charge are understated by more than $100. For example, assume that borrower-paid property appraisal and inspection fees that are excluded from the finance charge under § 1026.4(c)(7)(iv) are cumulatively understated by $150, resulting in the amount disclosed as the total of payments being understated by more than $100. The disclosed total of payments would not be accurate for purposes of § 1026.38(o)(1), but the disclosed finance charge would be accurate for purposes of § 1026.38(o)(2).
