
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Examples.

2.i. A creditor may terminate and accelerate, for example, if:

A. The consumer transfers title to the property or sells the property without the permission of the creditor.

B. The consumer fails to maintain required insurance on the dwelling.

C. The consumer fails to pay taxes on the property.

D. The consumer permits the filing of a lien senior to that held by the creditor.

E. The sole consumer obligated on the plan dies.

F. The property is taken through eminent domain.

G. A prior lienholder forecloses.

ii. By contrast, the filing of a judgment against the consumer would permit termination and acceleration only if the amount of the judgment and collateral subject to the judgment is such that the creditor's security is adversely affected. If the consumer commits waste or otherwise destructively uses or fails to maintain the property such that the action adversely affects the security, the plan may be terminated and the balance accelerated. Illegal use of the property by the consumer would permit termination and acceleration if it subjects the property to seizure. If one of two consumers obligated on a plan dies the creditor may terminate the plan and accelerate the balance if the security is adversely affected. If the consumer moves out of the dwelling that secures the plan and that action adversely affects the security, the creditor may terminate a plan and accelerate the balance.
