
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Pre-petition payments and post-petition payments.

1.i. For purposes of § 1026.41(f)(3), pre-petition payments are payments made to cure the consumer's pre-bankruptcy defaults, and post-petition payments are payments made to satisfy the mortgage loan's periodic payments as they come due after the bankruptcy case is filed. For example, assume a consumer is $3,600 in arrears as of the bankruptcy filing date on a mortgage loan requiring monthly periodic payments of $2,000. The consumer's most recently filed bankruptcy plan requires the consumer to make payments of $100 each month for 36 months to pay the pre-bankruptcy arrearage, and $2,000 each month to satisfy the monthly periodic payments. Assuming the consumer makes the payments according to the plan, the $100 payments are the pre-petition payments and the $2,000 payments are the post-petition payments for purposes of the disclosures required under § 1026.41(f)(3).

ii. If a consumer is a debtor in a case under chapter 12 or if a consumer's bankruptcy plan modifies the terms of the mortgage loan, such as by reducing the outstanding balance of the mortgage loan or altering the applicable interest rate, the disclosures under § 1026.41(d)(1) and (2) and (f)(3)(ii) and (iii) may disclose either the amount payable under the original terms of the mortgage loan, the amount payable under the remaining secured portion of the adjusted mortgage loan, or a statement that the consumer should contact the trustee or the consumer's attorney with any questions about the amount payable. In such cases, the remaining disclosures under § 1026.41(d) or (f)(3), as applicable, may be limited to how payments are applied to the remaining secured portion of the adjusted mortgage loan.
