
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Discounted and premium adjustable-rate transactions.,i.e.,,i.e.,

1.In some adjustable-rate transactions, creditors may set an initial interest rate that is not determined by the index or formula used to make later interest rate adjustments. In some cases, the initial rate charged to consumers is lower than the rate would be if it were calculated using the index or formula that will apply after recast, as determined at consummation (a "discounted rate"). In other cases, the initial rate may be higher (a "premium rate"). For purposes of determining the fully indexed rate where the initial interest rate is not determined using the index or formula for subsequent interest rate adjustments, the creditor must use the interest rate that would have applied had the creditor used such index or formula plus margin at the time of consummation. That is, in determining the fully indexed rate, the creditor must not take into account any discounted or premium rate. To illustrate, assume an adjustable-rate transaction where the initial interest rate is not based on an index or formula, or is based on an index or formula that will not apply after recast, and is set at 5 percent for the first five years. The loan agreement provides that future interest rate adjustments will be calculated based on a specific index plus a 3 percent margin. If the value of the index at consummation is 5 percent, the interest rate that would have been applied at consummation had the creditor based the initial rate on this index is 8 percent (5 percent plus 3 percent margin). For purposes of § 1026.43(b)(3), the fully indexed rate is 8 percent. For discussion of payment calculations based on the greater of the fully indexed rate or premium rate for purposes of the repayment ability determination under § 1026.43(c), see § 1026.43(c)(5)(i) and comment 43(c)(5)(i)-2.
