
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Construction phase of a construction-to-permanent loan.

2.Under § 1026.43(a)(3)(iii), a construction phase of 12 months or less of a construction-to-permanent loan is exempt from § 1026.43(c) through (f). A construction-to-permanent loan is a potentially multiple-advance loan to finance the construction, rehabilitation, or improvement of a dwelling that may be permanently financed by the same creditor. For such a loan, the construction phase and the permanent phase may be treated as separate transactions for the purpose of compliance with § 1026.43(c) through (f), and the construction phase of the loan is exempt from § 1026.43(c) through (f), provided the initial term is 12 months or less. See § 1026.17(c)(6)(ii), allowing similar treatment for disclosures. Where the construction phase of a construction-to-permanent loan is renewable for a period of one year or less, the term of that construction phase does not include any additional period of time that could result from a renewal provision. For example, if the construction phase of a construction-to-permanent loan has an initial term of 12 months but is renewable for another 12-month term before permanent financing begins, the construction phase is exempt from § 1026.43(c) through (f) because the initial term is 12 months. Any renewal of one year or less also qualifies for the exemption. The permanent phase of the loan is treated as a separate transaction and is not exempt under § 1026.43(a)(3)(iii). It may be a qualified mortgage if it satisfies the appropriate requirements.
