
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Insurance premiums and similar charges.

3.Section 1026.43(b)(8) includes in the evaluation of mortgage-related obligations premiums and similar charges identified in § 1026.4(b)(5), (7), (8), or (10) that are required by the creditor. This includes all premiums or charges related to coverage protecting the creditor against a consumer's default, credit loss, collateral loss, or similar loss, if the consumer is required to pay the premium or charge. For example, if Federal law requires flood insurance to be obtained in connection with the mortgage loan, the flood insurance premium is a mortgage-related obligation for purposes of § 1026.43(b)(8). Section 1026.43(b)(8) does not include premiums or similar charges identified in § 1026.4(b)(5), (7), (8), or (10) that are not required by the creditor and that the consumer purchases voluntarily. For example:

i. If a creditor does not require earthquake insurance to be obtained in connection with the mortgage loan, but the consumer voluntarily chooses to purchase such insurance, the earthquake insurance premium is not a mortgage-related obligation for purposes of § 1026.43(b)(8).

ii. If a creditor requires a minimum amount of coverage for homeowners' insurance and the consumer voluntarily chooses to purchase a more comprehensive amount of coverage, the portion of the premium allocated to the required minimum coverage is a mortgage-related obligation for purposes of § 1026.43(b)(8), while the portion of the premium allocated to the more comprehensive coverage voluntarily purchased by the consumer is not a mortgage-related obligation for purposes of § 1026.43(b)(8).

iii. If the consumer purchases insurance or similar coverage not required by the creditor at consummation without having requested the specific non-required insurance or similar coverage and without having agreed to the premium or charge for the specific non-required insurance or similar coverage prior to consummation, the premium or charge is not voluntary for purposes of § 1026.43(b)(8) and is a mortgage-related obligation.
