
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### 6.

The creditor disregarded evidence that the consumer would have the ability to repay only if the consumer subsequently refinanced the loan or sold the property securing the loan.

C. All of the considerations listed in paragraphs (A) and (B) above may be relevant to whether a creditor's ability-to-repay determination was reasonable and in good faith. However, these considerations are not requirements or prohibitions with which creditors must comply, nor are they elements of a claim that a consumer must prove to establish a violation of the ability-to-repay requirements. For example, creditors are not required to validate their underwriting criteria using mathematical models. These considerations also are not absolute in their application; instead they exist on a continuum and may apply to varying degrees. For example, the longer a consumer successfully makes timely payments after consummation or recast the less likely it is that the creditor's determination of ability to repay was unreasonable or not in good faith. Finally, each of these considerations must be viewed in the context of all facts and circumstances relevant to a particular extension of credit. For example, in some cases inconsistent application of underwriting standards may indicate that a creditor is manipulating those standards to approve a loan despite a consumer's inability to repay. The creditor's ability-to-repay determination therefore may be unreasonable or in bad faith. However, in other cases inconsistently applied underwriting standards may be the result of, for example, inadequate training and may nonetheless yield a reasonable and good faith ability-to-repay determination in a particular case. Similarly, although an early payment default on a mortgage will often be persuasive evidence that the creditor did not have a reasonable and good faith belief in the consumer's ability to repay (and such evidence may even be sufficient to establish a prima facie case of an ability-to-repay violation), a particular ability-to-repay determination may be reasonable and in good faith even though the consumer defaulted shortly after consummation if, for example, the consumer experienced a sudden and unexpected loss of income. In contrast, an ability-to-repay determination may be unreasonable or not in good faith even though the consumer made timely payments for a significant period of time if, for example, the consumer was able to make those payments only by foregoing necessities such as food and heat.
