
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### General.

1.Section 1026.43(c)(2) sets forth factors creditors must consider when making the ability-to-repay determination required under § 1026.43(c)(1) and the accompanying commentary provides guidance regarding these factors. Creditors must conform to these requirements and may rely on guidance provided in the commentary. However, § 1026.43(c) and the accompanying commentary do not provide comprehensive guidance on definitions and other technical underwriting criteria necessary for evaluating these factors in practice. So long as a creditor complies with the provisions of § 1026.43(c), the creditor is permitted to use its own definitions and other technical underwriting criteria. A creditor may, but is not required to, look to guidance issued by entities such as the Federal Housing Administration, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac while operating under the conservatorship of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. For example, a creditor may refer to such guidance to classify particular inflows, obligations, or property as "income," "debt," or "assets." Similarly, a creditor may refer to such guidance to determine what information to use when evaluating the income of a self-employed or seasonally employed consumer or what information to use when evaluating the credit history of a consumer who has obtained few or no extensions of traditional "credit" as defined in § 1026.2(a)(14). These examples are illustrative, and creditors are not required to conform to guidance issued by these or other such entities. However, as required by § 1026.43(c)(1), a creditor must ensure that its underwriting criteria, as applied to the facts and circumstances of a particular extension of credit, result in a reasonable, good faith determination of a consumer's ability to repay. For example, a definition used in underwriting that is reasonable in isolation may lead to ability-to-repay determinations that are unreasonable or not in good faith when considered in the context of a creditor's underwriting standards or when adopted or applied in bad faith. Similarly, an ability-to-repay determination is not unreasonable or in bad faith merely because the underwriting criteria used included a definition that was by itself unreasonable.
