
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### General.

1.A creditor must include in its repayment ability assessment the consumer's monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations, such as the expected property taxes and premiums or similar charges identified in § 1026.4(b)(5), (7), (8), or (10) that are required by the creditor. See § 1026.43(b)(8) defining the term "mortgage-related obligations." Mortgage-related obligations must be included in the creditor's determination of repayment ability regardless of whether the amounts are included in the monthly payment or whether there is an escrow account established. Section 1026.43(c)(2)(v) includes only payments that occur on an ongoing or recurring basis in the evaluation of the consumer's monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations. One-time charges, or obligations satisfied at or before consummation, are not ongoing or recurring, and are therefore not part of the consumer's monthly payment for purposes of § 1026.43(c)(2)(v). For example:

i. Assume that a consumer will be required to pay property taxes, as described in comment 43(b)(8)-2, on a quarterly, annual, or other basis after consummation. Section 1026.43(c)(2)(v) includes these recurring property taxes in the evaluation of the consumer's monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations. However, if the consumer will incur a one-time charge to satisfy property taxes that are past due, § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) does not include this one-time charge in the evaluation of the consumer's monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations.

ii. Assume that a consumer will be required to pay mortgage insurance premiums, as described in comment 43(b)(8)-2, on a monthly, annual, or other basis after consummation. Section 1026.43(c)(2)(v) includes these recurring mortgage insurance payments in the evaluation of the consumer's monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations. However, if the consumer will incur a one-time fee or charge for mortgage insurance or similar purposes, such as an up-front mortgage insurance premium imposed at consummation, § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) does not include this up-front mortgage insurance premium in the evaluation of the consumer's monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations.
