
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### i.e.,

ii. Assume that a subject property is located in a special water district, the assessments for which are billed separately from local property taxes. The creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) by dividing the full amount that will be owed by the number of months in the assessment period, and including the resulting amount in the calculation of monthly mortgage-related obligations. However, § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) does not require a creditor to adjust the monthly amount to account for potential deviations from the average monthly amount. For example, assume in this example that the special water assessment is billed every eight months, that the consumer will have to pay the first water district bill four months after consummation, and that the seller will not provide the consumer with any funds to pay for the seller's obligation (the four months prior to consummation). Although the consumer will be required to budget twice the average monthly amount to pay the first water district bill, § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) does not require the creditor to use the increased amount; the creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) by using the average monthly amount.

iii. Assume that the subject property is located in an area where flood insurance is required by Federal law, and assume further that the flood insurance policy premium is paid every three years following consummation. The creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) by dividing the three-year premium by 36 months and including the resulting amount in the determination of the consumer's monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations. The creditor complies even if the consumer will not establish a monthly escrow for flood insurance.

iv. Assume that the subject property is part of a homeowners association that has imposed upon the seller a special assessment of $1,200. Assume further that this special assessment will become the consumer's obligation upon consummation of the transaction, that the consumer is permitted to pay the special assessment in twelve $100 installments after consummation, and that the mortgage loan will not be originated pursuant to a government program that contains specific requirements for prorating special assessments. The creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) by dividing the $1,200 special assessment by 12 months and including the resulting $100 monthly amount in the determination of the consumer's monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations. The creditor complies by using this calculation even if the consumer intends to pay the special assessment in a manner other than that used by the creditor in determining the monthly pro rata amount, such as where the consumer intends to pay six $200 installments.
