
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Pro rata amount.

4.For purposes of § 1026.43(c)(2)(v), the creditor may divide the recurring payments for mortgage-related obligations into monthly, pro rata amounts. In considering a mortgage-related obligation that is not paid monthly, if the mortgage loan is originated pursuant to a government program the creditor may determine the pro rata monthly amount of the mortgage-related obligation in accordance with the specific requirements of that program. If the mortgage loan is originated pursuant to a government program that does not contain specific standards for determining the pro rata monthly amount of the mortgage-related obligation, or if the mortgage loan is not originated pursuant to a government program, the creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) by dividing the total amount of a particular non-monthly mortgage-related obligation by no more than the number of months from the month that the non-monthly mortgage-related obligation was due prior to consummation until the month that the non-monthly mortgage-related obligation will be due after consummation. When determining the pro rata monthly payment amount, the creditor may also consider comment 43(c)(2)(v)-5, which explains that the creditor need not project potential changes. The following examples further illustrate how a creditor may determine the pro rata monthly amount of mortgage-related obligations, pursuant to § 1026.43(c)(2)(v):

i. Assume that a consumer applies for a mortgage loan on February 1st. Assume further that the subject property is located in a jurisdiction where property taxes are paid in arrears on the first day of October. The creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) by determining the annual property tax amount owed in the prior October, dividing the amount by 12, and using the resulting amount as the pro rata monthly property tax payment amount for the determination of the consumer's monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations. The creditor complies even if the consumer will likely owe more in the next year than the amount owed the prior October because the jurisdiction normally increases the property tax rate annually, provided that the creditor does not have knowledge of an increase in the property tax rate at the time of underwriting. See also comment 43(c)(2)(v)-5 regarding estimates of mortgage-related obligations.
