
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Estimates.

5.Estimates of mortgage-related obligations should be based upon information that is known to the creditor at the time the creditor underwrites the mortgage obligation. Information is known if it is reasonably available to the creditor at the time of underwriting the loan. Creditors may rely on guidance provided under comment 17(c)(2)(i)-1 in determining if information is reasonably available. For purposes of this section, the creditor need not project potential changes, such as by estimating possible increases in taxes and insurance. See comment 43(c)(2)(v)-4 for additional examples discussing the projection of potential changes. The following examples further illustrate the requirements of § 1026.43(c)(2)(v):

i. Assume that the property is subject to a community governance association, such as a homeowners association. The creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) by relying on an estimate of mortgage-related obligations prepared by the homeowners association. In accordance with the guidance provided under comment 17(c)(2)(i)-1, the creditor need only exercise due diligence in determining mortgage-related obligations, and complies with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) by relying on the representations of other reliable parties in preparing estimates.

ii. Assume that the homeowners association has imposed a special assessment on the seller, but the seller does not inform the creditor of the special assessment, the homeowners association does not include the special assessment in the estimate of expenses prepared for the creditor, and the creditor is unaware of the special assessment. The creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) if it does not include the special assessment in the determination of mortgage-related obligations. The creditor may rely on the representations of other reliable parties, in accordance with the guidance provided under comment 17(c)(2)(i)-1.

iii. Assume that the homeowners association imposes a special assessment after the creditor has completed underwriting, but prior to consummation. The creditor does not violate § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) if the creditor does not include the special assessment in the determination of the consumer's monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations, provided the homeowners association does not inform the creditor about the special assessment during underwriting. Section 1026.43(c)(2)(v) does not require the creditor to re-underwrite the loan. The creditor has complied with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) by including the obligations known to the creditor at the time the loan is underwritten, even if the creditor learns of new mortgage-related obligations before the transaction is consummated.
