
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Credit report as a reasonably reliable third-party record.

3.A credit report generally is considered a reasonably reliable third-party record under § 1026.43(c)(3) for purposes of verifying items customarily found on a credit report, such as the consumer's current debt obligations, monthly debts, and credit history. Section 1026.43(c)(3) generally does not require creditors to obtain additional reasonably reliable third-party records to verify information contained in a credit report. For example, if a credit report states the existence and amount of a consumer's debt obligation, the creditor is not required to obtain additional verification of the existence or amount of that obligation. In contrast, a credit report does not serve as a reasonably reliably third-party record for purposes of verifying items that do not appear on the credit report. For example, certain monthly debt obligations, such as legal obligations like alimony or child support, may not be reflected on a credit report. Thus, a credit report that does not list a consumer's monthly alimony obligation does not serve as a reasonably reliable third-party record for purposes of verifying that obligation. If a credit report reflects a current debt obligation that a consumer has not listed on the application, the creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(3) if the creditor considers the existence and amount of the debt obligation as it is reflected in the credit report. However, in some cases a creditor may know or have reason to know that a credit report may be inaccurate in whole or in part. For example, a creditor may have information indicating that a credit report is subject to a fraud alert, extended alert, active duty alert, or similar alert identified in 15 U.S.C. 1681c-1 or that a debt obligation listed on a credit report is subject to a statement of dispute pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1681i(b). A creditor may also have other reasonably reliable third-party records or other information or evidence that the creditor reasonably finds to be reliable that contradict the credit report or otherwise indicate that the credit report is inaccurate. If a creditor knows or has reason to know that a credit report may be inaccurate in whole or in part, the creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(3) by disregarding an inaccurate or disputed item, items, or credit report, but does not have to obtain additional third-party records. The creditor may also, but is not required, to obtain other reasonably reliable third-party records to verify information with respect to which the credit report, or item therein, may be inaccurate. For example, the creditor might obtain statements or bank records regarding a particular debt obligation subject to a statement of dispute. See also comment 43(c)(3)-6, which describes a situation in which a consumer reports a debt obligation that is not listed on a credit report.
