
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Verification of mortgage-related obligations.

5.Creditors must make the repayment ability determination required under § 1026.43(c)(2) based on information verified from reasonably reliable records. For general guidance regarding verification see comments 43(c)(3)-1 and -2, which discuss verification using third-party records. With respect to the verification of mortgage-related obligations that are property taxes required to be considered under § 1026.43(c)(2)(v), a record is reasonably reliable if the information in the record was provided by a governmental organization, such as a taxing authority or local government. The creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) by relying on property taxes referenced in the title report if the source of the property tax information was a local taxing authority. With respect to other information in a record provided by an entity assessing charges, such as a homeowners association, the creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) if it relies on homeowners association billing statements provided by the seller. Records are also reasonably reliable if the information in the record was obtained from a valid and legally executed contract. For example, the creditor complies with § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) by relying on the amount of monthly ground rent referenced in the ground rent agreement currently in effect and applicable to the subject property. Records, other than those discussed above, may be reasonably reliable for purposes of § 1026.43(c)(2)(v) if the source provided the information objectively.
