
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### First five years after the date on which the first regular periodic payment will be due.,1

2.Under § 1026.43(c)(5)(ii)(A)(), the creditor must determine a consumer's ability to repay a loan with a balloon payment that is not a higher-priced covered transaction using the maximum payment scheduled during the first five years (60 months) after the date on which the first regular periodic payment will be due. To illustrate:

i. Assume a loan that provides for regular monthly payments and a balloon payment due at the end of a six-year loan term. The loan is consummated on August 15, 2014, and the first monthly payment is due on October 1, 2014. The first five years after the first monthly payment end on October 1, 2019. The balloon payment must be made on the due date of the 72nd monthly payment, which is September 1, 2020. For purposes of determining the consumer's ability to repay the loan under § 1026.43(c)(2)(iii), the creditor need not consider the balloon payment that is due on September 1, 2020.

ii. Assume a loan that provides for regular monthly payments and a balloon payment due at the end of a five-year loan term. The loan is consummated on August 15, 2014, and the first monthly payment is due on October 1, 2014. The first five years after the first monthly payment end on October 1, 2019. The balloon payment must be made on the due date of the 60th monthly payment, which is September 1, 2019. For purposes of determining the consumer's ability to repay the loan under § 1026.43(c)(2)(iii), the creditor must consider the balloon payment that is due on September 1, 2019.
