
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Renewable balloon-payment mortgage; loan term.

3.A balloon-payment mortgage that is not a higher-priced covered transaction could provide that a creditor is unconditionally obligated to renew a balloon-payment mortgage at the consumer's option (or is obligated to renew subject to conditions within the consumer's control). See comment 17(c)(1)-11 discussing renewable balloon-payment mortgages. For purposes of this section, the loan term does not include any period of time that could result from a renewal provision. To illustrate, assume a three-year balloon-payment mortgage that is not a higher-priced covered transaction contains an unconditional obligation to renew for another three years at the consumer's option. In this example, the loan term for the balloon-payment mortgage is three years, and not the potential six years that could result if the consumer chooses to renew the loan. Accordingly, the creditor must underwrite the loan using the maximum payment scheduled in the first five years after consummation, which includes the balloon payment due at the end of the three-year loan term. See comment 43(c)(5)(ii)(A)-4.ii, which provides an example of how to determine the consumer's repayment ability for a three-year renewable balloon-payment mortgage that is not a higher-priced covered transaction.
