
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### General.

1.For purposes of determining the consumer's ability to repay a negative amortization loan, the creditor must use substantially equal, monthly payments of principal and interest based on the fully indexed rate or the introductory rate, whichever is greater, that will repay the maximum loan amount over the term of the loan that remains as of the date the loan is recast. Accordingly, before determining the substantially equal, monthly payments the creditor must first determine the maximum loan amount and the period of time that remains in the loan term after the loan is recast. "Recast" is defined in § 1026.43(b)(11). Second, the creditor must use the fully indexed rate or introductory rate, whichever is greater, to calculate the substantially equal, monthly payment amount that will repay the maximum loan amount over the term of the loan remaining as of the date the loan is recast. For discussion regarding the fully indexed rate and the meaning of "substantially equal," see comments 43(b)(3)-1 through -5 and 43(c)(5)(i)-4, respectively. For the meaning of the term "maximum loan amount" and a discussion of how to determine the maximum loan amount for purposes of § 1026.43(c)(5)(ii)(C), see § 1026.43(b)(7) and associated commentary. "Negative amortization loan" is defined in § 1026.18(s)(7)(v).
