
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Adjustable-rate mortgage with discount for three years and interest-only payments for five years.

ii.A loan in an amount of $200,000 has a 30-year loan term, but provides for interest-only payments for the first five years. The loan agreement provides for a discounted interest rate of 5 percent that is fixed for an initial period of three years, after which the interest rate will adjust each year based on a specified index plus a margin of 3 percent, subject to an annual interest rate adjustment cap of 2 percent. The index value in effect at consummation is 4.5 percent; the fully indexed rate is 7.5 percent (4.5 percent plus 3 percent). The monthly payments for the first three years are $833. For the fourth year, the payments are $1,167, based on an interest rate of 7 percent, calculated by adding the 2 percent annual adjustment cap to the initial rate of 5 percent. For the fifth year, the payments are $1,250, applying the fully indexed rate of 7.5 percent. These first five years of payments will cover only the interest due. The loan is recast on the due date of the 60th monthly payment, after which the scheduled monthly payments increase to $1,478, a monthly payment that will repay the loan amount of $200,000 over the remaining 25 years of the loan (300 months). For purposes of § 1026.43(c)(2)(iii), the creditor must determine the consumer's ability to repay the loan based on a monthly payment of $1,478, which is the substantially equal, monthly payment of principal and interest that would repay $200,000 over the 25 years remaining as of the date the loan is recast using the fully indexed rate of 7.5 percent.
