
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Fixed-rate, graduated payment mortgage.

ii.A loan in the amount of $200,000 has a 30-year loan term. The loan agreement provides for a fixed interest rate of 7.5 percent, and requires the consumer to make minimum monthly payments during the first year, with payments increasing 12.5 percent over the previous year every year for four years (the annual payment cap). The payment schedule provides for payments of $943 in the first year, $1,061 in the second year, $1,193 in the third year, $1,343 in the fourth year, and then requires $1,511 for the remaining term of the loan. During the first three years of the loan, the payments are less than the interest accrued each month, resulting in negative amortization. Assuming the minimum payments increase year-to-year up to the 12.5 percent payment cap, the consumer will begin making payments that cover at least all of the interest accrued at the end of the third year. Thus, the loan is recast on the due date of the 36th monthly payment. The maximum loan amount on that date is $207,662, and the remaining loan term is 27 years (324 months). For purposes of § 1026.43(c)(2)(iii), the creditor must determine the consumer's ability to repay the loan based on a monthly payment of $1,497, which is the substantially equal, monthly payment of principal and interest that will repay the maximum loan amount of $207,662 over the remaining loan term of 27 years using the fixed interest rate of 7.5 percent.
