
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Documented underwriting practices.

1.In connection with a refinancing made pursuant to § 1026.43(d), § 1026.43(d)(4) requires a creditor offering a consumer rate discounts and terms that are the same as, or better than, the rate discounts and terms offered to new consumers to make such an offer consistent with the creditor's documented underwriting practices. Section 1026.43(d)(4) does not require a creditor making a refinancing pursuant to § 1026.43(d) to comply with the underwriting requirements of § 1026.43(c). Rather, § 1026.43(d)(4) requires creditors providing such discounts to do so consistent with documented policies related to loan pricing, loan term qualifications, or other similar underwriting practices. For example, assume that a creditor is providing a consumer with a refinancing made pursuant to § 1026.43(d) and that this creditor has a documented practice of offering rate discounts to consumers with credit scores above a certain threshold. Assume further that the consumer receiving the refinancing has a credit score below this threshold, and therefore would not normally qualify for the rate discount available to consumers with high credit scores. This creditor complies with § 1026.43(d)(4) by offering the consumer the discounted rate in connection with the refinancing made pursuant to § 1026.43(d), even if the consumer would not normally qualify for that discounted rate, provided that the offer of the discounted rate is not prohibited by applicable State or Federal law. However, § 1026.43(d)(4) does not require a creditor to offer a consumer such a discounted rate.
