
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Payment calculation for an interest-only loan.

6.Under § 1026.43(d)(5)(i), the monthly periodic payment for an interest-only loan must be calculated based on several assumptions:

i. First, the payment must be based on the outstanding principal balance as of the date of the recast, assuming all scheduled payments are made under the terms of the legal obligation in effect before the mortgage is recast. For a loan on which only interest and no principal has been paid, the outstanding principal balance at the time of recast will be the loan amount, as defined in § 1026.43(b)(5), assuming all scheduled payments are made under the terms of the legal obligation in effect before the mortgage is recast. For example, assume that a mortgage has a 30-year loan term, and provides that the first 24 months of payments are interest-only. If the 24th payment is due on September 1, 2015, the creditor must calculate the outstanding principal balance as of September 1, 2015, assuming that all 24 payments under the interest-only payment terms have been made and credited timely and that no payments of principal have been made.

ii. Second, the payment calculation must be based on substantially equal monthly payments of principal and interest that will fully repay the loan amount over the term of the loan remaining as of the date the loan is recast. Thus, in the example above, the creditor must assume a loan term of 28 years (336 monthly payments).

iii. Third, the payment must be based on the fully indexed rate, as described in § 1026.43(d)(5)(i)(A).
