
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Example of payment calculation for an interest-only loan.

7.The following example illustrates the rule described in comment 43(d)(5)(i)-6:

i. A loan in an amount of $200,000 has a 30-year loan term. The loan agreement provides for a fixed interest rate of 7 percent, and permits interest-only payments for the first two years (the first 24 payments), after which time amortizing payments of principal and interest are required.

ii. The non-standard mortgage is consummated on February 15, 2014, and the first monthly payment is due on April 1, 2014. The loan is recast on the due date of the 24th monthly payment, which is March 1, 2016.

iii. On March 15, 2015, the creditor receives the consumer's written application for a refinancing, after the consumer has made 12 monthly on-time payments. The consumer has made no additional payments of principal.

iv. To calculate the non-standard mortgage payment that must be compared to the standard mortgage payment under § 1026.43(d)(2)(ii), the creditor must use:

A. The loan amount, which is the outstanding principal balance as of March 1, 2016, assuming all scheduled interest-only payments have been made and credited up to that date. In this example, the loan amount is $200,000.

B. An interest rate of 7 percent, which is the interest rate in effect at the time of consummation of this fixed-rate non-standard mortgage.

C. The remaining loan term as of March 1, 2016, the date of the recast, which is 28 years (336 monthly payments).
