
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Example of payment calculation for an adjustable-rate mortgage with an introductory fixed rate.

5.The following example illustrates the rule described in comment 43(d)(5)(i)-4:

i. A loan in an amount of $200,000 has a 30-year loan term. The loan agreement provides for a discounted introductory interest rate of 5 percent that is fixed for an initial period of two years, after which the interest rate will adjust annually based on a specified index plus a margin of 3 percentage points.

ii. The non-standard mortgage is consummated on February 15, 2014, and the first monthly payment is due on April 1, 2014. The loan is recast on the due date of the 24th monthly payment, which is March 1, 2016.

iii. On March 15, 2015, the creditor receives the consumer's written application for a refinancing after the consumer has made 12 monthly on-time payments. On this date, the index value is 4.5 percent.

iv. To calculate the non-standard mortgage payment that must be compared to the standard mortgage payment under § 1026.43(d)(2)(ii), the creditor must use:

A. The outstanding principal balance as of March 1, 2016, assuming all scheduled payments have been made up to March 1, 2016, and the last payment due under the fixed rate terms is made and credited on March 1, 2016. In this example, the outstanding principal balance is $193,948.

B. The fully indexed rate of 7.5 percent, which is the index value of 4.5 percent as of March 15, 2015 (the date on which the application for a refinancing is received) plus the margin of 3 percent.

C. The remaining loan term as of March 1, 2016, the date of the recast, which is 28 years (336 monthly payments).
