
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Payment calculation for an adjustable-rate mortgage with an introductory fixed rate.

4.Under § 1026.43(d)(5)(i), the monthly periodic payment for an adjustable-rate mortgage with an introductory fixed interest rate for a period of one or more years must be calculated based on several assumptions.

i. First, the payment must be based on the outstanding principal balance as of the date on which the mortgage is recast, assuming all scheduled payments have been made up to that date and the last payment due under those terms is made and credited on that date. For example, assume an adjustable-rate mortgage with a 30-year loan term. The loan agreement provides that the payments for the first 24 months are based on a fixed rate, after which the interest rate will adjust annually based on a specified index and margin. The loan is recast on the due date of the 24th payment. If the 24th payment is due on September 1, 2014, the creditor must calculate the outstanding principal balance as of September 1, 2014, assuming that all 24 payments under the fixed rate terms have been made and credited timely.

ii. Second, the payment calculation must be based on substantially equal monthly payments of principal and interest that will fully repay the outstanding principal balance over the term of the loan remaining as of the date the loan is recast. Thus, in the example above, the creditor must assume a loan term of 28 years (336 monthly payments).

iii. Third, the payment must be based on the fully indexed rate, as described in § 1026.43(d)(5)(i)(A).
