
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### 3,3

i. First, the calculation must be based on the maximum loan amount, determined after adjusting for the outstanding principal balance. If the consumer makes only the minimum periodic payments for the maximum possible time, until the consumer must begin making fully amortizing payments, the outstanding principal balance will be the maximum loan amount, as defined in § 1026.43(b)(7). In this event, the creditor complies with § 1026.43(d)(5)(i)(C)() by relying on the examples of how to calculate the maximum loan amount, see comment 43(b)(7)-3. If the consumer makes payments above the minimum periodic payments for the maximum possible time, the creditor must calculate the maximum loan amount based on the outstanding principal balance. In this event, the creditor complies with § 1026.43(d)(5)(i)(C)() by relying on the examples of how to calculate the maximum loan amount in comment 43(d)(5)(i)-10.

ii. Second, the calculation must be based on substantially equal monthly payments of principal and interest that will fully repay the maximum loan amount over the term of the loan remaining as of the date the loan is recast. For example, if the loan term is 30 years and the loan is recast on the due date of the 60th monthly payment, the creditor must assume a remaining loan term of 25 years (300 monthly payments).

iii. Third, the payment must be based on the fully indexed rate as of the date of the written application for the standard mortgage.
