
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Example of payment calculation for a negative amortization loan if only minimum payments made.

9.The following example illustrates the rule described in comment 43(d)(5)(i)-8:

i. A loan in an amount of $200,000 has a 30-year loan term. The loan agreement provides that the consumer can make minimum monthly payments that cover only part of the interest accrued each month until the date on which the principal balance increases to the negative amortization cap of 115 percent of the loan amount, or for the first five years of monthly payments (60 payments), whichever occurs first. The loan is an adjustable-rate mortgage that adjusts monthly according to a specified index plus a margin of 3.5 percent.

ii. The non-standard mortgage is consummated on February 15, 2014, and the first monthly payment is due on April 1, 2014. Assume that the consumer has made only the minimum periodic payments. Assume further that, based on the calculation of the maximum loan amount required under § 1026.43(b)(7) and associated commentary, the negative amortization cap of 115 percent would be reached on June 1, 2016, the due date of the 27th monthly payment.

iii. On March 15, 2015, the creditor receives the consumer's written application for a refinancing, after the consumer has made 12 monthly on-time payments. On this date, the index value is 4.5 percent.

iv. To calculate the non-standard mortgage payment that must be compared to the standard mortgage payment under § 1026.43(d)(2)(ii), the creditor must use:

A. The maximum loan amount of $229,251 as of June 1, 2016;

B. The fully indexed rate of 8 percent, which is the index value of 4.5 percent as of March 15, 2015 (the date on which the creditor receives the application for a refinancing) plus the margin of 3.5 percent; and

C. The remaining loan term as of June 1, 2016, the date of the recast, which is 27 years and nine months (333 monthly payments).
