
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Example of payment calculation for a negative amortization loan if payments above minimum amount made.

10.The following example illustrates the rule described in comment 43(d)(5)(i)-8:

i. A loan in an amount of $200,000 has a 30-year loan term. The loan agreement provides that the consumer can make minimum monthly payments that cover only part of the interest accrued each month until the date on which the principal balance increases to the negative amortization cap of 115 percent of the loan amount, or for the first five years of monthly payments (60 payments), whichever occurs first. The loan is an adjustable-rate mortgage that adjusts monthly according to a specified index plus a margin of 3.5 percent. The introductory interest rate at consummation is 1.5 percent. One month after consummation, the interest rate adjusts and will adjust monthly thereafter based on the specified index plus a margin of 3.5 percent. The maximum lifetime interest rate is 10.5 percent; there are no other periodic interest rate adjustment caps that limit how quickly the maximum lifetime rate may be reached. The minimum monthly payment for the first year is based on the initial interest rate of 1.5 percent. After that, the minimum monthly payment adjusts annually, but may increase by no more than 7.5 percent over the previous year's payment. The minimum monthly payment is $690 in the first year, $742 in the second year, $798 in the third year, $857 in the fourth year, and $922 in the fifth year.

ii. The non-standard mortgage is consummated on February 15, 2014, and the first monthly payment is due on April 1, 2014. Assume that the consumer has made more than the minimum periodic payments, and that after the consumer's 12th monthly on-time payment the outstanding principal balance is $195,000. Based on the calculation of the maximum loan amount after adjusting for this outstanding principal balance, the negative amortization cap of 115 percent would be reached on March 1, 2019, the due date of the 60th monthly payment.

iii. On March 15, 2015, the creditor receives the consumer's written application for a refinancing, after the consumer has made 12 monthly on-time payments. On this date, the index value is 4.5 percent.

iv. To calculate the non-standard mortgage payment that must be compared to the standard mortgage payment under § 1026.43(d)(2)(ii), the creditor must use:

A. The maximum loan amount of $229,219 as of March 1, 2019.

B. The fully indexed rate of 8 percent, which is the index value of 4.5 percent as of March 15, 2015 (the date on which the creditor receives the application for a refinancing) plus the margin of 3.5 percent.

C. The remaining loan term as of March 1, 2019, the date of the recast, which is exactly 25 years (300 monthly payments).
