
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Adjustable-rate mortgage with discount for three years.

i.Assume an adjustable-rate mortgage has an initial discounted rate of 5 percent that is fixed for the first three years, measured from the first day of the first full calendar month following consummation, after which the rate will adjust annually based on a specified index plus a margin of 3 percent. The index value in effect at consummation is 4.5 percent. The loan agreement provides for an annual interest rate adjustment cap of 2 percent, and a lifetime maximum interest rate of 12 percent. The first rate adjustment occurs on the due date of the 36th monthly payment; the rate can adjust to no more than 7 percent (5 percent initial discounted rate plus 2 percent annual interest rate adjustment cap). The second rate adjustment occurs on the due date of the 48th monthly payment; the rate can adjust to no more than 9 percent (7 percent rate plus 2 percent annual interest rate adjustment cap). The third rate adjustment occurs on the due date of the 60th monthly payment; the rate can adjust to no more than 11 percent (9 percent rate plus 2 percent annual interest rate cap adjustment). The maximum interest rate during the first five years after the date on which the first regular periodic payment will be due is 11 percent (the rate on the due date of the 60th monthly payment). For further discussion of how to determine whether a rate adjustment occurs during the first five years after the date on which the first regular periodic payment will be due, see comment 43(e)(2)(iv)-7.
