
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Loan amount.

5.To meet the definition of qualified mortgage under § 1026.43(e)(2), a creditor must determine the periodic payment of principal and interest using the maximum interest rate permitted during the first five years after the date on which the first regular periodic payment will be due that repays either:

i. The outstanding principal balance as of the earliest date the maximum interest rate during the first five years after the date on which the first regular periodic payment will be due can take effect under the terms of the legal obligation, over the remaining term of the loan. To illustrate, assume a loan in an amount of $200,000 has a 30-year loan term. The loan agreement provides for a discounted interest rate of 5 percent that is fixed for an initial period of three years, measured from the first day of the first full calendar month following consummation, after which the interest rate will adjust annually based on a specified index plus a margin of 3 percent, subject to a 2 percent annual interest rate adjustment cap and a lifetime maximum interest rate of 9 percent. The index value in effect at consummation equals 4.5 percent. Assuming the interest rate increases after consummation as quickly as possible, the rate adjustment to the lifetime maximum interest rate of 9 percent occurs on the due date of the 48th monthly payment. The outstanding principal balance on the loan at the end of the fourth year (after the 48th monthly payment is credited) is $188,218. The creditor will meet the definition of qualified mortgage if it underwrites the covered transaction using the monthly payment of principal and interest of $1,564 to repay the outstanding principal balance of $188,218 over the remaining 26 years of the loan term (312 months) using the maximum interest rate during the first five years of 9 percent; or

ii. The loan amount, as that term is defined in § 1026.43(b)(5), over the entire loan term, as that term is defined in § 1026.43(b)(6). Using the same example above, the creditor will meet the definition of qualified mortgage if it underwrites the covered transaction using the monthly payment of principal and interest of $1,609 to repay the loan amount of $200,000 over the 30-year loan term using the maximum interest rate during the first five years of 9 percent.
