
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Adjustable-rate mortgage with discount for seven years.

iv.A. A loan in an amount of $200,000 has a 30-year loan term. The loan agreement provides for a discounted interest rate of 6 percent that is fixed for an initial period of seven years, after which the interest rate will adjust annually based on a specified index plus a margin of 3 percent, subject to a 2 percent annual interest rate adjustment cap. The index value in effect at consummation is 4.5 percent. The loan is consummated on March 15, 2014, and the first regular periodic payment is due May 1, 2014. Under the terms of the loan agreement, the first rate adjustment is on April 1, 2021 (the due date of the 84th monthly payment), which occurs more than five years after the date on which the first regular periodic payment will be due. Thus, the maximum interest rate under the terms of the loan during the first five years after the date on which the first regular periodic payment will be due is 6 percent.

B. The transaction will meet the definition of a qualified mortgage if the creditor underwrites the loan using the monthly payment of principal and interest of $1,199 to repay the loan amount of $200,000 over the 30-year loan term using the maximum interest rate during the first five years after the date on which the first regular periodic payment will be due of 6 percent.
