
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Adjustable-rate mortgage with discount for three years.

ii.A. A loan in an amount of $200,000 has a 30-year loan term. The loan agreement provides for a discounted interest rate of 5 percent that is fixed for an initial period of three years, after which the interest rate will adjust annually based on a specified index plus a margin of 3 percent, subject to a 2 percent annual interest rate adjustment cap and a lifetime maximum interest rate of 9 percent. The index value in effect at consummation is 4.5 percent. The loan is consummated on March 15, 2014, and the first regular periodic payment is due May 1, 2014. The loan agreement provides that the first rate adjustment occurs on April 1, 2017 (the due date of the 36th monthly payment); the second rate adjustment occurs on April 1, 2018 (the due date of the 48th monthly payment); and the third rate adjustment occurs on April 1, 2019 (the due date of the 60th monthly payment). Under this example, the maximum interest rate during the first five years after the date on which the first regular periodic payment due is 9 percent (the lifetime interest rate cap), which applies beginning on April 1, 2018 (the due date of the 48th monthly payment). The outstanding principal balance at the end of the fourth year (after the 48th payment is credited) is $188,218.

B. The transaction will meet the definition of a qualified mortgage if the creditor underwrites the loan using the monthly payment of principal and interest of $1,564 to repay the outstanding principal balance at the end of the fourth year of $188,218 over the remaining 26 years of the loan term (312 months), using the maximum interest rate during the first five years after the date on which the first regular periodic payment will be due of 9 percent. Alternatively, the transaction will meet the definition of a qualified mortgage if the creditor underwrites the loan using the monthly payment of principal and interest of $1,609 to repay the loan amount of $200,000 over the 30-year loan term, using the maximum interest rate during the first five years after the date on which the first regular periodic payment will be due of 9 percent.
