
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Limitations on rate adjustments.

2.The creditor must disclose how often the rate may change and any limit on the amount that the rate may increase at any one time. The creditor must also disclose any maximum rate over the life of the transaction. If the legal obligation between the parties does provide a maximum rate, the creditor must disclose any legal limits in the nature of usury or rate ceilings under state or Federal statutes or regulations. However, if the applicable maximum rate is in the form of a legal limit, such as a state's usury cap (rather than a maximum rate specified in the legal obligation between the parties), the creditor must disclose that the maximum rate is determined by applicable law. Compliance with § 1026.18(f)(1)(ii) (requiring disclosure of any limitations on the increase of the interest rate) does not necessarily constitute compliance with this section. Specifically, this section requires that if there are no limitations on interest rate increases, the creditor must disclose that fact. By contrast, comment 18(f)(1)(ii)-1 states that if there are no limitations the creditor need not disclose that fact. In addition, under this section, limitations on rate increases include, rather than exclude, legal limits in the nature of usury or rate ceilings under state or Federal statutes or regulations.
