
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Co-branding-definition of marketing.,Implied endorsement.

1.The prohibition on co-branding in §§ 1026.48(a) and (b) applies to the marketing of private education loans. The term marketing includes any advertisement under § 1026.2(a)(2). In addition, the term marketing includes any document provided by the creditor to the consumer related to a specific transaction, such as an application or solicitation, a promissory note or a contract provided to the consumer. For example, prominently displaying the name of the educational institution at the top of the application form or promissory note without mentioning the name of the creditor, such as by naming the loan product the "University of ABC Loan," would be prohibited.2.A suggestion that a private education loan is offered or made by the covered educational institution instead of by the creditor is included in the prohibition on implying that the covered educational institution endorses the private education loan under § 1026.48(a)(1). For example, naming the loan the "University of ABC Loan," suggests that the loan is offered by the educational institution. However, the use of a creditor's full name, even if that name includes the name of a covered educational institution, does not imply endorsement. For example, a credit union whose name includes the name of a covered educational institution is not prohibited from using its own name. In addition, the authorized use of a state seal by a state or an institution of higher education in the marketing of state education loan products does not imply endorsement.
