
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Examples.

iv.The following examples illustrate the application of § 1026.55(b)(4)(ii):

A. Assume that the billing cycles for an account begin on the first day of the month and end on the last day of the month and that the required minimum periodic payments are due on the fifteenth day of the month. Assume also that the account has a $5,000 purchase balance to which a non-variable annual percentage rate of 15% applies. On May 16 of year one, the card issuer has not received the required minimum periodic payments due on the fifteenth day of March, April, or May and sends a § 1026.9(c) or (g) notice stating that the annual percentage rate applicable to the $5,000 balance and to new transactions will increase to 28% effective July 1. On July 1, § 1026.55(b)(4) permits the card issuer to apply the 28% rate to the $5,000 balance and to new transactions. The card issuer receives the required minimum periodic payments due on the fifteenth day of July, August, September, October, November, and December. On January 1 of year two, § 1026.55(b)(4)(ii) requires the card issuer to reduce the rate that applies to any remaining portion of the $5,000 balance to 15%. The card issuer is not required to reduce the rate that applies to any transactions that occurred on or after May 31 (which is the fifteenth day after provision of the § 1026.9(c) or (g) notice).

B. Same facts as paragraph iv.A above except that the 15% rate that applied to the $5,000 balance prior to the § 1026.55(b)(4) increase was scheduled to increase to 20% on August 1 of year one (pursuant to § 1026.55(b)(1)). On January 1 of year two, § 1026.55(b)(4)(ii) requires the card issuer to reduce the rate that applies to any remaining portion of the $5,000 balance to 20%.

C. Same facts as paragraph iv.A above except that the 15% rate that applied to the $5,000 balance prior to the § 1026.55(b)(4) increase was scheduled to increase to 20% on March 1 of year two (pursuant to § 1026.55(b)(1)). On January 1 of year two, § 1026.55(b)(4)(ii) requires the card issuer to reduce the rate that applies to any remaining portion of the $5,000 balance to 15%.

D. Same facts as paragraph iv.A above except that the 15% rate that applied to the $5,000 balance prior to the § 1026.55(b)(4) increase was a variable rate that was determined by adding a margin of 10 percentage points to a publicly-available index not under the card issuer's control (consistent with § 1026.55(b)(2)). On January 1 of year two, § 1026.55(b)(4)(ii) requires the card issuer to reduce the rate that applies to any remaining portion of the $5,000 balance to the variable rate determined using the 10-point margin.

E. For an example of the application of § 1026.55(b)(4)(ii) to deferred interest or similar programs, see comment 55(b)(1)-3.ii.C.
