
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Partner institution Web sites.

3.i. As explained in comments 58(d)-2 and 58(e)-3, if an issuer provides cardholders with access to specific information about their individual accounts, such as balance information or copies of statements, through a third-party Web site, the issuer is deemed to maintain that Web site for purposes of § 1026.58. Such a Web site is deemed to be maintained by the issuer for purposes of § 1026.58 even where, for example, an unaffiliated entity designs the Web site and owns and maintains the information technology infrastructure that supports the Web site, cardholders with credit cards from multiple issuers can access individual account information through the same Web site, and the Web site is not labeled, branded, or otherwise held out to the public as belonging to the issuer. A partner institution's Web site is an example of a third-party Web site that may be deemed to be maintained by the issuer for purposes of § 1026.58. For example, Retailer and Bank work together to issue credit cards. Under the § 1026.58(b)(4) definition, Bank is the issuer of these credit cards for purposes of § 1026.58. Bank does not have a Web site. However, cardholders can access information about their individual accounts, such as balance information and copies of statements, through a Web site maintained by Retailer. Retailer designs the Web site and owns and maintains the information technology infrastructure that supports the Web site. The Web site is branded and held out to the public as belonging to Retailer. Because cardholders can access information about their individual accounts through this Web site, the Web site is deemed to be maintained by Bank for purposes of § 1026.58. Bank therefore may comply with § 1026.58(d) by ensuring that agreements offered to the public are posted on Retailer's Web site in accordance with § 1026.58(d). Bank may comply with § 1026.58(e) by ensuring that cardholders can request copies of their individual agreements through Retailer's Web site in accordance with § 1026.58(e)(1). Bank need not create and maintain a Web site branded and held out to the public as belonging to Bank in order to comply with §§ 1026.58(d) and (e) as long as Bank ensures that Retailer's Web site complies with these sections.

ii. In addition, § 1026.58(d)(1) provides that, with respect to an agreement offered solely for accounts under one or more private label credit card plans, an issuer may comply with § 1026.58(d) by posting the agreement on the publicly available Web site of at least one of the merchants at which credit cards issued under each private label credit card plan with 10,000 or more open accounts may be used. This rule is not conditioned on cardholders' ability to access account-specific information through the merchant's Web site.
