
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Option to withdraw agreements clarified.

5.Section 1026.58(c)(5) provides that if a card issuer that did not previously qualify for the de minimis exception qualifies for the de minimis exception, the card issuer must continue to make quarterly submissions to the Bureau as required by § 1026.58(c)(1) until the card issuer notifies the Bureau that the issuer is withdrawing all agreements it previously submitted to the Bureau. For example, a card issuer has 10,001 open accounts and offers three agreements to the public as of December 31. The card issuer has submitted each of the three agreements to the Bureau as required under § 1026.58(c)(1). As of March 31, the card issuer has only 9,999 open accounts. The card issuer has two options. First, the card issuer may notify the Bureau that the card issuer is withdrawing each of the three agreements it previously submitted. Once the card issuer has notified the Bureau, the card issuer is no longer required to make quarterly submissions to the Bureau under § 1026.58(c)(1). Alternatively, the card issuer may choose not to notify the Bureau that it is withdrawing its agreements. In this case, the card issuer must continue making quarterly submissions to the Bureau as required by § 1026.58(c)(1). The card issuer might choose not to withdraw its agreements if, for example, the card issuer believes that it likely will cease to qualify for the de minimis exception again in the near future.
