
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### De minimis exception distinguished.,i.e.,

3.The private label credit card exception under § 1026.58(c)(6) is distinct from the de minimis exception under § 1026.58(c)(5). The private label credit card exception exempts card issuers from submitting certain agreements to the Bureau regardless of the card issuer's overall size as measured by total number of open accounts. In contrast, the de minimis exception exempts a particular card issuer from submitting any credit card agreements to the Bureau if the card issuer has fewer than 10,000 total open accounts. For example, a card issuer offers to the public two credit card agreements. Agreement A is offered solely for private label credit card accounts with credit cards usable only at Merchant A. The card issuer has 5,000 open credit card accounts with such credit cards usable only at Merchant A. Agreement B is offered solely for credit card accounts with cards usable at multiple unaffiliated merchants that participate in a major payment network. The card issuer has 40,000 open credit card accounts with such payment network cards. The card issuer is not required to submit agreement A to the Bureau under § 1026.58(c)(1) because agreement A qualifies for the private label credit card exception under § 1026.58(c)(6). Agreement A is offered for accounts under a private label credit card plan with fewer than 10,000 open accounts (the 5,000 accounts with credit cards usable only at Merchant A) and is not otherwise offered to the public. The card issuer is required to submit agreement B to the Bureau under § 1026.58(c)(1). The card issuer does not qualify for the de minimis exception under § 1026.58(c)(5) because it has more than 10,000 open accounts, and agreement B does not qualify for the private label credit card exception under § 1026.58(c)(6) because it is not offered solely for accounts under a private label credit card plan with fewer than 10,000 open accounts.
