
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### i.e.,

v. The card issuer is required to submit the agreement to the Bureau under § 1026.58(c)(1). (The card issuer has more than 10,000 open accounts, so the § 1026.58(c)(5) de minimis exception does not apply. The agreement is offered solely for two different private label credit card plans (one plan consisting of the accounts with credit cards usable at Merchant A and one plan consisting of the accounts with credit cards usable at Merchant B and its affiliates, Merchants C and D), but one of these plans has more than 10,000 open accounts, so the § 1026.58(c)(6) private label credit card exception does not apply. Finally, the agreement is not offered solely in connection with a product test by the card issuer, so the § 1026.58(c)(7) product test exception does not apply.)

vi. Because the card issuer is required to submit the agreement to the Bureau under § 1026.58(c)(1), the card issuer is required to post and maintain the agreement on the card issuer's publicly available Web site under § 1026.58(d). However, because the agreement is offered solely for accounts under one or more private label credit card plans, the card issuer may comply with § 1026.58(d) in either of two ways. First, the card issuer may comply by posting and maintaining the agreement on the card issuer's own publicly available Web site. Alternatively, the card issuer may comply by posting and maintaining the agreement on the publicly available Web site of at least one of Merchants B, C and D. The card issuer is not required to post and maintain the agreement on the publicly available Web site of Merchant A because the card issuer's private label credit card plan consisting of accounts with cards usable only at Merchant A has fewer than 10,000 open accounts.
