
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Prepaid cards.,See

3.i. With respect to a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined by § 1026.61, if a card issuer assesses a fee (other than a periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge on an outstanding balance) to make a purchase where this fee is imposed as part of the plan as described in § 1026.6(b)(3), that fee is a transaction charge described in § 1026.60(b)(4).comments 60(b)-3 and -4. This is so whether the fee is a per transaction fee to make a purchase, or a flat fee for each day (or other period) the consumer has an outstanding balance of purchase transactions.

ii. A fee for a transaction will be treated as a fee to make a purchase under § 1026.60(b)(4) in cases where a consumer uses a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in § 1026.61 to make a purchase to obtain goods or services from a merchant and credit is drawn directly from a covered separate credit feature accessed by the hybrid prepaid-credit card without transferring funds into the asset feature of the prepaid account to cover the amount of the purchase. For example, assume that the consumer has $10 of funds in the asset feature of the prepaid account and initiates a transaction with a merchant to obtain goods or services with the hybrid prepaid-credit card for $25. In this case, $10 is debited from the asset feature and $15 of credit is drawn directly from the covered separate credit feature accessed by the hybrid prepaid-credit card without any transfer of funds into the asset feature of the prepaid account to cover the amount of the purchase. A per transaction fee imposed for the $15 credit transaction must be disclosed under § 1026.60(b)(4).

iii. On the other hand, a fee for a transaction will be treated as a cash advance fee under § 1026.60(b)(8) in cases where a consumer uses a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in § 1026.61 to make a purchase to obtain goods or services from a merchant and credit is transferred from a covered separate credit feature accessed by the hybrid prepaid-credit card into the asset feature of the prepaid account to cover the amount of the purchase. For example, assume the same facts as above, except that the $15 will be transferred from the covered separate credit feature to the asset feature, and a transaction of $25 is debited from the asset feature of the prepaid account. In this case, a per transaction fee for the $15 credit transaction must be disclosed under § 1026.60(b)(8).
