
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Prepaid cards.,See,See

4.i. With respect to a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined by § 1026.61, if a card issuer assesses a fee (other than a periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge on an outstanding balance) for a cash advance, such as a cash withdrawal at an ATM, where the fee is imposed as part of the plan as described in § 1026.6(b)(3), that fee is a cash advance fee.comments 60(b)-3 and -4. In addition, a fee for a transaction will be treated as a cash advance fee under § 1026.60(b)(8) in cases where a consumer uses a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in § 1026.61 to make a purchase to obtain goods or services from a merchant and credit is transferred from a covered separate credit feature accessed by the hybrid prepaid-credit card into the asset feature of the prepaid account to cover the amount of the purchase.comment 60(b)(4)-3.iii.

ii. If the cash advance fee is the same dollar amount as the transaction charge for purchases described in § 1026.60(b)(4), the card issuer may disclose the fee amount under a heading that indicates the fee applies to both purchase transactions and cash advances. Examples of how fees for purchase transactions described in § 1026.60(b)(4) and fees for cash advances described in § 1026.60(b)(8) must be disclosed are as follows. Assume that all the fees in the examples below are charged on the covered separate credit feature.

A. A card issuer assesses a $15 fee for credit drawn from a covered separate credit feature using a hybrid prepaid-credit card to purchase goods or services at the point of sale when the consumer has insufficient or unavailable funds in the prepaid account as described in comment 60(b)(4)-3.ii. The card issuer assesses a $25 fee for credit drawn from a covered separate credit feature using a hybrid prepaid-credit card for a cash advance at an ATM when the consumer has insufficient or unavailable funds in the prepaid account. In this instance, the card issuer must disclose separately a purchase transaction charge of $15 and a cash advance fee of $25.

B. A card issuer assesses a $15 fee for credit drawn from a covered separate credit feature using a hybrid prepaid-credit card to purchase goods or services at the point of sale when the consumer has insufficient or unavailable funds in the prepaid account as discussed in comment 60(b)(4)-3.ii. The card issuer assesses a $15 fee for credit drawn from a covered separate credit feature using a hybrid prepaid-credit card for providing cash at an ATM when the consumer has insufficient or unavailable funds in the prepaid account. In this instance, the card issuer may disclose the $15 fee under a heading that indicates the fee applies to both purchase transactions and ATM cash advances. Alternatively, the card issuer may disclose the $15 fee on two separate rows, one row indicating that a $15 fee applies to purchase transactions, and a second row indicating that a $15 fee applies to ATM cash advances.

C. A card issuer assesses a $15 fee for credit drawn from a covered separate credit feature using a hybrid prepaid-credit card for providing cash at an ATM when the consumer has insufficient or unavailable funds in the prepaid account. The card issuer also assesses a fee of $1.50 for out-of-network ATM cash withdrawals and $1.00 for in-network ATM cash withdrawals. The card issuer must disclose the cash advance fee as $16.50 for out-of-network ATM cash withdrawals, indicating that $1.50 is for the out-of-network ATM withdrawal fee, such as "$16.50 (including a $1.50 out-of-network ATM withdrawal fee)." The card issuer also must disclose the cash advance fee as $16.00 for in-network ATM cash withdrawals, indicating that $1.00 is for the in-network ATM withdrawal fee, such as "$16 (including a $1.00 in-network ATM cash withdrawal fee)."
