
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Credit that can be accessed from a separate credit feature in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing a transaction.

2.i. Under § 1026.61(a)(2)(i), a prepaid card is a hybrid prepaid-credit card when the card can be used from time to time to access a separate credit feature that is offered by the prepaid account issuer, its affiliate, or its business partner and can be used to access credit in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing transactions conducted with the card to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers. A draw, transfer, or authorization of a draw or transfer from a separate credit feature is deemed to be in the "course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing" a transaction if it occurs during the authorization phase of the transaction as discussed in comment 61(a)(2)-2.ii or in later periods up to the settlement of the transaction, as discussed in comment 61(a)(2)-2.iii.

ii. The following examples illustrate transactions where credit can be drawn, transferred, or authorized to be drawn or transferred from a separate credit feature in the course of authorizing a transaction.

A. A transaction initiated using a prepaid card when there are insufficient or unavailable funds in the asset feature of the prepaid account at the time the transaction is initiated and credit is transferred from the credit feature to the asset feature at the time the transaction is authorized to complete the transaction.

B. A transaction initiated using a prepaid card when there are insufficient or unavailable funds in the asset feature of the prepaid account at the time the transaction is initiated and credit is directly drawn from the credit feature to complete the transaction, without transferring funds into the prepaid account.

iii. The following examples illustrate transactions where credit can be drawn, transferred, or authorized to be drawn or transferred, in the course of settling a transaction.

A. A transaction initiated using a prepaid card when there are sufficient or available funds in the asset feature of the prepaid account at the time of authorization to cover the amount of the transaction but where the consumer does not have sufficient or available funds in the asset feature to cover the transaction at the time of settlement. Credit automatically is drawn, transferred, or authorized to be drawn or transferred from the credit feature at settlement to pay the transaction.

B. A transaction that was not authorized in advance where the consumer does not have sufficient or available funds in the asset feature to cover the transaction at the time of settlement. Credit automatically is drawn, transferred, or authorized to be drawn or transferred from the credit feature at settlement to pay the transaction.
