
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Accessing credit when the asset feature has sufficient funds.

3.Section 1026.61(a)(2)(i) applies where the prepaid card can be used from time to time to draw funds from a covered separate credit feature that is offered by a prepaid account issuer, its affiliate, or its business partner in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing transactions conducted with the card to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers, even if there are sufficient or available funds in the asset feature of the prepaid account to complete the transaction. For example, the following separate credit feature would meet the conditions of § 1026.61(a)(2)(i).

i. The prepaid card can be used from time to time both to access the asset feature of a prepaid account and to draw on the covered separate credit feature in the course of a transaction independent of whether there are sufficient or available funds in the asset feature to complete the transaction. For example, assume that a consumer has $50 available funds in her prepaid account. The consumer initiates a $25 transaction with the card to purchase goods and services. If the consumer chooses at the time the transaction is initiated to use the card to access the prepaid account, the card will draw on the funds in the asset feature of the prepaid account to complete the transaction. If the consumer chooses at the time the transaction is initiated to use the card to access the credit feature, the card will draw on credit from the credit feature to complete the transaction, regardless of the fact that there were sufficient or available funds the prepaid account to complete the transaction.
