
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Draws or transfers of credit.

1.i. For a prepaid card to be a hybrid prepaid-credit card under § 1026.61(a)(2)(i) with respect to a separate credit feature, the prepaid account must be structured such that the draw or transfer of credit, or authorizations of either, from a separate credit feature offered by the prepaid account issuer, its affiliate, or its business partner is capable of occurring in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing transactions conducted with the prepaid card to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers. See comment 61(a)(2)-2 for guidance on when draws or transfers of credit can occur in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing a transaction described in § 1026.61(a)(2)(i). In this case, the separate credit feature is a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card under § 1026.61(a)(2)(i).

ii. A prepaid card is a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to a covered separate credit feature regardless of whether:

A. The credit is pushed from the covered separate credit feature to the asset feature of the prepaid account in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing transactions conducted with the card to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers; or

B. The credit is pulled from the covered separate credit feature to the asset feature of the prepaid account in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing transactions conducted with the card to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers.

iii. A prepaid card is a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to a covered separate credit feature regardless of whether the covered separate credit feature can only be used as an overdraft credit feature, solely accessible by the hybrid prepaid-credit card, or whether it is a general line of credit that can be accessed in other ways.
