
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Non-covered separate credit features.

5.A separate credit feature that does not meet the conditions set forth in § 1026.61(a)(2)(i) is defined as a non-covered separate credit feature as described in § 1026.61(a)(2)(ii). A prepaid card is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to a non-covered separate credit feature. To illustrate:

i. A prepaid card is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card under § 1026.61(a)(2)(i) with respect to a separate credit feature if the credit feature is not offered by the prepaid account issuer, its affiliate, or its business partner. This is true even if the draw or transfer of credit, or authorization of either, occurs during the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing transactions to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers. For example, assume a consumer links her prepaid account to a credit card issued by a card issuer that is not the prepaid account issuer, its affiliate, or its business partner so that credit is drawn automatically into the asset feature of the prepaid account in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing transactions conducted with the prepaid card for which there are insufficient funds in the asset feature. In this case, the separate credit feature is a non-covered separate credit feature under § 1026.61(a)(2)(ii). In this situation, the prepaid card is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to the separate credit feature offered by the unrelated third-party card issuer.

ii. Even if a separate credit feature is offered by the prepaid account issuer, its affiliate, or its business partner, a prepaid card is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card under § 1026.61(a)(2)(i) with respect to that separate credit feature if the separate credit feature cannot be accessed within the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing transactions to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers. For example, assume that a consumer can only conduct a draw or transfer of credit, or authorization of either, from a separate credit feature to a prepaid account at the prepaid account issuer's Web site, and these draws, transfers, or authorizations of either, cannot occur in the course of authorizing, settling, or otherwise completing transactions at the Web site to obtain goods or services, obtain cash, or conduct person-to-person transfers. In this case, the separate credit feature is a non-covered separate credit feature under § 1026.61(a)(2)(ii). In this situation, the prepaid card is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to this non-covered separate credit feature.
