
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Prepaid card that is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card.

1.i. A prepaid card that is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card as described in § 1026.61(a)(4) with respect to credit extended through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account is not a credit card under this regulation with respect to that credit. A prepaid card is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to credit extended through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account if:

A. The card cannot access credit from a covered separate credit feature under § 1026.61(a)(2)(i) that is offered by the prepaid account issuer or its affiliate, though it is permissible for it to access credit from a covered separate credit feature offered by a business partner or from a non-covered separate credit feature as described under § 1026.61(a)(2)(ii); and

B. The card can only access credit extended through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account in accordance with both the conditions set forth in § 1026.61(a)(4)(ii)(A) and (B).

ii. If the conditions of § 1026.61(a)(4) are met and the prepaid card can access credit from a covered separate credit feature as defined in § 1026.61(a)(2)(i) that is offered by a business partner, the prepaid card is a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to the covered separate credit feature pursuant to § 1026.61(a)(2)(i) but is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to credit extended by a prepaid account issuer through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account that meets the conditions of § 1026.61(a)(4) or with respect to any non-covered separate credit feature pursuant to § 1026.61(a)(2)(ii). If the conditions of § 1026.61(a)(4) are met and the prepaid card cannot access credit from any covered separate credit feature as defined in § 1026.61(a)(2)(i), the prepaid card is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to credit extended by a prepaid account issuer through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account that meets the conditions of § 1026.61(a)(4) or with respect to any non-covered separate credit feature pursuant to § 1026.61(a)(2)(ii).

iii. Below is an example of when a prepaid card is not a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to credit extended through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account because the conditions set forth in § 1026.61(a)(4) have been met.

A. The prepaid card can only access credit extended through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account in accordance with both the conditions set forth in § 1026.61(a)(4)(ii)(A) and (B). The card can access credit from a non-covered separate credit feature as defined in § 1026.61(a)(2)(ii) and from a covered separate credit feature as defined in § 1026.61(a)(2)(i) offered by a business partner, but cannot access credit for a covered separate credit feature that is offered by a prepaid account issuer or its affiliate.

iv. Below is an example of when a prepaid card is a hybrid prepaid-credit card with respect to credit extended through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account because the conditions set forth in § 1026.61(a)(4) have not been met.
