
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Credit accessed on an asset feature of a prepaid account.

1.i. See comment 2(a)(14)-3 for examples of when transactions authorized or paid on the asset feature of a prepaid account meet the definition of credit under § 1026.2(a)(14).

ii. Except as provided in § 1026.61(a)(4), a prepaid card would trigger coverage as a hybrid prepaid-credit card if it is a single device that can be used from time to time to access credit that can be extended through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account. (However, unless the credit extended through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account meets the requirements of § 1026.61(a)(4), such a product structure would violate the rules under § 1026.61(b).) A credit extension through a negative balance on the asset feature of a prepaid account can occur during the authorization phase of the transaction as discussed in comment 61(a)(3)(i)-1.iii or in later periods up to the settlement of the transaction, as discussed in comment 61(a)(3)(i)-1.iv.

iii. The following example illustrates transactions where a credit extension occurs during the course of authorizing a transaction.

A. A transaction initiated using a prepaid card when there are insufficient or unavailable funds in the asset feature of the prepaid account at the time the transaction is initiated and credit is extended through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account when the transaction is authorized.

iv. The following examples illustrate transactions where a credit extension occurs at settlement.

A. Transactions that occur when there are sufficient or available funds in the asset feature of the prepaid account at the time of authorization to cover the amount of the transaction but where the consumer does not have sufficient or available funds in the asset feature to cover the transaction at the time of settlement. Credit is extended through a negative balance on the asset feature at settlement to pay those transactions.

B. Transactions that settle even though they were not authorized in advance where credit is extended through a negative balance on the asset feature at settlement to pay those transactions.
