
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Credit extended on a credit subaccount or a separate credit account.

2.Under § 1026.61(b), with respect to a credit feature that is accessed by a hybrid prepaid-credit card, a card issuer at its option may structure the credit feature as a separate credit feature, either as a subaccount on the prepaid account that is separate from the asset feature or as a separate credit account. The separate credit feature would be a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card under § 1026.61(a)(2)(i). Regardless of whether the card issuer is structuring its covered separate credit feature as a subaccount of the prepaid account or as a separate credit account:

i. If at the time a prepaid card transaction is initiated there are insufficient or unavailable funds in the asset feature of the prepaid account to complete the transaction, credit must be drawn, transferred or authorized to be drawn or transferred, from the covered separate credit feature at the time the transaction is authorized. The card issuer may not allow the asset feature on the prepaid account to become negative and draw or transfer the credit from the covered separate credit feature at a later time, such as at the end of the day. The card issuer must comply with the applicable provisions of this regulation with respect to the credit extension from the time the prepaid card transaction is authorized.

ii. For transactions where there are insufficient or unavailable funds in the asset feature of the prepaid account to cover that transaction at the time it settles and the prepaid transaction either was not authorized in advance or the transaction was authorized and there were sufficient or available funds in the prepaid account at the time of authorization to cover the transaction, credit must be drawn from the covered separate credit feature to settle these transactions. The card issuer may not allow the asset feature on the prepaid account to become negative. The card issuer must comply with the applicable provisions of this regulation from the time the transaction is settled.

iii. If a negative balance would result on the asset feature in circumstances other than those described in comment 61(b)-2.i and ii, credit must be drawn from the covered separate credit feature to avoid the negative balance. The card issuer may not allow the asset feature on the prepaid account to become negative. The card issuer must comply with the applicable provisions in this regulation from the time credit is drawn from the covered separate credit feature. For example, assume that a fee for an ATM balance inquiry is imposed on the prepaid account when there are insufficient or unavailable funds to cover the amount of the fee when it is imposed. Credit must be drawn from the covered separate credit feature to avoid a negative balance.
