
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Relation to § 1026.18(s).,See

6.A creditor must disclose an interest rate and payment summary table for certain transactions secured by a dwelling, pursuant to § 1026.18(s), instead of the general payment schedule required by § 1026.18(g) or the projected payments table required by §§ 1026.37(c) and 1026.38(c). Accordingly, some home construction loans that are secured by a dwelling are subject to § 1026.18(s) and not § 1026.18(g).comment app. D-7 for a discussion of transactions that are subject to §§ 1026.37 and 1026.38. Under § 1026.17(c)(6)(ii), when a multiple-advance construction loan may be permanently financed by the same creditor, the construction phase and the permanent phase may be treated as either one transaction or more than one transaction. Following are illustrations of the application of appendix D to transactions subject to § 1026.18(s), under each of these two alternatives:

i. If a creditor uses appendix D and elects pursuant to § 1026.17(c)(6)(ii) to disclose the construction and permanent phases as separate transactions, the construction phase must be disclosed according to the rules in § 1026.18(s). Under § 1026.18(s), the creditor must disclose the applicable interest rates and corresponding periodic payments during the construction phase in an interest rate and payment summary table. The provision in appendix D, part I.A.3, which allows the creditor to omit the number and amounts of any interest payments "in disclosing the payment schedule under § 1026.18(g)" does not apply because the transaction is governed by § 1026.18(s) rather than § 1026.18(g). Also, because the construction phase is being disclosed as a separate transaction and its terms do not repay all principal, the creditor must disclose a balloon payment, pursuant to § 1026.18(s)(5).
