
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Projected payments table.

v.A creditor must disclose a projected payments table for certain transactions secured by real property or a cooperative unit, pursuant to §§ 1026.37(c) and 1026.38(c), instead of the general payment schedule required by § 1026.18(g) or the interest rate and payments summary table required by § 1026.18(s). Accordingly, some home construction loans that are secured by real property or a cooperative unit are subject to §§ 1026.37(c) and 1026.38(c) and not § 1026.18(g). See comment app. D-6 for a discussion of transactions that are subject to § 1026.18(s). Under § 1026.17(c)(6)(ii), when a multiple-advance construction loan may be permanently financed by the same creditor, the construction phase and the permanent phase may be treated as either one transaction or more than one transaction. The following are illustrations of the application of appendix D to transactions subject to §§ 1026.37(c) and 1026.38(c), under each of the § 1026.17(c)(6)(ii) alternatives:

A. If a creditor uses appendix D and elects pursuant to § 1026.17(c)(6)(ii) to disclose the construction and permanent phases as separate transactions, the construction phase must be disclosed according to the rules in §§ 1026.37(c) and 1026.38(c). Under §§ 1026.37(c) and 1026.38(c), the creditor must disclose the periodic payments during the construction phase in a projected payments table. The provision in appendix D, part I.A.3, which allows the creditor to omit the number and amounts of any interest payments "in disclosing the payment schedule under § 1026.18(g)" does not apply because the transaction is governed by §§ 1026.37(c) and 1026.38(c) rather than § 1026.18(g). If interest is payable only on the amount actually advanced for the time it is outstanding, the creditor determines the amount of the interest-only payment to be made during the construction phase using the assumptions in appendix D, part I.A.1. Also, because the construction phase is being disclosed as a separate transaction and its periodic payments do not repay the principal, the creditor must disclose the construction phase transaction as a product with a balloon payment feature, pursuant to §§ 1026.37(a)(10)(ii)(D) and 1026.38(a)(5)(iii), unless the transaction has negative amortization, interest-only, or step payment features, consistent with the requirement at § 1026.37(a)(10)(iii). In addition, the creditor must provide the balloon payment disclosures pursuant to §§ 1026.37(b)(5), 1026.37(b)(7)(ii), and 1026.38(b) and disclose the balloon payment in the projected payments table.

B. If the creditor elects to disclose the construction and permanent phases as a single transaction, the repayment schedule must be disclosed pursuant to appendix D, part II.C.2. Under appendix D, part II.C.2, the projected payments table reflects the interest-only payments during the construction phase in a first column. The first column also reflects the amortizing payments, and mortgage insurance and escrow payments, if any, for the permanent phase if the term of the construction phase is not a full year. The following column(s) reflect the payments for the permanent phase. If interest is payable only on the amount actually advanced for the time it is outstanding, the creditor determines the amount of the interest-only payment to be made during the construction phase using the assumption in appendix D, part II.A.1.

C. Consistent with comments 37(c)(2)(ii)-1 and 37(c)(2)(iii)-1, when the loan is disclosed as one transaction and only the terms of the legal obligation for the permanent phase require mortgage insurance or escrow, the way the creditor discloses the escrow and mortgage insurance depends on whether the first column of the projected payments table exclusively discloses the construction phase. If the first column of the projected payments table exclusively discloses the construction phase, the creditor discloses "0" in the first column of the projected payments table for mortgage insurance and a hyphen or dash in the first column of the projected payments table for escrow. If the first column discloses both the construction phase and the permanent phase payments, the amount of the mortgage insurance premium or escrow payment (if any) for the permanent phase is disclosed in the first column.
