
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Construction loan inspection and handling fees.

vii.Comment 4(a)-1.ii.A provides that inspection and handling fees, including draw fees, for the staged disbursement of construction loan proceeds are part of the finance charge. Comment 37(f)-3 states that such inspection and handling fees are loan costs associated with the transaction for purposes of § 1026.37(f) and, as such, must be disclosed accurately as part of the Loan Estimate. These fees must also be disclosed accurately as part of the Closing Disclosure. Comment 38(f)-2 refers to explanations under comments 37(f)-3 and 37(f)(6)-3 for making these disclosures. Comment 37(f)-3 explains that, if such fees are collected at or before consummation, they are disclosed in the loan costs table. If such fees will be collected after consummation, they are disclosed in a separate addendum and are not counted for purposes of the calculating cash to close table. Comment 37(f)(6)-3 explains how to disclose inspection and handling fees that will be collected after consummation in an addendum. Under comment 38(f)-2, the same explanation applies to an addendum used for disclosing such fees in the Closing Disclosure. Comment 37(l)(1)-1 explains that the amount disclosed under § 1026.37(l)(1)(i) is the sum of principal, interest, mortgage insurance, and loan costs scheduled to be paid through the end of the 60th month after the due date of the first periodic payment, and that loan costs are those costs disclosed under § 1026.37(f). Construction loan inspection and handling fees are loan costs that must be included in the sum of the "In 5 Years" disclosure under § 1026.37(l)(1) and the "Total of Payments" disclosure under § 1026.38(o)(1) because they are disclosed under § 1026.37(f), even when they are disclosed on an addendum.
