
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Disclosure of construction costs.

vi.

A. Construction costs are the costs of improvements to be made to the property that the consumer contracts for in connection with the financing transaction and that will be paid in whole or in part with loan proceeds.

B. On the Loan Estimate, a creditor factors construction costs into the funds for borrower calculation under § 1026.37(h)(1)(v). Because these amounts are disclosed under § 1026.38(j)(1)(v) on the Closing Disclosure, they are included in existing debt that is factored into the funds for borrower calculation under § 1026.37(h)(1)(v). Comment 37(h)(1)(v)-2 explains that the total amount of all existing debt being satisfied in the transaction that is used in the funds for borrower calculation is the sum of the amounts that will be disclosed on the Closing Disclosure in the summaries of transactions table under § 1026.38(j)(1)(ii), (iii), and (v), as applicable. For transactions without a seller or for simultaneous subordinate financing, construction costs may instead be disclosed under § 1026.37(h)(2)(iii) in the optional alternative calculating cash to close table.

C. A creditor discloses the amount of construction costs on the Closing Disclosure under § 1026.38(j)(1)(v) in the summaries of transactions table and factors them into the down payment/funds from borrower and funds for borrower calculation under § 1026.38(i)(4) and (6). For transactions without a seller or for simultaneous subordinate financing, construction costs may instead be disclosed under § 1026.38(t)(5)(vii)(B) in the optional alternative calculating cash to close table.

D. A creditor in some cases places a portion of a construction loan's proceeds in a reserve or other account at consummation. The amount of such an account, at the creditor's option, may be disclosed separately from other construction costs under § 1026.38(j)(1)(v) if space permits, or may be included in the amount disclosed for construction costs under § 1026.38(j)(1)(v). If the creditor chooses to disclose separately the amount of loan proceeds placed in a reserve or other account at consummation, the creditor may disclose the amount as a separate itemized cost, along with an itemized cost for the balance of the construction costs, in accordance with the disclosure and calculation options described in comments app. D-7.vi-B and C. The amount may be labeled with any accurate term, so long as any label the creditor uses is in accordance with the "clear and conspicuous" standard explained at comment 37(f)(5)-1. If the amount placed in an account is disclosed separately, the balance of construction costs disclosed excludes the amount placed in an account to avoid double counting.
