
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Forms G-18(F)-(G).

10.Forms G-18(F) and G-18(G) are intended as a compliance aid to illustrate front sides of a periodic statement, and how a periodic statement for open-end (not home-secured) plans might be designed to comply with the requirements of § 1026.7. The samples contain information that is not required by Regulation Z. The samples also present information in additional formats that are not required by Regulation Z.

i. Creditors are not required to use a certain paper size in disclosing the § 1026.7 disclosures. However, Forms G-18(F) and G-18(G) are designed to be printed on an 8 x 14 inch sheet of paper.

ii. The due date for a payment, if a late payment fee or penalty rate may be imposed, must appear on the front of the first page of the statement. See Sample G-18(D) that illustrates how a creditor may comply with proximity requirements for other disclosures. The payment information disclosures appear in the upper right-hand corner on Samples G-18(F) and G-18(G), but may be located elsewhere, as long as they appear on the front of the first page of the periodic statement. The summary of account activity presented on Samples G-18(F) and G-18(G) is not itself a required disclosure, although the previous balance and the new balance, presented in the summary, must be disclosed in a clear and conspicuous manner on periodic statements.

iii. Additional information not required by Regulation Z may be presented on the statement. The information need not be located in any particular place or be segregated from disclosures required by Regulation Z, although the effect of proximity requirements for required disclosures, such as the due date, may cause the additional information to be segregated from those disclosures required to be disclosed in close proximity to one another. Any additional information must be presented consistent with the creditor's obligation to provide required disclosures in a clear and conspicuous manner.

iv. Model Forms G-18(F) and G-18(G) demonstrate two examples of ways in which transactions could be presented on the periodic statement. Model Form G-18(G) presents transactions grouped by type and Model Form G-18(F) presents transactions in a list in chronological order. Neither of these approaches to presenting transactions is required; a creditor may present transactions differently, such as in a list grouped by authorized user or other means.
