
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Model G-10(A), samples G-10(B) and G-10(C), model G-10(D), sample G-10(E), model G-17(A), and samples G-17(B), 17(C) and 17(D).

5.i. Model G-10(A) and Samples G-10(B) and G-10(C) illustrate, in the tabular format, the disclosures required under § 1026.60 for applications and solicitations for credit cards other than charge cards. Model G-10(D) and Sample G-10(E) illustrate the tabular format disclosure for charge card applications and solicitations and reflect the disclosures in the table. Model G-17(A) and Samples G-17(B), G-17(C) and G-17(D) illustrate, in the tabular format, the disclosures required under § 1026.6(b)(2) for account-opening disclosures.

ii. Except as otherwise permitted, disclosures must be substantially similar in sequence and format to Models G-10(A), G-10(D) and G-17(A). While proper use of the model forms will be deemed in compliance with the regulation, card issuers and other creditors offering open-end (not home-secured) plans are permitted to disclose the annual percentage rates for purchases, cash advances, or balance transfers in the same row in the table for any transaction types for which the issuer or creditor charges the same annual percentage rate. Similarly, card issuer and other creditors offering open-end (not home-secured) plans are permitted to disclose fees of the same amount in the same row if the fees are in the same category. Fees in different categories may not be disclosed in the same row. For example, a transaction fee and a penalty fee that are of the same amount may not be disclosed in the same row. Card issuers and other creditors offering open-end (not home-secured) plans are also permitted to use headings other than those in the forms if they are clear and concise and are substantially similar to the headings contained in model forms, with the following exceptions. The heading "penalty APR" must be used when describing rates that may increase due to default or delinquency or as a penalty, and in relation to required insurance, or debt cancellation or suspension coverage, the term "required" and the name of the product must be used. (See also §§ 1026.60(b)(5) and 1026.6(b)(2)(v) for guidance on headings that must be used to describe the grace period, or lack of grace period, in the disclosures required under § 1026.60 for applications and solicitations for credit cards other than charge cards, and the disclosures required under § 1026.6(b)(2) for account-opening disclosures, respectively.)

iii. Models G-10(A) and G-17(A) contain two alternative headings ("Minimum Interest Charge" and "Minimum Charge") for disclosing a minimum interest or fixed finance charge under §§ 1026.60(b)(3) and 1026.6(b)(2)(iii). If a creditor imposes a minimum charge in lieu of interest in those months where a consumer would otherwise incur an interest charge but that interest charge is less than the minimum charge, the creditor should disclose this charge under the heading "Minimum Interest Charge" or a substantially similar heading. Other minimum or fixed finance charges should be disclosed under the heading "Minimum Charge" or a substantially similar heading.

iv. Models G-10(A), G-10(D) and G-17(A) contain two alternative headings ("Annual Fees" and "Set-up and Maintenance Fees") for disclosing fees for issuance or availability of credit under § 1026.60(b)(2) or § 1026.6(b)(2)(ii). If the only fee for issuance or availability of credit disclosed under § 1026.60(b)(2) or § 1026.6(b)(2)(ii) is an annual fee, a creditor should use the heading "Annual Fee" or a substantially similar heading to disclose this fee. If a creditor imposes fees for issuance or availability of credit disclosed under § 1026.60(b)(2) or § 1026.6(b)(2)(ii) other than, or in addition to, an annual fee, the creditor should use the heading "Set-up and Maintenance Fees" or a substantially similar heading to disclose fees for issuance or availability of credit, including the annual fee.

v. Although creditors are not required to use a certain paper size in disclosing the §§ 1026.60 or 1026.6(b)(1) and (2) disclosures, samples G-10(B), G-10(C), G-17(B), G-17(C) and G-17(D) are designed to be printed on an 8x 14 inch sheet of paper. A creditor may use a smaller sheet of paper, such as 8x 11 inch sheet of paper. If the table is not provided on a single side of a sheet of paper, the creditor must include a reference or references, such as "SEE BACK OF PAGE for more important information about your account." at the bottom of each page indicating that the table continues onto an additional page or pages. A creditor that splits the table onto two or more pages must disclose the table on consecutive pages and may not include any intervening information between portions of the table. In addition, the following formatting techniques were used in presenting the information in the sample tables to ensure that the information is readable:

A. A readable font style and font size (10-point Arial font style, except for the purchase annual percentage rate which is shown in 16-point type).

B. Sufficient spacing between lines of the text.

C. Adequate spacing between paragraphs when several pieces of information were included in the same row of the table, as appropriate. For example, in the samples in the row of the tables with the heading "APR for Balance Transfers," the forms disclose two components: The applicable balance transfer rate and a cross reference to the balance transfer fee. The samples show these two components on separate lines with adequate space between each component. On the other hand, in the samples, in the disclosure of the late payment fee, the forms disclose two components: The late payment fee, and the cross reference to the penalty rate. Because the disclosure of both these components is short, these components are disclosed on the same line in the tables.

D. Standard spacing between words and characters. In other words, the text was not compressed to appear smaller than 10-point type.

E. Sufficient white space around the text of the information in each row, by providing sufficient margins above, below and to the sides of the text.

F. Sufficient contrast between the text and the background. Generally, black text was used on white paper.

vi. While the Bureau is not requiring issuers to use the above formatting techniques in presenting information in the table (except for the 10-point and 16-point font requirement), the Bureau encourages issuers to consider these techniques when deciding how to disclose information in the table, to ensure that the information is presented in a readable format.

vii. Creditors are allowed to use color, shading and similar graphic techniques with respect to the table, so long as the table remains substantially similar to the model and sample forms in appendix G.

viii. Models G-10(A) and G-17(A) contain rows in the table with the prescribed language, "For Credit Card Tips from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau" and calling for a "[Reference to the Bureau's Web site]" next to that language. Until January 1, 2013, creditors may substitute "For Credit Card Tips from the Federal Reserve Board" for these two model forms' prescribed language and may provide a reference to the Federal Reserve Board's Web site rather than the Bureau's Web site.
