
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Models H-4(D) through H-4(J).

7.These model clauses and sample and model forms illustrate certain notices, statements, and other disclosures required as follows:

i. Model H-4(D)(1) illustrates the interest rate adjustment notice required under § 1026.20(c) and Model H-4(D)(2) provides an example of a notice of interest rate adjustment with corresponding payment change. Model H-4(D)(3) illustrates the interest rate adjustment notice required under § 1026.20(d) and Model H-4(D)(4) provides an example of a notice of initial interest rate adjustment.

ii. Model H-4(E) illustrates the interest rate and payment summary table required under § 1026.18(s) for a fixed-rate mortgage transaction.

iii. Model H-4(F) illustrates the interest rate and payment summary table required under § 1026.18(s) for an adjustable-rate or a step-rate mortgage transaction.

iv. Model H-4(G) illustrates the interest rate and payment summary table required under § 1026.18(s) for a mortgage transaction with negative amortization.

v. Model H-4(H) illustrates the interest rate and payment summary table required under § 1026.18(s) for a fixed-rate, interest-only mortgage transaction.

vi. Model H-4(I) illustrates the introductory rate disclosure required by § 1026.18(s)(2)(iii) for an adjustable-rate mortgage transaction with an introductory rate.

vii. Model H-4(J) illustrates the balloon payment disclosure required by § 1026.18(s)(5) for a mortgage transaction with a balloon payment term.

viii. Model H-4(K) illustrates the no-guarantee-to-refinance statement required by § 1026.18(t) for a mortgage transaction.
