
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Sample H-14.

18.This sample disclosure form illustrates the disclosures under § 1026.19(b) for a variable-rate transaction secured by the consumer's principal dwelling with a term greater than one year. The sample form shows a creditor how to adapt the model clauses in appendix H-4(C) to the creditor's own particular variable-rate program. The sample disclosure form describes the features of a specific variable-rate mortgage program and alerts the consumer to the fact that information on the creditor's other closed-end variable-rate programs is available upon request. It includes information on how the interest rate is determined and how it can change over time. Section 1026.19(b)(2)(viii) permits creditors the option to provide either a historical example or an initial and maximum interest rates and payments disclosure; both are illustrated in the sample disclosure. The historical example explains how the monthly payment can change based on a $10,000 loan amount, payable in 360 monthly installments, based on historical changes in the values for the weekly average yield on U.S. Treasury Securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year. Index values are measured for 15 years, as of the first week ending in July. This reflects the requirement that the index history be based on values for the same date or period each year in the example. The sample disclosure also illustrates the alternative disclosure under § 1026.19(b)(2)(viii)(B) that the initial and the maximum interest rates and payments be shown for a $10,000 loan originated at an initial interest rate of 12.41 percent (which was in effect July 1996) and to have 2 percentage point annual (and 5 percentage point overall) interest rate limitations or caps. Thus, the maximum amount that the interest rate could rise under this program is 5 percentage points higher than the 12.41 percent initial rate to 17.41 percent, and the monthly payment could rise from $106.03 to a maximum of $145.34. The loan would not reach the maximum interest rate until its fourth year because of the 2 percentage point annual rate limitations, and the maximum payment disclosed reflects the amortization of the loan during that period. The sample form also illustrates how to provide consumers with a method for calculating their actual monthly payment for a loan amount other than $10,000.
