
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### See

F. Combining the disclosure of loan term and payment deferral options required in § 1026.47(a)(3) with the disclosure of cost estimates required in § 1026.47(a)(4) in the same chart or table (comment 47(a)(3)-4.)

G. Using the first person, instead of the second person, in referring to the borrower.

H. Using "borrower" and "creditor" instead of pronouns.

I. Incorporating certain state "plain English" requirements.

J. Deleting inapplicable disclosures by whiting out, blocking out, filling in "N/A" (not applicable) or "0," crossing out, leaving blanks, checking a box for applicable items, or circling applicable items.

iv. Although creditors are not required to use a certain paper size in disclosing the §§ 1026.47(a), (b) and (c) disclosures, samples H-21, H-22, and H-23 are designed to be printed on two 8x 11 inch sheets of paper. A creditor may use a larger sheet of paper, such as 8x 14 inch sheets of paper, or may use multiple pages. If the disclosures are provided on two sides of a single sheet of paper, the creditor must include a reference or references, such as "SEE BACK OF PAGE" at the bottom of each page indicating that the disclosures continue onto the back of the page. If the disclosures are on two or more pages, a creditor may not include any intervening information between portions of the disclosure. In addition, the following formatting techniques were used in presenting the information in the sample tables to ensure that the information is readable:

A. A readable font style and font size (10-point Helvetica font style for body text).

B. Sufficient spacing between lines of the text.

C. Standard spacing between words and characters. In other words, the body text was not compressed to appear smaller than the 10-point type size.

D. Sufficient white space around the text of the information in each row, by providing sufficient margins above, below and to the sides of the text.

E. Sufficient contrast between the text and the background. Generally, black text was used on white paper.

v. While the Bureau is not requiring issuers to use the above formatting techniques in presenting information in the disclosure, the Bureau encourages issuers to consider these techniques when deciding how to disclose information in the disclosure to ensure that the information is presented in a readable format.

vi. Creditors are allowed to use color, shading and similar graphic techniques in the disclosures, so long as the disclosures remain substantially similar to the model and sample forms in appendix H.
