
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1026-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
#### Supplement I to Part 1026-Official Interpretations
##### Model Form H-29.

29.Model form H-29 contains the disclosures for the cancellation of an escrow account established in connection with a closed-end transaction secured by a first lien on real property or a dwelling.

i. This model form illustrates the disclosures required by § 1026.20(e).

ii. A creditor or servicer satisfies § 1026.20(e) if it provides model form H-29 or a substantially similar notice, which is properly completed with the disclosures required by § 1026.20(e).

iii. Although creditors and servicers are not required to use a certain paper size in disclosing the information under § 1026.20(e), model form H-29 is designed to be printed on an 8x 1- inch sheet of paper. In addition, the following formatting techniques were used in presenting the information in the model form to ensure that the information is readable:

A. A readable font style and font size (10-point minimum font size);

B. Sufficient spacing between lines of the text;

C. Standard spacing between words and characters. In other words, the text was not compressed to appear smaller than 10-point type;

D. Sufficient white space around the text of the information in each row, by providing sufficient margins above, below and to the sides of the text;

E. Sufficient contrast between the text and the background. Generally, black text was used on white paper.

iv. While the regulation does not require creditors or servicers to use the above formatting techniques in presenting information in the tabular format (except for the 10-point minimum font size requirement), creditors and servicers are encouraged to consider these techniques when deciding how to disclose information in the notice to ensure that the information is presented in a readable format.

v. Creditors and servicers may use color, shading and similar graphic techniques with respect to the notice, so long as the notice remains substantially similar to model form H-29.
