
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1030-TRUTH IN SAVINGS (REGULATION DD)
#### Appendix C to Part 1030-Effect on State Laws

State law requirements that are inconsistent with the requirements of the act and this part are preempted to the extent of the inconsistency. A state law is inconsistent if it requires a depository institution to make disclosures or take actions that contradict the requirements of the federal law. A state law is also contradictory if it requires the use of the same term to represent a different amount or a different meaning than the federal law, requires the use of a term different from that required in the federal law to describe the same item, or permits a method of calculating interest on an account different from that required in the federal law.

A depository institution, state, or other interested party may request the Bureau to determine whether a state law requirement is inconsistent with the federal requirements. A request for a determination shall be in writing and addressed to the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, 1700 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20006. Notice that the Bureau intends to make a determination (either on request or on its own motion) will be published in thewith an opportunity for public comment unless the Bureau finds that notice and opportunity for comment would be impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest and publishes its reasons for such decision. Notice of a final determination will be published in theand furnished to the party who made the request and to the appropriate state official.

After the Bureau determines that a state law is inconsistent, a depository institution may not make disclosures using the inconsistent term or take actions relying on the inconsistent law.

The Bureau reserves the right to reverse a determination for any reason bearing on the coverage or effect of state or federal law. Notice of reversal of a determination will be published in theand a copy furnished to the appropriate state official.
