
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1070-DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B-Freedom of Information Act
##### § 1070.17 Requests for expedited processing.
###### Form and content of a request for expedited processing.

(b)A request for expedited processing shall be made as follows:

(1) A request for expedited processing shall be made in writing and submitted as part of a request for records in accordance with § 1070.14(b), or at any time during the processing of the request. When a request for records includes a request for expedited processing, the request shall be labeled "Expedited Processing Requested."

(2) A request for expedited processing shall contain a statement that demonstrates a compelling need for the requester to obtain expedited processing of the requested records. A "compelling need" is defined as follows:

(i) Failure to obtain the requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual. The requester shall fully explain the circumstances warranting such an expected threat so that the CFPB may make a reasoned determination that a delay in obtaining the requested records could pose such a threat; or

(ii) With respect to a request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal government activity. A requester who is not a full-time member of the news media must establish that the requester is a person whose primary professional activity or occupation is information dissemination, though it need not be the requester's sole occupation. Such a requester also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the government activity involved in the request-one that extends beyond the public's right to know about government activity generally. The existence of numerous articles published on a given subject can be helpful in establishing the requirement that there be an "urgency to inform" the public on the topic.

(3) The requester shall certify the written statement that purports to demonstrate a compelling need for expedited processing to be true and correct to the best of the requester's knowledge and belief. The certification must be in the form prescribed by 28 U.S.C. 1746: "I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. Executed on [date]." The requester shall mail or submit electronically a copy of such written certification to the Chief FOIA Officer as set forth in § 1070.14(b). The CFPB may waive this certification requirement in appropriate circumstances.
