
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1070-DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B-Freedom of Information Act
##### § 1070.22 Fees for processing requests for CFPB records.
###### Advance notice and prepayment of fees.

(f)(1) The CFPB shall notify a requester of the estimated fees for processing a request and provide a breakdown of the fees attributable to search, review, and duplication, when the estimated fees are $250 or more and:

(i) The fees exceed the limit set by the requester;

(ii) The requester did not specify a limit; or

(iii) The CFPB has denied a request for a reduction or waiver of fees.

(2) The requester must provide an agreement to pay the estimated fees; however, the requester shall also be given an opportunity to reformulate the request in an attempt to reduce fees.

(3) If the fees are estimated to exceed $1000, the requester must pre-pay such amount prior to the processing of the request, or provide satisfactory assurance of full payment if the requester has a history of prompt payment of FOIA fees. The requester shall also be given an opportunity to reformulate the request in such a way as to lower the applicable fees.

(4) The CFPB reserves the right to request prepayment after a request is processed and before documents are released.

(5) If a requester has previously failed to pay a fee within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the billing, the requester shall be required to pay the full amount owed plus any applicable interest and to make an advance payment of the full amount of the estimated fee before the CFPB begins to process a new request or the pending request.

(6) When the CFPB acts under paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section, the statutory time limits of twenty (20) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) from receipt of initial requests or appeals, plus extensions of these time limits, shall begin only after fees have been paid, a written agreement to pay fees has been provided, or a request has been reformulated.
