
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1070-DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B-Freedom of Information Act
##### § 1070.22 Fees for processing requests for CFPB records.
###### Other circumstances when fees are not charged.

(d)In the following situations the CFPB may not charge a requester certain FOIA processing fees.

(1) If the cost of collecting a fee would be equal to or greater than the total FOIA processing fee, then the CFPB shall not charge a requester any FOIA processing fees.

(2) If the total search and review fees are less than $250, then the CFPB shall not charge a requester any search and review fees.

(3) If the CFPB has waived or reduced FOIA processing fees in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, then the CFPB shall not charge the portion of the FOIA processing fees that has been waived or reduced.

(4) If the CFPB fails to comply with any time limit under § 1070.15 or § 1070.21, then the CFPB shall not assess search fees or if the requester is a representative of the news media or an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, then the CFPB shall not assess duplication fees, unless:

(i) A court has determined that exceptional circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, exist; or

(ii) The CFPB has determined that unusual circumstances apply to the processing of the request; and

(A) Provided timely written notice to the requester of the unusual circumstances in accordance with § 1070.16(d);

(B) Determined that more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request; and

(C) Discussed with the requester via mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request.

(5) If the CFPB determines, as a matter of administrative discretion, that waiving or reducing the fees would serve the interest of the United States Government.
