
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1072-ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION
#### § 1072.112 Compliance procedures.
##### Complaint-filing procedures.

(d)(1) Any person who believes that he or she has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part may by himself or herself or by his or her authorized representative file a complaint. Any person who believes that any specific class of persons has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part and who is a member of that class or the authorized representative of a member of that class may file a class complaint.

(2) The Bureau shall accept and investigate each timely filed, complete complaint over which it has jurisdiction.

(3) A complete complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. A complaint submitted to the Bureau via first-class mail will be deemed to have been filed when postmarked. A complaint submitted to the Bureau via any other means of delivery will be deemed to have been filed when received by the Bureau. The Bureau may extend this time period for good cause.

(e) If the Bureau receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.

(f) The Bureau shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.

(g)(1) Within 180 days of the receipt of a timely filed, complete complaint over which it has jurisdiction, the Bureau shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing:

(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(ii) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(iii) A notice of the right to appeal.

(2) Bureau employees are required to cooperate in the investigation and attempted resolution of complaints. Employees who are required to participate in any investigation under this section shall do so as part of their official duties and during the course of regular duty hours.

(3) If a complaint is resolved informally, the terms of the agreement shall be reduced to writing and made part of the complaint file, with a copy of the agreement provided to the complainant. The written agreement shall describe the subject matter of the complaint and any corrective action to which the parties have agreed.

(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 30 days of receipt from the Bureau of the letter required by § 1072.112(g). The Bureau may extend this time for good cause.

(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the Chief Human Capital Officer, who will issue the final agency decision which may include appropriate corrective action to be taken by the Bureau.

(j) The Bureau shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the timely appeal. If the Bureau determines that it needs additional information from the complainant, it shall have 60 days from the date it received the additional information to make its determination on the appeal.

(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended for an individual case when the Chief Human Capital Officer determines there is good cause, based on the particular circumstances of that case, for the extension.

(l) The Bureau may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other federal agencies or may contract with a nongovernment investigator to perform the investigation, but the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another entity.
