
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1072-ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION
#### § 1072.111 Communications.

(a) The Bureau shall take appropriate steps to effectively communicate with applicants, participants, personnel of other federal entities, and members of the public.

(1) The Bureau shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with a disability an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the Bureau.

(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the Bureau shall give consideration to any reasonable request of the individual with a disability.

(ii) The Bureau need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature to applicants or participants in programs.

(2) Where the Bureau communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by

telephone, the Bureau shall use a telecommunication device for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.

(b) The Bureau shall make available to interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.

(c) The Bureau shall post notices at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to an accessible facility, or to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.

(d) This section does not require the Bureau to take any action that would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens.
