
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1081-RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADJUDICATION PROCEEDINGS
#### Subpart B-Initiation of Proceedings and Prehearing Rules
##### § 1081.212 Dispositive motions.
###### Filing of motions for summary disposition and responses.

(d)(1) After a respondent's answer has been filed and documents have been made available to the respondent for inspection and copying pursuant to § 1081.206, any party may move for summary disposition in its favor of all or any part of the proceeding.

(2) A motion for summary disposition must be accompanied by a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue. Such motion must be supported by documentary evidence, which may take the form of admissions in pleadings, stipulations, depositions, investigatory depositions, transcripts, affidavits, and any other evidentiary materials that the moving party contends support the moving party's position. The motion must also be accompanied by a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention of the moving party. Any party opposing a motion for summary disposition must file a statement setting forth those material facts as to which the opposing party contends a genuine dispute exists. Such opposition must be supported by evidence of the same type as may be submitted in support of a motion for summary disposition and a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention that summary disposition would be inappropriate.

(3) Any affidavit or declaration submitted in support of or in opposition to a motion for summary disposition must set forth such facts as would be admissible in evidence, must show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated therein, and must be signed under oath and penalty of perjury.
