
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1081-RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADJUDICATION PROCEEDINGS
#### Subpart D-Decision and Appeals
##### § 1081.405 Decision of the Director.

(a) Upon appeal from or upon further review of preliminary findings and conclusions, the Director will consider such parts of the record as are cited or as may be necessary to resolve the issues presented and, in addition, will, to the extent necessary or desirable, exercise all powers which could have exercised if the Director had made the preliminary findings and conclusions. In proceedings before the Director, the record will consist of all items part of the record in accordance with § 1081.306 as follows: Any notices of appeal or order directing review; all briefs, motions, submissions, and other papers filed on appeal or review; and the transcript of any oral argument held. Review by the Director of preliminary findings and conclusions may be limited to the issues specified in the notice(s) of appeal or the issues, if any, specified in the order directing further briefing. On notice to all parties, however, the Director may, at any time prior to issuance of the Director's decision, raise and determine any other matters that the Director deems material, with opportunity for oral or written argument thereon by the parties.

(b) Decisional employees may advise and assist the Director in the consideration and disposition of the case.

(c) In rendering the Director's decision, the Director will affirm, adopt, reverse, modify, set aside, or remand for further proceedings the preliminary findings and conclusions and will include in the decision a statement of the reasons or basis for the Director's actions and the findings of fact upon which the decision is predicated.

(d) At the expiration of the time permitted for the filing of reply briefs with the Director, the Office of Administrative Adjudication will notify the parties that the case has been submitted for final Bureau decision. The Director will issue and the Office of Administrative Adjudication will serve the Director's final decision and order within 90 days after such notice, unless within that time the Director orders that the adjudication proceeding or any aspect thereof be remanded to the hearing officer for further proceedings.

(e) The Office of Administrative Adjudication will serve copies of a final decision and order of the Director upon each party to the proceeding in accordance with § 1081.113(d)(2); upon other persons required by statute, if any; and, if directed by the Director or required by statute, upon any appropriate State or Federal supervisory authority. A final decision and order will also be published on the Bureau's website or as otherwise deemed appropriate by the Bureau.
