
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter X—Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
### PART 1091-PROCEDURAL RULE TO ESTABLISH SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY OVER CERTAIN NONBANK COVERED PERSONS BASED ON RISK DETERMINATION
#### Subpart B-Determination and Voluntary Consent Procedures
##### § 1091.106 Supplemental oral response.

(a) A respondent may request in a response under § 1091.105 the opportunity to present to the Associate Director a supplemental oral response in support of a respondent's assertion that the respondent is not a nonbank covered person that is engaging, or has engaged, in conduct that poses risks to consumers with regard to the offering or provision of consumer financial products or services.

(b) The conduct of a supplemental oral response shall be subject to the following procedures:

(1) A supplemental oral response shall be, at the respondent's preference, by telephone or in person at the Bureau's headquarters in Washington, DC. If a respondent requests in its written response a supplemental oral response but does not specify whether such response shall be conducted via telephone or in person, the supplemental oral response will be conducted by telephone unless otherwise directed by the Associate Director;

(2) The Associate Director may impose any limitations on the conduct of a supplemental oral response, including but not limited to establishing a time limit for the presentation of a supplemental oral response, and limiting the subjects to be addressed in a supplemental oral response;

(3) There shall be no discovery permitted or witnesses called in connection with a supplemental oral response;

(4) If a respondent is a corporate or other entity, and not a natural person, the respondent shall be represented in any supplemental oral response by:

(i) An officer, managing or general member, or partner authorized to represent the respondent; or

(ii) An attorney in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State.

(5) If a respondent is a natural person, the respondent shall be represented in any supplemental oral response by:

(i) Himself or herself; or

(ii) An attorney in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State.

(6) The Associate Director shall cause an audio recording of a supplemental oral response to be made by a court reporter. A respondent may purchase a copy or transcript of the recording at the respondent's own expense.

(c) The initiating official may participate in any supplemental oral response conducted under this section.

(d) The Associate Director shall serve on a respondent, within 14 days after the Associate Director receives the respondent's timely-filed response requesting a supplemental oral response, a notice setting forth the date, time, and general information relating to the conduct of a supplemental oral response. The date of a supplemental oral response shall be scheduled not less than ten days after the date the respondent is served with the notice of supplemental oral response.

(e) The notice of supplemental oral response shall be served on a respondent pursuant to § 1091.107.

(f) The Associate Director shall send a copy of the notice of supplemental oral response to the initiating official.

(g) A respondent's failure to participate in a supplemental oral response scheduled by the Associate Director shall constitute the respondent's waiver of the opportunity to present a supplemental oral response.
