
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XI—Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
### PART 1102-APPRAISER REGULATION
#### Subpart C-Rules Pertaining to the Privacy of Individuals and Systems of Records Maintained by the Appraisal Subcommittee
##### § 1102.107 Appeal of initial adverse agency determination regarding access or amendment.
###### Statement of disagreement.

(b)As noted in paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section, an individual may file with the Executive Director a statement setting forth his or her disagreement with the Executive Director's denial of his or her request to amend a record.

(1) Such statement of disagreement shall be delivered to the ASC, 1325 G Street NW, Suite 500, Washington, DC 20005, within 30 days after receipt by the individual of the Executive Director's order denying the amendment, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Federal holidays. For good cause shown, this period can be extended for a reasonable time.

(2) Such statement of disagreement shall concisely state the basis for the individual's disagreement. Unduly lengthy or irrelevant materials will be returned to the individual by the Executive Director for appropriate revisions before they become a permanent part of the individual's record.

(3) The record about which a statement of disagreement has been filed will clearly note which part of the record is disputed and the Executive Director will provide copies of the statement of disagreement and, if the Executive Director deems it appropriate, provide a concise statement of his or her reasons for refusing to amend the record, to persons or other agencies to whom the record has been or will be disclosed.
