
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XI—Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
### PART 1102-APPRAISER REGULATION
#### Subpart C-Rules Pertaining to the Privacy of Individuals and Systems of Records Maintained by the Appraisal Subcommittee
##### § 1102.108 General provisions.
###### Extensions of time.,good cause,unusual circumstances

(a)Pursuant to §§ 1102.103(b), 1102.104(d), 1102.109(c) and 1102.109(a)(4) of this subpart, the time within which a request for information, access or amendment by an individual with respect to records maintained by the ASC that pertain to him or her normally would be processed may be extended for good cause shown or because of unusual circumstances. As used in these rules,andshall include, but only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of a particular request:

(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from establishments that are separate from the ASC. Some records of the ASC may be stored in Federal Records Centers in accordance with law-including many of the documents that have been on file with the ASC for more than 2 years-and cannot be made available promptly. Any person who has requested for personal examination a record stored at the Federal Records Center will be notified when the record will be made available.

(2) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which may be demanded in a single request. While every reasonable effort will be made to comply fully with each request as promptly as possible on a first-come, first-served basis, work done to search for, collect and appropriately examine records in response to a request for a large number of records will be contingent upon the availability of processing personnel in accordance with an equitable allocation of time to all members of the public who have requested or wish to request records.

(3) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request, or among two or more components within the ASC having substantial subject-matter interest herein.
