
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XI—Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
### PART 1102-APPRAISER REGULATION
#### Subpart D-Description of Office, Procedures, Public Information
##### § 1102.300 Purpose and scope.

This part sets forth the basic policies of the Appraisal Subcommittee of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council ("ASC") regarding information it maintains and the procedures for obtaining access to such information. This part does not apply to the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council. Section 1102.301 sets forth definitions applicable to this part 1102, subpart D. Section 1102.302 describes the ASC's statutory authority and functions. Section 1102.303 describes the ASC's organization and methods of operation. Section 1102.304 describes the types of information and documents typically published in theSection 1102.305 explains how to access public records maintained on the ASC's World Wide Web site and at the ASC's office and describes the categories of records generally found there. Section 1102.306 implements the Freedom of Information Act ("FOIA") (5 U.S.C. 552). Section 1102.307 authorizes the discretionary disclosure of exempt records under certain limited circumstances. Section 1102.308 provides anyone with the right to petition the ASC to issue, amend, and repeal rules of general application. Section 1102.309 sets out the ASC's confidential treatment procedures. Section 1102.310 outlines procedures for serving a subpoena or other legal process to obtain information maintained by the ASC.
