
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter A—Organization and Operations
#### PART 1200-ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
##### § 1200.1 Federal Housing Finance Agency.
###### Scope and authority.,et seq.

(a)The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) is an independent agency of the Federal Government. Division A of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, Public Law 110-289, 122 Stat. 2654, titled the Federal Housing Finance Regulatory Reform Act of 2008, amended the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4501) (Safety and Soundness Act) and the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1421-1449) to establish FHFA. FHFA administers the Safety and Soundness Act and the regulated entities' authorizing statutes: the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act. FHFA is responsible for the supervision and regulation of the Federal National Mortgage Corporation (Fannie Mae), the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), (together, Enterprises), the Federal Home Loan Banks (Banks) (collectively, the "regulated entities"), and the Office of Finance (OF). FHFA is charged with ensuring that the regulated entities: Operate in a safe and sound manner, including maintaining adequate capital and internal controls; foster liquid, efficient, competitive, and resilient national housing finance markets; comply with the Safety and Soundness Act and their respective authorizing statutes, and rules, regulations and orders issued under the Safety and Soundness Act and the authorizing statutes; and carry out their respective statutory missions through activities and operations that are authorized and consistent with the Safety and Soundness Act, their respective authorizing statutes, and the public interest. FHFA's costs and expenses are funded by annual assessments paid by the regulated entities. FHFA is headed by a director, who is appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate for a five-year term.
