
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter A—Organization and Operations
#### PART 1204 - PRIVACY ACT IMPLEMENTATION
##### § 1204.5 What if I am dissatisfied with the response to my Privacy Act request?
###### privacy@fhfa.gov.,http://www.fhfa.gov,

(2) If FHFA or FHFA-OIG denied your request in whole or in part, you may appeal the denial by writing directly to the FHFA Privacy Act Appeals Officer through electronic mail, mail, delivery service, or facsimile. The electronic mail address is:For mail or express mail, the address is: FHFA Privacy Act Appeals Officer, Federal Housing Finance Agency, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Eighth Floor, Washington, DC 20219. The facsimile number is: (202) 649-1073. For appeals of FHFA-OIG denials, whether in whole or in part, the appeal must be clearly marked by adding "FHFA-OIG" after "Privacy Act Appeal." All appeals from denials, in whole or part, made by FHFA-OIG will be forwarded to the FHFA-OIG Privacy Act Appeals Officer for processing and direct response. You can help FHFA and FHFA-OIG process your appeal by marking electronic mail, letters, or facsimiles and the subject line, envelope, or facsimile cover sheet with "Privacy Act Appeal." FHFA's "Privacy Act Reference Guide," which is available on FHFA's Web site,provides additional information to assist you in making your appeal. FHFA or FHFA-OIG ordinarily will not act on an appeal if the Privacy Act request becomes a matter of litigation.

(3) If you need more time to file your appeal, you may request an extension of time of no more than ten (10) calendar days in which to file your appeal, but only if your request is made within the original 30-calendar day time period for filing the appeal. Granting an extension is in the sole discretion of either the FHFA or FHFA-OIG Privacy Act Appeals Officer.
