
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter A—Organization and Operations
#### PART 1215 - PRODUCTION OF FHFA RECORDS, INFORMATION, AND EMPLOYEE TESTIMONY IN THIRD-PARTY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
##### § 1215.13 Restrictions that apply to records and information.

(a) The Director may impose conditions or restrictions on the release of records and information, including but not limited to requiring that parties to the legal proceeding obtain a protective order or execute a confidentiality agreement to limit access and further disclosure, or that parties take other appropriate steps to comply with applicable privacy requirements. The terms of a protective order or confidentiality agreement must be acceptable to the Director. In cases where protective orders or confidentiality agreements have already been executed, the Director may condition the release of records and information on an amendment to the existing protective order or confidentiality agreement.

(b) If the Director so determines, original agency records may be presented for examination in response to a demand or request, but they are not to be presented as evidence or otherwise used in a manner by which they could lose their status as original records, nor are they to be marked or altered. In lieu of the original records, certified copies will be presented for evidentiary purposes.

(c) The scope of permissible production is limited to that set forth in the prior, written authorization granted by the Director.

(d) If records or information are produced in connection with a legal proceeding, the demanding or requesting party must:

(1) Promptly notify all other parties to the legal proceeding that the records or information are FHFA records or information and are subject to this part and any applicable confidentiality agreement or protective order;

(2) Provide copies of any confidentiality agreement or protective order to all other parties; and

(3) Retrieve the records or information from the court or other competent authority's file when the court or other competent authority no longer requires the records or information and certify that every party covered by a confidentiality agreement, protective order, or other privacy protection has destroyed all copies of the records or information.
