
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter B - Entity Regulations
#### PART 1236 - PRUDENTIAL MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONS STANDARDS
##### Appendix to Part 1236 - Prudential Management and Operations Standards
###### e.g.,

16. A regulated entity should comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (advisory bulletins) governing internal controls and information systems.

1. A regulated entity's board of directors should have an audit committee that exercises proper oversight and adopts appropriate policies and procedures designed to ensure the independence of the internal audit function. The audit committee should ensure that the internal audit department includes personnel who are appropriately trained and competent to oversee the internal audit function.

2. The board of directors should review and approve the audit committee charter at least every three years.

3. The audit committee of the board of directors is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the regulated entity's internal audit function.

4. Issues reported by the internal audit department to the audit committee should be promptly addressed and satisfactorily resolved.

5. A regulated entity should have an internal audit function that provides for adequate testing of the system of internal controls.

6. A regulated entity should have an independent and objective internal audit department that reports directly to the audit committee of the board of directors.

7. A regulated entity's internal audit department should be adequately staffed with properly trained and competent personnel.

8. The internal audit department should conduct risk-based audits.

9. The internal audit department should conduct adequate testing and review of internal control and information systems.

10. The internal audit department should determine whether violations, findings, weaknesses and other issues reported by regulators, external auditors, and others have been promptly addressed.
