
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter B - Entity Regulations
#### PART 1236 - PRUDENTIAL MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONS STANDARDS
##### Appendix to Part 1236 - Prudential Management and Operations Standards
###### e.g.,

11. A regulated entity should comply with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (advisory bulletins) governing the independence and adequacy of internal audit systems.

1. Regarding the overall management of market risk exposure, the board of directors should remain sufficiently informed about the nature and level of the regulated entity's market risk exposures. At least annually, the board should review the entire market risk framework, including policies and risk limits, and provide an assessment of compliance.

2. Regarding the policies, practices and procedures surrounding the management of market risk, the board of directors should approve all major strategies and policies relating to the management of market risk, ensure all major strategies and policies are consistent with the overall business plan, establish and communicate a market risk tolerance, and ensure appropriate corrective measures are taken when market risk limit violations or breaches occur.

3. The board, or a board appointed committee, should oversee the adequacy of actions taken by senior management to identify, measure, manage, and control market risk exposures, ensure market risk policies establish lines of authority and responsibility, and review risk exposures on a periodic basis.

4. Regarding the overall management of market risk exposure, senior management should provide sufficient and timely information to the board of directors, ensure personnel are appropriately trained and competent, ensure adequate systems and resources are available to manage and control market risk, report any breaches to the board of directors (or the appropriate board committee), and take appropriate remedial action.

5. Regarding the policies, practices, and procedures surrounding market risk exposure, senior management should ensure market risk policies and procedures are clearly written, sufficiently detailed, and followed. Approved policies and procedures should include clear market risk limits and lines of authority for managing market risk.
