
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter B - Entity Regulations
#### PART 1236 - PRUDENTIAL MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONS STANDARDS
##### Appendix to Part 1236 - Prudential Management and Operations Standards
###### e.g.,

6. A regulated entity should manage investments and acquisitions of assets in a way that complies with all applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (advisory bulletins).

1. Regarding overall risk management processes, the board of directors is responsible for overseeing the process, ensuring senior management are appropriately trained and competent, ensuring processes are in place to identify, manage, monitor and control risk exposures (this function may be delegated to a board appointed committee), approving all major risk limits, and ensuring incentive compensation measures for senior management capture a full range of risks.

2. Regarding overall risk management processes, the board of directors and senior management should establish and sustain a culture that promotes effective risk management. This culture includes timely, accurate and informative risk reports, alignment of the regulated entity's overall risk profile with its mission objectives, and the annual review of comprehensive self-assessments of material risks.

3. A regulated entity should have an independent risk management function, or unit, with responsibility for risk measurement and risk monitoring, including monitoring and enforcement of risk limits.

4. The chief risk officer should head the risk management function.

5. The chief risk officer should report directly to the chief executive officer and the risk committee of the board of directors.

6. The risk management function should have adequate resources, including a well-trained and capable staff.

7. A regulated entity should measure, monitor, and control its overall risk exposures, reviewing market, credit, liquidity, and operational risk exposures on both a business unit (or business segment) and enterprise-wide basis.

8. A regulated entity should have the risk management systems to generate, at an appropriate frequency, the information needed to manage risk. Such systems should include systems for market, credit, operational, and liquidity risk analysis, asset and liability management, regulatory reporting, and performance measurement.

9. A regulated entity should have a comprehensive set of risk limits and monitoring procedures to ensure that risk exposures remain within established risk limits, and a mechanism for reporting violations and breaches of risk limits to senior management and the board of directors.

10. A regulated entity should ensure that it has sufficient controls around risk measurement models to ensure the completeness, accuracy, and timeliness of risk information.

11. A regulated entity should have adequate and well-tested disaster recovery and business resumption plans for all major systems and have remote facilitates to limit the impact of disruptive events.
