
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter B - Entity Regulations
#### PART 1236 - PRUDENTIAL MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONS STANDARDS
##### Appendix to Part 1236 - Prudential Management and Operations Standards
###### e.g.,

12. A regulated entity should comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance (advisory bulletins) governing the management of risk.

1. Regarding the management of credit and counterparty risk, the board of directors and senior management are responsible for ensuring that the regulated entity has appropriate policies, procedures, and systems that cover all aspects of credit administration, including credit pricing, underwriting, credit limits, collateral standards, and collateral valuation procedures. This should also include derivatives and the use of clearing houses. They are also responsible for ensuring personnel are appropriately trained, competent, and equipped with the necessary tools, procedures and systems to assess risk.

2. Senior management should provide the board of directors with regular briefings and reports on credit exposures.

3. A regulated entity should have policies that limit concentrations of credit risk and systems to identify concentrations of credit risk.

4. A regulated entity should establish prudential limits to restrict exposures to a single counterparty that are appropriate to its business model.

5. A regulated entity should establish prudential limits to restrict exposures to groups of related counterparties that are appropriate to its business model.

6. A regulated entity should have policies, procedures, and systems for evaluating credit risk that will enable it to make informed credit decisions.

7. A regulated entity should have policies, procedures, and systems for evaluating credit risk that will enable it to ensure that claims are legally enforceable.

8. A regulated entity should have policies and procedures for addressing problem credits.

9. A regulated entity should have an ongoing credit review program that includes stress testing and scenario analysis.
