
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter B - Entity Regulations
#### PART 1236 - PRUDENTIAL MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONS STANDARDS
##### Appendix to Part 1236 - Prudential Management and Operations Standards
###### e.g.,

9. A regulated entity should comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance, (advisory bulletins) governing the independence and adequacy of the management of market risk exposure.

1. A regulated entity should have a risk measurement system (a model or models) that capture(s) all material sources of market risk and provide(s) meaningful and timely measures of the regulated entity's risk exposures, as well as personnel who are appropriately trained and competent to operate and oversee the risk measurement system.

2. The risk measurement system should be capable of estimating the effect of changes in interest rates and other key risk factors on the regulated entity's earnings and market value of equity over a range of scenarios.

3. The measurement system should be capable of valuing all financial assets and liabilities in the regulated entity's portfolio.

4. The measurement system should address all material sources of market risk including repricing risk, yield curve risk, basis risk, and options risk.

5. Management should ensure the integrity and timeliness of the data inputs used to measure the regulated entity's market risk exposures, and should ensure that assumptions and parameters are reasonable and properly documented.

6. The measurement system's methodologies, assumptions, and parameters should be thoroughly documented, understood by management, and reviewed on a regular basis.

7. A regulated entity's market risk model should be upgraded periodically to incorporate advances in risk modeling technology.

8. A regulated entity should have a documented approval process for model changes that requires model changes to be authorized by a party independent of the party making the change.

9. A regulated entity should ensure that its models are independently validated on a regular basis.

10. Risk limits should be consistent with the regulated entity's strategy for managing interest rate risk and should take into account the financial condition of the regulated entity, including its capital position.

11. Risk limits should address the potential impact of changes in market interest rates on net interest income, net income, and the regulated entity's market value of equity.

12. A regulated entity should conduct stress tests on a regular basis for a variety of institution-specific and market-wide stress scenarios to identify potential vulnerabilities and to ensure that exposures are consistent with the regulated entity's tolerance for risk.

13. A regulated entity should use stress test outcomes to adjust its market risk management strategies, policies, and positions and to develop effective contingency plans.

14. Special consideration should be given to ensuring that complex financial instruments, including instruments with complex option features, are properly valued under stress scenarios and that the risks associated with options exposures are properly understood.

15. Management should ensure that the regulated entity's board of directors or a committee thereof considers the results of stress tests when establishing and reviewing its strategies, policies, and limits for managing and controlling interest rate risk.

16. The board of directors and senior management should review periodically the design of stress tests to ensure that they encompass the kinds of market conditions under which the regulated entity's positions and strategies would be most vulnerable.

17. A regulated entity should have an adequate management information system for reporting market risk exposures.

18. The board of directors, senior management, and the appropriate line managers should be provided with regular, accurate, informative, and timely market risk reports.
