
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter C - Enterprises
#### PART 1240 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF ENTERPRISES
##### Subpart C - Definition of Capital
###### § 1240.20 Capital components and eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments.
####### Tier 2 capital.

(d)Tier 2 capital is the sum of tier 2 capital elements and any related surplus, minus the regulatory adjustments and deductions in § 1240.22. Tier 2 capital elements are:

(1) Subject to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, instruments (plus related surplus) that meet the following criteria:

(i) The instrument is issued and paid-in.

(ii) The instrument is subordinated to general creditors of the Enterprise.

(iii) The instrument is not secured, not covered by a guarantee of the Enterprise or of an affiliate of the Enterprise, and not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument in relation to more senior claims.

(iv) The instrument has a minimum original maturity of at least five years. At the beginning of each of the last five years of the life of the instrument, the amount that is eligible to be included in tier 2 capital is reduced by 20 percent of the original amount of the instrument (net of redemptions) and is excluded from regulatory capital when the remaining maturity is less than one year. In addition, the instrument must not have any terms or features that require, or create significant incentives for, the Enterprise to redeem the instrument prior to maturity.

(v) The instrument, by its terms, may be called by the Enterprise only after a minimum of five years following issuance, except that the terms of the instrument may allow it to be called sooner upon the occurrence of an event that would preclude the instrument from being included in tier 2 capital, a tax event. In addition:

(A) The Enterprise must receive the prior approval of FHFA to exercise a call option on the instrument.

(B) The Enterprise does not create at issuance, through action or communication, an expectation the call option will be exercised.

(C) Prior to exercising the call option, or immediately thereafter, the Enterprise must either: Replace any amount called with an equivalent amount of an instrument that meets the criteria for regulatory capital under this section;or demonstrate to the satisfaction of FHFA that following redemption, the Enterprise would continue to hold an amount of capital that is commensurate with its risk.

(vi) The holder of the instrument must have no contractual right to accelerate payment of principal or interest on the instrument, except in the event of a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the Enterprise.

(vii) The instrument has no credit-sensitive feature, such as a dividend or interest rate that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the Enterprise's credit standing, but may have a dividend rate that is adjusted periodically independent of the Enterprise's credit standing, in relation to general market interest rates or similar adjustments.

(viii) The Enterprise, or an entity that the Enterprise controls, has not purchased and has not directly or indirectly funded the purchase of the instrument.

(ix) If the instrument is not issued directly by the Enterprise or by a subsidiary of the Enterprise that is an operating entity, the only asset of the issuing entity is its investment in the capital of the Enterprise, and proceeds must be immediately available without limitation to the Enterprise or the Enterprise's top-tier holding company in a form that meets or exceeds all the other criteria for tier 2 capital instruments under this section.

(x) Redemption of the instrument prior to maturity or repurchase requires the prior approval of FHFA.

(xi) The governing agreement, offering circular, or prospectus of an instrument issued after February 16, 2021 must disclose that the holders of the instrument may be fully subordinated to interests held by the U.S. government in the event that the Enterprise enters into a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding.

(2) Any eligible credit reserves that exceed expected credit losses to the extent that the excess reserve amount does not exceed 0.6 percent of credit risk-weighted assets.
