
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter C - Enterprises
#### PART 1240 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF ENTERPRISES
##### Subpart C - Definition of Capital
###### § 1240.22 Regulatory capital adjustments and deductions.
####### Items subject to the 10 and 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction thresholds.

(d)(1) An Enterprise must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the amount of each of the items set forth in this paragraph (d) that, individually, exceeds 10 percent of the sum of the Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital elements, less adjustments to and deductions from common equity tier 1 capital required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section (the 10 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold).

(i) DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. An Enterprise is not required to deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements DTAs (net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section) arising from timing differences that the Enterprise could realize through net operating loss carrybacks. The Enterprise must risk weight these assets at 100 percent.

(ii) MSAs net of associated DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) An Enterprise must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the items listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section that are not deducted as a result of the application of the 10 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold, and that, in aggregate, exceed 17.65 percent of the sum of the Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital elements, minus adjustments to and deductions from common equity tier 1 capital required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, minus the items listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (the 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold).

(3) For purposes of calculating the amount of DTAs subject to the 10 and 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction thresholds, an Enterprise may exclude DTAs and DTLs relating to adjustments made to common equity tier 1 capital under paragraph (b) of this section. An Enterprise that elects to exclude DTAs relating to adjustments under paragraph (b) of this section also must exclude DTLs and must do so consistently in all future calculations. An Enterprise may change its exclusion preference only after obtaining the prior approval of FHFA.
