
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter C - Enterprises
#### PART 1240 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF ENTERPRISES
##### Subpart D - Risk-Weighted Assets - Standardized Approach
###### § 1240.62 Disclosure requirements.

(a) An Enterprise must provide timely public disclosures each calendar quarter of the information in the applicable tables in § 1240.63, where for the purpose of these disclosure requirements timely means no later than 10 business days after an Enterprise files its corresponding Annual Report on SEC Form 10-K at the end of a fiscal year or its corresponding Quarterly Report on SEC Form 10-Q at the end of other calendar quarters. If a material change occurs, where for the purpose of these disclosure requirements a material change means a change such that the omission or misstatement of which could change or influence the assessment or decision of a user relying on that information for the purpose of making investment decisions, then an Enterprise must disclose a brief discussion of this change and its likely impact as soon as practicable thereafter, and no later than the end of the next calendar quarter. Qualitative disclosures that have not changed from the prior quarter may be omitted from the next quarterly disclosure but must be disclosed at least annually after the end of the fourth calendar quarter.

(b) Unless otherwise directed by FHFA, the Enterprise's management may provide all of the disclosures required by §§ 1240.61 through 1240.63 in one place on the Enterprise's public website or may provide the disclosures in more than one public financial report or other regulatory reports, provided that the Enterprise publicly provides a summary table specifically indicating the location(s) of all such disclosures.

(c) An Enterprise must have a formal disclosure policy approved by the board of directors that addresses its approach for determining the disclosures it makes. The policy must address the associated internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures.

(d) The Enterprise's board of directors and senior management are responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective internal control structure over the disclosures required by this subpart, and must ensure that appropriate review of the disclosures takes place. The Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of the Enterprise must attest that the disclosures meet the requirements of this subpart.

(e) If an Enterprise believes that disclosure of specific commercial or financial information would prejudice seriously its position by making public certain information that is either proprietary or confidential in nature, the Enterprise is not required to disclose these specific items but must disclose more general information about the subject matter of the requirement, together with the fact that, and the reason why, the specific items of information have not been disclosed.
