
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter C - Enterprises
#### PART 1240 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF ENTERPRISES
##### Subpart E - Risk-Weighted Assets - Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced Measurement Approaches
###### § 1240.121 Minimum requirements.
####### Control, oversight, and validation mechanisms.

(f)(1) The Enterprise's senior management must ensure that all components of the Enterprise's advanced systems function effectively and comply with the minimum requirements in this section.

(2) The Enterprise's board of directors (or a designated committee of the board) must at least annually review the effectiveness of, and approve, the Enterprise's advanced systems.

(3) An Enterprise must have an effective system of controls and oversight that:

(i) Ensures ongoing compliance with the minimum requirements in this section;

(ii) Maintains the integrity, reliability, and accuracy of the Enterprise's advanced systems; and

(iii) Includes adequate governance and project management processes.

(4) The Enterprise must validate, on an ongoing basis, its advanced systems. The Enterprise's validation process must be independent of the advanced systems' development, implementation, and operation, or the validation process must be subjected to an independent review of its adequacy and effectiveness. Validation must include:

(i) An evaluation of the conceptual soundness of (including developmental evidence supporting) the advanced systems;

(ii) An ongoing monitoring process that includes verification of processes and benchmarking; and

(iii) An outcomes analysis process that includes backtesting.

(5) The Enterprise must have an internal audit function or equivalent function that is independent of business-line management that at least annually:

(i) Reviews the Enterprise's advanced systems and associated operations, including the operations of its credit function and estimations of risk parameters;

(ii) Assesses the effectiveness of the controls supporting the Enterprise's advanced systems; and

(iii) Documents and reports its findings to the Enterprise's board of directors (or a committee thereof).

(6) The Enterprise must periodically stress test its advanced systems. The stress testing must include a consideration of how economic cycles, especially downturns, affect risk-based capital requirements (including migration across rating grades and segments and the credit risk mitigation benefits of double default treatment).
