
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter C - Enterprises
#### PART 1242 - RESOLUTION PLANNING
##### § 1242.7 Review of resolution plans; resubmission of deficient resolution plans.
###### FHFA review of complete plan; determination regarding deficient resolution plan.

(b)(1) Following review of a complete resolution plan, FHFA will send a notification to each Enterprise that:

(i) Identifies any deficiencies or shortcomings in the Enterprise's resolution plan (or confirms that no deficiencies or shortcomings were identified);

(ii) Identifies any planned actions or changes set forth by the Enterprise that FHFA agrees could facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the Enterprise; and

(iii) Provides any other feedback on the resolution plan (including feedback on timing of actions or changes to be undertaken by the Enterprise). FHFA will send the notification no later than 12 months after accepting a complete plan, unless FHFA determines in its discretion that extenuating circumstances exist that require delay.

(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a "deficiency" is an aspect of an Enterprise's resolution plan that FHFA determines presents a weakness that, individually or in conjunction with other aspects, could undermine the feasibility of the Enterprise's resolution plan. A "shortcoming" is a weakness or gap that raises questions about the feasibility of an Enterprise's resolution plan, but does not rise to the level of a deficiency. If a shortcoming is not satisfactorily explained or addressed before or in the submission of the Enterprise's next resolution plan, it may be found to be a deficiency in the Enterprise's next resolution plan. FHFA may identify an aspect of an Enterprise's resolution plan as a deficiency even if such aspect was not identified as a shortcoming in an earlier resolution plan submission.
