
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter C - Enterprises
#### PART 1253 - PRIOR APPROVAL FOR ENTERPRISE PRODUCTS
##### § 1253.4 New product approval.
###### Director's determination.

(b)(1) No later than 30 calendar-days after the end of the public comment period, the Director will provide the Enterprise with a written determination on whether it may proceed with the new product. The written determination will specify the grounds for the Director's determination.

(2) The Director will approve the new product if the Director determines that the new product complies with the applicable authorizing statute, is in the public interest, and is consistent with the safety and soundness of the Enterprise and the mortgage finance and financial system. The Enterprise may then offer the new product subject to any terms, conditions, or limitations as may be established by the Director.

(3) Among the factors that the Director may consider when determining whether a new product is in the public interest are-

(i) The degree to which the new product might reasonably be expected to advance any of the purposes of the Enterprise under the applicable authorizing statute;

(ii) The degree to which the new product serves underserved markets as set forth in section 1335 of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4565);

(iii) The degree to which the new product is being supplied or could be supplied by non-government-sponsored-enterprise firms;

(iv) Other alternatives for providing the new product;

(v) The degree to which the new product promotes competition in the marketplace or, to the contrary, would result in less competition and greater concentration of economic activity or risk;

(vi) The degree to which Enterprise provision of the new product overcomes natural market barriers or inefficiencies;

(vii) The degree to which Enterprise provision of the new product might raise or mitigate systemic risks to the mortgage, mortgage finance or other financial markets;

(viii) The degree to which the new product furthers fair housing; and

(ix) Such other factors determined appropriate by the Director.

(4) The Director will disapprove the new product if the Director determines that approval is inconsistent with applicable law, regulation, or FHFA policy thereunder, or contrary to public interest or the safety and soundness of the Enterprise or the mortgage finance or financial system. If the Director disapproves the new product, the Enterprise may not offer the new product.

(5) The Director may establish terms, conditions, or limitations on the Enterprise's offering of the new product to ensure that the product offering is consistent with applicable statutory and regulatory standards, FHFA policies, public interest, or the safety and soundness of the Enterprise or the mortgage finance or financial system.

(6) If the Director fails to make a determination within the 30 calendar-day period that begins on the day after the end of the public comment period, the Enterprise may offer the new product. The Director's failure to make a determination within such 30-day period does not limit or restrict the Director's safety and soundness authority or the authority of the Director to review the new product to determine that the product is consistent with the statutory mission of the Enterprise.
