
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter D - Federal Home Loan Banks
#### PART 1261 - FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK DIRECTORS
##### Subpart B - Federal Home Loan Bank Boards of Directors: Eligibility and Elections
###### § 1261.7 Nominations for member and independent directorships.
####### Independent directorship nominations.

(d)(1) Any individual who seeks to be an independent director of the board of directors of a Bank may deliver to the Bank, on or before the deadline set by the Bank for delivery of nominating certificates, an executed independent director application form prescribed by FHFA that demonstrates that the individual both is eligible and has either of the following qualifications:

(i) More than four years of experience representing consumer or community interests in banking services, credit needs, housing, or consumer financial protections; or

(ii) Knowledge of or experience in one or more of the areas set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) Any other interested party may recommend to the Bank that it consider a particular individual as a nominee for an independent directorship, but the Bank shall not nominate any individual unless the individual has delivered to the Bank, on or before the date the Bank has set for delivery of nominating certificates, an executed independent director application form prescribed by FHFA. The application form prescribed by FHFA will provide a means by which an individual can indicate an intent to be considered for a public interest directorship. The board of directors of the Bank may consider any individual for any independent directorship nomination, provided it has determined that the individual is eligible and qualified, but the board shall nominate for a public interest directorship only an individual who indicates on the application form a desire to be considered for a public interest directorship. The board of directors of the Bank shall consult with the Bank's Advisory Council before nominating any individual for any independent directorship. Each Bank shall include in its bylaws the procedures it intends to use for the nomination and election of the independent directors, and shall retain all information received under this paragraph for at least two years after the date of the election.

(3) Each Bank shall determine the number of public interest directorships to be included among its authorized independent directorships, provided that each Bank shall at all times have at least two such directorships, and shall announce that number to its members in the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section. In submitting nominations to its members, each Bank shall nominate at least as many individuals as there are independent directorships to be filled in that year's election.
