
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter D - Federal Home Loan Banks
#### PART 1277 - FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS, CAPITAL STOCK AND CAPITAL PLANS
##### Subpart B - Bank Capital Requirements
###### § 1277.4 Credit risk capital requirement.
####### Determination of credit risk percentage requirements,General.

(f)-(1)(i) Each Bank shall determine the credit risk percentage requirement applicable to each advance and each non-rated asset by identifying the appropriate category from Table 1 or 3 to this section, respectively, to which the advance or non-rated asset belongs. Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section, each Bank shall determine the credit risk percentage requirement applicable to each non-mortgage asset, off-balance sheet item, and derivative contract by identifying the appropriate category set forth in Table 2 to this section to which the asset, item, or contract belongs as determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, and remaining maturity. Each Bank shall use the applicable credit risk percentage requirement to calculate the credit risk capital charge for each asset, item, or contract in accordance with paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of this section, respectively. The relevant categories and credit risk percentage requirements are provided in the following Tables 1 through 3 to this section-

(ii) Each Bank shall develop a methodology to be used to assign an internal credit risk rating to each counterparty, asset, item, and contract that is subject to Table 2 to this section. The methodology shall involve an evaluation of counterparty or asset risk factors, and may incorporate, but must not rely solely on, credit ratings prepared by credit rating agencies. Each Bank shall align its various internal credit ratings to the appropriate categories of FHFA Credit Ratings included in Table 2 to this section. In doing so, FHFA Categories 7 through 1 shall include assets of progressively higher credit quality. After aligning its internal credit ratings to the appropriate categories of Table 2 to this section, each Bank shall assign each counterparty, asset, item, and contract to the appropriate FHFA Credit Rating category based on the applicable internal credit rating.
