
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter E - Housing Goals and Mission
#### PART 1282 - ENTERPRISE HOUSING GOALS AND MISSION
##### Subpart C - Duty to Serve Underserved Markets
###### § 1282.39 Special requirements for loan purchases.
####### Cooperative housing and condominiums.,i.e.,

(e)-(1) The purchase of a mortgage on a cooperative housing unit ("a share loan") or a mortgage on a condominium unit will be treated as a mortgage purchase. Such a purchase will receive duty to serve credit in the same manner as a mortgage purchase of single-family owner-occupied units,affordability is based on the income of the mortgagor(s).

(2) The purchase of a blanket mortgage on a cooperative building or a mortgage on a condominium project will be treated as a mortgage purchase. The purchase of a blanket mortgage on a cooperative building will receive duty to serve credit in the same manner as a mortgage purchase of a multifamily rental property, except that affordability must be determined based solely on the comparable market rents used in underwriting the blanket loan. If the underwriting rents are not available, the loan will not be treated as a mortgage purchase. The purchase of a mortgage on a condominium project will receive duty to serve credit in the same manner as a mortgage purchase of a multifamily rental property.

(3) Where an Enterprise purchases both a blanket mortgage on a cooperative building and share loans for units in the same building, both the mortgage on the cooperative building and the share loans will be treated as mortgage purchases. Where an Enterprise purchases both a mortgage on a condominium project and mortgages on individual dwelling units in the same project, both the mortgage on the condominium project and the mortgages on individual dwelling units will be treated as mortgage purchases.
