
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter E - Housing Goals and Mission
#### PART 1290 - COMMUNITY SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS
##### § 1290.5 Probation or restriction on member access to long-term Bank advances.
###### Removing a restriction.

(d)-(1) FHFA may remove a restriction on a member's access to long-term advances imposed under this section if FHFA determines that application of the restriction may adversely affect the safety and soundness of the member. A member may submit a written request to FHFA to remove a restriction on access to long-term advances under this paragraph (d)(1). The written request must include a clear and concise statement of the basis for the request and a statement that application of the restriction may adversely affect the safety and soundness of the member from the member's appropriate Federal banking agency or the member's appropriate State regulator for a member that is not subject to regulation or supervision by a Federal regulator. FHFA will consider each written request within 30 calendar days of receipt.

(2) FHFA may remove a restriction on a member's access to long-term advances imposed under this section if FHFA determines that the member subsequently has complied with the requirements of this part. A member may submit a written request to FHFA to remove a restriction on access to long-term advances under this paragraph (d)(2). The written request must state with specificity how the member has complied with the requirements of this part. FHFA will consider each written request within 30 calendar days of receipt.

(3) FHFA may remove a restriction on a member's access to long-term advances imposed under this section and place the member on probation if the member is subject to the CRA, its most recent CRA rating was "Needs to Improve," its second-most recent CRA rating was "Substantial Noncompliance," and either the member has not received any other CRA rating or its third-most recent CRA rating was "Outstanding" or "Satisfactory."

(4) FHFA will provide written notice to the member's Bank of any determination to remove a restriction under this paragraph (d). The Bank shall promptly notify the member of FHFA's determination to remove a restriction. FHFA's determination shall take effect on the date the notice is sent by FHFA to the Bank.
