
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XII—Federal Housing Finance Agency
### Subchapter E - Housing Goals and Mission
#### PART 1292 - COMMUNITY INVESTMENT CASH ADVANCE PROGRAMS
##### § 1292.1 Definitions.
###### et seq.

(iv) The project is located in an Indian area, as defined by the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101), Alaskan Native Village, or Native Hawaiian Home Land;

(v) The project is located in an area and involves a property eligible for a Brownfield Tax Credit;

(vi) The project is located in an area affected by a military base closing and is a "community in the vicinity of the installation" as defined by the Department of Defense at 32 CFR part 176;

(vii) The project is located in a designated community under the Community Adjustment and Investment Program as defined under 22 U.S.C. 290m-2;

(viii) The project is located in a Federally declared disaster area; or

(ix) The project is located in a state declared disaster area, or other area that qualifies for assistance under another Federal or State targeted economic development program, approved by FHFA.

(2) Individual Beneficiaries:

(i) The annual salaries for at least 51% of the permanent full- and part-time jobs, computed on a full-time equivalent basis, created or retained by the project, other than construction jobs, are at or below the targeted income level; or

(ii) At least 51% of the families who otherwise benefit from (other than through employment), or are provided services by, the project have incomes at or below the targeted income level.

(3) Activity Beneficiaries: Projects that qualify as small businesses.

(4) Other Targeted Beneficiaries. A Bank may designate, with the prior approval of FHFA, other targeted beneficiaries for its targeted community lending.

(5) Only targeted beneficiaries identified in paragraphs (1)(i) through (1)(iv), and (2)(i) and (2)(ii) of this definition are eligible for CIP advances.
