
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIII - Financial Stability Oversight Council
### PART 1301 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION
#### ยง 1301.7 Timing of responses to requests for Council records.
##### Form and content of a request for expedited processing.

(2)A request for expedited processing shall be made as follows:

(i) A request for expedited processing shall be made in writing or via the Internet and submitted as part of the initial request for records. When a request for records includes a request for expedited processing, both the envelope and the request itself must be clearly marked "Expedited Processing Requested." A request for expedited processing that is not clearly so marked, but satisfies the requirements in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, may nevertheless be granted.

(ii) A request for expedited processing shall contain a statement that demonstrates a compelling need for the requester to obtain expedited processing of the requested records. A "compelling need" may be established under the standard in either paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section by demonstrating that:

(A) Failure to obtain the requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual. The requester shall fully explain the circumstances warranting such an expected threat so that the Council may make a reasoned determination that a delay in obtaining the requested records would pose such a threat; or

(B) With respect to a request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity. A person "primarily engaged in disseminating information" does not include individuals who are engaged only incidentally in the dissemination of information. The standard of "urgency to inform" requires that the records requested pertain to a matter of current exigency to the American general public and that delaying a response to a request for records would compromise a significant recognized interest to and throughout the American general public. The requester must adequately explain the matter or activity and why the records sought are necessary to be provided on an expedited basis.

(iii) The requester shall certify the written statement that purports to demonstrate a compelling need for expedited processing to be true and correct to the best of the requester's knowledge and belief. The certification must be in the form prescribed by 28 U.S.C. 1746: "I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. Executed on [date]."
