
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIII - Financial Stability Oversight Council
### PART 1310 - AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF CERTAIN NONBANK FINANCIAL COMPANIES
#### Appendix A to Part 1310 - Financial Stability Oversight Council Guidance for Nonbank Financial Company Determinations

Section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act")authorizes the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the "Council") to determine that a nonbank financial company will be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve") and be subject to prudential standards in accordance with Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act if either of two standards is met. Under the first standard, the Council may subject a nonbank financial company to supervision by the Federal Reserve and prudential standards if the Council determines that material financial distress at the nonbank financial company could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. Under the second standard, the Council may determine that a nonbank financial company will be supervised by the Federal Reserve and subject to prudential standards if the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the activities of the nonbank financial company could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. Section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act also lists considerations that the Council must take into account in making a determination.

Section II of this document describes the approach the Council intends to take in prioritizing its work to identify and address potential risks to U.S. financial stability using an activities-based approach. This approach reflects the Council's priorities of identifying potential risks on a system-wide basis, reducing the potential for competitive distortions that could arise from entity-specific determinations, and allowing relevant financial regulatory agenciesto address identified potential risks. First, the Council will monitor markets to identify potential risks to U.S. financial stability and to assess those risks on a system-wide basis. Second, the Council will then work with relevant financial regulatory agencies to seek the implementation of actions intended to address identified potential risks to financial stability.

Section III of this appendix describes the manner in which the Council intends to apply the statutory standards and considerations in making determinations under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act, if the Council determines that potential risks to U.S. financial stability are not adequately addressed through the activities-based approach. Section III defines key terms used in the statute, including "threat to the financial stability of the United States." Section III also includes a detailed description of the analysis that the Council intends to conduct during its reviews, including a discussion of channels through which risks from a company may be transmitted to other companies or markets, and the Council's assessment of the likelihood of the company's material financial distress and the benefits and costs of a determination.

Section IV of this appendix outlines a two-stage process that the Council will follow in non-emergency situations when determining whether to subject a nonbank financial company to Federal Reserve supervision and prudential standards. In the first stage of the process, the Council will notify the company and its primary financial regulatory agency and conduct a preliminary analysis to determine whether the company should be subject to further evaluation by the Council. During the second stage of the evaluation process, the Council will conduct an in-depth evaluation if it determines in the first stage that the nonbank financial company merits additional review.

The Council's practices set forth in this guidance to address potential risks to U.S. financial stability are intended to comply with its statutory purposes: (1) To identify risks to U.S. financial stability that could arise from the material financial distress or failure, or ongoing activities, of large, interconnected bank holding companies or nonbank financial companies, or that could arise outside the financial services marketplace; (2) to promote market discipline, by eliminating expectations on the part of shareholders, creditors, and counterparties of such companies that the government will shield them from losses in the event of failure; and (3) to respond to emerging threats to the stability of the U.S. financial system.Council actions seek to foster transparency and to avoid competitive distortions in markets for financial services and products. Further, nonbank financial companies should not benefit from an implicit federal financial safety net. Therefore, the Council emphasizes the importance of market discipline as a mechanism for addressing potential risks to U.S. financial stability posed by financial companies.

This interpretive guidance is not a binding rule, except to the extent that it sets forth rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice. This guidance is intended to assist financial companies and other market participants in understanding how the Council expects to exercise certain of its authorities under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Council retains discretion, subject to applicable statutory requirements, to consider factors relevant to the assessment of a potential risk or threat to U.S. financial stability on a case-by-case basis. If the Council were to depart from the interpretative guidance, it would need to provide a reasoned explanation for its action, which would ordinarily require acknowledging the change in position.

The Dodd-Frank Act gives the Council broad discretion in determining how to respond to potential threats to U.S. financial stability. A determination to subject a nonbank financial company to Federal Reserve supervision and prudential standards under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act is only one of several Council authorities for responding to potential risks to U.S. financial stability.The Council will prioritize its efforts to identify, assess, and address potential risks and threats to U.S. financial stability through a process that begins with an activities-based approach, and will pursue entity-specific determinations under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act only if a potential risk or threat cannot be adequately addressed through an activities-based approach. The Council anticipates it would consider a nonbank financial company for a potential determination under section 113 only in rare instances, such as if the products, activities, or practices of a company that pose a potential threat to U.S. financial stability are outside the jurisdiction or authority of financial regulatory agencies. This approach reflects two priorities: (1) Identifying and addressing, in consultation with relevant financial regulatory agencies, potential risks and emerging threats on a system-wide basis and to reduce the potential for competitive distortions among financial companies and in markets that could arise from entity-specific determinations, and (2) allowing relevant financial regulatory agencies, which generally possess greater information and expertise with respect to company, product, and market risks, to address potential risks, rather than subjecting the companies to new regulatory authorities.

As part of its activities-based approach, the Council will examine a range of financial products, activities, or practices that could pose risks to U.S. financial stability. These types of activities are often identified in the Council's annual reports, such as activities related to (1) the extension of credit, (2) the use of leverage or short-term funding, (3) the provision of guarantees of financial performance, and (4) other key functions critical to support the functioning of financial markets. The Council considers a risk to financial stability to mean a risk of an event or development that could impair financial intermediation or financial market functioning to a degree that would be sufficient to inflict significant damage on the broader economy. The Council's activities-based approach is intended to identify and address risks to financial stability using a two-step approach, described below.

The Council has a statutory duty to monitor the financial services marketplace in order to identify potential threats to U.S. financial stability.In the first step of the activities-based approach, to enable the Council to identify potential risks to U.S. financial stability, the Council, in consultation with relevant financial regulatory agencies, intends to monitor diverse financial markets and market developments to identify products, activities, or practices that could pose risks to U.S. financial stability. When monitoring potential risks to financial stability, the Council intends to consider the linkages across products, activities, and practices, and their interconnectedness across firms and markets.

For example, the Council's monitoring may include:

- Corporate and sovereign debt and loan markets;

- equity markets;

- markets for other financial products, including structured products and derivatives;

- short-term funding markets;

- payment, clearing, and settlement functions;

- new or evolving financial products, activities, and practices; and

- developments affecting the resiliency of financial market participants.

To monitor markets and market developments, the Council will review information such as historical data, research regarding the behavior of financial market participants, and new developments that arise in evolving marketplaces. The Council will regularly rely on data, research, and analysis from Council member agencies, the Office of Financial Research, industry participants, and other public sources. Consistent with its statutory obligations, the Council will, whenever possible, rely on information available from primary financial regulatory agencies.

If the Council's monitoring of markets and market developments identifies a product, activity, or practice that could pose a potential risk to U.S. financial stability, the Council, in consultation with relevant financial regulatory agencies, will evaluate the potential risk to determine whether it merits further review or action. The Council's work in this step may include efforts such as sharing data, research, and analysis among Council members and member agencies and their staffs; consultations with regulators and other experts regarding the scope of potential risks and factors that may mitigate those risks; and the collaborative development of analyses for consideration by the Council. As part of this work, the Council may also engage with industry participants and other members of the public as it assesses potential risks.

The Council will assess the extent to which characteristics such as the following could amplify potential risks to U.S. financial stability arising from products, activities, or practices:

- Asset valuation risk or credit risk;

- leverage, including leverage arising from debt, derivatives, off-balance sheet obligations, and other arrangements;

- liquidity risk or maturity mismatch, such as reliance on funding sources that could be susceptible to dislocations;

- counterparty risk and interconnectedness among financial market participants;

- the transparency of financial markets, such as growth in financial transactions occurring outside of regulated sectors;

- operational risks, such as cybersecurity and operational resilience; or

- the risk of destabilizing markets for particular types of financial instruments, such as trading practices that substantially increase volatility in key markets.

Various factors may exacerbate or mitigate each of these types of risks. For example, activities may pose greater risks if they are complex or opaque, are conducted without effective risk-management practices, are significantly correlated with other financial products, and are either highly concentrated or significant and widespread. In contrast, regulatory requirements or market practices may mitigate risks by, for example, limiting exposures or leverage, enhancing risk-management practices, or restricting excessive risk-taking.

While the contours of the Council's initial evaluation of any potential risk will depend on the type and scope of analysis relevant to the particular risk, the Council's analyses will generally focus on four framing questions:

1. How could the potential risk be triggered? For example, could it be triggered by sharp reductions in the valuation of particular classes of financial assets?

2. How could the adverse effects of the potential risk be transmitted to financial markets or market participants? For example, what are the direct or indirect exposures in financial markets to the potential risk?

3. What impact could the potential risk have on the financial system? For example, what could be the scale of its adverse effects on other companies and markets, and would its effects be concentrated or distributed broadly among market participants? This analysis should take into account factors such as existing regulatory requirements or market practices that mitigate potential risks.

4. Could the adverse effects of the potential risk impair the financial system in a manner that could harm the non-financial sector of the U.S. economy?

In this evaluation, the Council will consult with relevant financial regulatory agencies and will take into account existing laws and regulations that may mitigate a potential risk to U.S. financial stability. The Council will also take into account the risk profiles and business models of market participants engaging in the products, activities, or practices under evaluation, and consider available evidence regarding the potential risk. Empirical data may not be available regarding all potential risks, and the type and scope of the Council's analysis will be tailored to the potential risk under consideration.

If a product, activity, or practice creating a potential risk to financial stability is identified, the Council will work with relevant financial regulatory agencies to address the identified risk, as described in section II.b of this appendix.

If the Council identifies a potential risk to U.S. financial stability in step one of the activities-based approach, the Council will work with the relevant financial regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels to seek the implementation of appropriate actions to address the identified potential risk. The Council will coordinate among its members and member agencies and will follow up on supervisory or regulatory actions to ensure the potential risk is adequately addressed. The goal of this step would be for existing regulators to take appropriate action, such as modifying their regulation or supervision of companies or markets under their jurisdiction in order to mitigate potential risks to U.S. financial stability identified by the Council.If a potential risk identified by the Council relates to a product, activity, or practice arising at a limited number of individual financial companies, the Council nonetheless will prioritize a remedy that addresses the underlying risk across all companies that engage in the relevant activity. If the Council finds that a particular type of financial product could present risks to U.S. financial stability, there may be different approaches existing regulators could take, based on their authorities and the urgency of the risk, such as restricting or prohibiting the offering of that product, or requiring market participants to take additional risk-management steps that address the risks.

If, after engaging with relevant financial regulatory agencies, the Council believes those regulators' actions are inadequate to address the identified potential risk to U.S. financial stability, the Council has authority to make formal public recommendations to primary financial regulatory agencies under section 120 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Under section 120, the Council may provide for more stringent regulation of a financial activity by issuing nonbinding recommendations, following consultation with the primary financial regulatory agency and public notice inviting comments on proposed recommendations, to the primary financial regulatory agency to apply new or heightened standards or safeguards for a financial activity or practice conducted by bank holding companies or nonbank financial companies under their jurisdiction.In addition, in any case in which no primary financial regulatory agency exists for the markets or companies conducting financial activities or practices identified by the Council as posing risks, the Council can consider reporting to Congress on recommendations for legislation that would prevent such activities or practices from threatening U.S. financial stability. The Council intends to make recommendations under section 120 only to the extent that its recommendations are consistent with the statutory mandate of the primary financial regulatory agency to which the Council is making the recommendation.

The authority to issue recommendations to primary financial regulatory agencies under section 120 is one of the Council's most formal tools for responding to potential risks to U.S. financial stability. The Council will make these recommendations only if it determines that the conduct, scope, nature, size, scale, concentration, or interconnectedness of the activity or practice could create or increase the risk of significant liquidity, credit, or other problems spreading among bank holding companies and nonbank financial companies, U.S. financial markets, or low-income, minority, or underserved communities.

In its recommendations under section 120, the Council may suggest broad approaches to address the risks it has identified. When appropriate, the Council may make a more specific recommendation. To promote analytical rigor and avoid duplication, before making any recommendation under section 120, the Council will ascertain whether the relevant primary financial regulatory agency would be expected to perform a cost-benefit analysis of the actions it would take in response to the Council's contemplated recommendation. In cases where the primary financial regulatory agency would not be expected to conduct such an analysis, the Council itself will-prior to making a final recommendation-conduct an analysis, using empirical data, to the extent available, of the benefits and costs of the actions that the primary financial regulatory agency would be expected to take in response to the contemplated recommendation. Where the Council conducts its own such analysis, the specificity of its assessment of benefits and costs would be commensurate with the specificity of the contemplated recommendation. Furthermore, where the Council conducts its own analysis, the Council will make a recommendation under section 120 only if it believes that the results of its assessment of benefits and costs support the recommendation.

Primary financial regulatory agencies have significant experience, knowledge, and expertise that can be useful in determining the most efficient way to address a particular risk within their regulatory jurisdiction. In every case, prior to issuing a recommendation under section 120, the Council will consult with the relevant primary financial regulatory agency and provide notice to the public and opportunity for comment as required by section 120.

If the Council's collaboration and engagement with the relevant financial regulatory agencies during the activities-based approach does not adequately address a potential threat identified by the Council-or if a potential threat to U.S. financial stability is outside the jurisdiction or authority of financial regulatory agencies-and if the potential threat identified by the Council is one that could be effectively addressed by a Council determination regarding one or more nonbank financial companies, the Council may evaluate one or more nonbank financial companies for an entity-specific determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act, applying the analytic framework described below. This section describes the analysis the Council will conduct in general regarding individual nonbank financial companies that are considered for a potential determination, and section IV of this appendix describes the Council's process for those reviews.

The Council may determine, by a vote of not fewer than two-thirds of the voting members of the Council then serving, including an affirmative vote by the Chairperson of the Council, that a nonbank financial company will be supervised by the Federal Reserve and be subject to prudential standards if the Council determines that (1) material financial distress at the nonbank financial company could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States (the "First Determination Standard") or (2) the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the activities of the nonbank financial company could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States (the "Second Determination Standard," and, together with the First Determination Standard, the "Determination Standards").The analytic framework described below focuses primarily on the First Determination Standard because threats to financial stability (such as asset fire sales or financial market disruptions) are most commonly propagated through a nonbank financial company when it is in distress.

Several relevant terms used in the Dodd-Frank Act are not defined in the statute. The Council intends to interpret the term "company" to include any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, business trust, association, or similar organization.In addition, the Council intends to interpret "nonbank financial company supervised by the Board of Governors" as including any nonbank financial company that acquires, directly or indirectly, a majority of the assets or liabilities of a company that is subject to a final determination of the Council.The Council intends to interpret the term "material financial distress" as a nonbank financial company being in imminent danger of insolvency or defaulting on its financial obligations. The Council intends to interpret the term "threat to the financial stability of the United States" as meaning the threat of an impairment of financial intermediation or of financial market functioning that would be sufficient to inflict severe damage on the broader economy. For purposes of considering whether a nonbank financial company could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability under either Determination Standard, the Council intends to assess the company in the context of a period of overall stress in the financial services industry and in a weak macroeconomic environment, with market developments such as increased counterparty defaults, decreased funding availability, and decreased asset prices. The Council believes this is appropriate because in such a context, the risks posed by a nonbank financial company may have a greater effect on U.S. financial stability.

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Council to consider 10 specific considerations when determining whether a nonbank financial company satisfies either of the Determination Standards. These statutory considerations help the Council to evaluate whether one of the Determination Standards has been met:

- The extent of the leverage of the company;

- the extent and nature of the off-balance-sheet exposures of the company;

- the extent and nature of the transactions and relationships of the company with other significant nonbank financial companies and significant bank holding companies;

- the importance of the company as a source of credit for households, businesses, and state and local governments and as a source of liquidity for the U.S. financial system;

- the importance of the company as a source of credit for low-income, minority, or underserved communities, and the impact that the failure of such company would have on the availability of credit in such communities;

- the extent to which assets are managed rather than owned by the company, and the extent to which ownership of assets under management is diffuse;

- the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, and mix of the activities of the company;

- the degree to which the company is already regulated by one or more primary financial regulatory agencies;

- the amount and nature of the financial assets of the company; and

- the amount and types of the liabilities of the company, including the degree of reliance on short-term funding.

The statute also requires the Council to take into account any other risk-related factors that the Council deems appropriate. Any determination by the Council will be made based on a company-specific evaluation and an application of the standards and considerations set forth in section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act, and taking into account qualitative and quantitative information the Council deems relevant to a particular nonbank financial company. The Council anticipates that the information relevant to an in-depth analysis of a nonbank financial company may vary based on the nonbank financial company's characteristics.

The discussion below describes how the Council will apply the Determination Standards in its evaluation of a nonbank financial company, including how the Council will take into account the statutory considerations, and other risk-related factors that the Council will take into account. Due to the unique threat that each nonbank financial company could pose to U.S. financial stability and the nature of the inquiry required by the statutory considerations, the Council expects that its evaluations of nonbank financial companies will be firm-specific and may include quantitative and qualitative information that the Council deems relevant to a particular nonbank financial company. The transmission channels, sample metrics, and other factors set forth below are not exhaustive and may not apply to all nonbank financial companies under evaluation.

The Council's evaluation of any nonbank financial company under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act will seek to determine whether a nonbank financial company meets one of the Determination Standards described above. In its analysis of a nonbank financial company, the Council will assess how the negative effects of the company's material financial distress, or of the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the company's activities, could be transmitted to or affect other firms or markets, thereby causing a broader impairment of financial intermediation or of financial market functioning. Such a transmission of risk can occur through various mechanisms, or channels. The Council has identified three transmission channels as most likely to facilitate the transmission of the negative effects of a nonbank financial company's material financial distress, or of the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the company's activities, to other financial firms and markets: Exposure; asset liquidation; and critical function or service. These three transmission channels are described below. The Council may also consider other relevant channels through which risks could be transmitted from a particular nonbank financial company and thereby pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. The Council will take into account the 10 statutory considerations and any other risk-related factors the Council deems appropriate as part of its evaluation of a nonbank financial company under the three transmission channels and the other factors described below. Further, in its analyses under the transmission channels, the Council will consider applicable factors that may limit the transmission of risk, such as existing regulatory requirements, collateralization, bankruptcy-remote structures, or guarantee funds that reduce counterparties' exposures to the nonbank financial company or mitigate incentives for customers or counterparties to withdraw funding or assets.

Under this transmission channel, the Council will evaluate whether a nonbank financial company's creditors, counterparties, investors, or other market participants have direct or indirect exposure to the nonbank financial company that is significant enough to materially and adversely affect those or other creditors, counterparties, investors, or other market participants and thereby pose a threat to U.S. financial stability.

The Council expects that its analyses under the exposure transmission channel will generally include the factors described below. The potential threat to U.S. financial stability will generally be greater if the amounts of the exposures are larger; if the terms of the transactions provide less protection for the counterparty; and if the largest counterparties include large financial institutions.

The Council also will consider a company's leverage and size. A company's leverage can amplify the risks posed by exposures, including off-balance sheet exposures, by reducing the company's ability to satisfy its obligations to creditors in the event of its material financial distress. Size is relevant to this analysis, as material financial distress at a larger nonbank financial company would generally transmit risk on a larger scale than distress at a smaller company. Size may be measured by the assets, liabilities, and capital of the firm.

As required by statute, the Council will consider the extent to which assets are managed rather than owned by the company and the extent to which ownership of assets under management is diffuse. The Council's analysis will recognize the distinct nature of exposure risks when the company is acting as an agent rather than as principal.In particular, in the case of a nonbank financial company that manages assets on behalf of customers or other third parties, the third parties' direct financial exposures are often to the issuers of the managed assets, rather than to the nonbank financial company managing those assets.

The Council will consider the exposures that counterparties and other market participants have to a nonbank financial company arising from the company's capital markets activities. This assessment includes an evaluation of the company's relationships with other significant nonbank financial companies and significant bank holding companies. In most cases, the Council will consider factors such as the amount and nature of, and counterparties to, the company's:

- Outstanding debt (regardless of term) and other liabilities (such as guaranteed investment contracts issued by an insurance company or Federal Home Loan Bank loans).

- Derivatives transactions (which may be measured on the basis of gross notional amount, net fair value, or potential future exposures).
