
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIII - Financial Stability Oversight Council
### PART 1310 - AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF CERTAIN NONBANK FINANCIAL COMPANIES
#### Appendix A to Part 1310 - Financial Stability Oversight Council Guidance for Nonbank Financial Company Determinations
##### i.e.,

- Securities financing transactions (repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions).

- Lines of credit.

- Credit-default swaps outstanding for which the company or an affiliate is the reference entity (generally focusing on single-name credit-default swaps).

Relevant metrics may include the number, size, and financial strength of a nonbank financial company's counterparties, including the proportion of its counterparties' exposure to the nonbank financial company relative to the counterparties' capital. The potential risk arising under this transmission channel depends not only on the number of counterparties that a nonbank financial company has, but also on the importance of that nonbank financial company to its counterparties and the extent to which the counterparties are interconnected with other financial firms, the financial system, and the broader economy. Therefore, the Council will focus on exposures of large financial institutions to the nonbank financial company under review. This analysis will take into account both individual counterparty exposures as well as aggregate exposures of other financial institutions to the company under review. The amount and types of other exposures that counterparties and other market participants have to a nonbank financial company is highly dependent on the nature of the company's business. The Council's analysis will take these other fact-specific considerations into account.

The Council also will consider applicable factors, including existing regulatory requirements, that may mitigate potential risks under the exposure transmission channel. For example, collateralization by high-quality, highly liquid securities, such as U.S. Treasury securities, the use of insurance funds to limit counterparty exposures, or other transactions that reallocate risk to well-capitalized entities, may reduce the potential for certain exposures to serve as a channel for the transmission of risk.
