
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIII - Financial Stability Oversight Council
### PART 1310 - AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF CERTAIN NONBANK FINANCIAL COMPANIES
#### Appendix A to Part 1310 - Financial Stability Oversight Council Guidance for Nonbank Financial Company Determinations
##### Contagion.

The negative effects of the material financial distress of a large, interconnected nonbank financial company are not necessarily limited to the amount of direct losses suffered by the firm's creditors, counterparties, investors, or other market participants. In general, the wider and more interconnected a company's network of financial counterparties, the greater the potential negative effect of the material financial distress of the company. Aggregate exposures to a nonbank financial company can create a potential threat to U.S. financial stability if they lead to contagion among financial institutions and financial markets more broadly. Contagion has the potential to spread distress quickly and seemingly unexpectedly. Such transmission is associated with opaque balance sheets, closely correlated markets, and coordination failures among investors. In such circumstances, fire sales by a highly leveraged and interconnected nonbank financial company may result in a loss of confidence in other financial companies that are perceived to have similar characteristics. The Council will seek evidence regarding the potential for contagion, including relevant industry-specific historical examples and the scope of the company's interconnectedness with large financial institutions, among other factors. Various market-based or regulatory factors can strongly mitigate the risk of contagion. Contagion should be viewed in conjunction with other factors described above when evaluating risk under the exposure transmission channel.

Under this transmission channel, the Council will consider whether a nonbank financial company holds assets that, if liquidated quickly, could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability by, for example, causing a fall in asset prices that significantly disrupts trading or funding in key markets or causes significant losses or funding problems for other firms with similar holdings. This channel would likely be most relevant for a nonbank financial company that could be forced to liquidate assets quickly due to its funding and liquid asset profile. For example, this could be the case if a nonbank financial company relies heavily on short-term funding. The Council may also consider whether a deterioration in asset pricing or market functioning could pressure other financial firms to sell their holdings of affected assets in order to maintain adequate capital and liquidity, which, in turn, could produce a cycle of asset sales that could lead to further market disruptions. This analysis includes an assessment of any maturity mismatch at the company-the difference between the maturities of the company's assets and liabilities. A company's reliance on short-term funding to finance longer-term positions can subject the company to rollover or refinancing risk that may force it to sell assets rapidly at low market prices. The Council will also consider applicable factors that may mitigate potential risks under the asset liquidation transmission channel. As part of its analysis, the Council will consider the extent to which assets are managed rather than owned by the company.

The Council's analyses of the asset liquidation transmission channel will focus on three central factors, described below.
