
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIII - Financial Stability Oversight Council
### PART 1310 - AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF CERTAIN NONBANK FINANCIAL COMPANIES
#### Appendix A to Part 1310 - Financial Stability Oversight Council Guidance for Nonbank Financial Company Determinations
##### Potential fire sale impacts.

The third factor in the asset liquidation transmission channel analysis is the potential effects of the company's asset liquidation on markets and market participants. As described above, the Council will assess the scale of potential liquidity needs that could plausibly arise at the company and the amount and nature of financial assets the company could sell to satisfy its obligations. In this step of the asset liquidation transmission channel analysis, the Council will apply quantitative models to assess how the company could satisfy the identified range of potential liquidity needs by rapidly selling its identified liquid assets. To assess this factor, the Council will compare the volume of the company's potential liquidation of particular categories of financial instruments with the average daily trading volume in the United States of those types of instruments. In general, a rapid liquidation of a significant amount of relatively illiquid financial instruments, or instruments that are widely held by other market participants, will have a greater effect on the market than a liquidation of the same amount of highly liquid instruments or instruments that are not widely held. The Council may also conduct an analysis to assess the relative impact of negative shocks to the equity or assets of certain financial institutions on other financial institutions. The Council expects that its analysis will generally focus on potential asset liquidation periods of 30 to 90 days.

The order in which a nonbank financial company may liquidate assets is a factor in the extent of any fire sale risk, but is subject to considerable uncertainties. A company could liquidate a significant portion of its highly liquid assets first, in order to reduce the likelihood that the company would be forced to liquidate illiquid assets in the event of its material financial distress. However, in the event of the company's material financial distress, a company may also be expected to seek to maintain compliance with any applicable risk-based capital ratios and other requirements. Doing so might require a company to sell a mix of assets across a number of asset classes, rather than proceed with the sale of assets in order from most liquid to least liquid. Further, in the event of a significant market disruption, there could be a meaningful first-mover advantage to selling less-liquid assets first. For example, markets for less-liquid assets, such as private and public corporate bonds and asset-backed securities, could be prone to disruption in the event that a seller liquidated a large portion of its portfolio of those assets. Given these potential discounts, in some circumstances a company may be incentivized to sell a portion of its less-liquid assets first and to hold U.S. government securities and agency mortgage-backed securities, which tend to increase in value during a period of market turmoil. To the extent that a company's highly liquid assets are encumbered (for example, under securities financing transactions or as collateral for loans), the company would also need to sell less-liquid assets to satisfy its liquidity needs. Further, a company's holdings of liquid assets could be reduced before the company enters material financial distress. As a result, the Council may take into account company-specific factors in assessing the order in which the company might liquidate assets. One approach the Council may take is to assess the potential effects if the company sells pro rata portions of the more-liquid segments of its investment portfolio (such as cash and highly liquid instruments, U.S. agency securities, investment-grade public corporate debt securities, publicly traded equity securities, and asset backed-securities).

Under this transmission channel, the Council will consider the potential for a nonbank financial company to become unable or unwilling to provide a critical function or service that is relied upon by market participants and for which there are no ready substitutes and thereby pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. This factor is commonly referred to as "substitutability." Substitutability captures the extent to which other firms could provide similar financial services in a timely manner at a similar price and quantity if a nonbank financial company withdraws from a particular market. Substitutability also captures situations in which a nonbank financial company is the primary or dominant provider of services in a market that the Council determines to be essential to U.S. financial stability. A risk under this transmission channel may be identified if a company provides a critical function or service that may not easily be substitutable. The Council's analysis will also consider applicable factors that may mitigate potential risks under the critical function or service transmission channel.

Concern about a potential lack of substitutability could be greater if a nonbank financial company and its competitors are likely to experience stress at the same time because they are exposed to the same risks. The Council may also analyze the nonbank financial company's activities and critical functions and the importance of those activities and functions to the U.S. financial system and assess how those activities and functions would be performed by the nonbank financial company or other market participants in the event of the nonbank financial company's material financial distress. The Council also will consider the substitutability of critical market functions that the company provides in the United States in the event of material financial distress of a foreign parent company.

The analysis of this channel incorporates a review of the competitive landscape for markets in which a nonbank financial company participates and for the services it provides (including the provision of liquidity to the U.S. financial system, the provision of credit to low-income, minority, or underserved communities, or the provision of credit to households, businesses and state and local governments), the ability of other firms to replace those services, and the nonbank financial company's market share. This analysis may focus on the company's market share in specific product lines and the ability of substitutes to replace a service or function provided by the company. The Council's evaluation of a nonbank financial company's market share regarding a particular product or service may include assessments of the ability of the nonbank financial company's competitors to expand to meet market needs during a period of overall stress in the financial services industry or in a weak macroeconomic environment; the costs that market participants would incur if forced to switch providers; the timeframe within which a disruption in the provision of the product or service would materially affect market participants or market functioning; and the economic implications of such a disruption.

The potential threat a nonbank financial company could pose to U.S. financial stability may be mitigated or aggravated by the company's complexity, opacity, or resolvability. In particular, a risk may be aggravated if a nonbank financial company's resolution under ordinary insolvency regimes could disrupt key markets or have a material adverse impact on other financial firms or markets. An evaluation of a nonbank financial company's complexity and resolvability entails an assessment of (1) the complexity of the nonbank financial company's legal, funding, and operational structure, and (2) any obstacles to the rapid and orderly resolution of the nonbank financial company:

- Legal structure factors may include the number of jurisdictions the company operates in, the number of subsidiaries, and the organizational structure.

- Funding structure factors may include the degree of interaffiliate dependency for liquidity and funding (such as intercompany loans or other affiliate support arrangements), payment operation (such as treasury operations), and risk-management.

- Operational structure factors may include the number of employees, the number of U.S. and non-U.S. locations, and the degree of inter-company dependency in regard to financial guarantees and support arrangements, the ability to separate functions and spin off services or business lines, the complexity and resiliency of intercompany and outsourced services and arrangements in resolution, and the likelihood of preserving franchise value in a recovery or resolution scenario.

- Cross-border operational factors may include size and complexity of the company's cross-border operations and impact of potential ring-fencing on an orderly resolution.

Factors that would tend to increase the risk associated with a company's complexity and resolvability include large size or scope of activities; a complex legal or operational structure; multi-jurisdictional operations and regulatory regimes; complex funding structures; the potential impact of a loss of key personnel; and shared services among affiliates. The opacity of a firm's structure-if the firm's structure and operations cannot readily or easily be determined-may present an obstacle to resolution.

As noted above, one of the considerations the Council is statutorily required to take into account in making a determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act is the degree to which the nonbank financial company is already regulated by one or more primary financial regulatory agencies.In its analysis of this statutory consideration, the Council will focus on the extent to which existing regulation of the company has mitigated the potential risks to financial stability identified by the Council. For example, factors that may be used to assess existing regulatory scrutiny include:

- The extent to which the company's primary financial regulator has imposed risk-management standards such as capital, liquidity, and reporting requirements, as relevant to the type of company, and has authority to supervise, examine, and bring enforcement actions, with respect to the company and its affiliates.

- Regulators' processes for inter-regulator coordination.

- For non-U.S. entities, the extent to which the company is supervised and subject to prudential standards on a consolidated basis in its home country that are administered and enforced by a comparable foreign supervisory authority.

Determining whether the expected benefits of a potential Council determination justify the expected costs is necessary to ensure that the Council's actions are expected to provide a net benefit to U.S. financial stability and are consistent with thoughtful decisionmaking.Financial stability benefits may be difficult to quantify, and some of the costs may be difficult to forecast with precision. When possible, the Council will quantify reasonably estimable benefits and costs, using ranges, as appropriate, and based on empirical data when available. If such benefits or costs cannot be quantified in this manner, the Council will explain why such benefits or costs could not be quantified. The Council also expects to consider benefits and costs qualitatively.To the extent feasible, the Council will attempt to assess the relative importance of any such qualitative elements. The Council will make a determination under section 113 only if the expected benefits to financial stability from Federal Reserve supervision and prudential standards justify the expected costs that the determination would impose. As part of this analysis, the Council will assess the likelihood of a firm's material financial distress, in order to assess the extent to which a determination may promote U.S. financial stability.

The key elements of regulatory analysis include (1) a statement of the need for the proposed action, (2) an examination of alternative approaches, and (3) an evaluation of the benefits and costs (quantitative and qualitative) of the proposed action and the main alternatives.The Council will conduct this analysis only in cases where the Council is concluding that the company meets one of the standards for a determination by the Council under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act, because in other cases doing so would not affect the outcome of the Council's analysis.
