
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIII - Financial Stability Oversight Council
### PART 1310 - AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF CERTAIN NONBANK FINANCIAL COMPANIES
#### Appendix A to Part 1310 - Financial Stability Oversight Council Guidance for Nonbank Financial Company Determinations
##### Likelihood of Material Financial Distress.

As part of the assessment of the overall impact of a Council determination for any company under review under the First Determination Standard, the Council will assess the likelihood of the company's material financial distress based on its vulnerability to a range of factors. For example, these factors may include leverage (both on- and off-balance sheet), potential risks associated with asset reevaluations (whether such reevaluations arise from market disruptions or severe macroeconomic conditions), reliance on short-term funding or other fragile funding markets, maturity transformation, and risks from exposures to counterparties or other market participants. This assessment may rely upon historical examples regarding the characteristics of financial companies that have experienced financial distress, but may also consider other risks that do not have historical precedent. The Council's analysis of the vulnerability of a nonbank financial company to material financial distress will be conducted taking into account a period of overall stress in the financial services industry and a weak macroeconomic environment. The Council may also consider the results of any stress tests that have previously been conducted by the company or by its primary financial regulatory agency.

As described in section II above, the Council will prioritize an activities-based approach for identifying, assessing, and addressing potential risks to financial stability. However, if a potential risk or threat to U.S. financial stability cannot be adequately addressed through an activities-based approach, the Council may consider a nonbank financial company for a potential determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Council anticipates it would consider a nonbank financial company for a potential determination under section 113 only in rare instances, such as if the products, activities, or practices of a company that pose a potential threat to U.S. financial stability are outside the jurisdiction or authority of financial regulatory agencies. The Council expects generally to follow a two-stage process of evaluation and analysis, as described below.

In the first stage of the process ("Stage 1"), nonbank financial companies identified as potentially posing risks to U.S. financial stability will be notified and subject to a preliminary analysis, based on quantitative and qualitative information available to the Council primarily through public and regulatory sources. During Stage 1, the Council will permit, but not require, the company to submit relevant information. The Council will also consult with the primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor, as appropriate. This approach will enable the Council to fulfill its statutory obligation to rely whenever possible on information available through the Office of Financial Research (the "OFR"), Council member agencies, or the nonbank financial company's primary financial regulatory agencies before requiring the submission of reports from any nonbank financial company.

Following Stage 1, nonbank financial companies that are selected for additional review will receive notice that they are being considered for a proposed determination that the company could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability (a "Proposed Determination") and will be subject to in-depth evaluation during the second stage of review ("Stage 2"). Stage 2 will involve the evaluation of additional information collected directly from the nonbank financial company. At the end of Stage 2, the Council may consider whether to make a Proposed Determination with respect to the nonbank financial company. If a Proposed Determination is made by the Council, the nonbank financial company may request a hearing in accordance with section 113(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act and § 1310.21(c) of the Council's rule.After making a Proposed Determination and holding any written or oral hearing if requested, the Council may vote to make a final determination.

Stage 1 involves a preliminary analysis of nonbank financial companies to assess the risks they could pose to U.S. financial stability.

If, as described in section II, the Council's consultation with and any recommendations to a nonbank financial company's primary financial regulatory agency do not adequately address a potential risk identified by the Council, the Council may evaluate one or more individual nonbank financial companies for an entity-specific determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Council will vote to commence review of a nonbank financial company in Stage 1. When evaluating the potential risks associated with a nonbank financial company, the Council may consider the company and its subsidiaries together. This approach enables the Council to consider potential risks arising across the consolidated organization, while retaining the ability to make a determination regarding either the parent or any individual nonbank financial company subsidiary (or neither), depending on which entity the Council determines could pose a threat to financial stability.

The Council will provide a notice to any nonbank financial company under review in Stage 1. In Stage 1, the Council will consider available public and regulatory information; in addition, a company under review in Stage 1 may submit to the Council any information it deems relevant to the Council's evaluation and may, upon request, meet with staff of Council members and member agencies who are leading the Council's analysis. In order to reduce the burdens of review on the company, the Council will not require the company to submit information during Stage 1. In addition, staff representing Council members will, upon request, provide the company with a list of the primary public sources of information being considered during the Stage 1 analysis, so that the company has an opportunity to understand the information the Council may rely upon during Stage 1. Through this engagement, the Council will seek to enable the company under review to understand the focus of the Council's analysis, which may enable the company to act to mitigate any risks to financial stability and thereby potentially avoid becoming subject to a Council determination.

During the discussions in Stage 1 with the company, the Council intends for staff of Council members and member agencies to explain to the company the key risks that have been identified in the analysis. Because the review of the company is preliminary and continues to change until the Council makes a final determination, these identified risks may shift over time.

The Council will also consider in Stage 1 information available from relevant existing regulators of the company. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Council is required to consult with the primary financial regulatory agency, if any, for each nonbank financial company or subsidiary of a nonbank financial company that is being considered for a determination before the Council makes any final determination with respect to such company.For any company under review in Stage 1 that is regulated by a primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor, the Council will notify the regulator or supervisor that the company is under review no later than such time as the company is notified. As part of that consultation process, the Council will consult with the primary financial regulatory agency, if any, of each significant subsidiary of the nonbank financial company, to the extent the Council deems appropriate in Stage 1. The Council will actively solicit the regulator's views regarding risks at the company and potential mitigants. In order to enable the regulator to provide relevant information, the Council will share its preliminary views regarding potential risks at the company, and request that the regulator provide information regarding those specific risks, including whether the risks are adequately mitigated by factors such as existing regulation or the company's business practices. During the determination process, the Council will continue to encourage the regulator to address any risks to U.S. financial stability using the regulator's existing authorities; if the Council believes the regulator's actions adequately address the potential risks to U.S. financial stability the Council has identified, the Council may discontinue its consideration of the firm for a potential determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act.

Based on the preliminary evaluation in Stage 1, the Council may vote to commence a more detailed analysis of the company by advancing the company to Stage 2, or it may decide not to evaluate the company further. If the Council determines not to advance a company that has been reviewed in Stage 1 to Stage 2, the Council will notify the company in writing of the Council's decision. The notice will clarify that a decision not to advance the company from Stage 1 to Stage 2 at that time does not preclude the Council from reinitiating review of the company in Stage 1. For example, the Council may reinitiate review of the company if material changes affecting the firm merit further evaluation.

Stage 2 involves an in-depth evaluation of any company that the Council has determined merits additional review.

In Stage 2, the Council will review the relevant company using information collected directly from the nonbank financial company, through the OFR, as well as public and regulatory information. The review will focus on whether the nonbank financial company could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability because of the company's material financial distress or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the activities of the company. The Council expects that the transmission channels and the other factors described above will be used to evaluate a nonbank financial company's potential to pose a threat to U.S. financial stability.

Each nonbank financial company to be evaluated in Stage 2 will receive a notice (a "Notice of Consideration") that the nonbank financial company is under consideration for a Proposed Determination. The Council also will submit to the company a request that the company provide information that the Council deems relevant to the Council's evaluation, and the nonbank financial company will be provided an opportunity to submit written materials to the Council.This information will generally be collected by the OFR. Before requiring the submission of reports from any nonbank financial company that is regulated by a Council member agency or any primary financial regulatory agency, the Council, acting through the OFR, will coordinate with such agencies and will, whenever possible, rely on information available from the OFR or such agencies. Council members and their agencies and staffs will maintain the confidentiality of such information in accordance with applicable law. During Stage 2, the company may also submit any other information that it deems relevant to the Council's evaluation. Information considered by the Council includes details regarding the company's financial activities, legal structure, liabilities, counterparty exposures, resolvability, and existing regulatory oversight.

Information requests likely will involve both qualitative and quantitative data. Information relevant to the Council's analysis may include confidential business information such as detailed information regarding financial assets, terms of funding arrangements, counterparty exposure or position data, strategic plans, and interaffiliate transactions.

The Council will make staff representing Council members available to meet with the representatives of any company that enters Stage 2, to explain the evaluation process and the framework for the Council's analysis. If the analysis in Stage 1 has identified specific aspects of the company's operations or activities as the primary focus for the evaluation, staff will notify the company of those issues, although the issues will be subject to change based on the ongoing analysis. In addition, the Council expects that its Deputies Committeewill grant a request to meet with a company in Stage 2 to allow the company to present any information or arguments it deems relevant to the Council's evaluation.

During Stage 2 the Council will also seek to continue its consultation with the company's primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor in a timely manner before the Council makes any proposed or final determination with respect to such nonbank financial company. The Council will continue to encourage the regulator during the determination process to address any risks to U.S. financial stability using the regulator's existing authorities; as noted above, if the Council believes the regulator's actions adequately address the potential risks to U.S. financial stability the Council has identified, the Council may discontinue its consideration of the firm for a potential determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act.

Before making a Proposed Determination regarding a nonbank financial company, the Council will notify the company when the Council believes that the evidentiary record regarding such nonbank financial company is complete. The Council will notify any nonbank financial company in Stage 2 if the nonbank financial company ceases to be considered for a determination. Any nonbank financial company that ceases to be considered at any time in the Council's determination process may be considered for a Proposed Determination in the future at the Council's discretion, consistent with the processes described above.

Based on the analysis performed in Stage 2, a nonbank financial company may be considered for a Proposed Determination. A proposed determination requires a vote of two-thirds of the voting members of the Council then serving, including an affirmative vote by the Chairperson of the Council.Following a Proposed Determination, the Council will issue a written notice of the Proposed Determination to the nonbank financial company, which will include an explanation of the basis of the Proposed Determination.Promptly after the Council votes to make a proposed determination regarding a company, the Council will provide the company's primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor (subject to appropriate protections for confidential information) with the nonpublic written explanation of the basis of the Council's proposed or final determination. The Council also will publish the explanation of the basis of the Proposed Determination, subject to redactions to protect confidential information from the company or its regulators.

A nonbank financial company that is subject to a Proposed Determination may request a nonpublic hearing to contest the Proposed Determination in accordance with section 113(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act. If the nonbank financial company requests a hearing in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1310.21(c) of the Council's rule,the Council will set a time and place for such hearing. The Council has published hearing procedures on its website.In light of the short statutory timeframe for conducting a hearing, and the fact that the purpose of the hearing is to benefit the company, if a company requests that the Council waive the statutory deadline for conducting the hearing, the Council may do so in appropriate circumstances.

After making a Proposed Determination and holding any requested written or oral hearing, the Council may, by a vote of not fewer than two-thirds of the voting members of the Council then serving (including an affirmative vote by the Chairperson of the Council), make a final determination that the company will be subject to supervision by the Federal Reserve and prudential standards. If the Council makes a final determination, it will provide the company with a written notice of the Council's final determination, including an explanation of the basis for the Council's decision.The Council will also provide the company's primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor (subject to appropriate protections for confidential information) with the nonpublic written explanation of the basis of the Council's final determination. The Council expects that its explanation of the final basis for any determination will highlight the key risks that led to the determination and include clear guidance regarding the factors that were most important in the Council's determination. When practicable and consistent with the purposes of the determination process, the Council will provide a nonbank financial company with a notice of a final determination at least one business day before publicly announcing the determination pursuant to § 1310.21(d)(3), § 1310.21(e)(3), or § 1310.22(d)(3) of the Council's rule.In accordance with section 113(h) of the Dodd-Frank Act, a nonbank financial company that is subject to a final determination may bring an action in U.S. district court for an order requiring that the determination be rescinded.

The Council does not intend to publicly announce the name of any nonbank financial company that is under evaluation prior to a final determination with respect to such company. However, if a company that is under review in Stage 1 or Stage 2 publicly announces the status of its review by the Council, the Council intends, upon the request of a third party, to confirm the status of the company's review. In addition, the Council will publicly release the explanation of the Council's basis for any nonbank financial company determination or rescission of a determination. The Council is subject to statutory and regulatory requirements to maintain the confidentiality of certain information submitted to it by a nonbank financial company or its regulators.In light of these confidentiality obligations, such confidential information will be redacted from the materials that the Council makes publicly available.

After the Council makes a final determination regarding a company, the Council intends to encourage the company or its regulators to take steps to mitigate the potential risks identified in the Council's written explanation of the basis for its final determination. Except in cases where new material risks arise over time, if a company adequately addresses the potential risks identified in writing by the Council at the time of the final determination and in subsequent reevaluations, the Council should generally be expected to rescind its determination regarding the company.

For any nonbank financial company that is subject to a final determination, the Council is required to reevaluate the determination at least annually, and to rescind the determination if the Council determines that the company no longer meets the statutory standards for a determination. The Council may also consider a request from a company for a reevaluation before the next required annual reevaluation, in the case of an extraordinary change that materially decreases the threat the nonbank financial company could pose to U.S. financial stability.

The Council applies the same standards of review in its annual reevaluations as the standard for an initial determination regarding a nonbank financial company: Either the company's material financial distress, or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the company's activities, could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. If the Council determines that the company no longer meets those standards, the Council will rescind its determination.

The Council's annual reevaluations generally assess whether any material changes since the previous reevaluation and since the determination justify a rescission of the determination, based on the same transmission channels and other factors that are considered during a determination decision. The Council expects that its reevaluation process will focus on whether any material changes-including changes at the company, changes in its markets or its regulation, changes in the Council's own analysis, or otherwise-result in the company no longer meeting the standard for a determination. In light of the frequent reevaluations, the Council's analyses will generally focus on changes since the Council's previous review, but the ultimate question the Council will seek to assess is whether changes in the aggregate since the Council's determination regarding the company have caused the company to cease meeting the Determination Standards. The Council expects that its analysis in its annual reevaluations will generally be organized around the three transmission channels described above as well as existing regulatory scrutiny and the company's complexity and resolvability.

Before the Council's annual reevaluation of a determination regarding a nonbank financial company, the Council will provide the company with an opportunity to meet with staff of Council members and member agencies to discuss the scope and process for the review and to present information regarding any change that may be relevant to the threat the company could pose to financial stability. Staff of Council members and member agencies will also be available to meet with the company during the annual reevaluation, at the company's request. In addition, during an annual reevaluation, a company may submit any written information to the Council the company considers relevant to the Council's analysis. During annual reevaluations, companies are encouraged to submit information regarding any changes related to the company's risk profile that mitigate the potential risks previously identified by the Council. Such changes could include updates regarding company restructurings, regulatory developments, market changes, or other factors. If the company has taken steps to address the potential risks previously identified by the Council, the Council will assess whether those risks have been adequately mitigated to merit a rescission of the determination regarding the company. If the company explains in detail potential changes it could make to its business to address the potential risks previously identified by the Council, staff of Council members and member agencies will endeavor to provide their feedback on the extent to which those changes may address the potential risks.

If a company contests the Council's determination during the Council's annual reevaluation, the Council will vote on whether to rescind the determination and provide the company, its primary financial regulatory agency, and the primary financial regulatory agency of its significant subsidiaries with a notice explaining the primary basis for any decision not to rescind the determination. If the Council does not rescind the determination, the written notice provided to the company will address each of the material factors raised by the company in its submissions to the Council contesting the determination during the annual reevaluation. The written notice from the Council will also explain in detail why the Council did not find that the company no longer met the standard for a determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act. In general, due to the sensitive nature of its analyses in annual reevaluations, the Council may not in all cases publicly release the written findings that it provides to the company.

Finally, the Council will provide each nonbank financial company subject to a Council determination with an opportunity for an oral hearing before the Council once every five years at which the company can contest the determination.
