
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIII - Financial Stability Oversight Council
### PART 1310 - AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF CERTAIN NONBANK FINANCIAL COMPANIES
#### Appendix A to Part 1310 - Financial Stability Oversight Council Guidance for Nonbank Financial Company Determinations
##### Benefits.

With respect to the benefits of a Council determination, the Council will consider the benefits of the determination itself, both to (1) the U.S. financial system and long-term economic growth and (2) the nonbank financial company due to additional regulatory requirements resulting from the determination, particularly the prudential standards adopted by the Federal Reserve under section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act.

One of the Council's statutory purposes is to respond to emerging threats to the stability of the U.S. financial system.The primary intended benefit of a determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act is a reduction in the likelihood or severity of a financial crisis. Therefore, the Council will consider potential benefits to the U.S. financial system and the U.S. economy arising from a Council determination. To the extent that a Council determination reduces the likelihood or severity of a potential financial crisis, the determination could enhance financial stability and mitigate the severity of economic downturns. The Council may use various measures of systemic risk to assess any improvement in financial stability. Such measures include S-Risk (which attempts to quantify the amount of capital a financial firm would need to raise in order to function normally in the event of a severe financial crisis), conditional value at risk, and certain estimates of fire sale risk, among others. To assess the benefit to the U.S. financial system and the U.S. economy from a determination, the Council may also consider historical analogues to the nonbank under review. In addition, the Council may compare the risks to financial stability posed by a particular nonbank to the risks posed by large bank holding companies, in order to produce an assessment of the relative risks the company may pose. Further, the loss of any implicit "too big to fail" or similar subsidy would be considered a benefit to the economy, even if it increases the nonbank financial company's cost of capital.

Analysis of the benefits of a determination for the relevant nonbank financial company may include those arising directly from the Council's determination as well as any benefits arising from anticipated new or increased requirements resulting from the determination, such as additional supervision and enhanced capital, liquidity, or risk-management requirements. For example, a nonbank financial company subject to a Council determination may benefit from a lower cost of capital or higher credit ratings upon meeting its post-determination regulatory requirements.
