
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIII - Financial Stability Oversight Council
### PART 1310 - AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF CERTAIN NONBANK FINANCIAL COMPANIES
#### Appendix A to Part 1310 - Financial Stability Oversight Council Guidance for Nonbank Financial Company Determinations
##### Liquidity of the company's liabilities.

The first factor in the Council's assessment under this transmission channel is the amount and nature of the company's liabilities that are, or could become, short-term in nature. This analysis involves an assessment of the company's liquidity risk. Liquidity risk generally refers to the risk that a company may not have sufficient funding to satisfy its short-term needs. For example, relevant factors may include:

- The company's short-term financial obligations (including outstanding commercial paper).

- Financial arrangements that can be terminated by counterparties and therefore become short-term (including callable debt, derivatives, securities lending, repurchase agreements, and off-balance-sheet exposures).

- Long-term liabilities that may come due in a short-term period.

- Financial transactions that may require the company to provide additional margin or collateral to the counterparty.

- Products that allow customers rapidly to withdraw funds from the company.

- Liabilities related to other collateralized borrowings and deposits.

The Council will quantitatively identify the scale of potential liquidity needs that could plausibly arise at the company. As part of this analysis, the Council will apply counterparty and customer withdrawal rates based on historical examples and other relevant models to assess the scope of plausible withdrawals. In addition, any ability of the company or its financial regulators to impose stays on counterparty terminations or withdrawals is relevant, because it may reduce the company's liquidity needs in an event of material financial distress. The Council also will consider the company's internal estimates of potential liquidity needs in a context of material financial distress.

The company's leverage and short-term debt ratios are relevant to this analysis, as high leverage and reliance on short-term funding can increase the potential for a company to be subject to sudden liquidity strains that force it rapidly to sell assets. Leverage can be measured by the ratio of assets to capital or as a measure of economic risk relative to capital. The latter measurement can better capture the effect of derivatives and other products with embedded leverage on the risk undertaken by a nonbank financial company. Comparisons of leverage to peer financial institutions can help indicate the level of risk at the company. Metrics that may be used to assess leverage include:

- Total assets and total debt measured relative to total equity, which measures financial leverage.

- Derivatives liabilities and off-balance sheet obligations relative to total equity, which may show how much off-balance sheet leverage a nonbank financial company may have.

- Securities financing transactions and funding agreements that provide alternative sources of liquidity or operating income, which indicate the use of operating leverage.

- Changes in leverage ratios, which may indicate that a nonbank financial company is increasing or decreasing its risk profile.
