
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIII - Financial Stability Oversight Council
### PART 1310 - AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF CERTAIN NONBANK FINANCIAL COMPANIES
#### Appendix A to Part 1310 - Financial Stability Oversight Council Guidance for Nonbank Financial Company Determinations
##### Costs.

With respect to the costs of a Council determination, the Council will consider the costs of the determination itself, both to (1) the nonbank financial company due to additional regulatory requirements resulting from the determination, including the costs of the prudential standards adopted by the Federal Reserve under section 165 of the Dodd Frank Act; and (2) the U.S. economy.

The Council will consider costs to the company arising from anticipated new or increased regulatory requirements resulting from the determination related to:

- Risk-management requirements, such as the costs of capital planning and stress testing.

- Supervision and examination, such as compliance costs to the firm of additional examination and supervision.

- Increased capital requirements, after accounting for offsetting benefits to taxpayers and to the holders of the firm's other liabilities.

- Liquidity requirements, such as the opportunity cost from any requirement to hold additional high-quality liquid assets, relative to the company's current investment portfolio.

Because the Federal Reserve is required to tailor prudential standards to a nonbank financial company subject to a Council determination after the Council has made a determination regarding the company, the new regulatory requirements that result from the Council's determination will not be known to the Council during its analysis of the company. In cases where the nonbank financial company under review primarily engages in bank-like activities, the Council may consider, as a proxy, the costs that would be imposed on the nonbank if the Federal Reserve imposed prudential standards similar to those imposed on bank holding companies with at least $250 billion in total consolidated assets under section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act.

The Council also will consider the cost of a determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act to the U.S. economy by assessing the impact of the determination on the availability and cost of credit or financial products in relevant U.S. markets. To the extent that the markets in which the relevant nonbank participates have low concentration, the impact that the determination regarding one firm would have on credit conditions would generally be immaterial. However, if the relevant markets are concentrated, a Council determination regarding a significant market participant could have a material impact on credit conditions in that market. As part of this analysis, the Council may also consider the extent to which any reduction in financial services provided by the nonbank financial company under review would be offset by other market participants.
