
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIV - Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
### PART 1402 - RELEASING INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Availability of Records of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
##### ยง 1402.14 Response to requests for records.

(a) Within 20 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays), or any extensions thereof as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, of the receipt of a request by the Freedom of Information Officer, the Freedom of Information Officer shall determine whether to comply with or deny such a request and transmit a written notice thereof to the requester.

(b) Within 90 days of the receipt of a notice denying, in whole or in part, a request for records, the requester may appeal the denial. The appeal shall be in writing addressed to the Chief Financial Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102, and both the letter and envelope shall clearly be marked "FOIA Appeal." An appeal improperly addressed shall be deemed not to have been received for purposes of the 20-day time period set forth in paragraph (c) of this section until it is received, or would have been received with the exercise of due diligence by Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation personnel. You also have the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Corporation's FOIA Public Liaison, McLean, Virginia 22102, and the Office of Government Information Services, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road-OGIS, College Park, Maryland 20740-6001.

(c) Within 20 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays), or any extension thereof as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, of the receipt of an appeal, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall act upon the appeal and place a notice of the determination thereof in writing in the mail addressed to the requester. If the determination on the appeal upholds in whole or in part the denial of the request for records, or, if a determination on the appeal has not been mailed at the end of the 20-day period or the last extension thereof, the requester is deemed to have exhausted that person's administrative remedies, giving rise to a right of review in a district court of the United States as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4). When a determination cannot be mailed within the applicable time limit, the appeal will nevertheless be processed. In such case, upon the expiration of the time limit, the requester will be informed of the reason for the delay, of the date on which a determination may be expected to be mailed, and of that person's right to seek judicial review. The requester may be asked to forego judicial review until determination of the appeal.
