
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIV - Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
### PART 1402 - RELEASING INFORMATION
#### Subpart C - Fees for Provision of Information
##### ยง 1402.21 Categories of requesters - fees.

There are four categories of requesters: Commercial use requesters; educational and noncommercial scientific institutions; representatives of the news media; and all other requesters.

(a) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall charge fees for records requested by or on behalf of educational institutions and noncommercial scientific institutions in an amount which equals the cost of reproducing the documents responsive to the request, excluding the costs of reproducing the first 100 pages. For a request to be included in this category, requesters must show that the request being made is authorized by and under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use but are sought in furtherance of scholarly research (if the request is from an educational institution) or scientific research (if the request is from a noncommercial scientific institution).

(b) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall charge fees for records requested by representatives of the news media in an amount which equals the cost of reproducing the documents responsive to the request, excluding the costs of reproducing the first 100 pages. For a request to be included in this category, the requester must qualify as a representative of the news media and the request must not be made for a commercial use. A request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be a request that is for a commercial use.

(c) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall charge fees for records requested by persons or entities making a commercial use request in an amount that equals the full direct costs for searching for, reviewing for release, and reproducing the records sought. Commercial use requesters are not entitled to 2 hours of free search time nor 100 free pages of reproduction of documents. In accordance with ยง 1402.26, commercial use requesters may be charged the costs of searching for and reviewing records even if there is ultimately no disclosure of records.

(d) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall charge fees for records requested by persons or entities that are not classified in any of the categories listed in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section in an amount that equals the full reasonable direct cost of searching for and reproducing records that are responsive to the request, excluding the first 2 hours of search time and the cost of reproducing the first 100 pages of records. In accordance with ยง 1402.26, requesters in this category may be charged the cost of searching for records even if there is ultimately no disclosure of records, excluding the first 2 hours of search time.
