
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIV - Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
### PART 1408 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart A - Administrative Collection of Claims
##### ยง 1408.10 Review procedures.

(a) Unless an oral hearing is required by ยง 1408.23(d), the Corporation's review shall be a review of the written record of the claim.

(b) If an oral hearing is required under ยง 1408.23(d) the Corporation shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for such a hearing. The oral hearing, however, shall not be an adversarial adjudication and need not take the form of a formal evidentiary hearing. All significant matters discussed at the hearing, however, will be carefully documented.

(c) Any review required by this part, whether a review of the written record or an oral hearing, shall be conducted by a hearing official. In the case of a salary offset, the hearing official shall not be under the supervision or control of the Chairman of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.

(d) The Corporation may be represented by legal counsel. The debtor may represent himself or herself or may be represented by an individual of the debtor's choice and at the debtor's expense.

(e) The hearing official shall issue a final written decision based on documentary evidence and, if applicable, information developed at an oral hearing. The written decision shall be issued as soon as practicable after the review but not later than 60 days after the date on which the request for review was received by the Corporation, unless the debtor requests a delay in the proceedings. A delay in the proceedings shall be granted if the hearing official determines, in his or her sole discretion, that there is good cause to grant the delay. If a delay is granted, the 60-day decision period shall be extended by the number of days by which the review was postponed.

(f) Upon issuance of the written opinion, the Corporation shall promptly notify the debtor of the hearing official's decision. Said notification shall include a copy of the written decision issued by the hearing official pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
