
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIV - Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
### PART 1408 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart A - Administrative Collection of Claims
##### ยง 1408.9 Right to agency review.

(a) If the debtor disputes the claim, the debtor may request a review of the Corporation's determination of the existence of the debt or of the amount of the debt. If only part of the claim is disputed, the undisputed portion should be paid by the payment due date.

(b) To obtain a review, the debtor shall submit a written request for review to the Corporation official named in the initial demand letter, within 15 calendar days after receipt of the letter. The debtor's request for review shall state the basis on which the claim is disputed.

(c) The Corporation shall promptly notify the debtor, in writing, that the Corporation has received the request for review. The Corporation shall conduct its review of the claim in accordance with ยง 1408.10.

(d) Upon completion of its review of the claim, the Corporation shall notify the debtor whether the Corporation's determination of the existence or amount of the debt has been sustained, amended, or canceled. The notification shall include a copy of the written decision issued by the hearing official pursuant to ยง 1408.10(e). If the Corporation's determination is sustained, this notification shall contain a provision which states that the Corporation intends to collect the debt by all legally available means, which may include initiating legal action against the debtor, referring the debt to a collection agency for collection, collecting the debt by offset, or asking other Federal agencies for assistance in collecting the debt by offset.
