
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XIV - Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
### PART 1408 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart C - Offset Against Salary
##### ยง 1408.39 Procedures for salary offset.

(a) The Chairman, or designee of the Chairman, shall determine the amount of an employee's disposable pay and the amount to be deducted from the employee's disposable pay at regular pay intervals.

(b) Deductions shall begin within three official pay periods following the date of mailing or delivery of the Notice of Intent to Collect by Salary Offset.

(c)(1) If the amount of the debt is equal to or is less than 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay, such debt should be collected in one lump-sum deduction.

(2) If the amount of the debt is not collected in one lump-sum deduction, the debt shall be collected in installment deductions over a period of time not greater than the anticipated period of employment. The size and frequency of installment deductions will bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. However, the amount deducted from any pay period will not exceed 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay for that period, unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount.

(3) A deduction exceeding the 15-percent disposable pay limitation may be made from any final salary payment pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716 in order to liquidate the debt, whether the employee is being separated voluntarily or involuntarily.

(4) Whenever an employee subject to salary offset is separated from the Corporation and the balance of the debt cannot be liquidated by offset of the final salary check pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716, the Corporation may offset any later payments of any kind against the balance of the debt.

(d) In instances where two or more creditor agencies are seeking salary offsets against current employees of the Corporation or where two or more debts are owed to a single creditor agency, the Corporation, at its discretion, may determine whether one or more debts should be offset simultaneously within the 15-percent limitation. Debts owed to the Corporation should generally take precedence over debts owed to other agencies.
