
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XVIII - Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury
### PART 1805 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS PROGRAM
#### Subpart H - Terms and Conditions of Assistance
##### ยง 1805.803 Data collection and reporting.
###### Audits and Audited Financial Statements.

(1)(i) All non-profit organizations that are required to have their financial statements audited pursuant to the Uniform Requirements, must submit their single-audits no later than nine months after the end of the Recipient's fiscal year. Non-profit organizations (excluding Insured CDFIs and State-Insured Credit Unions) that are not required to have financial statements audited pursuant to the Uniform Requirements, must submit to the CDFI Fund a statement signed by the Recipient's Authorized Representative or certified public accountant, asserting that the Recipient is not required to have a single audit pursuant to the Uniform Requirements as indicated in the Assistance Agreement. In such instances, the CDFI Fund may require additional audits to be performed as stated in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability.

(ii) For-profit organizations (excluding Insured CDFIs and State-Insured Credit Unions) must submit to the CDFI Fund financial statements audited in conformity with generally accepted auditing standards as promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, no later than six months after the end of the Recipient's fiscal year.

(iii) Insured CDFIs are not required to submit financial statements to the CDFI Fund. The CDFI Fund will obtain the necessary information from publicly available sources. State-Insured Credit Unions must submit to the CDFI Fund copies of the financial statements that they submit to the Appropriate State Agency.

(iv) If multiple for-profit organizations sign the Assistance Agreement: The Recipient may submit combined financial statements and footnotes for the Recipient and other entities that signed the Assistance Agreement as long as the financial statements of each signatory are shown separately (for example, in combining financial statements).
