
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XVIII - Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury
### PART 1805 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS PROGRAM
#### Subpart H - Terms and Conditions of Assistance
##### ยง 1805.803 Data collection and reporting.
###### Annual Report.

(2)(i) Each Recipient shall submit to the CDFI Fund a performance and financial report at the times that shall be specified in the Assistance Agreement (Annual Report). The Annual Report consists of several components which may include, but are not limited to, an institution level report, transaction level report, use of financial or technical assistance report, explanation of any Recipient noncompliance, and shareholder report. The Annual Report components shall be specified and described in the Assistance Agreement.

(ii) The CDFI Fund will use the Annual Report to collect data to assess the Recipient's compliance with its Performance Goals and the impact of the CDFI Program and the CDFI industry.

(iii) Recipients are responsible for the timely and complete submission of the Annual Report, even if all or a portion of the documents actually are completed by another entity or signatory to the Assistance Agreement. If such other entities or signatories are required to provide Annual Reports, or other documentation that the CDFI Fund may require, the Recipient is responsible for ensuring that the information is submitted timely and complete. The CDFI Fund reserves the right to contact such additional signatories to the Assistance Agreement and require that additional information and documentation be provided.

(3) The CDFI Fund's review of the progress of an Insured CDFI, a Depository Institution Holding Company or a State-Insured Credit Union in implementing its Comprehensive Business Plan and satisfying the terms and conditions of its Assistance Agreement may also include information from the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency, as the case may be.
