
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XVIII - Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury
### PART 1807 - CAPITAL MAGNET FUND
#### Subpart D - Qualification as Affordable Housing
##### ยง 1807.402 Affordable Housing - Homeownership.
###### Resale.,i.e.,

(5)To ensure that CMF Awards are being used for qualifying Families for the entire 10-year affordability period, recoupment and redeployment or resale strategies must be imposed by the Recipient. A recoupment strategy must ensure that, in the event the qualifying homeowner sells the Housing before the end of the 10-year affordability period and the new homeowner does not meet the affordability qualifications set forth in ยง 1807.400, an amount equal to the amount of the CMF Award investment in the Housing, whether recouped or not, is used to finance additional Affordable Housing Activities for a qualifying Family in the same income category for Affordable Housing Homeownership in the manner set forth in this section, except that the Housing must meet the affordability requirements only for the remaining duration of the affordability period. The Recipient may design and implement its own recoupment strategy. Deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, or other similar mechanisms may be used as the mechanism to impose a resale strategy. The Recipient shall report to the CDFI Fund the event of resale and/or recoupment and redeployment of the CMF Award, or an equivalent amount, in the manner described in the Assistance Agreement. The affordability restrictions may terminate upon occurrence of any of the following termination events: Foreclosure, transfer in lieu of foreclosure, or assignment of an FHA-insured mortgage to HUD. The Recipient may use purchase options, rights of first refusal or other preemptive rights to purchase the Housing before foreclosure to preserve affordability. The affordability restrictions shall be revived according to the original terms if, during the original affordability period, the owner of record before the termination event, obtains an ownership interest in the Housing. If there is a sale of Single-family housing funded by a CMF Award prior to the completion of the 10-year affordability period, the Recipient must demonstrate that it placed into service Single-family housing targeting the same income population (Extremely Low-Income, Very Low-Income, Low-Income) as the original Single-family housing, as set forth in the Assistance Agreement, financed with an equivalent amount to the recouped portion of the CMF Award, that will be tracked for the duration of the affordability period of the original Single-family housing.
