
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XVIII - Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury
### PART 1807 - CAPITAL MAGNET FUND
#### Subpart D - Qualification as Affordable Housing
##### ยง 1807.401 Affordable Housing - Rental Housing.
###### Tenant income determination.

(f)(1) Each year during the period of affordability, the tenant's income shall be re-examined; tenant income examination and verification is ultimately the responsibility of the Recipient. Annual income shall include income from all household members. The Recipient must require the Project owner to obtain information on rents and occupancy of Affordable Housing financed or assisted with a CMF Award in order to demonstrate compliance with this section.

(2) One of the following two definitions of "annual income" must be used to determine whether a Family is income-eligible:

(i) Adjusted gross income as defined for purposes of reporting under Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 1040 series for individual Federal annual income tax purposes; or

(ii) "Annual Income" as defined at 24 CFR 5.609 (except that when determining the income of a homeowner for an owner-occupied Rehabilitation Project, the value of the homeowner's principal residence may be excluded from the calculation of Net Family Assets, as defined in 24 CFR 5.603).

(3) Although either of the above two definitions of "annual income" is permitted, in order to calculate adjusted income, exclusions from income set forth at 24 CFR 5.611 shall be applied.

(4) The CDFI Fund reserves the right to deem certain government programs, under which a Low-Income Family is a recipient, as income eligible for purposes of meeting the tenant income requirements under this section.
