
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XVIII - Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury
### PART 1807 - CAPITAL MAGNET FUND
#### Subpart I - Terms and Conditions of CMF Award
##### ยง 1807.902 Data collection and reporting.
###### Data collection and reporting,Financial reporting,

(e)-(1)(i) All Nonprofit Organization Recipients that are required to have their financial statements audited pursuant to the Uniform Administrative Requirements, must submit their single-audits by a time set forth in the applicable NOFA or Assistance Agreement. Nonprofit Organization Recipients (excluding Insured CDFIs and State-Insured Credit Unions) that are not required to have financial statements audited pursuant to the Uniform Administrative Requirements, must submit to the CDFI Fund a statement signed by the Recipient's authorized representative or certified public accountant, asserting that the Recipient is not required to have a single-audit pursuant to the Uniform Administrative Requirements as indicated in the Assistance Agreement. In such instances, the CDFI Fund may require additional audits to be performed and/or submitted to the CDFI Fund as stated in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability and Assistance Agreement.

(ii) For-profit Recipients (excluding Insured CDFIs and State-Insured Credit Unions) must submit to the CDFI Fund financial statements audited in conformity with generally accepted auditing standards as promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants by a time set forth in the applicable NOFA or Assistance Agreement.

(iii) Insured CDFIs are not required to submit financial statements to the CDFI Fund. The CDFI Fund will obtain the necessary information from publicly available sources. State-Insured Credit Unions must submit to the CDFI Fund copies of the financial statements that they submit to the Appropriate State Agency.
