
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XVIII - Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury
### PART 1807 - CAPITAL MAGNET FUND
#### Subpart I - Terms and Conditions of CMF Award
##### ยง 1807.902 Data collection and reporting.
###### Annual report.

(2)(i) The Recipient shall submit a performance and financial report that shall be specified in the Assistance Agreement (annual report). The annual report consists of several components which may include, but are not limited to, a report on performance goals and measures, explanation of any Recipient noncompliance, and such other information as may be required by the CDFI Fund. The annual report components shall be specified and described in the Assistance Agreement.

(ii) The CDFI Fund will use the annual report to collect data to assess the Recipient's compliance with its performance goals and the impact of the CMF and the CDFI industry.

(iii) The Recipient is responsible for the timely and complete submission of the annual report, even if all or a portion of the documents actually are completed by another entity. If such other entities are required to provide information for the annual report, or such other documentation that the CDFI Fund might require, the Recipient is responsible for ensuring that the information is submitted timely and complete. The CDFI Fund reserves the right to contact such other entities and require that additional information and documentation be provided.

(iv) The CDFI Fund's review of the compliance of an Insured CDFI, a Depository Institution Holding Company or a State-Insured Credit Union with the terms and conditions of its Assistance Agreement may also include information from the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency, as the case may be.
