
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XVIII - Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury
### PART 1808 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS BOND GUARANTEE PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Interest Rates; Terms and Conditions of Bonds, Bond Loans, and Secondary Loans
##### ยง 1808.300 Interest rates.
###### Interest rates.

(a)(1) A Bond Rate will be established by the Bond Purchaser as of the date of the respective advance of funds, as provided in the Bond. The Bond Rate for each advance of funds must be fixed and consistent with Federal credit policies outlined in OMB Circular A-129. The FFB, as Bond Purchaser, will set rates to the borrower pursuant to section 6(b) of the Federal Financing Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 2285(b)) and the FFB Lending Policy. This rate will be indexed to the appropriate Treasury rate based on the Treasury yield curve and include a spread to be determined by the Bond Purchaser; variable Bond Rates are not permitted.

(2) Interest on each advance of funds under a Bond shall be computed as provided in the Bond.

(3) A principal and interest payment schedule will be determined and provided to the Qualified Issuer for each advance of funds under a Bond, based on the Bond Rate established for the respective advance. The final principal and interest payment schedule for amounts due under a Bond will be the aggregation of the individual principal and interest payment schedules for all advances of funds under the Bond.

(4) The Bond Loan Rate shall be the same as the Bond Rate on the particular advance of funds under the Bond that funds the Bond Loan.

(5) The rate of interest for each Secondary Loan shall be established by the Eligible CDFI in accordance with subsection 1808.307(c), and may be subject to limitations specified in the applicable NOGA.
