
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XVIII - Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury
### PART 1808 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS BOND GUARANTEE PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Interest Rates; Terms and Conditions of Bonds, Bond Loans, and Secondary Loans
##### ยง 1808.303 Risk-Share Pool.

The Master Servicer/Trustee, on behalf of the Qualified Issuer and for the benefit of the Bondholder, shall establish a Risk-Share Pool that is funded at each disbursement of the Bond Loan proceeds by payment from each Eligible CDFI in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4713a(d). The Risk-Share Pool must remain in place throughout the term of the Guarantee. Amounts in the Risk Share Pool Fund will not be returned to Eligible CDFIs until maturity of all of the Bonds, and termination of all of the Bond Loans, within a Bond Issue.

(a) At each disbursement of the Bond Loan proceeds, each Eligible CDFI shall deposit an amount that is equal to three percent of the disbursement, for a total of three percent of the guaranteed amount outstanding of the Bond, from monies other than Bond Loan proceeds, into the applicable subaccount of the Risk-Share Pool Fund. Such monies shall remain in said account throughout the term of the Bond.

(b) Any interest on a Bond Loan in excess of the Bond Loan Rate derived by the Qualified Issuer during any period during which the Bond Loan Payment Default Rate applies shall also be deposited in the Risk-Share Pool Fund.

(c) The Risk-Share Pool Fund shall be applied by the Master Servicer/Trustee to payments of debt service on the Bond Issue in the event that the Eligible CDFI defaults in the corresponding payment of debt service on the Bond Loan. The defaulted Eligible CDFI's deposit shall be applied first to any such payment of debt service. After depletion of the defaulted Eligible CDFI's deposit, each remaining Eligible CDFI's deposit shall be applied prorata to any such payment of debt service. Monies on deposit in the Risk-Share Pool Fund shall be applied to such payments and shall be depleted in full prior to any draw on the Guarantee.

(d) Eligible CDFIs (excluding the Eligible CDFI in default and responsible for a draw) shall not be required to replenish the Risk-Share Pool Fund in the event of a draw.

(e) The Risk Share Pool deposit shall be sufficient collateral to secure any draw on Bond Loan proceeds related to the costs of issuance pursuant to 1808.304(b).

(f) In the event of a payment default on the Bond Loan by an Eligible CDFI, the Qualified Issuer shall notify the CDFI Fund and request permission to draw from the Risk-Share Pool to cover any default of principal and interest payments due to the Bond Purchaser.

(g) Amounts in the Risk Share Pool Fund will not be returned to Eligible CDFIs until maturity of all of the Bonds, and termination of all of the Bond Loans, within a Bond Issue. Upon maturity of all of the Bonds, and termination of the Bond Loans, within a Bond Issue, the pro rata amount of each Eligible CDFI's payments in the Risk-Share Pool shall be returned to each Eligible CDFI; provided however, that such Eligible CDFI has properly replenished any draws on the Risk-Share Pool attributed to nonpayment of its Bond Loan and the corresponding Bond.
