
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XVIII - Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury
### PART 1808 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS BOND GUARANTEE PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Interest Rates; Terms and Conditions of Bonds, Bond Loans, and Secondary Loans
##### ยง 1808.307 Secondary Loan Eligible Purposes; Terms and conditions.
###### Disbursement of Secondary Loan proceeds.

(h)(1) Consistent with the corresponding Bond Loan, Secondary Loans shall be draw-down loans. Disbursements of Secondary Loan proceeds to the Secondary Borrower shall be made pursuant to a requisition process established by the Qualified Issuer and the CDFI Fund and shall mirror the requirements for the disbursement of Bond Proceeds.

(2) Each requisition shall be accompanied by invoices and certifications by the Secondary Borrower as to expenditure of proceeds for Eligible Purposes. The Eligible CDFI must also attest that the Secondary Loan conforms to the requirements set forth in the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements. In the case of Refinancings, the Eligible CDFI must also attest that the original loan was used for an Eligible Purpose.

(3) Secondary Loan proceeds shall be disbursed in accordance with the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements which shall set forth, among other requirements, that Secondary Loan disbursements shall be made in accordance with commercially reasonable standards and timeframes for disbursement based on the nature of the Eligible Purposes. The Secondary Loan Requirements shall also specify what constitutes a commercially reasonable timeframe for disbursement in connection with specific types of Eligible Purposes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Eligible CDFI shall propose a timeframe for disbursement in connection with each Secondary Loan, which timeframe shall be subject to the requirements set forth in the Secondary Loan Requirements.
