
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter XVIII - Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury
### PART 1808 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS BOND GUARANTEE PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Evaluation and Selection
##### ยง 1808.504 Selection of Qualified Issuers; Approval for Guarantee.
###### General.

(a)Designation of an applicant as a Qualified Issuer shall be based on the foregoing evaluation criteria and processes, and any other requirements or processes that may be set forth in the applicable NOGA. An applicant may simultaneously apply for Qualified Issuer designation and a Guarantee; however, the entity must be designated as a Qualified Issuer before being selected to receive a Guarantee.

(b) The Guarantor will determine whether a Qualified Issuer will be authorized to issue Bonds and receive a Guarantee based on the foregoing evaluation criteria and processes, and any other requirements or processes set forth in the applicable NOGA.

(1) Not later than 30 days after receipt of a complete Guarantee Application (or 30 days after designation as a Qualified Issuer, if submitting simultaneous applications) by a Qualified Issuer, the CDFI Fund shall provide an internal Department Opinion regarding compliance by the Qualified Issuer with the requirements of the CDFI Bond Guarantee Program.

(2) The Guarantor shall approve or deny a Guarantee Application no later than 90 days after receipt of a complete Guarantee Application, and all other required information by the CDFI Fund or the Guarantor with respect to a request for such Guarantee.

(c) The Guarantor may limit the number of Guarantees made per year or Guarantee Applications accepted to ensure that a sufficient examination of Guarantee Applications is conducted.

(d) The CDFI Fund shall notify the Qualified Issuer in writing of the Guarantor's approval or disapproval of a Guarantee Application.

(e) The Guarantor reserves the sole discretion to approve a Guarantee Application for a Guarantee amount that is less than that which is requested.

(f) In the event that there are material changes after submission of a Guarantee Application (including, but not limited to, a revision of the Capital Distribution Plan or a change in the Certified CDFIs that are proposed for receiving Bond Loans) prior to or after the designation as a Qualified Issuer or approval of a Guarantee Application or Guarantee, the Qualified Issuer or Guarantee applicant must notify the CDFI Fund of such material changes information in a timely and complete manner. The Guarantor will evaluate such material changes, along with the Guarantee Application, to approve or deny the Guarantee Application and/or determine whether to modify the terms and conditions of the Guarantee.
