
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 3 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY STANDARDS
#### Subpart D - Risk-Weighted Assets - Standardized Approach
##### Risk-Weighted Assets for Securitization Exposures
###### ยง 3.42 Risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures.
####### N,-to-default credit derivatives,Protection provider.

(i)-(1)A national bank or Federal savings association may assign a risk weight using the SSFA in ยง 3.43 to an n-to-default credit derivative in accordance with this paragraph (i). A national bank or Federal savings association must determine its exposure in the n-to-default credit derivative as the largest notional amount of all the underlying exposures.

(2) For purposes of determining the risk weight for an n-to-default credit derivative using the SSFA, the national bank or Federal savings association must calculate the attachment point and detachment point of its exposure as follows:

(i) The attachment point (parameter A) is the ratio of the sum of the notional amounts of all underlying exposures that are subordinated to the national bank's or Federal savings association's exposure to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. The ratio is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. In the case of a first-to-default credit derivative, there are no underlying exposures that are subordinated to the national bank's or Federal savings association's exposure. In the case of a second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivative, the smallest (n-1) notional amounts of the underlying exposure(s) are subordinated to the national bank's or Federal savings association's exposure.

(ii) The detachment point (parameter D) equals the sum of parameter A plus the ratio of the notional amount of the national bank's or Federal savings association's exposure in the n-to-default credit derivative to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. The ratio is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.

(3) A national bank or Federal savings association that does not use the SSFA to determine a risk weight for its n-to-default credit derivative must assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the exposure.
