
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 3 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY STANDARDS
#### Subpart E - Risk-Weighted Assets - Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced Measurement Approaches
##### Qualification
###### ยง 3.122 Qualification requirements.
####### Control, oversight, and validation mechanisms.

(i)(1) The national bank's or Federal savings association's senior management must ensure that all components of the national bank's or Federal savings association's advanced systems function effectively and comply with the qualification requirements in this section.

(2) The national bank's or Federal savings association's board of directors (or a designated committee of the board) must at least annually review the effectiveness of, and approve, the national bank's or Federal savings association's advanced systems.

(3) A national bank or Federal savings association must have an effective system of controls and oversight that:

(i) Ensures ongoing compliance with the qualification requirements in this section;

(ii) Maintains the integrity, reliability, and accuracy of the national bank's or Federal savings association's advanced systems; and

(iii) Includes adequate governance and project management processes.

(4) The national bank or Federal savings association must validate, on an ongoing basis, its advanced systems. The national bank's or Federal savings association's validation process must be independent of the advanced systems' development, implementation, and operation, or the validation process must be subjected to an independent review of its adequacy and effectiveness. Validation must include:

(i) An evaluation of the conceptual soundness of (including developmental evidence supporting) the advanced systems;

(ii) An ongoing monitoring process that includes verification of processes and benchmarking; and

(iii) An outcomes analysis process that includes backtesting.

(5) The national bank or Federal savings association must have an internal audit function or equivalent function that is independent of business-line management that at least annually:

(i) Reviews the national bank's or Federal savings association's advanced systems and associated operations, including the operations of its credit function and estimations of PD, LGD, and EAD;

(ii) Assesses the effectiveness of the controls supporting the national bank's or Federal savings association's advanced systems; and

(iii) Documents and reports its findings to the national bank's or Federal savings association's board of directors (or a committee thereof).

(6) The national bank or Federal savings association must periodically stress test its advanced systems. The stress testing must include a consideration of how economic cycles, especially downturns, affect risk-based capital requirements (including migration across rating grades and segments and the credit risk mitigation benefits of double default treatment).
