
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 3 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY STANDARDS
#### Subpart E - Risk-Weighted Assets - Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced Measurement Approaches
##### Risk-Weighted Assets for General Credit Risk
###### ยง 3.131 Mechanics for calculating total wholesale and retail risk-weighted assets.
####### Credit risk mitigation: credit derivatives, guarantees, and collateral.

(5)(i) A national bank or Federal savings association may take into account the risk reducing effects of eligible guarantees and eligible credit derivatives in support of a wholesale exposure by applying the PD substitution or LGD adjustment treatment to the exposure as provided in ยง 3.134 or, if applicable, applying double default treatment to the exposure as provided in ยง 3.135. A national bank or Federal savings association may decide separately for each wholesale exposure that qualifies for the double default treatment under ยง 3.135 whether to apply the double default treatment or to use the PD substitution or LGD adjustment treatment without recognizing double default effects.

(ii) A national bank or Federal savings association may take into account the risk reducing effects of guarantees and credit derivatives in support of retail exposures in a segment when quantifying the PD and LGD of the segment. In doing so, a national bank or Federal savings association must consider all relevant available information.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association may take into account the risk reducing effects of collateral in support of a wholesale exposure when quantifying the LGD of the exposure, and may take into account the risk reducing effects of collateral in support of retail exposures when quantifying the PD and LGD of the segment. In order to do so, a national bank or Federal savings association must have established internal requirements for collateral management, legal certainty, and risk management processes.
