
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 163 - SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS - OPERATIONS
#### Subpart G - Reporting and Bonding
##### ยง 163.180 Suspicious Activity Reports and other reports and statements.
###### Exemptions.

(f)(1) The OCC may grant a Federal savings association or service corporation an exemption from the requirements of this section. A Federal savings association or service corporation requesting an exemption must submit a request in writing to the OCC. In reviewing such requests, the OCC will consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act (if applicable) and safe and sound banking, and may consider other appropriate factors. Any exemption will apply only as expressly stated in the exemption. (A Federal savings association or service corporation requesting an exemption that also requires relief from the requirements of applicable regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR chapter X must submit a request in writing to both the OCC and FinCEN for approval.)

(2) The OCC will respond in writing to the Federal savings association or service corporation that submits a request pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section after considering whether the exemption is consistent with the factors in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. Any exemption granted by the OCC under paragraph (f)(1) of this section will continue for the time specified by the OCC.

(3) The OCC may extend the period of time or may revoke an exemption granted under paragraph (f)(1) of this section. Exemptions or extensions may be revoked in the sole discretion of the OCC. Before revoking an exemption, the OCC will provide written notice to the Federal savings association or service corporation of the OCC's intention to revoke an exemption. Such notice will include the basis for the revocation and will provide an opportunity for the Federal savings association or service corporation to submit a response to the OCC. The OCC will consider any response before deciding whether or not to revoke an exemption and provide written notice to the Federal savings association or service corporation of the OCC's final decision to revoke an exemption.

(4) With respect to requests for exemptions that will also require relief from the requirements of applicable regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR chapter X, upon receiving approval from both the OCC and FinCEN, the requestor will be relieved of its obligations under this section to the extent stated in such approvals.
