
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 1 - INVESTMENT SECURITIES
#### Interpretations
##### ยง 1.110 Taxing powers of a State or political subdivision.

(a) An obligation is considered supported by the full faith and credit of a State or political subdivision possessing general powers of taxation when the promise or other commitment of the State or the political subdivision will produce funds, which (together with any other funds available for the purpose) will be sufficient to provide for all required payments on the obligation. In order to evaluate whether a commitment of a State or political subdivision is likely to generate sufficient funds, a bank shall consider the impact of any possible limitations regarding the State's or political subdivision's taxing powers, as well as the availability of funds in view of the projected revenues and expenditures. Quantitative restrictions on the general powers of taxation of the State or political subdivision do not necessarily mean that an obligation is not supported by the full faith and credit of the State or political subdivision. In such case, the bank shall determine the eligibility of obligations by reviewing, on a case-by-case basis, whether tax revenues available under the limited taxing powers are sufficient for the full and timely payment of interest on, and principal of, the obligation. The bank shall use current and reasonable financial projections in calculating the availability of the revenues. An obligation expressly or implicitly dependent upon voter or legislative authorization of appropriations may be considered supported by the full faith and credit of a State or political subdivision if the bank determines, on the basis of past actions by the voters or legislative body in similar situations involving similar types of projects, that it is reasonably probable that the obligor will obtain all necessary appropriations.

(b) An obligation supported exclusively by excise taxes or license fees is not a general obligation for the purposes of 12 U.S.C. 24 (Seventh). Nevertheless, an obligation that is primarily payable from a fund consisting of excise taxes or other pledged revenues qualifies as a "general obligation," if, in the event of a deficiency of those revenues, the obligation is also supported by the general revenues of a State or a political subdivision possessing general powers of taxation.
