
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 192 - CONVERSIONS FROM MUTUAL TO STOCK FORM
#### Subpart A - Standard Conversions
##### Agency Review of the Application for Conversion
###### ยง 192.200 Review, approval, or denial of application for conversion.
####### Standards for review of appraisal.

(b)The appropriate Federal banking agency will review the appraisal required by ยง 192.150(a)(2) in determining whether to approve the application. The appropriate Federal banking agency will review the appraisal under the following requirements.

(1) Independent persons experienced and expert in corporate appraisal, and acceptable to the appropriate Federal banking agency, must prepare the appraisal report.

(2) An affiliate of the appraiser may serve as an underwriter or selling agent, if the savings association ensures that the appraiser is separate from the underwriter or selling agent affiliate and the underwriter or selling agent affiliate does not make recommendations or affect the appraisal.

(3) The appraiser may not receive any fee in connection with the conversion other than for appraisal services.

(4) The appraisal report must include a complete and detailed description of the elements of the appraisal, a justification for the appraisal methodology, and sufficient support for the conclusions.

(5) If the appraisal is based on a capitalization of the savings association's pro forma income, it must indicate the basis for determining the income to be derived from the sale of shares, and demonstrate that the earnings multiple used is appropriate, including future earnings growth assumptions.

(6) If the appraisal is based on a comparison of the savings association's shares with outstanding shares of existing stock associations, the existing stock associations must be reasonably comparable in size, market area, competitive conditions, risk profile, profit history, and expected future earnings.

(7) The appropriate Federal banking agency may decline to process the application for conversion and deem it materially deficient or substantially incomplete if the initial appraisal report is materially deficient or substantially incomplete.

(8) A savings association may not represent or imply that the appropriate Federal banking agency approved the appraisal.
