
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 192 - CONVERSIONS FROM MUTUAL TO STOCK FORM
#### Subpart A - Standard Conversions
##### Post-Conversion
###### ยง 192.510 Repurchase of shares after conversion.
####### Repurchases during first year after conversion.

(a)A savings association may not repurchase its shares in the first year after the conversion except:

(1) In extraordinary circumstances, a savings association may make open market repurchases of up to five percent of its outstanding stock in the first year after the conversion if the savings association files a notice under ยง 192.515(a) and the appropriate Federal banking agency does not disapprove the repurchase. The appropriate Federal banking agency will not approve such repurchases unless the repurchase meets the standards in ยง 192.515(c), and the repurchase is consistent with paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) A savings association may repurchase qualifying shares of a director or conduct an appropriate Federal banking agency-approved repurchase pursuant to an offer made to all shareholders of the savings association.

(3) Repurchases to fund management recognition plans that have been ratified by shareholders do not count toward the repurchase limitations in this section. Repurchases in the first year to fund such plans require prior written notification to the appropriate Federal banking agency.

(4) Purchases to fund tax qualified employee stock benefit plans do not count toward the repurchase limitations in this section.
