
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 192 - CONVERSIONS FROM MUTUAL TO STOCK FORM
#### Subpart B - Voluntary Supervisory Conversions
##### Voluntary Supervisory Conversion Application
###### ยง 192.660 Contents of voluntary supervisory conversion application.
####### Financial data.

(d)(1) The savings association's most recent audited financial statements and Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income or Call Report, as appropriate. The savings association must explain how its current capital levels make the savings association eligible to engage in a voluntary supervisory conversion under ยง 192.625 or ยง 192.630.

(2) A description of the savings association's estimated conversion expenses.

(3) Evidence supporting the value of any non-cash asset contributions. Appraisals must be acceptable to the appropriate Federal banking agency and the non-cash assets must meet all other appropriate Federal banking agency policy guidelines.

(4) Pro forma financial statements that reflect the effects of the transaction. The savings association must identify its tangible, core, and risk-based capital levels and show the adjustments necessary to compute the capital levels. The savings association must prepare its pro forma statements in conformance with the appropriate Federal banking agency's regulations and the applicable accounting requirements.

(5) A statement describing the aggregate number and percentage of shares that each director, officer, and any affiliates or associates of the director or officer will purchase.
