
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 204-RESERVE REQUIREMENTS OF DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS (REGULATION D)
##### Interpretations
###### ยง 204.121 Bankers' banks.

(a)(1) The Federal Reserve Act, as amended by the Monetary Control Act of 1980 (title I of Pub. L. 96-221), imposes Federal reserve requirements on depository institutions that maintain transaction accounts or nonpersonal time deposits. Under section 19(b)(9), however, a depository institution is not required to maintain reserves if it:

(i) Is organized solely to do business with other financial institutions;

(ii) Is owned primarily by the financial institutions with which it does business; and

(iii) Does not do business with the general public.

(2) In its application of these requirements to specific institutions, the Board will use the following standards:

(i) A depository institution may be regarded as organized solely to do business with other depository institutions even if, as an incidental part to its activities, it does business to a limited extent with entities other than depository institutions. The extent to which the institution may do business with other entities and continue to be regarded as a bankers' bank is specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.

(ii) A depository institution will be regarded as being owned primarily by the institutions with which it does business if 75 per cent or more of its capital is owned by other depository institutions. The 75 per cent or more ownership rule applies regardless of the type of depository institution.

(iii) A depository institution will not be regarded as doing business with the general public if it meets two conditions. First, the range of customers with which the institution does business must be limited to depository institutions, including subsidiaries or organizations owned by depository institutions; directors, officers or employees of the same or other depository institutions; individuals whose accounts are acquired at the request of the institution's supervisory authority due to the actual or impending failure of another depository institution; share insurance funds; depository institution trade associations; and such others as the Board may determine on a case-by-case basis consistent with the purposes of the Act and the bankers' bank exemption. Second, the extent to which the depository institution makes loans to, or investments in, the above entities (other than depository institutions) cannot exceed 10 per cent of total assets, and the extent to which it receives deposits (or shares if the institution does not receive deposits) from or issues other liabilities to the above entities (other than depository institutions) cannot exceed 10 per cent of total liabilities (or net worth if the institution does not receive deposits).

(b) (1) Section 19(c)(1) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended by the Monetary Control Act of 1980 (title I of Pub. L. 96-221) provides that Federal reserve requirements may be satisfied by the maintenance of vault cash or balances in a Federal Reserve Bank. Depository institutions that are not members of the Federal Reserve System may also satisfy reserve requirements by maintaining a balance in another depository institution that maintains required reserve balances at a Federal Reserve Bank, in a Federal Home Loan Bank, or in the National Credit Union Administration Central Liquidity Facility if the balances maintained by such institutions are subsequently passed through to the Federal Reserve Bank.
