
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 204-RESERVE REQUIREMENTS OF DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS (REGULATION D)
##### Interpretations
###### ยง 204.121 Bankers' banks.
####### bankers' banks

(2) On August 27, 1980, the Board announced the procedures that will apply to such pass-through arrangements (45 FR 58099). Section 204.3(i)(1) provides that the Board may permit, on a case-by-case basis, depository institutions that are not themselves required to maintain reserves () to act as pass-through correspondents if certain criteria are satisfied. The Board has determined that a bankers' bank may act as a pass-through correspondent if it enters into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to accept responsibility for the maintenance of pass-through reserve accounts in accordance with Regulation D (12 CFR 204.3(i)) and if the Federal Reserve is satisfied that the quality of management and financial resources of the institution are adequate in order to enable the institution to serve as a pass-through correspondent in accordance with Regulation D. Satisfaction of these criteria will assure that pass-through arrangements are maintained properly without additional financial risk to the Federal Reserve.

(3) In order to determine uniformly the adequacy of managerial and financial resources, the Board will consult with the Federal supervisor for the type of institution under consideration. Because the Board does not possess direct experience with supervising depository institutions other than commercial banks, and does not intend to involve itself in the direct supervision of such institutions, it will request the National Credit Union Administration to review requests from credit unions that qualify as bankers' banks and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to review requests from savings and loan associations that qualify as bankers' banks, regardless of charter or insurance status. (The Board, itself, will consider requests from all commercial banks that qualify as bankers' banks.) If the Federal supervisor does not find the institution's managerial or financial resources to be adequate, the Board will not permit the institution to act as a pass-through correspondent. In order to assure the continued adequacy of managerial and financial resources, it is anticipated that the appropriate Federal supervisor will, on a periodic basis, review and evaluate the managerial and financial resources of the institution in order to determine whether it should continue to be permitted to act as a pass-through correspondent. It is anticipated that, with respect to state chartered institutions, the Federal supervisor may discuss the request with the institute State supervisor. The Board believes that this procedure will promote uniformity of treatment for all types of bankers' banks, and provide consistent advice concerning managerial ability and financial strength from supervisory authorities that are in a better position to evaluate these criteria for depository institutions that are not commercial banks.

(4) Requests for a determination as to whether a depository institution will be regarded as a bankers' bank for purposes of the Federal Reserve Act or for permission to act as a pass-through correspondent may be addressed to the Federal Reserve Bank in whose District the main office of the depository institution is located or to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. The Board will act promptly on all requests received directly or through Federal Reserve Banks.
