
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 204-RESERVE REQUIREMENTS OF DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS (REGULATION D)
##### Interpretations
###### ยง 204.123 Sale of Federal funds by investment companies or trusts in which the entire beneficial interest is held exclusively by depository institutions.
####### deposit,deposit,Federal funds,interbank

(a) The Federal Reserve Act, as amended by the Monetary Control Act of 1980 (Title I of Pub. L. 96-221) imposes Federal Reserve requirements on transaction accounts and nonpersonnel time deposits held by depository institutions. The Board is empowered under the Act to determine what types of obligations shall be deemed a deposit. Regulation D-Reserve Requirements of Depository Institutions exempts from the definition ofthose obligations of a depository institution that are issued or undertaken and held for the account of a domestic office of another depository institution (12 CFR 204.2(a)(1)(vii)(A)(1)). These exemptions from the definition ofare known collectively as theorexemption.

(b) Title IV of the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980 authorizes Federal savings and loan associations to invest in open-ended management investment companies provided the funds' investment portfolios are limited to the types of investments that a Federal savings and loan association could hold without limit as to percentage of assets (12 U.S.C. 1464(c)(1)(Q)). Such investments include mortgages, U.S. Government and agency securities, securities of states and political subdivisions, sales of Federal funds and deposits held at banks insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Federal Credit Union Act authorizes Federal credit unions to aggregate their funds in trusts provided the trust is limited to such investments that Federal credit unions could otherwise make. Such investments include loans to credit union members, obligations of the U.S. government or secured by the U.S. government, loans to other credit unions, shares or accounts held at savings and loan associations or mutual savings banks insured by FSLIC or FDIC, sales of Federal funds and shares of any central credit union whose investments are specifically authorized by the board of directors of the Federal credit union making the investment (12 U.S.C. 1757(7)).

(c) The Board has considered whether an investment company or trust whose entire beneficial interest is held by depository institutions, as defined in Regulation D, would be eligible for the Federal funds exemption from Reserve requirements and interest rate limitations. The Board has determined that such investment companies or trusts are eligible to participate in the Federal funds market because, in effect, they act as mere conduits for the holders of their beneficial interest. To be regarded by the Board as acting as a conduit and, thus, be eligible for participation in the Federal funds market, an investment company or trust must meet each of the following conditions:

(1) The entire beneficial interest in the investment company or trust must be held by depository institutions, as defined in Regulation D. These institutions presently may participate directly in the Federal funds market. If the entire beneficial interest in the investment company or trust is held only by depository institutions, the Board will regard the investment company or trust as a mere conduit for the holders of its beneficial interest.
