
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 204-RESERVE REQUIREMENTS OF DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS (REGULATION D)
##### Interpretations
###### ยง 204.124 Repurchase agreement involving shares of a money market mutual fund whose portfolio consists wholly of United States Treasury and Federal agency securities.
####### deposit

(a) The Federal Reserve Act, as amended by the Monetary Control Act of 1980 (title I of Pub. L. 96-221) imposes Federal reserve requirements on transaction accounts and nonpersonal time deposits held by depository institutions. The Board is empowered under the Act to determine what types of obligations shall be deemed a deposit (12 U.S.C. 461). Regulation D-Reserve Requirements of Depository Institutions exempts from the definition ofthose obligations of a depository institution that arise from a transfer of direct obligations of, or obligations that are fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States government or any agency thereof that the depository institution is obligated to repurchase (12 CFR 204.2(a)(1)(vii)(B)).

(b) The National Bank Act provides that a national bank may purchase for its own account investment securities under limitations and restrictions as the Comptroller may prescribe (12 U.S.C. 24, &#xB6; 7). The statute defines investment securities to mean marketable obligations evidencing indebtedness of any person in the form of bonds, notes, and debentures. The Act further limits a national bank's holdings of any one security to no more than an amount equal to 10 percent of the bank's capital stock and surplus. However, these limitations do not apply to obligations issued by the United States, general obligations of any state and certain obligations of Federal agencies. In addition, generally a national bank is not permitted to purchase for its own account stock of any corporation. These restrictions also apply to state member banks (12 U.S.C. 335).
