
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 204-RESERVE REQUIREMENTS OF DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS (REGULATION D)
##### ยง 204.10 Payment of interest on balances.
###### Payment of interest.

(b)Interest on balances maintained at Federal Reserve Banks by or on behalf of an eligible institution is established as set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For balances maintained in an eligible institution's master account, interest is the amount equal to the interest on reserve balances rate ("IORB rate") on a day multiplied by the total balances maintained on that day. The IORB rate is 4.9 percent.

(2) For term deposits, interest is:

(i) The amount equal to the principal amount of the term deposit multiplied by a rate specified in advance by the Board, in light of existing short-term market rates, to maintain the federal funds rate at a level consistent with monetary policy objectives; or

(ii) The amount equal to the principal amount of the term deposit multiplied by a rate determined by the auction through which such term deposits are offered.

(3) For purposes of ยง 204.10(b), a "master account" is the record maintained by a Federal Reserve Bank of the debtor-creditor relationship between the Federal Reserve Bank and a single eligible institution with respect to deposit balances of the eligible institution that are maintained with the Federal Reserve Bank. A "master account" is not a "term deposit," an "excess balance account," a "joint account," or any deposit account maintained with a Federal Reserve Bank governed by an agreement that states the account is not a master account.
