
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 205-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
##### Appendix B to Part 205-Federal Enforcement Agencies

The following list indicates which Federal agency enforces Regulation E (12 CFR part 205) for particular classes of institutions. Any questions concerning compliance by a particular institution should be directed to the appropriate enforcing agency. Terms that are not defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(s)) shall have the meaning given to them in the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101).

District office of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency where the institution is located.

Federal Reserve Bank serving the District in which the institution is located.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation regional director for the region in which the institution is located.

Office of Thrift Supervision Regional Director for the region in which the institution is located.

Division of Consumer Affairs, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428

Assistant General Counsel for Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings, Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20590.

Division of Market Regulation, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C. 20549.

Federal Trade Commission, Electronic Fund Transfers, Washington, D.C. 20580.
