
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 205-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
##### Supplement I to Part 205-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Preemption determination.

2.The Board determined that certain provisions in the state law of Michigan are preempted by the federal law, effective March 30, 1981:

i. Definition of unauthorized use. Section 5(4) is preempted to the extent that it relates to the section of state law governing consumer liability for unauthorized use of an access device.

ii. Consumer liability for unauthorized use of an account. Section 14 is inconsistent with ยง 205.6 and is less protective of the consumer than the federal law. The state law places liability on the consumer for the unauthorized use of an account in cases involving the consumer's negligence. Under the federal law, a consumer's liability for unauthorized use is not related to the consumer's negligence and depends instead on the consumer's promptness in reporting the loss or theft of the access device.

iii. Error resolution. Section 15 is preempted because it is inconsistent with ยง 205.11 and is less protective of the consumer than the federal law. The state law allows financial institutions up to 70 days to resolve errors, whereas the federal law generally requires errors to be resolved within 45 days.

iv. Receipts and periodic statements. Sections 17 and 18 are preempted because they are inconsistent with ยง 205.9. The state provisions require a different disclosure of information than does the federal law. The receipt provision is also preempted because it allows the consumer to be charged for receiving a receipt if a machine cannot furnish one at the time of a transfer.
