
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 205-ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)
##### Supplement I to Part 205-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Distinguishing between certificate or card expiration and funds expiration.

7.If applicable, a disclosure must be made on the certificate or card that notifies a consumer that the certificate or card expires, but the funds either do not expire or expire later than the certificate or card, and that the consumer may contact the issuer for a replacement card. The disclosure must be made with equal prominence and in close proximity to the certificate or card expiration date. The close proximity requirement does not apply to oral disclosures. In the case of a certificate or card, close proximity means that the disclosure must be on the same side as the certificate or card expiration date. For example, if the disclosure is the same type size and is located immediately next to or directly above or below the certificate or card expiration date, without any intervening text or graphical displays, the disclosures would be deemed to be equally prominent and in close proximity. The disclosure need not be embossed on the certificate or card to be deemed equally prominent, even if the expiration date is embossed on the certificate or card. The disclosure may state on the front of the card, for example, "Funds expire after card. Call for replacement card." or "Funds do not expire. Call for new card after 09/2016." Disclosures made pursuant to ยง 205.20(e)(3)(iii)(A) may also fulfill the requirements of ยง 205.20(e)(3)(i). For example, making a disclosure that "Funds do not expire" to comply with ยง 205.20(e)(3)(iii)(A) also fulfills the requirements of ยง 205.20(e)(3)(i).
