
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 208-MEMBERSHIP OF STATE BANKING INSTITUTIONS IN THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (REGULATION H)
##### Subpart C-Bank Securities and Securities-Related Activities
###### ยง 208.36 Reporting requirements for State member banks subject to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
####### Confidentiality of filing.

(d)Any person filing any statement, report, or document under the 1934 Act may make written objection to the public disclosure of any information contained therein in accordance with the following procedure:

(1) The person shall omit from the statement, report, or document, when it is filed, the portion thereof that the person desires to keep undisclosed (hereinafter called the confidential portion). The person shall indicate at the appropriate place in the statement, report, or document that the confidential portion has been omitted and filed separately with the Board.

(2) The person shall file the following with the copies of the statement, report, or document filed with the Board:

(i) As many copies of the confidential portion, each clearly marked "CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT," as there are copies of the statement, report, or document filed with the Board. Each copy of the confidential portion shall contain the complete text of the item and, notwithstanding that the confidential portion does not constitute the whole of the answer, the entire answer thereto; except that in case the confidential portion is part of a financial statement or schedule, only the particular financial statement or schedule need be included. All copies of the confidential portion shall be in the same form as the remainder of the statement, report, or document; and

(ii) An application making objection to the disclosure of the confidential portion. The application shall be on a sheet or sheets separate from the confidential portion, and shall:

(A) Identify the portion of the statement, report, or document that has been omitted;

(B) Include a statement of the grounds of objection; and

(C) Include the name of each exchange, if any, with which the statement, report, or document is filed.

(3) The copies of the confidential portion and the application filed in accordance with this paragraph shall be enclosed in a separate envelope marked "CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT," and addressed to Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551.

(4) Pending determination by the Board on the objection filed in accordance with this paragraph, the confidential portion shall not be disclosed by the Board.

(5) If the Board determines to sustain the objection, a notation to that effect shall be made at the appropriate place in the statement, report, or document.

(6) If the Board determines not to sustain the objection because disclosure of the confidential portion is in the public interest, a finding and determination to that effect shall be entered and notice of the finding and determination sent by registered or certified mail to the person.

(7) If the Board determines not to sustain the objection, pursuant to paragraph (d)(6) of this section, the confidential portion shall be made available to the public:

(i) 15 days after notice of the Board's determination not to sustain the objection has been given, as required by paragraph (d)(6) of this section, provided that the person filing the objection has not previously filed with the Board a written statement that he intends, in good faith, to seek judicial review of the finding and determination; or

(ii) 60 days after notice of the Board's determination not to sustain the objection has been given as required by paragraph (d)(6) of this section and the person filing the objection has filed with the Board a written statement of intent to seek judicial review of the finding and determination, but has failed to file a petition for judicial review of the Board's determination; or

(iii) Upon final judicial determination, if adverse to the party filing the objection.

(8) If the confidential portion is made available to the public, a copy thereof shall be attached to each copy of the statement, report, or document filed with the Board.
