
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 210-COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND FUNDS TRANSFERS THROUGH THE FEDWIRE FUNDS SERVICE AND THE FEDNOW SERVICE (REGULATION J)
##### Subpart B-Funds Transfers Through the Fedwire Funds Service
###### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 210-Commentary
####### Scope.,e.g.,

(b)(1) Subpart B of this part incorporates the provisions of Article 4A set forth in appendix A of this part. The provisions set forth expressly in the sections of subpart B of this part supersede or preempt any inconsistent provisions of Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part or as enacted in any state. The official comments to Article 4A are not incorporated in subpart B of this part or this commentary to subpart B of this part, but the official comments may be useful in interpreting Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part. Because section 4A-105 refers to other provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code (definitions in article 1 of the UCC), these other provisions of the UCC, as approved by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, which is now also known as the Uniform Law Commission, and the American Law Institute, from time to time, are also incorporated into subpart B of this part. Subpart B of this part applies to any party to a funds transfer over the Fedwire Funds Service that is in privity with a Federal Reserve Bank. These parties include a sender (bank or nonbank) that sends a payment order directly to a Federal Reserve Bank, a receiving bank that receives a payment order directly from a Federal Reserve Bank, and a beneficiary that receives credit to an account that it uses or maintains at a Federal Reserve Bank as payment for a payment order accepted by a Federal Reserve Bank. Other parties to a funds transfer over the Fedwire Funds Service are covered by subpart B of this part to the same extent subpart B would apply to them if subpart B were a "funds-transfer system rule" under Article 4A that selected subpart B of this part as the governing law.

(2) The scope of the applicability of a funds-transfer system rule under Article 4A is specified in section 4A-501(b), and the scope of the choice of law provision is specified in section 4A-507(c). Under section 4A-507(c), a choice of law provision is binding on the participants in a funds-transfer system and certain other parties having notice that the funds-transfer system might be used for the funds transfer and of the choice of law provision. The Uniform Commercial Code provides that a person has notice of a fact when the person has actual knowledge of it, receives a notice or notification of it, or has reason to know that it exists from all the facts and circumstances known to the person at the time in question. (See UCC section 1-202.) However, under sections 4A-507(b) and 4A-507(d), a choice of law by agreement of the parties takes precedence over a choice of law made by funds-transfer system rule.

(3) If originators, receiving banks, and beneficiaries that are not in privity with a Federal Reserve Bank have the notice contemplated by section 4A-507(c) or if those parties agree to be bound by subpart B of this part, subpart B of this part generally would apply to payment orders between those remote parties, including participants in other funds-transfer systems. For example, a payment order may be sent from an originator's bank through a funds-transfer system other than the Fedwire Funds Service to a receiving bank which, in turn, executes that payment order by sending a payment order through the Fedwire Funds Service. Similarly, a Federal Reserve Bank may send a payment order through the Fedwire Funds Service to a receiving bank that sends it through a funds-transfer system other than the Fedwire Funds Service to the beneficiary's bank. In the first example, if the originator's bank has notice that the Fedwire Funds Service may be used to effect part of the funds transfer, the sending of the payment order through the other funds-transfer system to the receiving bank will be governed by subpart B of this part unless the parties to the payment order have agreed otherwise. In the second example, if the beneficiary's bank has notice that the Fedwire Funds Service may be used to effect part of the funds transfer, the sending of the payment order to the beneficiary's bank through the other funds-transfer system will be governed by subpart B of this part unless the parties have agreed otherwise. In both cases, the other funds-transfer system's rules would also apply to, at a minimum, the portion of these funds transfers being made through that funds transfer system. Because subpart B of this part is Federal law, subpart B of this part will take precedence over any funds-transfer system rule applicable to the remote sender or receiving bank or to a Federal Reserve Bank to the extent of any inconsistency. If remote parties to a funds transfer, a portion of which is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service, have expressly selected by agreement, in accordance with section 4A-507(b), a law other than subpart B of this part, subpart B of this part would not take precedence over the choice of law made by the agreement even though the remote parties had notice that the Fedwire Funds Service might be used and of the governing law. (See section 4A-507(d).) In addition, subpart B of this part would not apply to a funds transfer sent through another funds-transfer system where no Federal Reserve Bank handles the funds transfer, even though settlement for the funds transfer is made by means of a separate net settlement or funds transfer through the Fedwire Funds Service.
