
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 210-COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND FUNDS TRANSFERS THROUGH THE FEDWIRE FUNDS SERVICE AND THE FEDNOW SERVICE (REGULATION J)
##### Subpart B-Funds Transfers Through the Fedwire Funds Service
###### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 210-Commentary
####### et seq.

(4) Under section 4A-108, Article 4A does not apply to a funds transfer any part of which is governed by the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) (15 U.S.C. 1693). In general, Fedwire funds transfers to or from consumer accounts are exempt from the EFTA and Regulation E (12 CFR part 1005). A funds transfer from a consumer originator or a funds transfer to a consumer beneficiary could be carried out in part through the Fedwire Funds Service and in part through an automated clearinghouse or other means that is subject to the EFTA or Regulation E. In these cases, subpart B would not govern the portion of the funds transfer that is governed by the EFTA or Regulation E. (See the commentary to ยง 210.26 in this appendix, "Payment Order".)

(5) Section 919 of the EFTA, however, governs "remittance transfers," which may include funds transfers over the Fedwire Funds Service. Section 919 of the EFTA sets out the obligations of remittance transfer providers with respect to consumer senders of remittance transfers. Section 919 of the EFTA generally does not affect the rights and obligations of financial institutions involved in a remittance transfer. To the extent that a Fedwire funds transfer is a "remittance transfer" governed by section 919 of the EFTA, it continues to be governed by subpart B of this part, except that, in the event of an inconsistency between the provisions of subpart B of this part and section 919 of the EFTA, section 919 of the EFTA shall prevail. For example, a consumer may initiate a remittance transfer governed by EFTA section 919 from the consumer's account at a depository institution, and the depository institution may initiate that transfer by sending a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank through the Fedwire Funds Service. If the consumer subsequently exercised the right to cancel the remittance transfer and obtain a refund under the terms of section 919 of the EFTA, the depository institution would be required to comply with section 919 even if the institution does not have a right to reverse the payment order sent to the Federal Reserve Bank under subpart B of this part.

(6) Finally, section 4A-404(a) provides that a beneficiary's bank is obliged to pay the amount of a payment order to the beneficiary on the payment date unless acceptance of the payment order occurs on the payment date after the close of the funds-transfer business day of the bank. The Expedited Funds Availability Act provides that funds received by a bank by wire transfer shall be available for withdrawal not later than the business day after the business day on which such funds are received (12 U.S.C. 4002(a)). That act also preempts any provision of state law that was not effective on September 1, 1989, that is inconsistent with that act or its implementing Regulation CC (12 CFR part 229). Accordingly, the Expedited Funds Availability Act and Regulation CC may preempt section 4A-404(a) as enacted in any state. In order to ensure that section 4A-404(a), or other provisions of Article 4A, as incorporated in subpart B of this part, do not take precedence over provisions of the Expedited Funds Availability Act, this section 210.25(b)(4) provides that where subpart B of this part establishes rights or obligations that are also governed by the Expedited Funds Availability Act or Regulation CC, the Expedited Funds Availability Act or Regulation CC provision shall apply and subpart B of this part shall not apply.
