
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 210-COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND FUNDS TRANSFERS THROUGH THE FEDWIRE FUNDS SERVICE AND THE FEDNOW SERVICE (REGULATION J)
##### Subpart B-Funds Transfers Through the Fedwire Funds Service
###### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 210-Commentary
####### Payment Order.

(1) The definition of "payment order" in subpart B of this part differs from the section 4A-103(a)(1) definition. The subpart B definition clarifies that, for the purposes of subpart B of this part, the term includes only instructions transmitted through the Fedwire Funds Service. For example, instructions transmitted through the FedNow Service would be governed by subpart C of this part, and not subpart B of this part. Additionally, the subpart B definition provides that certain messages that are transmitted through the Fedwire Funds Service are not payment orders. Federal Reserve Banks and banks participating in the Fedwire Funds Service send various types of messages relating to payment orders or to other matters, through the Fedwire Funds Service, that are not intended to be payment orders. In some cases, messages sent through the Fedwire Funds Service, such as certain requests for credit transfer, may be payment orders under Article 4A, but are not treated as payment orders under subpart B because they are not an instruction to a Federal Reserve Bank to pay or cause another bank to pay money. Under the subpart B definition, these messages are not "payment orders" governed by subpart B of this part. The operating circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks may specify those messages that may be transmitted through the Fedwire Funds Service but that are not payment orders.
