
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 210-COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND FUNDS TRANSFERS THROUGH THE FEDWIRE FUNDS SERVICE AND THE FEDNOW SERVICE (REGULATION J)
##### Subpart B-Funds Transfers Through the Fedwire Funds Service
###### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 210-Commentary
####### Off-line banks.

(b)(1) Generally, an on-line bank receiving payment orders or advices of credit for payment orders from a Federal Reserve Bank receives the payment orders or advices electronically a short time after the corresponding payment orders are received by the on-line bank's Federal Reserve Bank. An off-line bank receiving payment orders or advices of credit from a Federal Reserve Bank does not have an electronic connection with the Federal Reserve Bank; therefore, payment orders or advices are transmitted either by telephone on the day the payment order is received by the receiving bank's Federal Reserve Bank, or sent by courier or mail along with the off-line bank's daily account statement, on the funds-transfer business day following the day the payment order is received by the off-line bank's Federal Reserve Bank.

(2) Under section 4A-302(a)(2), a Federal Reserve Bank must transmit payment orders at a time and by means reasonably necessary to allow payment to the beneficiary on the payment date, or as soon thereafter as is feasible. Therefore, where an off-line receiving bank is an intermediary bank or beneficiary's bank in a payment order, its Federal Reserve Bank attempts to transmit the payment order to the off-line bank by telephone on the day the payment order is received by the Federal Reserve Bank. A Federal Reserve Bank can generally identify these payment orders from the type code designated in the payment order.

(3) Under section 4A-404(b), if a payment order instructs payment to the account of the beneficiary, the beneficiary's bank must notify the beneficiary of the receipt of a payment order before midnight of the next funds-transfer business day following the payment date. Where an off-line bank is the beneficiary of a payment order, telephone notice by a Federal Reserve Bank to the off-line bank of the receipt of the order is not required by Article 4A because the Federal Reserve Bank sends notice to the off-line bank by courier or mail, along with its daily account statement, on the day after the payment order is received by its Federal Reserve Bank. Payment orders for which an off-line bank is the beneficiary of the order are generally designated as settlement transactions.

(4) If an off-line receiving bank maintains an account for another bank, the off-line bank may receive payment orders designated as settlement transactions in its capacity as beneficiary's bank or intermediary bank. A Federal Reserve Bank cannot readily distinguish these payment orders from settlement transactions for which the off-line bank is the beneficiary of the order. If an off-line bank notifies its Federal Reserve Bank that it maintains an account for another bank, the Federal Reserve Bank will attempt to telephone the off-line bank with respect to all settlement transactions received by such bank, whether the off-line bank is the beneficiary, the beneficiary's bank, or an intermediary bank in the payment order. Under this section, an off-line bank that does not expressly notify its Federal Reserve Bank in writing that it maintains an account for another bank warrants to that Federal Reserve Bank that it does not act as an intermediary bank or a beneficiary's bank for a bank beneficiary with respect to payment orders received through Fedwire.
