
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 210-COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND FUNDS TRANSFERS THROUGH THE FEDWIRE FUNDS SERVICE AND THE FEDNOW SERVICE (REGULATION J)
##### Subpart C-Funds Transfers Through the FedNow Service
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 210-Commentary
####### Scope.,e.g.,

(b)(1) Subpart C of this part incorporates the provisions of Article 4A set forth in appendix A of this part. The provisions set forth expressly in the sections of subpart C of this part supersede or preempt any inconsistent provisions of Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part or as enacted in any state. The official comments to Article 4A are not incorporated in subpart C of this part or this commentary to subpart C of this part, but the official comments may be useful in interpreting Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part. Because section 4A-105 refers to other provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code (definitions in article 1 of the UCC), these other provisions of the UCC, as approved by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, which is now also known as the Uniform Law Commission, and the American Law Institute, from time to time, are also incorporated into subpart C of this part. Subpart C of this part applies to any party to a funds transfer sent through the FedNow Service that is in privity with a Federal Reserve Bank. These parties include a sender (bank or nonbank) that sends a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service, a receiving bank that receives a payment order from a Federal Reserve Bank, and a beneficiary that receives credit to an account that it uses or maintains at a Federal Reserve Bank as payment for a payment order accepted by a Federal Reserve Bank. Subpart C of this part also applies to Federal Reserve Banks that send or receive payment orders over the FedNow Service. For example, if a sender settles its activity over the FedNow Service in the account of a correspondent bank, the sender's Federal Reserve Bank would be a bank in the funds transfer chain, but the Federal Reserve Bank of the correspondent bank would not be a sender or receiving bank with respect to the payment order and would not be a party to the funds transfer. Other parties to a funds transfer sent through the FedNow Service are covered by this subpart to the same extent that this subpart would apply to them if this subpart were a "funds-transfer system rule" under Article 4A that selected subpart C of this part as the governing law.
