
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 210-COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND FUNDS TRANSFERS THROUGH THE FEDWIRE FUNDS SERVICE AND THE FEDNOW SERVICE (REGULATION J)
##### Subpart C-Funds Transfers Through the FedNow Service
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 210-Commentary
####### Payment Order.

(1) The definition of "payment order" in subpart C of this part differs from the section 4A-103(a)(1) definition. The subpart C definition clarifies that, for the purposes of subpart C of this part, the term includes only instructions transmitted through the FedNow Service. For example, instructions transmitted through the Fedwire Funds Service would be governed by subpart B of this part, and not subpart C.

Additionally, the subpart C definition provides that certain messages that are transmitted through the FedNow Service are not payment orders. Federal Reserve Banks and banks participating in the FedNow Service send various types of messages relating to payment orders or to other matters, through the FedNow Service, that are not intended to be payment orders. In some cases, messages sent through the FedNow Service, such as certain requests for payment, may be payment orders under Article 4A, but are not treated as payment orders under subpart C because they are not an instruction to a Federal Reserve Bank to pay or cause another bank to pay money. Under the subpart C definition, these messages are not "payment orders" governed by this subpart. The operating circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks may specify those messages that may be transmitted through the FedNow Service but that are not payment orders.

(2) Subpart C, including its incorporation of Article 4A, governs a payment order even though the originator's or beneficiary's account may be a consumer account established primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. Under section 4A-108, Article 4A does not apply to a funds transfer any part of which is governed by the Electronic Fund Transfer Act. That Act, and Regulation E (12 CFR part 1005) implementing it, may govern a transfer through the FedNow Service that is from a consumer originator or to a consumer beneficiary. In the event that a transfer through the FedNow Service is subject to the EFTA, the transfer continues to also be governed by this subpart, except that, in the event of an inconsistency between the provisions of subpart C and the EFTA, the EFTA shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. (See also ยง 210.40(b) and accompanying commentary.) Thus, this subpart applies to all funds transfers through the FedNow Service even though some such transfers involve originators or beneficiaries that are consumers.
