
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 210-COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND FUNDS TRANSFERS THROUGH THE FEDWIRE FUNDS SERVICE AND THE FEDNOW SERVICE (REGULATION J)
##### Subpart C-Funds Transfers Through the FedNow Service
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 210-Commentary
####### Execution date and payment date.

(c)(1) Under 4A-301(b), the "execution date" of a payment order means the day on which the receiving bank may properly issue a payment order in execution of the sender's order. Under section 4A-401, the "payment date" of a payment order is the day on which the amount of the order is payable to the beneficiary by the beneficiary's bank. The execution date and the payment date may be determined by instruction of the sender but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received and, unless otherwise determined, is the day the order is received (see sections 4A-301(b) and 4A-401). Section 4A-106, provides for the time that a payment order is received, including in the event that a receiving bank fixes a cut-off time for the receipt and processing of payment orders. If the bank receives a payment order after its cut-off time, the bank may treat the payment order as received at the opening of the next funds-transfer business day (see section 4A-106(a)).

(2) The FedNow Service is designed to be an instant value transfer system through which funds may be transferred from the originator to the beneficiary on the same funds-transfer business day. This section provides that a sender may not send a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank that specifies an execution date or payment date later than the day on which the payment order is issued, unless the sender of the order and the Federal Reserve Bank agree in writing to the arrangement.
