
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 210-COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND FUNDS TRANSFERS THROUGH THE FEDWIRE FUNDS SERVICE AND THE FEDNOW SERVICE (REGULATION J)
##### Subpart C-Funds Transfers Through the FedNow Service
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 210-Commentary
####### Payment of compensation.

(b)(1) Under Article 4A, a Federal Reserve Bank may be required to pay compensation in the form of interest to another party in connection with its handling of a funds transfer. For example, payment of compensation in the form of interest is required in certain situations pursuant to sections 4A-204 (relating to refund of payment and duty of customer to report with respect to unauthorized payment order), 4A-209 (relating to acceptance of payment order), 4A-210 (relating to rejection of payment order), 4A-304 (relating to duty of sender to report erroneously executed payment order), 4A-305 (relating to liability for late or improper execution or failure to execute a payment order), 4A-402 (relating to obligation of sender to pay receiving bank), and 4A-404 (relating to obligation of beneficiary's bank to pay and give notice to beneficiary).

(2) Section 210.47(b) requires Federal Reserve Banks to provide compensation through payment in the form of interest. Under section 4A-506(a), the amount of such interest may be determined by agreement between the sender and receiving bank or by funds-transfer system rule. If there is no such agreement, under section 4A-506(b), the amount of interest is based on the Federal funds rate. Similarly, compensation in the form of interest will be paid to government senders, receiving banks, or beneficiaries described in ยง 210.40(d) if they are entitled to interest under subpart C. A Federal Reserve Bank may also, in its discretion, pay compensation in the form of interest directly to a remote party to a transfer through the FedNow Service that is entitled to interest, rather than providing compensation to its sender or receiving bank.

(3) If a sender or receiving bank that received a payment of compensation is not the party entitled to compensation under Article 4A, the sender or receiving bank must pass the benefit of the compensation payment made to it to the party that is entitled to compensation. The benefit may be passed on either in the form of a direct payment of interest or in the form of a compensating balance, if the party entitled to interest agrees to accept the other form of compensation. In the latter case, the value of the compensating balance must be at least equivalent to the value of the interest payment that otherwise would have been provided.
