
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 211 - INTERNATIONAL BANKING OPERATIONS (REGULATION K)
##### Subpart D - International Lending Supervision
###### Interpretations
####### ยง 211.601 Status of certain offices for purposes of the International Banking Act restrictions on interstate banking operations.
######## agency,branch,branch,agency

The International Banking Act definesas "any office * * * at which deposits may not be accepted from citizens or residents of the United States," and definesas "any office * * * of a foreign bank * * * at which deposits are received" (12 U.S.C. 3101(1) and (3)). Offices of foreign banks in California prior to the International Banking Act were generally prohibited from accepting deposits by the requirement of State law that such offices obtain Federal deposit insurance (Cal. Fin. Code 1756); until the passage of the International Banking Act an office of a foreign bank could not obtain such insurance. California law, however, permits offices of foreign banks, with the approval of the Banking Department, to accept deposits from any person that resides, is domiciled, and maintains its principal place of business in a foreign country (Cal. Fin. Code 1756.2). Thus, under a literal reading of the definitions ofandcontained in the International Banking Act, a foreign bank's California office that accepts deposits from certain foreign sources (e.g., a U.S. citizen residing abroad), is a branch rather than an agency.
