
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 217-CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES, SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANIES, AND STATE MEMBER BANKS (REGULATION Q)
##### Subpart D-Risk-Weighted Assets-Standardized Approach
###### Risk-Weighted Assets for Securitization Exposures
####### ยง 217.42 Risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures.
######## N,-to-default credit derivatives,Protection provider.

(i)-(1)A Board-regulated institution may assign a risk weight using the SSFA in ยง 217.43 to an n-to-default credit derivative in accordance with this paragraph (i). A Board-regulated institution must determine its exposure in the n-to-default credit derivative as the largest notional amount of all the underlying exposures.

(2) For purposes of determining the risk weight for an n-to-default credit derivative using the SSFA, the Board-regulated institution must calculate the attachment point and detachment point of its exposure as follows:

(i) The attachment point (parameter A) is the ratio of the sum of the notional amounts of all underlying exposures that are subordinated to the Board-regulated institution's exposure to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. The ratio is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. In the case of a first-to-default credit derivative, there are no underlying exposures that are subordinated to the Board-regulated institution's exposure. In the case of a second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivative, the smallest (n-1) notional amounts of the underlying exposure(s) are subordinated to the Board-regulated institution's exposure.

(ii) The detachment point (parameter D) equals the sum of parameter A plus the ratio of the notional amount of the Board-regulated institution's exposure in the n-to-default credit derivative to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. The ratio is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.

(3) A Board-regulated institution that does not use the SSFA to determine a risk weight for its n-to-default credit derivative must assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the exposure.
