
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 217-CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES, SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANIES, AND STATE MEMBER BANKS (REGULATION Q)
##### Subpart D-Risk-Weighted Assets-Standardized Approach
###### Risk-Weighted Assets for Securitization Exposures
####### ยง 217.43 Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) and the gross-up approach.
######## Mechanics of the SSFA.

(c)Kand W are used to calculate K, the augmented value of K, which reflects the observed credit quality of the underlying exposures. Kis defined in paragraph (d) of this section. The values of parameters A and D, relative to Kdetermine the risk weight assigned to a securitization exposure as described in paragraph (d) of this section. The risk weight assigned to a securitization exposure, or portion of a securitization exposure, as appropriate, is the larger of the risk weight determined in accordance with this paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of this section and a risk weight of 20 percent.

(1) When the detachment point, parameter D, for a securitization exposure is less than or equal to K, the exposure must be assigned a risk weight of 1,250 percent.

(2) When the attachment point, parameter A, for a securitization exposure is greater than or equal to K, the Board-regulated institution must calculate the risk weight in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) When A is less than Kand D is greater than K, the risk weight is a weighted-average of 1,250 percent and 1,250 percent times Kcalculated in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. For the purpose of this weighted-average calculation:
