
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 3 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY STANDARDS
#### Subpart F - Risk-Weighted Assets - Market Risk
##### ยง 3.205 VaR-based measure.
###### General requirement.

(a)A national bank or Federal savings association must use one or more internal models to calculate daily a VaR-based measure of the general market risk of all covered positions. The daily VaR-based measure also may reflect the national bank's or Federal savings association's specific risk for one or more portfolios of debt and equity positions, if the internal models meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of ยง 3.207. The daily VaR-based measure must also reflect the national bank's or Federal savings association's specific risk for any portfolio of correlation trading positions that is modeled under ยง 3.209. A national bank or Federal savings association may elect to include term repo-style transactions in its VaR-based measure, provided that the national bank or Federal savings association includes all such term repo-style transactions consistently over time.

(1) The national bank's or Federal savings association's internal models for calculating its VaR-based measure must use risk factors sufficient to measure the market risk inherent in all covered positions. The market risk categories must include, as appropriate, interest rate risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and commodity price risk. For material positions in the major currencies and markets, modeling techniques must incorporate enough segments of the yield curve-in no case less than six-to capture differences in volatility and less than perfect correlation of rates along the yield curve.

(2) The VaR-based measure may incorporate empirical correlations within and across risk categories, provided the national bank or Federal savings association validates and demonstrates the reasonableness of its process for measuring correlations. If the VaR-based measure does not incorporate empirical correlations across risk categories, the national bank or Federal savings association must add the separate measures from its internal models used to calculate the VaR-based measure for the appropriate market risk categories (interest rate risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange rate risk, and/or commodity price risk) to determine its aggregate VaR-based measure.

(3) The VaR-based measure must include the risks arising from the nonlinear price characteristics of options positions or positions with embedded optionality and the sensitivity of the fair value of the positions to changes in the volatility of the underlying rates, prices, or other material risk factors. A national bank or Federal savings association with a large or complex options portfolio must measure the volatility of options positions or positions with embedded optionality by different maturities and/or strike prices, where material.

(4) The national bank or Federal savings association must be able to justify to the satisfaction of the OCC the omission of any risk factors from the calculation of its VaR-based measure that the national bank or Federal savings association uses in its pricing models.

(5) The national bank or Federal savings association must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the OCC the appropriateness of any proxies used to capture the risks of the national bank's or Federal savings association's actual positions for which such proxies are used.
