
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 217-CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES, SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANIES, AND STATE MEMBER BANKS (REGULATION Q)
##### Subpart F-Risk-Weighted Assets-Market Risk
###### ยง 217.203 Requirements for application of this subpart F.
####### Requirements for internal models.

(c)(1) A Board-regulated institution must obtain the prior written approval of the Board before using any internal model to calculate its risk-based capital requirement under this subpart.

(2) A Board-regulated institution must meet all of the requirements of this section on an ongoing basis. The Board-regulated institution must promptly notify the Board when:

(i) The Board-regulated institution plans to extend the use of a model that the Board has approved under this subpart to an additional business line or product type;

(ii) The Board-regulated institution makes any change to an internal model approved by the Board under this subpart that would result in a material change in the Board-regulated institution's risk-weighted asset amount for a portfolio of covered positions; or

(iii) The Board-regulated institution makes any material change to its modeling assumptions.

(3) The Board may rescind its approval of the use of any internal model (in whole or in part) or of the determination of the approach under ยง 217.209(a)(2)(ii) for a Board-regulated institution's modeled correlation trading positions and determine an appropriate capital requirement for the covered positions to which the model would apply, if the Board determines that the model no longer complies with this subpart or fails to reflect accurately the risks of the Board-regulated institution's covered positions.

(4) The Board-regulated institution must periodically, but no less frequently than annually, review its internal models in light of developments in financial markets and modeling technologies, and enhance those models as appropriate to ensure that they continue to meet the Board's standards for model approval and employ risk measurement methodologies that are most appropriate for the Board-regulated institution's covered positions.

(5) The Board-regulated institution must incorporate its internal models into its risk management process and integrate the internal models used for calculating its VaR-based measure into its daily risk management process.

(6) The level of sophistication of a Board-regulated institution's internal models must be commensurate with the complexity and amount of its covered positions. A Board-regulated institution's internal models may use any of the generally accepted approaches, including but not limited to variance-covariance models, historical simulations, or Monte Carlo simulations, to measure market risk.

(7) The Board-regulated institution's internal models must properly measure all the material risks in the covered positions to which they are applied.

(8) The Board-regulated institution's internal models must conservatively assess the risks arising from less liquid positions and positions with limited price transparency under realistic market scenarios.

(9) The Board-regulated institution must have a rigorous and well-defined process for re-estimating, re-evaluating, and updating its internal models to ensure continued applicability and relevance.

(10) If a Board-regulated institution uses internal models to measure specific risk, the internal models must also satisfy the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of ยง 217.207.
