
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 217-CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES, SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANIES, AND STATE MEMBER BANKS (REGULATION Q)
##### Subpart F-Risk-Weighted Assets-Market Risk
###### ยง 217.205 VaR-based measure.
####### General requirement.

(a)A Board-regulated institution must use one or more internal models to calculate daily a VaR-based measure of the general market risk of all covered positions. The daily VaR-based measure also may reflect the Board-regulated institution's specific risk for one or more portfolios of debt and equity positions, if the internal models meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of ยง 217.207. The daily VaR-based measure must also reflect the Board-regulated institution's specific risk for any portfolio of correlation trading positions that is modeled under ยง 217.209. A Board-regulated institution may elect to include term repo-style transactions in its VaR-based measure, provided that the Board-regulated institution includes all such term repo-style transactions consistently over time.

(1) The Board-regulated institution's internal models for calculating its VaR-based measure must use risk factors sufficient to measure the market risk inherent in all covered positions. The market risk categories must include, as appropriate, interest rate risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and commodity price risk. For material positions in the major currencies and markets, modeling techniques must incorporate enough segments of the yield curve-in no case less than six-to capture differences in volatility and less than perfect correlation of rates along the yield curve.

(2) The VaR-based measure may incorporate empirical correlations within and across risk categories, provided the Board-regulated institution validates and demonstrates the reasonableness of its process for measuring correlations. If the VaR-based measure does not incorporate empirical correlations across risk categories, the Board-regulated institution must add the separate measures from its internal models used to calculate the VaR-based measure for the appropriate market risk categories (interest rate risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange rate risk, and/or commodity price risk) to determine its aggregate VaR-based measure.

(3) The VaR-based measure must include the risks arising from the nonlinear price characteristics of options positions or positions with embedded optionality and the sensitivity of the fair value of the positions to changes in the volatility of the underlying rates, prices, or other material risk factors. A Board-regulated institution with a large or complex options portfolio must measure the volatility of options positions or positions with embedded optionality by different maturities and/or strike prices, where material.

(4) The Board-regulated institution must be able to justify to the satisfaction of the Board the omission of any risk factors from the calculation of its VaR-based measure that the Board-regulated institution uses in its pricing models.

(5) The Board-regulated institution must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board the appropriateness of any proxies used to capture the risks of the Board-regulated institution's actual positions for which such proxies are used.
