
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 294 - CANADIAN CHARTER AIR TAXI OPERATORS
##### Subpart D - General Rules for Registrants
###### ยง 294.33 Compliance with the regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration.

(a) Registrants under this part shall obtain FAA operations specifications required under part 129 or other applicable rules of this title (the Federal Aviation Regulations) prior to beginning operations into the United States. Registrants should write to the FAA office at one of the following addresses to obtain instructions on how to apply for FAA authority.

(b) If the registrant's business address is located on or east of 76 degrees West Longitude (in or east of Ottawa, Ontario) it should write to: Federal Aviation Administration, General Aviation District Office No. 1, Albany County Airport, Albany, New York 12211.

(c) If the registrant's business address is located on or east of 100 degrees West Longitude (in or east of Winnipeg, Manitoba) and west of 76 degrees West Longitude (west of, but not including, Ottawa, Ontario) it should write to: Federal Aviation Administration, Flight Standards District Office, 1 Airport Way, Rochester, New York 14624.

(d) If the registrant's business address is west of Winnipeg, Manitoba, it should write to: Federal Aviation Administration, General Aviation District Office, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055.
