
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 298 - EXEMPTIONS FOR AIR TAXI AND COMMUTER AIR CARRIER OPERATIONS
##### Subpart F - Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 298.60 General reporting instructions.

(a) Each commuter air carrier and each small certificated air carrier shall file the applicable schedules of Form 298-C, "Report of Financial and Operating Statistics for Small Aircraft Operators," Schedule T-100, "U.S. Air Carrier Traffic and Capacity Data by Nonstop Segment and On-Flight Market," and the "Passenger Origin- Destination Survey" prescribed in part 241, Sec. 19-8, of this subchapter.

(b) A single copy of the BTS Form 298-C report shall be filed quarterly with the Office of Airline Information (OAI) for the periods ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year to be received on or before May 10, August 10, November 10, and February 10, respectively. An electronic filing of the monthly Schedule T-100 is due at OAI within 30 days after the end of each month. Due dates falling on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday will become effective on the next work day.

(c) Reports required by this section shall be submitted to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics in a format specified in accounting and reporting directives issued by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics' Director of Airline Information.
