
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 298 - EXEMPTIONS FOR AIR TAXI AND COMMUTER AIR CARRIER OPERATIONS
##### Subpart G - Public Disclosure of Data
###### ยง 298.70 Public disclosure of data.

(a) Detailed domestic on-flight market data and nonstop segment data except military data shall be made publicly available after processing. Domestic data are defined as data from air transportation operations from a place in any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, or a U.S. territory or possession to a place in any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, or a U.S. territory or possession. Domestic military operations are reported under service codes N or R.

(b) Detailed international on-flight market and nonstop segment data in Schedule T-100 and Schedule T-100(f) reports, except military data, shall be publicly available immediately following the Department's determination that the database is complete, but no earlier than six months after the date of the data. Military operations are reported under service codes N or R. Data for on-flight markets and nonstop segments involving no U.S. points shall not be made publicly available for three years. Industry and carrier summary data may be made public before the end of six months or the end of three years, as applicable, provided there are three or more carriers in the summary data disclosed. The Department may, at any time, publish international summary statistics without carrier detail.

(c) Schedule F-1 "Report of Financial Data" shall be withheld from public release for a period of 3 years after the close of the calendar quarter to which the report relates.

(d) The Department may release nonstop segment and on-flight market detail data by carrier or individual Schedule F-1 "Report of Financial Data" before the end of the confidentiality period as follows:

(1) To foreign governments as provided in reciprocal arrangements between the foreign country and the U.S. Government for exchange of on-flight market and/or nonstop segment data submitted by air carriers of that foreign country and U.S. carriers serving that foreign country.

(2) To parties to any proceeding before the Department under 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (Transportation), as required by an Administrative Law Judge or other decision-maker of the Department. Parties may designate agents or consultants to receive the data in their behalf, provided the agents or consultants agree to abide by the disclosure restrictions. Any data to which access is granted pursuant to this provision may be introduced into evidence, subject to the normal rules of admissibility.

(3) To agencies or other components of the U.S. Government for their internal use only.
