
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart A - Rules of General Applicability
###### Oral Evidentiary Hearing Proceedings
####### ยง 302.22 Prehearing conference.
######## Report of prehearing conference.

(c)The administrative law judge shall issue a report of prehearing conference, defining the issues, giving an account of the results of the conference, specifying a schedule for the exchange of exhibits and rebuttal exhibits, the date of hearing, and specifying a time for the filing of objections to such report. The report shall be served upon all parties to the proceeding and any person who appeared at the conference. Objections to the report may be filed by any interested person within the time specified therein. The administrative law judge may revise his or her report in the light of the objections presented. The revised report, if any, shall be served upon the same persons as was the original report. Exceptions may be taken on the basis of any timely written objection that has not been met by a revision of the report if the exceptions are filed within the time specified in the revised report. Such report shall constitute the official account of the conference and shall control the subsequent course of the proceeding, but it may be reconsidered and modified at any time to protect the public interest or to prevent injustice.
