
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart A - Rules of General Applicability
###### Oral Evidentiary Hearing Proceedings
####### ยง 302.25 Subpoenas.

(a) An application for a subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness at a hearing or the production of documentary evidence may be made without notice by any party to the administrative law judge or, in the event that an administrative law judge has not been assigned to a proceeding or is not available, to the DOT decisionmaker or the Chief Administrative Law Judge, for action.

(b) An application for a subpoena shall be in duplicate except that if it is made during the course of a hearing, it may be made orally on the record with the consent of the administrative law judge.

(c) All such applications, whether written or oral, shall contain a statement or showing of general relevance and reasonable scope of the evidence sought, and shall be accompanied by two copies of a draft of the subpoena sought that, in the case of evidence, shall describe the documentary or tangible evidence to be subpoenaed with as much particularity as is feasible, or, in the case of a witness, the name of the witness and a general description of the matters concerning which the witness will be asked to testify.

(d) The administrative law judge or DOT decisionmaker considering any application for a subpoena shall issue the subpoena requested if the application complies with this section. No attempt shall be made to determine the admissibility of evidence in passing upon an application for a subpoena, and no detailed or burdensome showing shall be required as a condition to the issuance of a subpoena.

(e) Where it appears during the course of a proceeding that the testimony of a witness or documentary evidence is relevant to the issues in a proceeding, the administrative law judge, Chief Administrative Law Judge or DOT decisionmaker may issue on his or her own initiative a subpoena requiring such witness to attend and testify or requiring the production of such documentary evidence.

(f) Subpoenas issued under this section shall be served upon the person to whom directed in accordance with ยง 302.7(b). Any person upon whom a subpoena is served may within seven (7) days after service or at any time prior to the return date thereof, whichever is earlier, file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena with the administrative law judge or, in the event an administrative law judge has not been assigned to a proceeding or is not available, to the DOT decisionmaker or the Chief Administrative Law Judge for action. If the person to whom the motion to modify or quash the subpoena has been addressed or directed, has not acted upon such a motion by the return date, such date shall be stayed pending his or her final action thereon. The DOT decisionmaker may at any time review, upon his or her own initiative, the ruling of an administrative law judge or the Chief Administrative Law Judge denying a motion to quash a subpoena. In such cases, the DOT decisionmaker may order that the return date of a subpoena be stayed pending action thereon.

(g) The provisions of this section are not applicable to the attendance of DOT employees or the production of documentary evidence in the custody thereof at a hearing. The attendance of DOT employees and the production of documentary evidence in their custody are governed by 49 CFR Parts 9 and 7, respectively.
