
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart A - Rules of General Applicability
###### Oral Evidentiary Hearing Proceedings
####### ยง 302.24 Evidence.
######## Official notice of facts contained in certain documents.

(g)(1) Without limiting, in any manner or to any extent, the discretionary powers of the DOT decisionmaker and the administrative law judge to notice other matters or documents properly the subject of official notice, facts contained in any document within the categories enumerated in this subdivision are officially noticed in all formal economic proceedings except those subject to subpart D of this part. Each such category shall include any document antedating the final Department decision in the proceeding where such notice is taken. The matters officially noticed under the provisions of this paragraph are:

(i) Air carrier certificates or applications therefor, together with any requests for amendment, and pleadings responding to applications when properly filed.

(ii) All Form 41 reports required to be filed by air carriers with the Department.

(iii) Reports of Traffic and Financial Data of all U.S. Air Carriers issued by the Department or by its predecessor.

(iv) Airline Traffic Surveys and Passenger Origin-Destination Surveys, Domestic or International, compiled by the Department or its predecessor and published and/or made available either to the public or to parties in proceedings.

(v) Compilations of data relating to competition in the airline industry and made available to the public by the Department or its predecessor.

(vi) Passenger, mail, express, and freight data submitted to the Department and its predecessor as part of ER-586 Service Segment Data by U.S. carriers, or similar data submitted to the Department by U.S. air carriers (T-100) or (T-100F) that are not confidential.

(vii) All tariffs, including the electronic versions, and amendments thereof, of all air carriers, on file with the Department.

(viii) Service Mail Pay and Subsidy for U.S. Certificated Air Carriers published by the Department or its predecessor, including any supplemental data and subsequent issues published by the Department or its predecessor.

(ix) Airport Activity Statistics of Certificated Air Carriers compiled and published by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or the Department.

(x) Air Traffic Activity Data issued by the FAA.

(xi) National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS) issued by the FAA.

(xii) Chart Supplements, issued by the FAA.

(xiii) The Airman's Information Manual issued by the FAA.

(xiv) Monthly, quarterly and annual reports of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, U.S. Department of Justice.

(xv) All forms and reports required by the U.S. Postal Service to be filed by air carriers authorized to transport mail.

(xvi) All orders of the Postmaster General designating schedules for the transportation of mail.

(xvii) Publications of the Bureau of the Census of the U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) relating, but not necessarily limited, to population, manufacturing, business, statistics, and any yearbooks, abstracts, or similar publications published by DOC.

(xviii) All Official Airline Guides, including the North American, Worldwide, All-Cargo and quick reference editions, including electronic versions.

(xix) Official Railways Guide and Russell's Official National Motor Coach Guide.

(xx) The Rand McNally Commercial Atlas and Marketing Guide, and the Rand McNally Road Atlas, United States, Canada, and Mexico.

(xxi) The Rand McNally Commercial Atlas and Marketing Guide, and the Rand McNally Road Atlas, United States, Canada, and Mexico.

(xxii) Survey of Buying Power published by Sales Management Magazine.

(2) Any fact contained in a document belonging to a category enumerated in paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be deemed to have been physically incorporated into and made part of the record in such proceedings. However, such taking of official notice shall be subject to the rights granted to any party or intervener to the proceeding under section 7(d) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 557(d)).

(3) The decisions of the Department and its administrative law judges may officially notice any appropriate matter without regard to whether or not such items are contained in a document belonging to the categories enumerated in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. However, where the decision rests on official notice of a material fact or facts, it will set forth such items with sufficient particularity to advise interested persons of the matters that have been noticed.
