
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart A - Rules of General Applicability
###### Oral Evidentiary Hearing Proceedings
####### ยง 302.28 Transcripts of hearings.

(a) Hearings shall be recorded and transcribed under supervision of the administrative law judge, by a reporting firm under contract with the Department. Copies of the transcript that may, at the discretion of the administrative law judge, be furnished by use of electronic media in addition to the official copy, shall be supplied to the parties to the proceeding by said reporting firm, at the contract price for copies.

(b) The administrative law judge shall determine whether "ordinary transcript" or "daily transcript" (as those terms are defined in the contract) will be necessary and required for the proper conduct of the proceeding and the Department will pay the reporting firm the cost of reporting its proceedings at the contract price for such type of transcript. If the administrative law judge has determined that ordinary transcript is adequate, and has notified the parties of such determination (in the notice of hearings, or otherwise), then any party may request reconsideration of such determination and that daily transcript be required. In determining what is necessary and required for the proper conduct of the proceeding, the administrative law judge shall consider, among other things:

(1) The nature of the proceeding itself;

(2) The DOT decisionmaker's needs as well as the reasonable needs of the parties;

(3) The cost to the Department; and

(4) The requirements of a fair hearing.

(c) If the administrative law judge has determined that ordinary transcript is adequate, or, upon reconsideration, has adhered to such determination, then any party may request the reporting firm to provide daily transcript. In that case, pursuant to its contract with the Department, the reporting firm will be obligated to furnish to the Department daily transcript upon the agreement by the requesting party to pay to the reporting firm an amount equal to the difference between the contract prices for ordinary transcript and daily transcript, provided that the requesting party makes such agreement with the reporting firm at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the date for which such transcript is requested.

(d) Any party may obtain from the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration, the name and address of the private reporting company with which the Department currently has a contract for transcripts and copies, as well as the contract prices then in effect for such services.

(e) Copies of transcripts ordered by parties other than the Department shall be prepared for delivery to the requesting person at the reporting firm's place of business, within the stated time for the type of transcript ordered. The requesting party and the reporting firm may agree upon some other form or means of delivery (mail, messenger, electronic media, etc.) and the reporting firm may charge for such special service, provided that such charge shall not exceed the reasonable cost of such service.

(f) Changes in the official transcript may be made only when they involve errors affecting substance. A motion to correct a transcript shall be filed with Department of Transportation Dockets, within ten (10) days after receipt of the completed transcript by the Department. If no objections to the motion are filed within ten (10) days thereafter, the transcript may, upon the approval of the administrative law judge, be changed to reflect such corrections. If objections are received, the motion and objections shall be submitted to the official reporter by the administrative law judge together with a request for a comparison of the transcript with the reporter's record of the hearing. After receipt of the report of the official reporter an order shall be entered by the administrative law judge settling the record and ruling on the motion.
