
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart A - Rules of General Applicability
###### Oral Evidentiary Hearing Proceedings
####### ยง 302.31 Initial and recommended decisions; certification of the record.
######## Certification to the DOT decisionmaker for decision.

(b)At any time prior to the close of the hearing, the DOT decisionmaker may direct the administrative law judge to certify any question or the entire record in the proceeding to the DOT decisionmaker for decision. In cases where the record is thus certified, the administrative law judge shall not render a decision but shall make a recommendation to the DOT decisionmaker as required by section 8(a) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 558(a)) unless advised by the DOT decisionmaker that he or she intends to issue a tentative decision.

(c) Every initial or recommended decision issued shall state the names of the persons who are to be served with copies of it, the time within which exceptions to, or petitions for review of, such decision may be filed, and the time within which briefs in support of the exceptions may be filed. In addition, every such decision shall recite that it is made under delegated authority, and contain notice of the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section. In the event the administrative law judge certifies the record to the DOT decisionmaker without an initial or recommended decision, he or she shall notify the parties of the time within which to file with the DOT decisionmaker briefs which may include proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.

(d) Unless a petition for discretionary review is filed pursuant to ยง 302.32, exceptions are filed pursuant to ยง 302.217, or the DOT decisionmaker issues an order to review upon his or her own initiative, the initial decision shall become effective as the final order of the Department thirty (30) days after service thereof; in the case of a recommended decision, that decision shall be transmitted to the President of the United States under 49 U.S.C. 41307. If a petition for discretionary review or exceptions are timely filed or action to review is taken by the DOT decisionmaker upon his or her own initiative, the effectiveness of the initial decision or the transmission of the recommended decision is stayed until the further order of the DOT decisionmaker.
