
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart A - Rules of General Applicability
###### Oral Evidentiary Hearing Proceedings
####### ยง 302.32 Petitions for discretionary review of initial or recommended decisions; review proceedings.
######## Petitions for discretionary review.

(a)(1) Review by the DOT decisionmaker pursuant to this section is not a matter of right but is at the sole discretion of the DOT decisionmaker. Any party may file and serve a petition for discretionary review by the DOT decisionmaker of an initial decision or recommended decision within twenty-one (21) days after service thereof, unless the DOT decisionmaker sets a different period for filing.

(2) Petitions for discretionary review shall be filed only upon one or more of the following grounds:

(i) A finding of a material fact is erroneous;

(ii) A necessary legal conclusion is without governing precedent or is a departure from or contrary to law, the Department's rules, or precedent;

(iii) A substantial and important question of law, policy or discretion is involved; or

(iv) A prejudicial procedural error has occurred.

(3) Each issue shall be separately numbered and plainly and concisely stated. Petitioners shall not restate the same point in repetitive discussions of an issue. Each issue shall be supported by detailed citations of the record when objections are based on the record, and by statutes, regulations or principal authorities relied upon. Any matters of fact or law not argued before the administrative law judge, but that the petitioner proposes to argue on brief to the DOT decisionmaker, shall be stated.

(4) Petitions for discretionary review shall be self-contained and shall not incorporate by reference any part of another document. Except by permission of the DOT decisionmaker, petitions shall not exceed twenty (20) pages including appendices and other papers physically attached to the petition.

(5) Requests for oral argument on petitions for discretionary review will not be entertained by the DOT decisionmaker.
