
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart A - Rules of General Applicability
###### ยง 302.3 Filing of documents.
####### Formal specifications of documents.

(b)(1) Documents filed under this part must be on white paper not larger than 8by 11 inches, including any tables, charts and other documents that may be included. Ink must be black to provide substantial contrast for scanning and photographic reproduction. Text must be double-spaced (except for footnotes and long quotations which may be single-spaced) using type not smaller than 12 point. The left margin must be at least 1inches; all other margins must be at least 1 inch. The title page and first page must bear a clear date and all subsequent pages must bear a page number and abbreviated heading. In order to facilitate automated processing in document sheet feeders, documents of more than one page should be held together with removable metal clips or similar retainers. Original documents may not be bound in any form or include tabs, except in cases assigned by order to an Administrative Law Judge for hearing, in which case the filing requirements will be set by order. Section 302.35 contains additional requirements as to the contents and style of briefs.

(2) Papers may be reproduced by any duplicating process, provided all copies are clear and legible. Appropriate notes or other indications must be used, so that the existence of any matters shown in color on the original will be accurately indicated on all copies.
