
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart B - Rules Applicable to U.S. Air Carrier Certificate and Foreign Air Carrier Permit Licensing Proceedings
###### Disposition of Applications
####### § 302.216 Administrative law judge's initial or recommended decision.

(a) In a case that has been set for oral evidentiary hearing under § 302.210(a)(4), the administrative law judge shall adopt and serve an initial or recommended decision within one hundred thirty-six (136) days after the issuance of the order establishing further procedures unless:

(1) The DOT decisionmaker, having found extraordinary circumstances, has by order delayed the initial or recommended decision by a period of not more than thirty (30) days; or

(2) An applicant has failed to meet the procedural schedule adopted by the judge or the DOT decisionmaker. In this case, the administrative law judge may, by notice, extend the due date for the issuance of an initial or recommended decision for a period not to exceed the period of delay caused by the applicant.

(b) In a case in which some of the issues have not been set for oral hearing under § 302.210(a)(4), the administrative law judge shall adopt and serve an initial or recommended decision within the time established by the DOT decisionmaker in the order establishing further procedures, except that that due date may be extended in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(c) The initial or recommended decision shall be issued by the administrative law judge fourteen (14) days after it is served. Unless exceptions are filed under § 302.217 or the DOT decisionmaker issues an order to review on his or her own initiative, an initial decision shall become effective as the final order of the Department the day it is issued. Where exceptions are timely filed or the DOT decisionmaker takes action to review on his or her own initiative, the effectiveness of the initial decision is stayed until further order of the DOT decisionmaker.

(d) In all other respects, the provisions of § 302.31 shall apply.
