
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart C - Rules Applicable to Exemption and Certain Other Proceedings
###### ยง 302.303 Contents of applications.
####### Supporting evidence.

(c)(1) Each application shall be accompanied by:

(i) A statement of economic data, or other matters or information that the applicant desires the Department to officially notice;

(ii) Affidavits, or statements under penalty of 18 U.S.C. 1001, establishing any other facts the applicant wants the Department to rely upon; and

(iii) Information showing the applicant is qualified to perform the proposed services.

(2) In addition to the information required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an application for exemption from section 41101 or 41301 of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (except exemptions under section 40109(g)) shall state whether the authority sought is governed by a bilateral agreement or by principles of comity and reciprocity. Applications by foreign carriers shall state whether the applicant's homeland government grants U.S. carriers authority similar to that requested. If so, the application shall state whether the fact of reciprocity has been established by the Department and cite the pertinent finding. If the fact of reciprocity has not been established by the Department, the application shall include documentation to establish such reciprocity.
