
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart C - Rules Applicable to Exemption and Certain Other Proceedings
###### § 302.302 Filing of applications.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, applications for exemption shall conform to the requirements of §§ 302.3 and 302.4.

(b) Applications for exemption from section 41101 or 41301 of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (including those that incorporate an exemption from section 41504) that involve ten (10) or fewer flights may be submitted to the U.S. Air Carrier Licensing Division or the Foreign Air Carrier Licensing Division (as appropriate), Office of International Aviation, on OST Form 4536. However, that form may not be used for:

(1) Applications filed under section 40109(g) of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII;

(2) Applications by persons who do not have either:

(i) An effective air carrier certificate or foreign air carrier permit from the Department, or

(ii) A properly completed application for such a certificate or permit, and an effective exemption from the Department for operations similar to those proposed;

(3) Successive applications for the same or similar authority that would total more than ten (10) flights; or

(4) Any other application for which the Department decides the requirements of §§ 302.3 and 302.4 are more appropriate. Upon a showing of good cause, an application may be filed by cablegram, telegram, facsimile, electronic mail (when available), or telephone; all such telephonic requests must be confirmed by written application within three (3) business days of the original request.

(c) Applications for exemption from Chapter 415 of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII, from tariffs (except for waivers filed under subpart Q of part 221 of this chapter), or from Department regulations concerning tariffs may be submitted by letter. Three copies of such applications shall be sent to Department of Transportation Dockets. Upon a showing of good cause, the application may also be filed by cablegram, telegram, facsimile, electronic mail (when available), or telephone; all such requests must be confirmed by written application within three (3) business days of the original request.

(d) Applications filed under paragraph (a) of this section shall be docketed and any additional documents filed shall be identified by the assigned docket number.

(e) Applications filed under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section will normally not be docketed. The Department may require such applications to be docketed if appropriate. The Department will publish a notice of such applications in its Weekly List of Applications Filed.
