
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart F - Rules Applicable to Proceedings Concerning Airport Fees
###### ยง 302.603 Contents of complaint or request for determination.

(a) The complaint or request for determination shall set forth the entire grounds for requesting a determination of the reasonableness of the airport fee. The complaint or request shall include a copy of the airport owner or operator's written notice to the carrier of the imposition of the fee, a statement of position with a brief, and all supporting testimony and exhibits on which the filing party intends to rely. In lieu of submitting duplicative exhibits or testimony, the filing party may incorporate by reference testimony and exhibits already filed in the same proceeding.

(b) All exhibits and briefs prepared on electronic spreadsheet or word processing programs should be accompanied by standard-format electronic media containing those submissions. Parties should submit three copies the electronic media to Department of Transportation Dockets Operations Office: One copy for the docket, one copy for the Office of Hearings, and one copy for the Office of Aviation Analysis. Filers should ensure that files on the electronic media are unalterably locked.

(c) When a carrier files a complaint, it must also certify:

(1) That it has served on the airport owner or operator and all other carriers serving the airport the complaint, brief, and all supporting testimony and exhibits, and that those parties have received or will receive these documents no later than the date the complaint is filed. Such service shall be by hand, by electronic transmission, or by overnight express delivery. (Unless a carrier has informed the complaining carrier that a different person should be served, service may be made on the person responsible for communicating with the airport on behalf of the carrier about airport fees.);

(2) That the carrier has previously attempted to resolve the dispute directly with the airport owner or operator;

(3) That when there is information on which the carrier intends to rely that is not included with the brief, exhibits, or testimony, the information has been omitted because the airport owner or operator has not made that information available to the carrier. The certification shall specify the date and form of the carrier's request for information from the airport owner or operator; and

(4) That any submission on computer diskette is a true copy of the data file used to prepare the printed versions of the exhibits or briefs.

(d) When an airport owner or operator files a request for determination, it must also certify:

(1) That it has served on all carriers serving the airport the request, brief, and all supporting testimony and exhibits, and that those parties have received or will receive these documents no later than the date the request is filed. Such service shall be in the same manner as provided in ยง 302.603(c)(1).

(2) That the airport owner or operator has previously attempted to resolve the dispute directly with the carriers; and

(3) That any submission on computer diskette is a true copy of the data file used to prepare the printed versions of the exhibits or briefs.
