
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart F - Rules Applicable to Proceedings Concerning Airport Fees
###### ยง 302.605 Replies.

(a) The carrier submitting a complaint may file a reply to any or all of the answers to the complaint. The airport owner or operator submitting a request for determination may file a reply to any or all of the answers to the request for determination.

(b) The reply shall be limited to new matters raised in the answers. It shall constitute the replying party's entire response to the answers. It shall be in the form of a reply brief and may include supporting testimony and exhibits responsive to new matters raised in the answers. In lieu of submitting duplicative exhibits or testimony, the replying party may incorporate by reference testimony and exhibits already filed in the same proceeding.

(c) The reply shall be filed no later than two (2) calendar days after answers are filed.

(d) All exhibits and briefs prepared on electronic spreadsheet or word processing programs should be accompanied by standard-format computer diskettes containing those submissions as provided in ยง 302.603(b).

(e) The carrier or airport owner or operator submitting the reply must certify that it has served the reply and all supporting testimony and exhibits on the party or parties submitting the answer to which the reply is directed, and that those parties have received or will receive these documents no later than the date the reply is filed, and that any submission on computer diskette is a true copy of the data file used to prepare the printed versions of the exhibits or briefs.
