
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart F - Rules Applicable to Proceedings Concerning Airport Fees
###### ยง 302.606 Review of complaints or requests for determination.

(a) Within thirty (30) days after a complaint or request for determination is filed under this subpart, the Secretary will determine whether the complaint or request meets the procedural requirements of this subpart and whether a significant dispute exists, and take appropriate action pursuant to paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section. When both a complaint and a request for determination have been filed with respect to the same airport fee or fees, the Secretary will issue a determination as to whether the complaint, the request, or both meet the procedural requirements of this subpart and whether a significant dispute exists within thirty (30) days after the complaint is filed.

(b) If the Secretary determines that a significant dispute exists, he or she will issue an instituting order assigning the complaint or request for hearing before an administrative law judge. The instituting order will-

(1) Establish the scope of the issues to be considered and the procedures to be employed;

(2) Indicate the parties to participate in the hearing;

(3) Consolidate into a single proceeding all complaints and any request for determination with respect to the fee or fees in dispute; and

(4) Include any special provisions for exchange or disclosure of information by the parties.

(c) If the Secretary determines that the complaint or request does not meet the procedural requirements of this subpart, the complaint or request for determination will be dismissed without prejudice to filing a new complaint. The order of the Secretary will set forth the terms and conditions under which a revised complaint or request may be filed.

(d) If the Secretary finds that no significant dispute exists-

(1) If the proceeding was instituted by a complaint, the Secretary will issue an order dismissing the complaint, which will contain a concise explanation of the reasons for the determination that the dispute is not significant.

(2) If the proceeding was instituted by a request for determination, the Secretary will either issue a final order as provided in ยง 302.610 or set forth the schedule for any additional procedures required to complete the proceeding.
