
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 302 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart F - Rules Applicable to Proceedings Concerning Airport Fees
###### ยง 302.604 Answers to a complaint or request for determination.

(a)(1) When a carrier files a complaint under this subpart, the owner or operator of the airport and any other carrier serving the airport may file an answer to the complaint as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(2) When the owner or operator of an airport files a request for determination of the reasonableness of a fee it has imposed, any carrier serving the airport may file an answer to the request.

(b) The answer to a complaint or request for determination shall set forth the answering party's entire response. When one or more additional complaints or a request for determination has been filed pursuant to ยง 302.602(b) with respect to the same airport's fee or fees, the answer shall set forth the answering party's entire response to all complaints and any such request for determination. The answer shall include a statement of position with a brief and any supporting testimony and exhibits on which the answering party intends to rely. In lieu of submitting duplicative exhibits or testimony, the answering party may incorporate by reference testimony and exhibits already filed in the same proceeding.

(c) Answers to a complaint shall be filed no later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the filing date of the first complaint with respect to the fee or fees in dispute at a particular airport. Answers to a request for determination shall be filed no later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the filing date of the request.

(d) All exhibits and briefs prepared on electronic spreadsheet or word processing programs should be accompanied by standard-format computer diskettes containing those submissions as provided in ยง 302.603(b).

(e) The answering party must also certify that:

(1) it has served the answer, brief, and all supporting testimony and exhibits by hand, by electronic transmission, or by overnight express delivery on the carrier filing the complaint or the airport owner or operator requesting the determination, and that those parties have received or will receive these documents no later than the date the answer is filed; and

(2) that any submission on computer diskette is a true copy of the data file used to prepare the printed versions of the exhibits or briefs.
