
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 303 - REVIEW OF AIR CARRIER AGREEMENTS
##### Subpart D - Section 41309 Applications
###### ยง 303.30 General provisions concerning contents of applications.

A section 41309 application shall contain the following general information:

(a) The name, mailing address and primary line of business of each party to the contract, agreement or request for authority to discuss a possible cooperative working arrangement.

(b) If the contract or agreement for which approval is sought is not evidenced by a resolution of an air carrier association, the application shall contain a copy of the contract or agreement that is certified to be true and complete by each party to the contract of agreement. If the contract or agreement is set forth in an exchange of correspondence, copies of all such correspondence must be submitted and must be certified as true and complete by all parties to the contract or agreement. If the contract or agreement is oral, a memorandum fully describing the agreement must be submitted and must be certified as true and complete by all parties to the contract or agreement. If approval is sought for a request for authority to discuss a possible cooperative working arrangement, the application shall contain a complete description of the possible cooperative working arrangement and all matters to be discussed. The description shall be certified to be true and complete by each party to the proposed discussion.

(c) If the contract, agreement or request for authority to discuss a cooperative working arrangement is evidenced by a resolution or other action of an air carrier association, the application shall contain the resolution or other action and a certification by an authorized employee of the association that the resolution or other action was duly adopted on a certain date. The authorized employee shall also specify in such certification the name of each air carrier that concurred in such resolution or other action and the name of each air carrier member that did not concur.
