
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 303 - REVIEW OF AIR CARRIER AGREEMENTS
##### Subpart E - Procedures Upon Application or Review
###### ยง 303.45 Evidentiary hearings.

(a) If the Assistant Secretary determines that an application, or review of a previous granted application, should be the subject of a full evidentiary hearing, he or she shall issue an order so stating. The term "full evidentiary hearing" includes any hybrid format set out in the instituting order. This order shall set forth the issues that are to be considered in such hearing.

(b) After the issuance of an order for a full evidentiary hearing, the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall promptly appoint an Administrative Law Judge to conduct such hearing in accordance with section 7 of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 556, and the Rules of Practice in part 302 of this chapter.

(c) The applicants and the Assistant General Counsel for Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings shall be parties in any full evidentiary hearing held under this part. The Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust, shall be a party upon notice filed with the Administrative Law Judge. Other persons may intervene as parties as provided by ยง 302.20 of this chapter.

(d) Within the time specified in the order instituting the full evidentiary hearing, the Administrative Law Judge shall recommend to the Assistant Secretary that the application be approved or denied or that the previously granted exemption approval or immunity should be terminated or continued in accordance with the standards of the Act. The recommendation shall be in writing, shall be based solely on the hearing record, and shall include a statement of the Administrative Law Judge's findings and conclusions, and the reasons or basis therefore, or all material issues of fact, law or discretion presented on the record. Copies of the recommendation shall be served on each party.

(e) Within 10 days after the date the Administrative Law Judge serves his or her recommendation, any party may file written exceptions to the recommendation for consideration by the Assistant Secretary. Within 21 days after the service date of the judge's recommendation, any party may file a brief in support of or in opposition to any exceptions. This period may be altered by order of the Assistant Secretary, who may also authorize the filing of reply briefs.
