
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 313 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT
##### ยง 313.1 Purpose, scope, and authority.

(a) Chapter 77 (Energy Conservation) of Title 42 (The Public Health and Welfare), authorizes and directs certain actions to conserve energy supplies through energy conservation programs and where necessary, the regulation of certain energy uses, and to provide for improved energy efficiency of motor vehicles, major appliances, and certain other consumer products. In furtherance of these purposes, 42 U.S.C. 6362 requires several transportation regulatory agencies, including DOT, to submit a number of reports to the Congress with respect to energy conservation and efficiency, and where practicable and consistent with the exercise of DOT's authority under other law, to include in any major regulatory action a statement of its probable impact on energy efficiency and energy conservation. 42 U.S.C. 6362(b) directs DOT to define the term "major regulatory action" by rule.

(b) Section 40113 of Subtitle VII of Title 49 of the United States Code (Transportation)("the Statute"), authorizes DOT to establish such rules, regulations, and procedures as are necessary to the exercise of its functions and are consistent with the purposes of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII.

(c) The purpose of these regulations is to establish procedures and guidelines for the implementation of DOT's responsibility under 42 U.S.C. 6362 to include in any major regulatory action taken by DOT a statement of the probable impact on energy efficiency and energy conservation.

(d) These regulations apply to all proceedings before DOT, as provided herein.
