
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 323 - TERMINATIONS, SUSPENSIONS, AND REDUCTIONS OF SERVICE
##### ยง 323.4 Contents of notices.

(a) The notice required under ยง 323.3 (a) and (c) shall contain:

(1) Identification of the carrier, including address and telephone number.

(2) Statement whether the carrier is a certificated carrier or an uncertificated carrier.

(3) Names of all other air carriers serving the point at the time of filing.

(4) Description of the service to be terminated, suspended, or reduced, including:

(i) Arrival and departure times at the affected points of the flights to be discontinued,

(ii) Aircraft type used,

(iii) Routes of the flights to be discontinued, and a statement of which routes, if any, will be left without nonstop or single-plane service from a certificated carrier by the intended change, and

(iv) Date of intended termination, suspension, or reduction of service.

(5) A statement whether DOT has determined the level of essential air service for the point, and

(i) If such a determination has been made, a statement whether the intended termination, suspension, or reduction will reduce air transportation to the place below the essential level; or

(ii) If such a determination has not been made, and the place is an eligible place, a statement whether the intended termination, suspension, or reduction reasonably appears to deprive the place of essential air service, and an explanation.

(6) If the place is an eligible place, the calendar date when objections are due under ยง 323.10.

(7) Proof of service upon all persons specified in ยง 323.7(a). The proof of service shall include the names of all carriers served and the names and addresses of all other persons served.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) DOT may require any carrier filing notice to supply additional information.
