
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 323 - TERMINATIONS, SUSPENSIONS, AND REDUCTIONS OF SERVICE
##### ยง 323.9 Objections to notices.

(a) Any person may file an objection requesting DOT to prohibit any termination, suspension, or reduction of air transportation to an eligible place that is the subject of a notice filed under this part.

(b) Objections shall contain:

(1) Identification of the objector, including address and telephone number.

(2) A statement of DOT action requested.

(3) The schedules, routes, carriers, and aircraft types for all air transportation to the affected place other than that proposed to be terminated, suspended, or reduced.

(4) A suggested reasonable level of essential air service to the affected place.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) A justification of the suggested level of essential air service.

(7) Proof of service on the carrier filing the notice objected to, on all airport managers and State and local governments on whom the notice was filed, and any other person designated by DOT. The proof of service shall include the names of all carriers served and the names and addresses of all other persons served.

(c) Objectors are strongly urged to include in their objections facts to support the suggested level of essential air service (e.g., traffic and enplanement data, other market studies, facts descriptive of the place's isolation or dependence on air transportation).
