
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter B - Procedural Regulations
#### PART 323 - TERMINATIONS, SUSPENSIONS, AND REDUCTIONS OF SERVICE
##### ยง 323.7 Service of notices.

(a) A copy of each notice required by ยง 323.3 shall be served upon:

(1) The chief executive of the principal city or other unit of local government at the affected place. The principal city is the one named, or previously named, in the section 41102 certificate by virtue of which the place qualifies as an eligible place. For places in Alaska or Hawaii that are designated as eligible places without having been listed on a section 41102 certificate, the principal city is the most populous municipality at the place.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The State agency with jurisdiction over transportation by air in the State containing any community required to be served under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If there is no such State agency, the notice shall be sent to the governor of that State.

(4) The manager of, or other individual with direct supervision over and responsibility for, the airport at any community required to be served under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(5) The Postmaster General (marked for the attention of the Assistant General Counsel, Transportation), if the carrier filing the notice is authorized to transport United States mail to or from any community required to be served under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(6) Each air carrier providing scheduled service to a non-hub or FAA-designated small hub that is directly affected by the notice.

(7) The DOT Regional Office for the region in which the affected point is located.

(8) Any other person designated by DOT.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) Local communities, State agencies, and airport managers shall be served personally or by registered or certificated mail. All other persons may be served by ordinary mail.
