
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter D - Special Regulations
#### PART 372 - OVERSEAS MILITARY PERSONNEL CHARTERS
##### Subpart C - Conditions and Limitations
###### ยง 372.24 Surety bond, depository agreement, escrow agreement.
####### Provided, however,

(c) Any bond furnished under this section shall insure the financial responsibility of the charter operator and the supplying of the air transportation in accordance with the contract between the charter operator and the charter participants, and shall be in the form set forth as appendix A to this part. Such bond shall be issued by a bonding or surety company (1) whose surety bonds are accepted by the Interstate Commerce Commission under 49 CFR 1084.6; or (2) which is listed in Best's Insurance Reports (fire and casualty) with a general policyholders' rating of "A" or better. The bonding or surety company shall be one legally authorized to issue bonds of that type in the State in which the charter originates or in which the charter operator is incorporated. For purposes of this section, the term "State" includes any territory or possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia. The bond shall be specifically identified by the issuing surety with a company bond numbering system so that the Department may identify the bond with the specific charter or charters to which it relates:That these data may be set forth in an addendum attached to the bond which addendum must be signed by the charter operator and the surety company. It shall be effective on or before the date the operating authorization becomes effective. If the bond does not comply with the requirements of this section, or for any reason fails to provide satisfactory or adequate protection for the public, the Department will notify the direct air carrier and the charter operator, by registered or certified mail, stating the deficiencies of the bond. Unless such deficiencies are corrected within the time set forth in such notification, the subject charters shall in no event be operated.

(d) Any bond furnished under this section shall provide that unless the charter participant files a claim with the charter operator, or, if he is unavailable, with the surety, within sixty (60) days after termination of the charter, the surety shall be released from all liability under the bond to such charter participant. The contract between the charter operator and the charter participants shall contain notice of this provision.
