
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter D - Special Regulations
#### PART 375 - NAVIGATION OF FOREIGN CIVIL AIRCRAFT WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart F - Transit Flights
###### ยง 375.50 Transit flights; scheduled international air service operations.
####### Content of notice.

(c)A "Notice of Proposed Transit Flights Pursuant to the International Air Services Transit Agreement" shall be clearly labeled as such, and as a minimum shall set forth, with whatever detail may be necessary, the following information:

(1) The name, country or organization, and citizenship of the operator, and, if other than the operator, of the carrier offering the services to the public. If any interest (direct or indirect) in the operator or offeror of services is held by nationals of a country other than the country of organization or citizenship, the nature and extent of such interest must be fully disclosed. If any officer or director of the operator or carrier offering the services is a national of a country other than the country of organization or citizenship, the position of duties of such officer or director, and the officer and director's relevant position in relation to other officers and directors must similarly be fully disclosed. If the information required in this subsection has been previously supplied to the Department, the applicant may incorporate it by reference.

(2) The State of registration of the aircraft proposed to be operated.

(3) A full description of the proposed operations including the type of operations (passenger, property, mail, or combination), date of commencement, duration and frequency of flights, and routing (including each terminal and intermediate point to be served).

(4) A statement as to whether or not any advertisement or publication of the proposed operations has been made in the United States. If there has been any advertisement or publication of the operations in the United States, copies of all such advertisements or publications shall be included.

(5) Any change with respect to these matters (minor changes in schedules or routing excepted) shall also be filed with the Department.
