
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter D - Special Regulations
#### PART 375 - NAVIGATION OF FOREIGN CIVIL AIRCRAFT WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart F - Transit Flights
###### ยง 375.50 Transit flights; scheduled international air service operations.
####### Nature of privilege conferred.

(h)Air transportation is not authorized under this section, and the burden rests upon each operator and carrier to show that the proposed operations will not constitute air transportation within the meaning of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII. In addition, each operator and carrier has the burden of demonstrating that the proposed operations are authorized by the International Air Services Transit Agreement, and that the appropriate authorization should not be withheld pursuant to section 5 of Article I thereof. Stopovers for the convenience or pleasure of the passengers are not authorized under this section and stops other than for strictly operational reasons shall not be made. The consolidation on the same aircraft of an operation under this section with a service authorized under 49 U.S.C. 41301 or 41709 is not authorized by this section. Any authorization or permit granted under this section is nontransferable, and may be withheld, revoked, suspended, withdrawn, or cancelled by the Department, without notice or hearing, if required by the public interest. Operators of aircraft registered in countries not parties to the International Air Services Transit Agreement shall make special application to the Department under ยง 375.70.
