
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter D - Special Regulations
#### PART 380 - PUBLIC CHARTERS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 380.3 General provisions.

(a) Public Charters may be operated on a one-way or round-trip basis, with no minimum group or contract size. Public Charters may be sold on an air-only basis, or with mandatory or optional land arrangements.

(b) A U.S. Public Charter operator operating a Public Charter which originates in a foreign country shall not be subject to the requirements of §§ 380.25, 380.28, 380.30 through 380.35.

(c) The Department declines to exercise jurisdiction over a foreign Public Charter operator which operates a Public Charter originating in a foreign country, but reserves the right to exercise its jurisdiction over any foreign Public Charter operator at any time its finds that such action is in the public interest.

(d)(1) An educational institution operating a Public Charter need not comply with the financial security requirements of § 380.34 if each student participant in the charter is enrolled in a formal academic course of study outside the United States, sponsored by or in conjunction with that institution, that is of at least four weeks' duration.

(2) The spouse, children, and parents of a student participant may accompany the participant on a charter operated under this section.

(e) The Department, upon application or on its own initiative, may waive any of the provision of this part if it finds such action to be in the public interest.
