
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter D - Special Regulations
#### PART 380 - PUBLIC CHARTERS
##### Subpart C - Requirements Applicable to Charter Operators
###### § 380.33a Operator's option plan.

(a) For the purposes of this part, an operator's option plan contract that states alternative dates for the outbound or return flights, or alternative origin or destination cities for any flight leg.

(b) Operator's option plan contracts shall state, in addition to the information required by § 380.32, that the selection of the actual dates or cities, as applicable, is at the charter operator's option and will not entitle the participant to a refund, and that the operator will notify the participant of the actual dates or cities at least 10 days before the earliest of any alternative dates for the outbound flight.

(c) Contract forms for all operator's option plan contracts shall be labeled "OPERATOR'S OPTION PLAN" in bold-faced capital letters at leastinch high. The statement required by paragraph (b) of this section and the statement of alternative dates (§ 380.32(c)) or alternative cities (§ 380.32(d)), as applicable, shall be printed so as to contrast with the rest of the contract, as set forth in § 380.31(f).

(d) Any solicitation material that states a price per passenger for an operator's option plan contract shall clearly and conspicuously-

(1) Identify that price as being for the operator's option plan,

(2) Name all the possible dates or cities, as applicable, and

(3) State that the selection of the actual dates or cities is at the charter operator's option.

(e) Charter operators and their agents shall not misrepresent to prospective participants, orally, in solicitation materials, or otherwise, the probability that any particular city or date will be selected from among the alternatives named in an operator's option plan contract.

(f) The charter operator shall notify all participants with operator's option plan contracts of the actual dates or cities, as applicable, as required by contracts.
