
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter D - Special Regulations
#### PART 382 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN AIR TRAVEL
##### Subpart D - Accessibility of Airport Facilities
###### ยง 382.55 May carriers impose security screening procedures for passengers with disabilities that go beyond TSA requirements or those of foreign governments?

(a) All passengers, including those with disabilities, are subject to TSA security screening requirements at U.S. airports. In addition, passengers at foreign airports, including those with disabilities, may be subject to security screening measures required by law of the country in which the airport is located.

(b) If, as a carrier, you impose security screening procedures for passengers with disabilities that go beyond those mandated by TSA (or, at a foreign airport, beyond the law of the country in which the airport is located), you must ensure that they meet the following requirements:

(1) You must use the same criteria for applying security screening procedures to passengers with disabilities as to other passengers.

(2) You must not subject a passenger with a disability to special screening procedures because the person is traveling with a mobility aid or other assistive device if the person using the aid or device clears the security system without activating it.

(i) However, your security personnel may examine a mobility aid or assistive device which, in their judgment, may conceal a weapon or other prohibited item.

(ii) You may conduct security searches of qualified individuals with a disability whose aids activate the security system in the same manner as for other passengers.

(3) You must not require private security screenings of passengers with a disability to a greater extent, or for any different reason, than for other passengers.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, if a passenger with a disability requests a private screening in a timely manner, you must provide it in time for the passenger to enplane.

(d) If you use technology that can conduct an appropriate screening of a passenger with a disability without necessitating a physical search of the person, you are not required to provide a private screening.
