
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 21 - CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES FOR PRODUCTS AND ARTICLES
##### Subpart K - Parts Manufacturer Approvals
###### ยง 21.303 Application.

(a) The applicant for a PMA must apply in a form and manner prescribed by the FAA, and include the following:

(1) The identity of the product on which the article is to be installed.

(2) The name and address of the manufacturing facilities at which these articles are to be manufactured.

(3) The design of the article, which consists of-

(i) Drawings and specifications necessary to show the configuration of the article; and

(ii) Information on dimensions, materials, and processes necessary to define the structural strength of the article.

(4) Test reports and computations necessary to show that the design of the article meets the airworthiness requirements of this subchapter. The test reports and computations must be applicable to the product on which the article is to be installed, unless the applicant shows that the design of the article is identical to the design of a article that is covered under a type certificate. If the design of the article was obtained by a licensing agreement, the applicant must provide evidence of that agreement.

(5) An applicant for a PMA based on test reports and computations must provide a statement certifying that the applicant has complied with the airworthiness requirements of this subchapter.

(b) Each applicant for a PMA must make all inspections and tests necessary to determine-

(1) Compliance with the applicable airworthiness requirements;

(2) That materials conform to the specifications in the design;

(3) That the article conforms to its approved design; and

(4) That the manufacturing processes, construction, and assembly conform to those specified in the design.
