
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter D - Special Regulations
#### PART 382 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN AIR TRAVEL
##### Subpart J - Training and Administrative Provisions
###### § 382.143 When must carriers complete training for their personnel?

(a) As a U.S. carrier, you must meet the training requirements of § 382.141 by the following times.

(1) Employees designated as CROs shall receive training concerning the requirements of this part and the duties of a CRO before assuming their duties under § 382.151 (see § 382.141(a)(7)). You must ensure that all employees performing the CRO function receive annual refresher training concerning their duties and the provisions of this regulation. The one-time training for CROs about the changes to Part 382 must take place by May 13, 2009. For employees who have already received CRO training, this training may be limited to changes from the previous version of Part 382.

(2) The one-time training for existing employees about changes to Part 382 (see § 382.141(a)(8)) must take place for each such employee no later than the next scheduled recurrent training taking place after May 13, 2009 or within one year after May 13, 2009, whichever comes first.

(3) For crewmembers subject to training requirements under 14 CFR Part 121 or 135 whose employment in any given position commences after May 13, 2009, before they assume their duties; and

(4) For other personnel whose employment in any given position commences after May 13, 2009, within 60 days after the date on which they assume their duties.

(b) As a foreign carrier that operates aircraft with 19 or more passenger seats, you must provide training meeting the requirements of § 382.141(a) for all personnel who deal with the traveling public in connection with flights that begin or end at a U.S. airport, as appropriate to the duties of each employee. You must ensure that personnel required to receive training complete the training by the following times:

(1) Employees designated as CROs shall receive training in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, by May 13, 2009.

(2) For crewmembers and other personnel who are employed on May 13, 2009, within one year after that date;

(3) For crewmembers whose employment commences after May 13, 2010, before they assume their duties;

(4) For other personnel whose employment in any given position commences after May 13, 2010, or within 60 days after the date on which they assume their duties; and

(5) For crewmembers and other personnel whose employment in any given position commences after May 13, 2009, but before May 13, 2010, by May 13, 2010 or a date 60 days after the date of their employment, whichever is later.
