
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter E - Organization
#### PART 385 - STAFF ASSIGNMENTS AND REVIEW OF ACTION UNDER ASSIGNMENTS
##### Subpart B - Assignment of Functions to Staff Members
###### § 385.19 Authority of the Director, Office of Airline Information, Bureau of Transportation Statistics.

The Director, Office of Airline Information, Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS) has authority to:

(a) Conduct all rulemaking proceedings concerning accounting, reporting, and record retention requirements for carrying out Subparts I, II, and IV of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII, except the issuance of final rules and the disposition of petitions for reconsideration.

(b) Interpret the accounting, reporting, and record retention requirements used to carry out Subparts I, II, and IV of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII.

(c) Waive any of the accounting, reporting, and record retention requirements upon a showing of the existence of such facts, circumstances or other grounds, and subject to such limitations or conditions as may be prescribed for waivers in the applicable regulations, unless such authority is otherwise specifically assigned.

(d) Dismiss petitions for Department or BTS action with respect to accounting, reporting, and record retention matters when such dismissal is requested or consented to by the petitioner.

(e) Require special reports, documentation, or modifications to reports required by this chapter from any air carrier upon a determination that such reports or documentation or modifications are necessary to meet temporary information needs, assist in an evaluation of continued financial fitness, or comply with special information requests by Congress, Department officials, or another agency or component of the Federal Government.

(f) Grant or deny a request by an air carrier or foreign air carrier for an extension of a filing date for reports required by subchapters A and D of this chapter.

(g) Grant or deny requests by air carriers for substitution of their own forms, adaptation of Department forms, or use of ADP media to meet special needs where Department approval of such forms or ADP media is required by subchapter A of this chapter.

(h) Determine the data necessary to complete the International Civil Aviation Organization reports required by U.S. Treaty; as provided in Order 81-3-120, establish any necessary supplemental reporting requirements; and dispose of petitions for extensions of filing dates or waivers with respect to the data required for such reports.

(i) Grant or deny motions filed under § 302.12 of this chapter requesting confidential treatment of aviation economic information or reports filed with BTS and place the decision in the motion's docket, which decision will be subject to review through a petition for reconsideration filed within ten days of issuance, to be acted upon by the Director, BTS.

(j) Grant or deny requests filed under § 241.22 of this chapter for confidential treatment of preliminary year-end financial reports.

(k) Grant or deny requests filed under § 248.5 of this chapter for confidential treatment of individual air carrier special reports.

(l) Grant or deny requests for use of domestic and international service segment and market data in accordance with the limitations on the availability of these data contained in § 241.19-6 of this chapter and Order 81-12-9.

(m) Grant or deny requests for use of international Origin and Destination Survey statistics in accordance with the limitations on the availability of these data contained in § 241.19-7 of this chapter.

(n) Grant or deny requests for individual air carrier fuel data in accordance with the limitations on the availability of these data contained in paragraph (k) of the reporting instructions for Schedule P-12(a), which are contained in § 241.24 of this chapter.

(o) Grant or deny requests for individual air carrier financial data in accordance with the limitation on the availability of these data contained in paragraph (d) of the reporting instructions for Schedule F-1, which are contained in § 298.62 of this chapter.

(p) Grant or deny requests for individual air carrier financial data as reported on Schedule P-1(a) in accordance with § 241.22(b)(3) of this chapter.
