
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Procedure
#### PART 406 - INVESTIGATIONS, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW
##### Subpart A - Investigations and Enforcement
###### ยง 406.9 Civil penalties.
####### Final notice of proposed civil penalty.

(d)A final notice of proposed civil penalty (final notice) provides the last opportunity for the respondent to request a hearing.

(1) The agency attorney issues a final notice if one of the following occurs:

(i) The respondent fails to respond to the notice of proposed civil penalty not later than 30 days after the date the respondent received the notice of proposed civil penalty.

(ii) The parties have not agreed to a resolution of the action after participating in informal procedures under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(iii) The respondent requests the issuance of a final notice in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(2) Not later than 15 days after the date the respondent received the final notice of proposed civil penalty, the respondent shall do one of the following:

(i) Submit the amount of the proposed civil penalty or an agreed-upon amount, in which case the agency attorney issues either an order imposing civil penalty or a compromise order in that amount.

(ii) Request a hearing in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
