
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Procedure
#### PART 406 - INVESTIGATIONS, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW
##### Subpart B - Rules of Practice in FAA Space Transportation Adjudications
###### ยง 406.113 Filing documents with the Docket Management System (DMS) and sending documents to the administrative law judge and Assistant Chief Counsel for Litigation.
####### Form.

(d)FDMS scans the document into its electronic docket. To ensure that FDMS can scan the document and correctly identify it in the index, each person filing a document must comply with the following:

(1) Each document must be legible. It may be handwritten, typewritten, or printed from a computer.

(2) Each document must have a caption on its first page, clearly visible, with the following information:

(i) "FAA Space Adjudication."

(ii) Case name, such as "In the matter of X Corporation."

(iii) FAA Case Number and FDMS docket number, if assigned.

(iv) Name of the document being filed, including the party filing the document, such as "Respondent's Motion to Dismiss."

(v) "Confidential information filed with administrative law judge" or "Confidential information filed with Assistant Chief Counsel for Litigation" if the party is filing confidential information under 406.117.

(3) The document must be capable of being scanned and be easy to read both in paper form and as scanned into the electronic docket. A document that meets the following specifications is capable of being scanned using automatic feeders and is easy to read both in paper form and as scanned into the electronic docket. Documents that do not meet these specifications may not be legible.

(i) On white paper.

(ii) On paper not larger than 8by 11 inches.

(iii) In black ink.

(iv) Text double-spaced. Footnotes and long quotes may be single spaced.

(v) At least 12 point type.

(vi) Margins at least 1 inch on each side.

(vii) The original not bound or hole-punched, only held together with removable metal clips or the like. The copy that is filed or sent to the administrative law judge or Assistant Chief Counsel for Litigation, and the copy served on another party, need not meet this specification.

(viii) The original has no tabs. The copy that is filed or sent to the administrative law judge or Assistant Chief Counsel for Litigation, and the copy served on another party, need not meet this specification.
