
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Procedure
#### PART 406 - INVESTIGATIONS, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW
##### Subpart B - Rules of Practice in FAA Space Transportation Adjudications
###### ยง 406.143 Discovery.
####### Interrogatories.

(k)(1) A party may not serve more than 30 interrogatories to each other party. Each subpart of an interrogatory must be counted as a separate interrogatory.

(2) A party must file a motion for leave to serve more than 30 interrogatories on a party before serving additional interrogatories on a party. The administrative law judge must grant the motion only if the party shows good cause for the party's failure to inquire about the information previously and that the information cannot reasonably be obtained using less burdensome discovery methods or be obtained from other sources.

(3) A party must answer each interrogatory separately and completely in writing.

(4) A party, or the party's attorney or representative of record, must sign the party's responses to interrogatories.

(5) If a party objects to an interrogatory, the party must state the objection and the reasons for the objection.

(6) An opposing party may offer into evidence any part or all of a party's responses to interrogatories at a hearing under this subpart to the extent that the response is relevant, material, and not repetitious.
