
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 414 - SAFETY ELEMENT APPROVALS
##### Subpart C - Safety Element Approval Review and Issuance
###### ยง 414.33 Safety element approval transfer.

(a) Only the FAA may approve a transfer of a safety element approval.

(b) Either the holder of a safety element approval or the prospective transferee may request a safety element approval transfer.

(c) Both the holder and prospective transferee must agree to the transfer.

(d) The person requesting the transfer must submit a safety element approval application according to ยง 414.13 or ยง 414.15, must meet the applicable requirements of this part, and may incorporate by reference relevant portions of the initial application.

(e) The FAA will approve a transfer of a safety element approval only after all the approvals and determinations required under this chapter for a safety element approval have been met. In conducting reviews and issuing approvals and determinations, the FAA may incorporate by reference any findings made part of the record to support the initial safety element approval determination. The FAA may modify the terms and conditions of a safety element approval to reflect any changes necessary because of a safety element approval transfer.

(f) The FAA will provide written notice to the person requesting the safety element approval transfer of our determination.
