
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 415 - LAUNCH LICENSE
##### Subpart C - Safety Review and Approval for Launch From a Federal Launch Range
###### ยง 415.37 Flight readiness and communications plan.
####### Flight readiness requirements.

(a)An applicant must designate an individual responsible for flight readiness. The applicant must file the following procedures for verifying readiness for safe flight:

(1) Launch readiness review procedures involving the applicant's flight safety personnel and Federal launch range personnel involved in the launch, as required by ยง 417.117(b)(3) of this chapter.

(2) Procedures that ensure mission constraints, rules and abort procedures are listed and consolidated in a safety directive or notebook approved by licensee flight safety and Federal launch range personnel.

(3) Procedures that ensure currency and consistency of licensee and Federal launch range countdown checklists.

(4) Dress rehearsal procedures that-

(i) Ensure crew readiness under nominal and non-nominal flight conditions;

(ii) Contain criteria for determining whether to dispense with one or more dress rehearsals; and

(iii) Verify currency and consistency of licensee and Federal launch range countdown checklists.

(5) Procedures for ensuring the licensee's flight safety personnel adhere to the crew rest rules of ยง 417.113(f) of this chapter.
