
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 415 - LAUNCH LICENSE
##### Subpart D - Payload Review and Determination
###### ยง 415.57 Payload review.
####### Interagency consultation.

(b)The FAA consults with other agencies to determine whether launch of a proposed payload or payload class would present any issues affecting public health and safety, safety of property, U.S. national security or foreign policy interests, or international obligations of the United States.

(1) The FAA consults with the Department of Defense to determine whether launch of a proposed payload or payload class would present any issues affecting U.S. national security.

(2) The FAA consults with the Department of State to determine whether launch of a proposed payload or payload class would present any issues affecting U.S. foreign policy interests or international obligations.

(3) The FAA consults with other federal agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, authorized to address issues identified under paragraph (b) of this section associated with an applicant's launch proposal.

(c) The FAA advises a person requesting a payload determination, in writing, of any issue raised during a payload review that would impede issuance of a license to launch that payload or payload class. The person requesting payload review may respond, in writing, or revise its application.
