
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 415 - LAUNCH LICENSE
##### Subpart F - Safety Review and Approval for Launch of an Expendable Launch Vehicle From a Non-Federal Launch Site
###### ยง 415.115 Flight safety.
####### Flight safety analysis.

(a)An applicant's safety review document must describe each analysis method employed to meet the flight safety analysis requirements of part 417, subpart C, of this chapter. An applicant's safety review document must demonstrate how each analysis method satisfies the flight safety analysis requirements of part 417, subpart C, of this chapter. An applicant's safety review document must contain analysis products and other data that demonstrate the applicant's ability to meet the public risk criteria of ยง 417.107 of this chapter and to establish launch safety rules as required by ยง 417.113 of this chapter. An applicant's flight safety analysis must satisfy the following requirements:

(1) An applicant must file the proposed flight safety analysis methodology and the preliminary flight safety analysis products no later than 18 months for any orbital or guided suborbital launch vehicle, and nine months for any unguided suborbital launch vehicle, prior to bringing any launch vehicle to the proposed launch site.

(2) For a launch operator license, an applicant must file flight safety analysis products that account for the range of launch vehicles and flight trajectories applied for, or the worst case vehicle and trajectory under which flight will be attempted, no later than 6 months before the applicant brings any launch vehicle to the proposed launch site. For a launch specific license, an applicant must file flight safety analysis products that account for the actual flight conditions, no later than 6 months before the applicant brings any launch vehicle to the proposed launch site.

(3) The flight safety analysis performed by an applicant must be completed as required by subpart C of part 417 of this chapter. An applicant may identify those portions of the analysis that it expects to refine as the first proposed flight date approaches. An applicant must identify any analysis product subject to change, describe what needs to be done to finalize the product, and identify when before flight it will be finalized. If a license allows more than one launch, an applicant must demonstrate the applicability of the analysis methods to each of the proposed launches and identify any expected differences in the flight safety analysis methods among the proposed launches. Once licensed, a launch operator must perform a flight safety analysis for each launch using final launch vehicle performance and other data as required by subpart C of part 417 of this chapter and using the analysis methods approved by the FAA through the licensing process.
