
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 415 - LAUNCH LICENSE
##### Subpart F - Safety Review and Approval for Launch of an Expendable Launch Vehicle From a Non-Federal Launch Site
###### § 415.117 Ground safety.
####### Ground safety analysis.

(b)A ground safety analysis must review each system and operation used in launch processing and post-flight operations as required by § 417.109 of this chapter, and subpart E of part 417 of this chapter.

(1) An applicant must file an initial ground safety analysis report no later than 12 months for any orbital or guided suborbital launch vehicle, and nine months for an unguided suborbital launch vehicle, before the applicant brings any launch vehicle to the proposed launch site. An initial ground safety analysis report must be in a proposed final or near final form and identify any incomplete items. An applicant must document any incomplete items and track them to completion. An applicant must resolve any FAA comments on the initial report and file a complete ground safety analysis report, no later than two months before the applicant brings any launch vehicle to the proposed launch site. Furthermore, an applicant must keep its ground safety analysis report current. Any late developing change to a ground safety analysis report must be coordinated with the FAA as an application amendment as required by § 413.17 of this chapter as soon as the applicant identifies the need for a change.

(2) An applicant must file a ground safety analysis report that satisfies the ground safety analysis requirements of § 417.109 of this chapter, and subpart E of part 417 of this chapter.

(3) The person designated under § 417.103(b)(1) of this chapter and the person designated under § 417.103(b)(2) of this chapter must approve and sign the ground safety analysis report.
