
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Launch Safety Responsibilities
###### ยง 417.107 Flight safety.
####### Public risk criteria.

(b)A launch operator may initiate the flight of a launch vehicle only if flight safety analysis performed under paragraph (f) of this section demonstrates that any risk to the public satisfies the following public risk criteria:

(1) A launch operator may initiate the flight of a launch vehicle only if the total risk associated with the launch to all members of the public, excluding persons in water-borne vessels and aircraft, does not exceed an expected number of 1 x 10casualties. The total risk consists of risk posed by impacting inert and explosive debris, toxic release, and far field blast overpressure. The FAA will determine whether to approve public risk due to any other hazard associated with the proposed flight of a launch vehicle on a case-by-case basis. The Ecriterion applies to each launch from lift-off through orbital insertion for an orbital launch, and through final impact for a suborbital launch.

(2) A launch operator may initiate flight only if the risk to any individual member of the public does not exceed a casualty expectation of 1 x 10per launch for each hazard.

(3) A launch operator must establish any water borne vessel hazard areas necessary to ensure the probability of impact (P) with debris capable of causing a casualty for water borne vessels does not exceed 1 x 10.

(4) A launch operator must establish any aircraft hazard areas necessary to ensure the probability of impact (P) with debris capable of causing a casualty for aircraft does not exceed 1 x 10.

(5) A launch operator may initiate flight of a launch vehicle only if all of the risks to the public satisfy the criteria in the critical asset protection requirements in ยง 450.101(a)(4) and (b)(4).
