
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Launch Safety Responsibilities
###### § 417.111 Launch plans.
####### Ground safety plan.

(c)A launch operator must implement a ground safety plan that describes implementation of the hazard controls identified by a launch operator's ground safety analysis and implementation of the ground safety requirements of subpart E of this part. A ground safety plan must address all public safety related issues and may include other ground safety issues if a launch operator intends it to have a broader scope. A ground safety plan must include the following:

(1) A description of the launch vehicle and any payload, or class of payload, identifying each hazard, including explosives, propellants, toxics and other hazardous materials, radiation sources, and pressurized systems. A ground safety plan must include figures that show the location of each hazard on the launch vehicle, and indicate where at the launch site a launch operator performs hazardous operations during launch processing.

(2) Propellant and explosive information including:

(i) Total net explosive weight of each of the launch operator's liquid and solid propellants and other explosives for each explosive hazard facility as defined by part 420 of this chapter.

(ii) For each toxic propellant, any hazard controls and process constraints determined under the launch operator's toxic release hazard analysis for launch processing performed as required by § 417.229 and appendix I of this part.

(iii) The explosive and occupancy limits for each explosive hazard facility.

(iv) Individual explosive item information, including configuration (such as, solid motor, motor segment, or liquid propellant container), explosive material, net explosive weight, storage hazard classification and compatibility group as defined by part 420 of this chapter.

(3) A graphic depiction of the layout of a launch operator's launch complex and other launch processing facilities at the launch site. The depiction must show separation distances and any intervening barriers between explosive items that affect the total net explosive weight that each facility is sited to accommodate. A launch operator must identify any proposed facility modifications or operational changes that may affect a launch site operator's explosive site plan.

(4) A description of the process for ensuring that the person designated under § 417.103(b)(2) reviews and approves any procedures and procedure changes for safety implications.

(5) Procedures that launch personnel will follow when reporting a hazard or mishap to a launch operator's safety organization.

(6) Procedures for ensuring that personnel have the qualifications and certifications needed to perform a task involving a hazard that could affect public safety.

(7) A flow chart of launch processing activities, including a list of all major tasks. The flow chart must include all hazardous tasks and identify where and when, with respect to liftoff, each hazardous task will take place.

(8) Identification of each safety clear zone and hazard area established as required by §§ 417.411 and 417.413, respectively.

(9) A summary of the means for announcing when any hazardous operation is taking place, the means for making emergency announcements and alarms, and identification of the recipients of each type of announcement.

(10) A summary of the means of prohibiting access to each safety clear zone, and implementing access control to each hazard area, including any procedures for prohibiting or allowing public access to such areas.

(11) A description of the process for ensuring that all safety precautions and verifications are in place before, during, and after hazardous operations. This includes the process for verification that an area can be returned to a non-hazardous work status.

(12) Description of each hazard control required by the ground safety analysis for each task that creates a public or launch location hazard. The hazard control must satisfy § 417.407(b).

(13) A procedure for the use of any safety equipment that protects the public, for each task that creates a public hazard or a launch location hazard.

(14) The requirement and procedure for coordinating with any launch site operator and local authorities, for each task creating a public or launch location hazard.

(15) Generic emergency procedures that apply to all emergencies and the emergency procedures that apply to each specific task that may create a public hazard, including any task that involves hazardous material, as required by § 417.407.

(16) A listing of the ground safety plan references, by title and date, such as the ground safety analysis report, explosive quantity-distance site plan and other ground safety related documentation.
