
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Launch Safety Responsibilities
###### ยง 417.111 Launch plans.
####### Countdown plan.

(l)A launch operator must develop and implement a countdown plan that verifies that each launch safety rule and launch commit criterion is satisfied, verifies that personnel can communicate during the countdown and that the communication is available after the flight; and verifies that a launch operator will be able to recover from a launch abort or delay. A countdown plan must:

(1) Cover the period of time when any launch support personnel are to be at their designated stations through initiation of flight.

(2) Include procedures for handling anomalies that occur during a countdown and events and conditions that may result in a constraint to initiation of flight.

(3) Include procedures for delaying or holding a launch when necessary to allow for corrective actions, to await improved conditions, or to accommodate a launch wait.

(4) Describe a process for resolving issues that arise during a countdown and identify each person, by position, who approves corrective actions.

(5) Include a written countdown checklist that provides a formal decision process leading to flight initiation. A countdown checklist must include the flight day preflight tests of a flight safety system required by subpart D of this part and must contain:

(i) Identification of operations and specific actions completed, verification that there are no constraints to flight, and verification that a launch operator satisfied all launch safety rules and launch commit criteria;

(ii) Time of each event;

(iii) Identification of personnel, by position, who perform each operation or specific action, including reporting to the person designated under ยง 417.103(b)(3);

(iv) Identification of each communication channel that a launch operator uses for reporting each event;

(v) Identification of all communication and event reporting protocols;

(vi) Polling of personnel, by position, who oversee all safety critical systems and operations, to verify that the systems and the operations are ready to proceed with the launch; and

(vii) Record of all critical communications network channels that are used for voice, video, or data transmission that support the flight safety system, during each countdown.

(6) In case of a launch abort or delay:

(i) Identify each condition that must exist in order to make another launch attempt;

(ii) Include a schedule depicting the flow of tasks and events in relation to when the abort or delay occurred and the new planned launch time; and

(iii) Identify each interface and supporting entity needed to support recovery operations.
