
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Launch Safety Responsibilities
###### § 417.113 Launch safety rules.
####### Flight-commit criteria.

(c)The launch safety rules must include flight-commit criteria that identify each condition that must be met in order to initiate flight.

(1) The flight-commit criteria must implement the flight safety analysis of subpart C of this part and collision avoidance requirements in § 450.169 and critical asset protection requirements in § 450.101(a)(4) and (b)(4). These must include criteria for:

(i) Surveillance of any region of land, sea, or air necessary to ensure the number and location of members of the public are consistent with the inputs used for the flight safety analysis of subpart C of this part;

(ii) Monitoring of any meteorological condition and implementing any flight constraint developed using appendix G of this part. The launch operator must have clear and convincing evidence that the lightning flight commit criteria of appendix G, which apply to the conditions present at the time of lift-off, are not violated. If any other hazardous conditions exist, other than those identified by appendix G, the launch weather team will report the hazardous condition to the official designated under § 417.103(b)(1), who will determine whether initiating flight would expose the launch vehicle to a lightning hazard and not initiate flight in the presence of the hazard; and

(iii) Implementation of any launch wait in the launch window for the purpose of collision avoidance in accordance with collision avoidance requirements in § 450.169.

(2) For a launch that uses a flight safety system, the flight-commit criteria must ensure that the flight safety system is ready for flight. This must include criteria for ensuring that:

(i) The flight safety system is operating to ensure the launch vehicle will launch within all flight safety limits;

(ii) Any command transmitter system required by section D417.9 has sufficient coverage from lift-off to the point in flight where the flight safety system is no longer required by § 417.107(a);

(iii) The launch vehicle tracking system has no less than two tracking sources prior to lift-off. The launch vehicle tracking system has no less than one verified tracking source at all times from lift-off to orbit insertion for an orbital launch, to the end of powered flight for a suborbital launch; and

(iv) The launch operator will employ its flight safety system as designed in accordance with this part.

(3) For each launch, a launch operator must document the actual conditions used for the flight-commit criteria at the time of lift-off and verify whether the flight-commit criteria are satisfied.
