
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Launch Safety Responsibilities
###### § 417.113 Launch safety rules.
####### Flight termination rules.

(d)For a launch that uses a flight safety system, the launch safety rules must identify the conditions under which the flight safety system, including the functions of the flight safety system crew, must terminate flight to ensure public safety. These flight termination rules must implement the flight safety analysis of subpart C of this part and include each of the following:

(1) The flight safety system must terminate flight when valid, real-time data indicate the launch vehicle has violated any flight safety limit of § 417.213;

(2) The flight safety system must terminate flight at the straight-up-time required by § 417.215 if the launch vehicle continues to fly a straight up trajectory and, therefore, does not turn downrange when it should;

(3) The flight safety system must terminate flight when all of the following conditions exist:

(i) Real-time data indicate that the performance of the launch vehicle is erratic;

(ii) The potential exists for the loss of flight safety system control of the launch vehicle and further flight has the potential to endanger the public.

(4) The flight termination rules must incorporate the data-loss flight times and planned safe flight state of § 417.219, including each of the following:

(i) The flight safety system must terminate flight no later than the first data-loss flight time if, by that time, tracking of the launch vehicle is not established and vehicle position and status is unknown; and

(ii) Once launch vehicle tracking is established and there is a subsequent loss of verified tracking data before the planned safe flight state and verified tracking data is not received again, the flight safety system must terminate flight no later than the expiration of the data-loss flight time for the point in flight that the data was lost.

(5) For any gate established under § 417.217, both of the following apply:

(i) The flight safety system must terminate flight if the launch vehicle is performing erratically immediately prior to entering the gate.

(ii) The flight termination rules may permit the instantaneous impact point or other tracking icon to cross the gate only if there is no indication that the launch vehicle's performance has become erratic and the launch vehicle is either flying parallel to the nominal trajectory or converging to the nominal trajectory.

(6) For any hold-and-resume gate established under § 417.218;

(i) The flight safety system must terminate flight if the launch vehicle is performing erratically immediately prior to entering a hold gate.

(ii) The flight termination rules may permit the instantaneous impact point or other tracking icon to cross a hold gate only if there is no indication that the launch vehicle's performance has become erratic and the vehicle is either flying parallel to the nominal trajectory or converging to the nominal trajectory.

(iii) The flight termination rules of paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(3), and (d)(4) of this section apply after the instantaneous impact point or other tracking icon exits a resume gate.
