
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Launch Safety Responsibilities
###### ยง 417.117 Reviews.
####### Launch safety review.

(2)For each launch, a launch operator must conduct a launch safety review no later than 15 days before the planned day of flight, or as agreed to by the FAA during the application process. This review must determine the readiness of ground and flight safety systems, safety equipment, and safety personnel to support a flight attempt. Successful completion of a launch safety review must ensure satisfaction of the following criteria:

(i) A launch operator must verify that all safety requirements have been or will be satisfied before flight. The launch operator must resolve all safety related action items.

(ii) A launch operator must assign and certify flight safety personnel as required by ยง 417.105.

(iii) The flight safety rules and flight safety plan must incorporate a final flight safety analysis as required by subpart C of this part.

(iv) A launch operator must verify, at the time of the review, that the ground safety systems and personnel satisfy or will satisfy all requirements of the ground safety plan for support of flight.

(v) A launch operator must accomplish the safety related coordination with any launch site operator or local authorities as required by local agreements.

(vi) A launch operator must verify the filing of all safety related information for a specific launch with the FAA, as required by FAA regulations and any special terms of a license. A launch operator must verify that information filed with the FAA reflects the current status of safety-related systems and processes for each specific launch.
