
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Launch Safety Responsibilities
###### ยง 417.117 Reviews.
####### Launch readiness review for flight.

(3)A launch operator must conduct a launch readiness review for flight as required by this section within 48 hours of flight. A person, identified as required by ยง 417.103(b)(1), must review all preflight testing and launch processing conducted up to the time of the review; and review the status of systems and support personnel to determine readiness to proceed with launch processing and the launch countdown. A decision to proceed must be in writing and signed by the person identified as required by ยง 417.103(b)(1), and any launch site operator or Federal launch range. A launch operator, during the launch readiness review, must poll the FAA to verify that the FAA has identified no issues related to the launch operator's license. During a launch readiness review, the launch operator must account for the following information:

(i) Readiness of launch vehicle and payload.

(ii) Readiness of any flight safety system and personnel and the results of flight safety system testing.

(iii) Readiness of safety-related launch property and services to be provided by a Federal launch range.

(iv) Readiness of all other safety-related equipment and services.

(v) Readiness of launch safety rules and launch constraints.

(vi) Status of launch weather forecasts.

(vii) Readiness of abort, hold and recycle procedures.

(viii) Results of rehearsals conducted as required by ยง 417.119.

(ix) Unresolved safety issues as of the time of the launch readiness review and plans for their resolution.

(x) Additional safety information that may be required to assess readiness for flight.

(xi) To review launch failure initial response actions and investigation roles and responsibilities.
