
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Launch Safety Responsibilities
###### ยง 417.125 Launch of an unguided suborbital launch vehicle.
####### Wind weighting safety system.

(c)A launch operator's wind weighting safety system must consist of equipment, procedures, analysis and personnel functions used to determine the launcher elevation and azimuth settings that correct for the windcocking and wind drift that an unguided suborbital launch vehicle will experience during flight due to wind effects. The launch of an unguided suborbital launch vehicle that uses a wind weighting safety system must meet the following requirements:

(1) The unguided suborbital launch vehicle must not contain a guidance or directional control system.

(2) The launcher azimuth and elevation settings must be wind weighted to correct for the effects of wind conditions at the time of flight to provide a safe impact location. A launch operator must conduct the launch in accordance with the wind weighting analysis requirements and methods of ยง 417.233 and appendix C of this part.

(3) A launch operator must use a launcher elevation angle setting that ensures the rocket will not fly uprange. A launch operator must set the launcher elevation angle in accordance with the following:

(i) The nominal launcher elevation angle must not exceed 85&#xB0;. The wind corrected launcher elevation setting must not exceed 86&#xB0;.

(ii) For an unproven unguided suborbital launch vehicle, the nominal launcher elevation angle must not exceed 80&#xB0;. The wind corrected launcher elevation setting must not exceed 84&#xB0;. A proven unguided suborbital launch vehicle is one that has demonstrated, by two or more launches, that flight performance errors are within all the three-sigma dispersion parameters modeled in the wind weighting safety system.
