
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Launch Safety Responsibilities
###### ยง 417.123 Computing systems and software.

(a) A launch operator must document a system safety process that identifies the hazards and assesses the risks to public health and safety and the safety of property related to computing systems and software.

(b) A launch operator must identify all safety-critical functions associated with its computing systems and software. Safety-critical computing system and software functions must include the following:

(1) Software used to control or monitor safety-critical systems.

(2) Software that transmits safety-critical data, including time-critical data and data about hazardous conditions.

(3) Software used for fault detection in safety-critical computer hardware or software.

(4) Software that responds to the detection of a safety-critical fault.

(5) Software used in a flight safety system.

(6) Processor-interrupt software associated with previously designated safety-critical computer system functions.

(7) Software that computes safety-critical data.

(8) Software that accesses safety-critical data.

(9) Software used for wind weighting.

(c) A launch operator must conduct computing system and software hazard analyses for the integrated system.

(d) A launch operator must develop and implement computing system and software validation and verification plans.

(e) A launch operator must develop and implement software development plans, including descriptions of the following:

(1) Coding standards used;

(2) Configuration control;

(3) Programmable logic controllers;

(4) Policy on use of any commercial-off-the-shelf software; and

(5) Policy on software reuse.
