
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart D - Flight Safety System
###### ยง 417.305 Command control system testing.
####### General.

(a)(1) A command control system, including its subsystems and components must undergo the acceptance testing of paragraph (b) of this section when new or modified. For each launch, a command control system must undergo the preflight testing of paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Each acceptance and preflight test must follow a written test plan that specifies the procedures and test parameters for the test and the testing sequence. A test plan must include instructions on how to handle procedural deviations and how to react to test failures.

(3) If hardware or software is redesigned or replaced with a different hardware or software that is not identical to the original, the system must undergo all acceptance testing and analysis with the new hardware or software and all preflight testing for each launch with the new hardware or software.

(4) After a command control system passes all acceptance tests, if a component is replaced with an identical component, the system must undergo testing to ensure that the new component is installed properly and is operational.
