
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart D - Flight Safety System
###### ยง 417.307 Support systems.
####### Launch vehicle tracking.

(b)(1) A flight safety system must include a launch vehicle tracking system that provides launch vehicle position and status data to the flight safety crew from the first data loss flight time until the planned safe flight state for the launch.

(2) The tracking system must consist of at least two sources of launch vehicle position data. The data sources must be independent of one another, and at least one source must be independent of any vehicle guidance system.

(3) All ground tracking systems and components must be compatible with any tracking system components onboard the launch vehicle.

(4) If a tracking system uses radar as one of the independent tracking sources, the system must:

(i) Include a tracking beacon onboard the launch vehicle; or

(ii) If the system relies on skin tracking, it must maintain a tracking margin of no less than 6 dB above noise throughout the period of flight that the radar is used. The flight safety limits must account for the larger tracking errors associated with skin tracking.

(5) The tracking system must provide real-time data to the flight safety data processing, display, and recording system required by paragraph (e) of this section.

(6) For each launch, each tracking source must undergo validation of its accuracy. For each stage of flight that a launch vehicle guidance system is used as a tracking source, a tracking source that is independent of any system used to aid the guidance system must validate the guidance system data before the data is used in the flight termination decision process.

(7) The launch vehicle tracking error from all sources, including data latency and any possible gaps or dropouts in tracking coverage, must be consistent with the flight safety limits of ยง 417.213 and the flight safety system time delay of ยง 417.221.

(8) Any planned gap in tracking coverage must not occur at the same time as any planned switching of command transmitters.
