
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart D - Flight Safety System
###### ยง 417.307 Support systems.
####### Displays and controls.

(f)(1) A flight safety system must include the displays of real-time data and controls that the flight safety crew needs to perform all its functions, such as to monitor and evaluate launch vehicle performance, communicate with other flight safety and launch personnel, and initiate flight termination.

(2) A flight safety system must present all data that the flight safety crew needs to ensure that all flight commit criteria are satisfied for each launch, such as hazard area surveillance, any aircraft and ship traffic information, meteorological conditions, and the flight termination system monitoring data of section D417.17.

(3) The real-time displays must include all data that the flight safety crew needs to ensure the operational functionality of the flight safety system, including availability and quality, and that all flight termination rules are satisfied for each launch, such as:

(i) Launch vehicle tracking data, such as instantaneous vacuum impact point, drag corrected debris footprint, or present launch vehicle position and velocities as a function of time;

(ii) Vehicle status data from telemetry, including yaw, pitch, roll, and motor chamber pressure;

(iii) The flight termination system monitoring data of section D417.17;

(iv) Background displays of nominal trajectory, flight safety limits, data loss flight times, planned safe flight state, and any overflight gate through a flight safety limit all as determined by the flight safety analysis required by subpart C of this part; and

(v) Any video data when required by the flight safety crew to perform its functions, such as video from optical program and flight line cameras.

(4) The controls must allow the flight safety crew to turn a command transmitter on and off, manually switch from primary to backup transmitter antenna, and switch between each transmitter site. These functions may be accomplished through controls available to command transmitter support personnel and communications between those personnel and the flight safety crew.

(5) Each set of command transmitter system controls must include a means of identifying when it has primary control of the system.

(6) The displays must include a means of immediately notifying the flight safety system crew of any automatic fail-over of the system transmitters.

(7) All flight safety system controls must be dedicated to the flight safety system and must not rely on time or equipment shared with other systems.

(8) All data transmission links between any control, transmitter, or antenna must consist of two or more complete and independent duplex circuits. The routing of these circuits must ensure that they are physically separated from each other to eliminate any potential single failure point in the command control system in accordance with ยง 417.303(d).

(9) The system must include hardware or procedural security provisions for controlling access to all controls and other related hardware. These security provisions must ensure that only the flight safety crew can initiate a flight safety system transmission.

(10) The system must include two independent means for the flight safety crew to initiate arm and destruct messages. The location and functioning of the controls must provide the crew easy access to the controls and prevent inadvertent activation.

(11) The system must include a digital countdown for use in implementing the flight termination rules of ยง 417.113 that apply data loss flight times and the planned safe flight state. The system must also include a manual method of applying the data loss flight times in the event that the digital countdown malfunctions.
