
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart D - Flight Safety System
###### ยง 417.311 Flight safety crew roles and qualifications.

(a) A flight safety crew must operate the flight safety system hardware. A flight safety crew must document each flight safety crew position description and maintain documentation on individual crew qualifications, including education, experience, and training as part of the personnel certification program required by ยง 417.105.

(b) A flight safety crew must be able to demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to operate the flight safety system hardware in accordance with ยง 417.113.

(1) A flight safety crew must have knowledge of:

(i) All flight safety system assets and responsibilities, including:

(A) Communications systems and launch operations procedures;

(B) Both voice and data systems;

(C) Graphical data systems;

(D) Tracking; and

(E) Telemetry real time data;

(ii) Flight termination systems; and

(iii) Contingency operations, including hold, recycle and abort procedures.

(2) An individual who monitors vehicle performance and performs flight termination must have knowledge of and be capable of resolving malfunctions in:

(i) The application of safety support systems such as position tracking sources;

(ii) Digital computers;

(iii) Displays;

(iv) Command destruct;

(v) Communications;

(vi) Telemetry;

(vii) All electrical functions of a flight termination system;

(viii) The principles of radio frequency transmission and attenuation;

(ix) The behavior of ballistic and aerodynamic vehicles in flight under the influence of aerodynamic forces; and

(x) The application of flight termination rules.

(3) An individual who operates flight safety support systems must have knowledge of and be capable of resolving malfunctions in:

(i) The design and assembly of the flight safety support system hardware;

(ii) The operation of electromechanical systems; and

(iii) The nature and inherent tendencies of the flight safety system hardware being operated.

(4) An individual who performs flight safety analysis must have knowledge of orbital mechanics and be proficient in the calculation and production of range safety displays, impact probabilities, and casualty expectations.

(c) Flight safety crew members must complete a training and certification program to ensure launch site familiarization, launch vehicle familiarization, flight safety system functions, equipment, and procedures related to a launch before being called upon to support that launch. Each flight safety crew member must complete a preflight readiness training and certification program. This preflight readiness training and certification program must include:

(1) Mission specific training programs to ensure team readiness.

(2) Launch simulation exercises of system failure modes, including nominal and failure modes, that test crew performance, flight termination criteria, and flight safety data display integrity.
