
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart E - Ground Safety
###### ยง 417.405 Ground safety analysis.
####### Non-credible hazard.

(4)A hazard for which possible adverse effects on people or property would be negligible and where the possibility of adverse effects on people or property is remote. A launch operator's ground safety analysis must identify non-credible hazards and demonstrate that the hazard is non-credible.

(h) A ground safety analysis must identify each hazard cause for each public hazard and launch location hazard. The ground safety analysis must account for conditions, acts, or chain of events that can result in a hazard. The ground safety analysis must account for the possible failure of any control or monitoring circuitry within hardware systems that can cause a hazard.

(i) A ground safety analysis must identify the hazard controls to be established by a launch operator for each hazard cause identified in paragraph (h) of this section. A launch operator's hazard controls include the use of engineering controls for the containment of hazards within defined areas and the control of public access to those areas.

(j) A launch operator must verify all information in a ground safety analysis, including design margins, fault tolerance and successful completion of tests. A launch operator must:

(1) Trace any identified hardware to an engineering drawing or other document that describes hardware configuration;

(2) Trace any test or analysis used in developing the ground safety analysis to a report or memorandum that describes how the test or analysis was performed;

(3) Ensure the accuracy of the test or analysis and the associated results;

(4) Trace any procedural hazard control identified to a written procedure, and approved by the person designated under ยง 417.103(b)(2) or the person's designee, with the paragraph or step number of the procedure specified;

(5) Identify a verifiable hazard control for each hazard; if a hazard control is not verifiable, a launch operator may include it as an informational note on the hazard analysis form;

(6) For each hazard control, reference a released drawing, report, procedure or other document that verifies the existence of the hazard control; and

(7) Maintain records, as required by ยง 417.15, of the documentation that verifies the information in the ground safety analysis.

(k) A launch operator must ensure the continuing accuracy of its ground safety analysis. The analysis of systems and operations must not end upon submission of a ground safety analysis report to the FAA during the license application process. A launch operator must analyze each new or modified system or operation for potential hazards that can affect the public. A launch operator must ensure that each existing system and operation is subject to continual scrutiny and that the information in a ground safety analysis report is kept current.
