
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart E - Ground Safety
###### ยง 417.405 Ground safety analysis.

(a) A launch operator must perform a ground safety analysis for launch vehicle hardware, ground hardware including launch site and ground support equipment, launch processing, and post-launch operations at a launch site in the United States. The requirements of this section apply to the performance of the ground safety analysis and to the ground safety analysis products that a launch operator must file with the FAA as required by ยง 417.402(d). This analysis must identify each potential hazard, each associated cause, and each hazard control that a launch operator must establish and maintain to keep each identified hazard from affecting the public. A launch operator must incorporate the launch site operator's systems and operations involved in ensuring public safety into the ground safety analysis.

(b) Technical personnel who are knowledgeable of launch vehicle systems, launch processing, ground systems, operations, and their associated hazards must prepare the ground safety analysis. These individuals must be qualified to perform the ground safety analysis through training, education, and experience.

(c) A launch operator must ensure personnel performing a ground safety analysis or preparing a ground safety analysis report will have the cooperation of the entire launch operator's organization. A launch operator must maintain supporting documentation and it must be available upon request.

(d) A launch operator must:

(1) Begin a ground safety analysis by identifying the systems and operations to be analyzed;

(2) Define the extent of each system and operation being assessed to ensure there is no miscommunication as to what the hazards are, and who, in a launch operator's organization or other organization supporting the launch, controls those hazards; and

(3) Ensure that the ground safety analysis accounts for each launch vehicle system and operation involved in launch processing and post-launch operations, even if only to show that no hazard exists.

(e) A ground safety analysis need not account for potential hazards of a component if a launch operator demonstrates that no hazard to the public exists at the system level. A ground safety analysis need not account for an operation's individual task or subtask level if a launch operator demonstrates that no hazard to the public exists at the operation level. A launch operator must provide verifiable controls for hazards that are confined within the boundaries of a launch operator's facility to ensure the public will not have access to the associated hazard area while the hazard exists.

(f) A launch operator must identify each potential hazard, including non-credible hazards. The probability of occurrence is not relevant with respect to identifying a hazard. Where an assertion is made that no hazard exists for a particular system or operation, the ground safety analysis must provide the rationale. A launch operator must identify the following hazards of each launch vehicle system, launch site and ground support equipment, launch processing, and post-launch operations:

(1) System hazards, including explosives and other ordnance, solid and liquid propellants, toxic and radioactive materials, asphyxiants, cryogens, and high pressure. System hazards generally exist even when no operation is occurring; and

(2) Operation hazards derived from an unsafe condition created by a system, operating environment, or an unsafe act.

(g) A launch operator must categorize identified system and operation hazards as follows:
