
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart E - Ground Safety
###### ยง 417.409 System hazard controls.
####### Ordnance systems.

(f)An ordnance system must be at least single fault tolerant to prevent a hazard caused by inadvertent actuation of the ordnance system. A launch operator must comply with ยง 417.417 for hazard controls applicable to ordnance. In addition, an ordnance system must satisfy the following requirements;

(1) A launch operator must ensure ordnance electrical connections are disconnected until final preparations for flight;

(2) An ordnance system must provide for safing and arming of the ordnance. An electrically initiated ordnance system must include ordnance initiation devices and arming devices, also referred to as safe and arm devices, that provide a removable and replaceable mechanical barrier or other positive means of interrupting power to each ordnance firing circuit to prevent inadvertent initiation of ordnance. A mechanical safe and arm device must have a safing pin that locks the mechanical barrier in a safe position. A mechanical actuated ordnance device must also have a safing pin that prevents mechanical movement within the device. A launch operator must comply with section D417.13 of this part for specific safing and arming requirements for a flight termination system;

(3) Protect ordnance systems from stray energy through grounding, bonding, and shielding; and

(4) Current limit any monitoring or test circuitry that interfaces with an ordnance system to protect against inadvertent initiation of ordnance. Equipment used to measure bridgewire resistance on electro-explosive devices must be special purpose ordnance system instrumentation with features that limit current.
