
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart E - Ground Safety
###### ยง 417.411 Safety clear zones for hazardous operations.

(a) A launch operator must define a safety clear zone that confines the adverse effects of each operation involving a public hazard or launch location hazard. A launch operator's safety clear zones must satisfy the following:

(1) A launch operator must establish a safety clear zone that accounts for the potential blast, fragment, fire or heat, toxic and other hazardous energy or material potential of the associated systems and operations. A launch operator must base a safety clear zone on the following criteria:

(i) For a possible explosive event, base a safety clear zone on the worst case event, regardless of the fault tolerance of the system;

(ii) For a possible toxic event, base a safety clear zone on the worst case event. A launch operator must have procedures in place to maintain public safety in the event toxic releases reach beyond the safety clear zone; and

(iii) For a material handling operation, base a safety clear zone on a worst case event for that operation.

(2) A launch operator must establish a safety clear zone when the launch vehicle is in a launch command configuration with the flight safety systems fully operational and on internal power.

(b) A launch operator must establish restrictions that prohibit public access to a safety clear zone during a hazardous operation. A safety clear zone may extend to areas beyond the launch location boundaries if local agreements provide for restricting public access to such areas and a launch operator verifies that the safety clear zone is clear of the public during the hazardous operation.

(c) A launch operator's procedures must verify that the public is outside of a safety clear zone prior to a launch operator beginning a hazardous operation.

(d) A launch operator must control a safety clear zone to ensure no public access during the hazardous operation. Safety clear zone controls include:

(1) Use of security guards and equipment;

(2) Physical barriers; and

(3) Warning signs, and other types of warning devices.
