
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart E - Ground Safety
###### ยง 417.409 System hazard controls.
####### General.

(a)A launch operator must establish and maintain hazard controls for each system that presents a public hazard as identified by the ground safety analysis and satisfy the requirements of this section. A launch operator must:

(1) Ensure a system be at least single fault tolerant to creating a public hazard unless other hazard control criteria are specified for the system by the requirements of this part. A system capable of creating a catastrophic public hazard must be at least dual fault tolerant. Dual fault tolerant system hazard controls include: Switches, valves, or similar components that prevent an unwanted transfer or release of energy or hazardous materials;

(2) Ensure each hazard control used to provide fault tolerance is independent from other hazard controls so that no single action or event can remove more than one inhibit. A launch operator must prevent inadvertent activation of hazard control devices such as switches and valves;

(3) Provide at least two fully redundant safety devices if a safety device must function in order to control a public hazard. A single action or event must not be capable of disabling both safety devices; and

(4) Ensure computing systems and software used to control a public hazard satisfy the requirements of ยง 417.123.
