
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart E - Ground Safety
###### ยง 417.417 Propellants and explosives.

(a) A launch operator must comply with the explosive safety criteria in part 420 of this chapter.

(b) A launch operator must ensure that:

(1) The explosive site plan satisfies part 420 of this chapter;

(2) Only those explosive facilities and launch points addressed in the explosive site plan are used and only for their intended purpose; and

(3) The total net explosive weight for each explosive hazard facility and launch point must not exceed the maximum net explosive weight limit indicated on the explosive site plan for each location.

(c) A launch operator must establish, maintain, and perform procedures that ensure public safety for the receipt, storage, handling, inspection, test, and disposal of explosives.

(d) A launch operator must establish and maintain each procedural system control to prevent inadvertent initiation of propellants and explosives. These controls must include the following:

(1) Protect ordnance systems from stray energy through methods of bonding, grounding, and shielding, and controlling radio frequency radiation sources in a radio frequency radiation exclusion area. A launch operator must determine the vulnerability of its electro-explosive devices and systems to radio frequency radiation and establish radio frequency radiation power limits or radio frequency radiation exclusion areas as required by the launch site operator or to ensure safety.

(2) Keep ordnance safety devices, as required by ยง 417.409, in place until the launch complex is cleared as part of the final launch countdown. No members of the public may re-enter the complex until each safety device is re-established.

(3) Do not allow heat and spark or flame producing devices in an explosive or propellant facility without written approval and oversight from a launch operator's safety organization.

(4) Do not allow static producing materials in close proximity to solid or liquid propellants, electro-explosive devices, or systems containing flammable liquids.

(5) Use fire safety measures including:

(i) Elimination or reduction of flammable and combustible materials;

(ii) Elimination or reduction of ignition sources;

(iii) Fire and smoke detection systems;

(iv) Safe means of egress; and

(v) Timely fire suppression response.

(6) Include lightning protection on each facility used to store or process explosives to prevent inadvertent initiation of propellants and explosives due to lightning unless the facility complies with the lightning protection criteria of ยง 420.71 of this part.

(e) A launch operator, in the event of an emergency, must perform the accident investigation plan as defined in ยง 417.111(h).
