
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Subpart E - Ground Safety
###### ยง 417.415 Post-launch and post-flight-attempt hazard controls.

(a) A launch operator must establish, maintain and perform procedures for controlling hazards and returning the launch facility to a safe condition after a successful launch. Procedural hazard controls must include:

(1) Provisions for extinguishing fires;

(2) Re-establishing full operational capability of safety devices, barriers, and platforms; and

(3) Access control.

(b) A launch operator must establish procedures for controlling hazards associated with a failed flight attempt where a solid or liquid launch vehicle engine start command was sent, but the launch vehicle did not liftoff. These procedures must include the following:

(1) Maintaining and verifying that each flight termination system remains operational until verification that the launch vehicle does not represent a risk of inadvertent liftoff. If an ignition signal has been sent to a solid rocket motor, the flight termination system must remain armed and active for a period of no less than 30 minutes. During this time, flight termination system batteries must maintain sufficient voltage and current capacity for flight termination system operation. The flight termination system receivers must remain captured by the command control system transmitter's carrier signal;

(2) Assuring that the vehicle is in a safe configuration, including its propulsion and ordnance systems. The flight safety system crew must have access to the vehicle status. Re-establish safety devices and bring each pressurized system down to safe pressure levels; and

(3) Prohibiting launch complex entry until the launch pad area safing procedures are complete.

(c) A launch operator must establish procedural controls for hazards associated with an unsuccessful flight where the launch vehicle has a land or water impact. These procedures must include the following provisions:

(1) Evacuation and rescue of members of the public, to include modeling the dispersion and movement of toxic plumes, identification of areas at risk, and communication with local government authorities;

(2) Extinguishing fires;

(3) Securing impact areas to ensure that personnel and the public are evacuated, and ensure that no unauthorized personnel or members of the public enter, and to preserve evidence; and

(4) Ensuring public safety from hazardous debris, such as plans for recovery and salvage of launch vehicle debris and safe disposal of hazardous materials.
