
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix A to Part 417 - Flight Safety Analysis Methodologies and Products for a Launch Vehicle Flown With a Flight Safety System

The requirements of this appendix apply to the methods for performing the flight safety analysis required by § 417.107(f) and subpart C of this part. The methodologies contained in this appendix provide an acceptable means of satisfying the requirements of subpart C and provide a standard and a measure of fidelity against which the FAA will measure any proposed alternative analysis approach. This appendix also identifies the analysis products that a launch operator must file with the FAA as required by § 417.203(e).

The requirements of this appendix apply to a launch operator and the launch operator's flight safety analysis unless the launch operator clearly and convincingly demonstrates that an alternative approach provides an equivalent level of safety. If a Federal launch range performs the launch operator's analysis, § 417.203(d) applies. Section A417.33 applies to the flight of any unguided suborbital launch vehicle that uses a wind-weighting safety system. All other sections of this appendix apply to the flight of any launch vehicle required to use a flight safety system as required by § 417.107(a). For any alternative flight safety system approved by the FAA as required by § 417.301(b), the FAA will determine the applicability of this appendix during the licensing process.

A launch operator's flight safety analysis must satisfy the requirements for public risk management and the requirements for the compatibility of the input and output of dependent analyses of § 417.205.
