
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix B to Part 417 - Flight Hazard Area Analysis for Aircraft and Ship Protection

This appendix contains requirements to establish aircraft hazard areas, ship hazard areas, and land impact hazard areas. The methodologies contained in this appendix represent an acceptable means of satisfying the requirements of § 417.107 and § 417.223 as they pertain to ship, aircraft, and land hazard areas. This appendix provides a standard and a measure of fidelity against which the FAA will measure any proposed alternative approaches. Requirements for a launch operator's implementation of a hazard area are contained in §§ 417.121(e) and (f).

(a) A launch operator must ensure the following notifications have been made and adhered to at launch:

(1) A Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) must be issued for every aircraft hazard area identified as required by sections B417.5 and B417.7. The NOTAM must be effective no less than thirty minutes prior to flight and effective until no sooner than thirty minutes after the air space volume requested by the NOTAM can no longer be affected by the launch vehicle or its potential hazardous effects.

(2) A Notice to Mariners (NOTMAR) must be issued for every ship hazard area identified as required by sections B417.5 and B417.7. The NOTMAR must be effective no less than thirty minutes prior to flight and effective until no sooner than thirty minutes after the area requested by the NOTMAR can no longer be affected by the launch vehicle or its potential hazardous effects.

(3) All local officials and landowners adjacent to any hazard area must be notified of the flight schedule no less than two days prior to the flight of the launch vehicle.

(b) A launch operator must survey each of the following hazard areas:

(1) Each launch site hazard area;

(2) Each aircraft hazard area in the vicinity of the launch site; and

(3) Each ship hazard area in the vicinity of the launch site.
