
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix B to Part 417 - Flight Hazard Area Analysis for Aircraft and Ship Protection
###### Methodology for computing land hazard areas in the vicinity of the launch site and in the vicinity of each planned land impact location.

(c)The analysis must establish a land hazard area as follows:

(1) Each land hazard area must completely encompass all individual casualty contours that define where the risk to an individual would exceed the expected casualty (E) criteria of 1 x 10if one person were assumed to be in the open and inside the contour during launch vehicle flight. The analysis must produce an individual casualty contour as follows:

(i) The analysis must account for the location of a hypothetical person, and must vary the location of the person to determine when the risk would exceed the Ecriteria of 1 x 10. The analysis must count a person as a casualty when the person's location is subjected to any inert debris impact with a mean expected kinetic energy greater than or equal to 11 ft-lbs or a peak incident overpressure equal to or greater than 1.0 psi due to explosive debris impact. The analysis must determine the peak incident overpressure using the Kingery-Bulmash relationship, without regard to sheltering, reflections, or atmospheric effects.

(ii) The analysis must account for all person locations that are no more than 1000 feet apart in the downrange direction and no more than 1000 feet apart in the crossrange direction to produce an individual casualty contour. For each person location, the analysis must sum all the probabilities of casualty over all flight times for all debris groups.

(iii) An individual casualty contour must consist of curves that are smooth and continuous. To accomplish this, the analysis must vary the time interval between each trajectory time assessed so that each location of a debris impact point is less than one-half sigma of the downrange dispersion distance.

(2) The input for determining a land impact hazard area must account for the following in order to define the impact locations of each class of debris established by the debris analysis and the time delay analysis required by section A417.21 for a launch vehicle flown with a flight safety system:

(i) The results of the trajectory analysis required by section A417.7 or section C417.3;

(ii) The malfunction turn analysis required by section A417.9 for a launch vehicle flown with a flight safety system; and

(iii) The debris analysis required by section A417.11 or section C417.7.

(3) The analysis must account for the extent of the impact debris dispersions for each debris class produced by normal and malfunctioning launch vehicle flight at each trajectory time. The analysis must also account for how the vehicle breaks up, either by any flight termination system or by aerodynamic forces, if the different breakup may result in a different probability of existence for each debris class. A land impact hazard area must account for each impacting debris fragment classified as required by section A417.11(c) or section C417.7.

(4) For a launch vehicle flown with a flight safety system, the analysis must account for launch vehicle flight that exceeds a flight safety limit. The analysis must also account for trajectory conditions that maximize the mean debris impact distance during the flight safety system delay time determined as required by section A417.21 and account for a debris model that is representative of a flight termination or aerodynamic breakup.

(5) For each launch vehicle breakup event, the analysis must account for trajectory and breakup dispersions, variations in debris class characteristics, and debris dispersion due to any wind condition under which a launch would be attempted.

(6) The analysis must account for the probability of failure of each launch vehicle stage and the probability of existence of each debris class. The analysis must account for the probability of occurrence of each type of launch vehicle failure. The analysis must account for each vehicle failure probabilities that vary depending on the time of flight.

(7) In addition to failure debris, the analysis must account for nominal jettisoned body debris impacts and the corresponding debris impact dispersions. The analysis must use a probability of occurrence of 1.0 for the planned debris fragments produced by normal separation events during flight.
