
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix B to Part 417 - Flight Hazard Area Analysis for Aircraft and Ship Protection
###### Methodology for computing an aircraft hazard area in the vicinity of each planned impact location.

(d)A launch operator must determine an aircraft hazard area in the vicinity of each planned impact location from the surface of the Earth to an altitude of 100,000 ft MSL that wholly contains the launch vehicle's calculated impact dispersion with a 5 nm buffer and the normal trajectory. A launch operator must compute an aircraft hazard area in the vicinity of each planned impact location as follows:

(1) The analysis must calculate a three-sigma dispersion ellipse by determining the three-sigma impact limit around a planned impact location.

(2) Taking the three-sigma dispersion ellipse calculated as required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, plot a co-centric ellipse in the xy plane where the major and minor axes are 10nm longer than the major and minor axes of the three-sigma dispersion ellipse.

(3) Extend the ellipse calculated as required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section from the surface to an infinite altitude.

(4) Using the trajectory that predicts the instantaneous impact locations required in section A417.7(g)(7)(xii) or section C417.3(d), find the location on the trajectory where the vehicle's nominal altitude is predicted to be 100,000 ft MSL.

(5) At the trajectory time where the altitude is represented as 100,000 ft MSL, select the corresponding points from the normal trajectory dispersion that are the farthest uprange, downrange, right crossrange, and left crossrange relative to the nominal trajectory.

(6) Construct a box in the xy plane that includes two lines parallel to the azimuth, two lines perpendicular to the azimuth, and contains the points selected as required by paragraph (d)(5) of this section and the nominal impact point.

(7) Extend the box constructed as required by paragraph (d)(6) of this section from the surface of the Earth to an infinite altitude.

(8) Construct a volume, the aircraft hazard area, that encompasses the volumes calculated as required by paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(7) of this section.
