
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix B to Part 417 - Flight Hazard Area Analysis for Aircraft and Ship Protection
###### Methodology for computing ship hazard areas in the vicinity of the launch site.

(c)The analysis must establish the ship-hit contours as follows:

(1) A ship-hit contour must account for the size of the largest ship that could be located in the ship hazard area. The analysis must demonstrate that the ship size used represents the largest ship that could be present in the ship hazard area or, if the ship size is unknown, the analysis must use a ship size of 120,000 square feet.

(2) The analysis must first calculate the probability of impacting the reference ship selected as required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section at the location of interest. From the location of interest, move the ship away from the launch location along a single radial until the probability that debris is present at that location multiplied by the probability that a ship is at that location is less than or equal to 1 x 10When calculating the probability of impacting a ship, an impact occurs when:

(i) The analysis predicts that inert debris will directly impact the vessel with a mean expected kinetic energy at impact greater than or equal to 11 ft-lbs; or

(ii) The analysis predicts the peak incident overpressure at the reference vessel will be greater than or equal to 1.0 psi due to any explosive debris impact.

(3) The analysis must account for:

(i) The variance in winds;

(ii) The aerodynamic properties of the debris;

(iii) The variance in velocity of the debris;

(iv) Guidance and performance errors;

(v) The type of vehicle breakup, either by any flight termination system or by aerodynamic forces that may result in different debris characteristics; and

(vi) Debris impact dispersion resulting from vehicle breakup and the malfunction turn capabilities of the launch vehicle.

(4) Repeat the process outlined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section while varying the radial direction until enough locations are found where the reference ship's probability of impact is less than or equal to 1 x 10such that connecting each location will result in a smooth and continuous contour.
