
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix C to Part 417 - Flight Safety Analysis Methodologies and Products for an Unguided Suborbital Launch Vehicle Flown With a Wind Weighting Safety System
###### Methodology for determining the nominal trajectory and nominal drag impact points.

(d)A launch operator must employ the steps in paragraphs (d)(1)-(d)(3) of this section to determine the nominal trajectory and the nominal drag impact point locations for each impacting rocket stage and component:

(1) A launch operator must identify each performance error parameter associated with the unguided suborbital launch vehicle's design and operation and the value for each parameter that reflect nominal rocket performance. A launch operator must identify each performance error parameter's distribution to account for all launch vehicle performance variations and any external forces that can cause offsets from the nominal trajectory during normal flight. These performance error parameters include thrust misalignment, thrust variation, weight variation, fin misalignment, impulse variation, aerodynamic drag variation, staging timing variation, stage separation-force variation, drag error, uncompensated wind, launcher elevation angle error, launcher azimuth angle error, launcher tip-off, and launcher location error.

(2) A launch operator must perform a no-wind trajectory simulation using a six-degrees-of-freedom (6-DOF) trajectory simulation with all performance error parameters set to their nominal values to determine the impact point of each stage or component. The 6-DOF trajectory simulation must provide rocket position translation along three axes of an orthogonal Earth-centered coordinate system and rocket orientation in roll, pitch and yaw. The 6-DOF trajectory simulation must compute each translation and orientation in response to forces and moments internal and external to the rocket including all the effects of the input data required by paragraph (c) of this section. A launch operator may incorporate the following assumptions in a 6-DOF trajectory simulation:

(i) The airframe may be treated as a rigid body.

(ii) The airframe may have a plane of symmetry coinciding with the vertical plane of reference.

(iii) The vehicle may have aerodynamic symmetry in roll.

(iv) The airframe may have six degrees-of-freedom.

(v) The aerodynamic forces and moments may be functions of mach number and may be linear with small flow incidence angles of attack.

(3) A launch operator must tabulate the geodetic latitude and longitude of the launch vehicle's nominal drag impact point as a function of trajectory time and the final nominal drag impact point of each planned impacting stage or component.
