
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix C to Part 417 - Flight Safety Analysis Methodologies and Products for an Unguided Suborbital Launch Vehicle Flown With a Wind Weighting Safety System
###### Vehicle characteristics for each stage.

(3)A launch operator must identify the following for each stage of an unguided suborbital launch vehicle's flight:

(i) Nozzle exit area of each stage.

(ii) Distance from the rocket nose-tip to the nozzle exit for each stage.

(iii) Reference drag area and reference diameter of the rocket including any payload for each stage of flight.

(iv) Thrust as a function of time.

(v) Propellant weight as a function of time.

(vi) Coefficient of drag as a function of mach number.

(vii) Distance from the rocket nose-tip to center of gravity as a function of time.

(viii) Yaw moment of inertia as a function of time.

(ix) Pitch moment of inertia as a function of time.

(x) Pitch damping coefficient as a function of mach number.

(xi) Aerodynamic damping coefficient as a function of mach number.

(xii) Normal force coefficient as a function of mach number.

(xiii) Distance from the rocket nose-tip to center of pressure as a function of mach number.

(xiv) Axial force coefficient as a function of mach number.

(xv) Roll rate as a function of time.

(xvi) Gross mass of each stage.

(xvii) Burnout mass of each stage.

(xviii) Vacuum thrust.

(xix) Vacuum specific impulse.

(xx) Stage dimensions.

(xxi) Weight of each spent stage.

(xxii) Payload mass properties.

(xxiii) Nominal launch elevation and azimuth.
