
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix C to Part 417 - Flight Safety Analysis Methodologies and Products for an Unguided Suborbital Launch Vehicle Flown With a Wind Weighting Safety System
###### Wind weighting analysis constraints.

(b)(1) A launch operator's wind weighting analysis must:

(i) Account for the winds in the airspace region through which the rocket will fly. A launch operator's wind weighting safety system must include an operational method of determining the wind direction and wind magnitude at all altitudes that the rocket will reach up to the maximum altitude defined by dispersion analysis as required by section C417.3.

(ii) Account for all errors due to the methods used to measure the winds in the airspace region of the launch, delay associated with wind measurement, and the method used to model the effects of winds. The resulting sum of these error components must be no greater than those used as the wind error dispersion parameter in the launch vehicle trajectory analysis performed as required by section C417.3.

(iii) Account for the dispersion of all impacting debris, including any uncorrected wind error accounted for in the trajectory analysis performed as required by section C417.3.

(iv) Establish flight commit criteria that are a function of the analysis and operational methods employed and reflect the maximum wind velocities and wind variability for which the results of the wind weighting analysis are valid.

(v) Account for the wind effects during each thrusting phase of an unguided suborbital launch vehicle's flight and each ballistic phase of each rocket stage and component until burnout of the last stage.

(vi) Determine the impact point location for any parachute recovery of a stage or component or the launch operator must perform a wind drift analysis to determine the parachute impact point location.

(2) A launch operator must perform a wind weighting analysis using a six-degrees-of-freedom (6-DOF) trajectory simulation that targets an impact point using an iterative process. The 6-DOF simulation must account for launch day wind direction and wind magnitude as a function of altitude.

(3) A launch operator must perform a wind weighting analysis using a computer program or other method of editing wind data, recording the time the data was obtained, and recording the balloon number or identification of any other measurement device used for each wind altitude layer.
