
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix C to Part 417 - Flight Safety Analysis Methodologies and Products for an Unguided Suborbital Launch Vehicle Flown With a Wind Weighting Safety System
###### Methodology for performing a wind weighting analysis.

(c)A launch operator's method for performing a wind weighting analysis on the day of flight must account for the following:

(1) A launch operator must measure the winds on the day of flight to determine wind velocity and direction. A launch operator's process for measuring winds must provide wind data that is consistent with any assumptions made in the launch operator's trajectory and drag impact point dispersion analysis, as required by section C417.3, regarding the actual wind data available on the day of flight. Wind measurements must be made at altitude increments such that the maximum correction between any two measurements does not exceed 5%. Winds must be measured from the ground level at the launch point to a maximum altitude that is consistent with the launch operator's drag impact point dispersion analysis. The maximum wind measurement altitude must be that necessary to account for 99% of the wind effect on the impact dispersion point. A launch operator's wind measuring process must employ the use of balloons and radar tracking or balloons fitted with a Global Positioning System transceiver, and must account for the following:

(i) Measure winds from ground level to an altitude of at least that necessary to account for 99% of the wind effect on the impact dispersion point within six hours before flight and after any weather front passes the launch site before liftoff. Repeat a wind measurement up to the maximum altitude whenever a wind measurement, for any given altitude, from a later balloon release is not consistent with a wind measurement, for the same altitude, from an earlier balloon release.

(ii) Measure winds from ground level to an altitude of at least that necessary to account for 95% of the wind effect on the impact dispersion point within four hours before flight and after any weather front passes the launch site before liftoff. Repeat a wind measurement to the 95% wind effect altitude whenever a wind measurement, for any given altitude, from a later lower altitude balloon release is not consistent with the wind measurement, for the same altitude, from the 95% wind effect altitude balloon release.

(iii) Measure winds from ground level to an altitude of no less than that necessary to account for 80% of the wind effect on the impact dispersion point twice within 30 minutes of liftoff. Use the first measurement to set launcher azimuth and elevation, and the second measurement to verify the first measurement data.

(2) A launch operator must perform runs of the 6-DOF trajectory simulation using the flight day measured winds as input and targeting for the nominal final stage drag impact point. In an iterative process, vary the launcher elevation angle and azimuth angle settings for each simulation run until the nominal final stage impact point is achieved. The launch operator must use the resulting launcher elevation angle and azimuth angle settings to correct for the flight day winds. The launch operator must not initiate flight unless the launcher elevation angle and azimuth angle settings after wind weighting are in accordance with the following:

(i) The launcher elevation angle setting resulting from the wind weighting analysis must not exceed +/-5&#xB0; from the nominal launcher elevation angle setting and must not exceed a total of 86&#xB0; for a proven launch vehicle, and 84&#xB0; for an unproven launch vehicle. A launch operator's nominal launcher elevation angle setting must be as required by ยง 417.125(c)(3).

(ii) The launcher azimuth angle setting resulting from the wind weighting analysis must not exceed + 30&#xB0; from the nominal launcher azimuth angle setting unless the launch operator demonstrates clearly and convincingly, through the licensing process, that its unguided suborbital launch vehicle has a low sensitivity to high wind speeds, and the launch operator's wind weighting analysis and wind measuring process provide an equivalent level of safety.

(3) Using the trajectory produced in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, for each intermediate stage and planned ejected component, a launch operator must compute the impact point that results from wind drift by performing a run of the 6-DOF trajectory simulation with the launcher angles determined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and the flight day winds from liftoff until the burnout time or ejection time of the stage or ejected component. The resulting impact point(s) must be accounted for when performing flight day ship-hit operations defined in section B417.11(c).

(4) If a parachute is used for any stage or component, a launch operator must determine the wind drifted impact point of the stage or component using a trajectory simulation that incorporates modeling for the change in aerodynamics at parachute ejection. Perform this simulation run in addition to any simulation of spent stages without parachutes.

(5) A launch operator must verify that the launcher elevation angle and azimuth angle settings at the time of liftoff are the same as required by the wind weighting analysis.

(6) A launch operator must monitor and verify that any wind variations and maximum wind limits at the time of liftoff are within the flight commit criteria established according to ยง 417.113(c).

(7) A launch operator must generate output data from its wind weighting analysis for each impacting stage or component in printed, plotted, or computer medium format. This data must include:

(i) Launch day wind measurement data, including magnitude and direction.

(ii) The results of each computer run made using the launch day wind measurement data, including but not limited to, launcher settings, and impact locations for each stage or component.

(iii) Final launcher settings recorded.
