
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Subpart B - Flight
###### General
####### § 25.21 Proof of compliance.

(a) Each requirement of this subpart must be met at each appropriate combination of weight and center of gravity within the range of loading conditions for which certification is requested. This must be shown-

(1) By tests upon an airplane of the type for which certification is requested, or by calculations based on, and equal in accuracy to, the results of testing; and

(2) By systematic investigation of each probable combination of weight and center of gravity, if compliance cannot be reasonably inferred from combinations investigated.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) The controllability, stability, trim, and stalling characteristics of the airplane must be shown for each altitude up to the maximum expected in operation.

(d) Parameters critical for the test being conducted, such as weight, loading (center of gravity and inertia), airspeed, power, and wind, must be maintained within acceptable tolerances of the critical values during flight testing.

(e) If compliance with the flight characteristics requirements is dependent upon a stability augmentation system or upon any other automatic or power-operated system, compliance must be shown with §§ 25.671 and 25.672.

(f) In meeting the requirements of §§ 25.105(d), 25.125, 25.233, and 25.237, the wind velocity must be measured at a height of 10 meters above the surface, or corrected for the difference between the height at which the wind velocity is measured and the 10-meter height.

(g) The requirements of this subpart associated with icing conditions apply only if the applicant is seeking certification for flight in icing conditions.

(1) Paragraphs (g)(3) and (4) of this section apply only to airplanes with one or both of the following attributes:

(i) Maximum takeoff gross weight is less than 60,000 lbs; or

(ii) The airplane is equipped with reversible flight controls.

(2) Each requirement of this subpart, except §§ 25.121(a), 25.123(c), 25.143(b)(1) and (2), 25.149, 25.201(c)(2), 25.239, and 25.251(b) through (e), must be met in the icing conditions specified in Appendix C of this part. Section 25.207(c) and (d) must be met in the landing configuration in the icing conditions specified in Appendix C, but need not be met for other configurations. Compliance must be shown using the ice accretions defined in part II of Appendix C of this part, assuming normal operation of the airplane and its ice protection system in accordance with the operating limitations and operating procedures established by the applicant and provided in the airplane flight manual.

(3) If the applicant does not seek certification for flight in all icing conditions defined in Appendix O of this part, each requirement of this subpart, except §§ 25.105, 25.107, 25.109, 25.111, 25.113, 25.115, 25.121, 25.123, 25.143(b)(1), (b)(2), and (c)(1), 25.149, 25.201(c)(2), 25.207(c), (d), and (e)(1), 25.239, and 25.251(b) through (e), must be met in the Appendix O icing conditions for which certification is not sought in order to allow a safe exit from those conditions. Compliance must be shown using the ice accretions defined in part II, paragraphs (b) and (d) of Appendix O, assuming normal operation of the airplane and its ice protection system in accordance with the operating limitations and operating procedures established by the applicant and provided in the airplane flight manual.

(4) If the applicant seeks certification for flight in any portion of the icing conditions of Appendix O of this part, each requirement of this subpart, except §§ 25.121(a), 25.123(c), 25.143(b)(1) and (2), 25.149, 25.201(c)(2), 25.239, and 25.251(b) through (e), must be met in the Appendix O icing conditions for which certification is sought. Section 25.207(c) and (d) must be met in the landing configuration in the Appendix O icing conditions for which certification is sought, but need not be met for other configurations. Compliance must be shown using the ice accretions defined in part II, paragraphs (c) and (d) of Appendix O, assuming normal operation of the airplane and its ice protection system in accordance with the operating limitations and operating procedures established by the applicant and provided in the airplane flight manual.
