
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Leakage.

(h)A leakage test must demonstrate that a component's seal satisfies all its performance specifications before and after the component is subjected to any test environment as follows:

(1) The test must have the resolution and sample rate to demonstrate that the component's leak rate is no greater than its design limit.

(2) For an electronic component, the test must demonstrate a leak rate of no greater than the equivalent of 10standard cubic centimeters/second (scc/sec) of helium.

(3) For an ordnance component, the test must demonstrate a leak rate of no greater than the equivalent of 5 x 10scc/sec of helium.

(a) This section applies to each qualification non-operating and operating test or analysis identified by any table of this appendix. A qualification test or analysis must demonstrate that a component will satisfy all its performance specifications when subjected to the design environmental levels required by section D417.7.

(b) Before a component sample undergoes a qualification environmental test, the component sample must pass all the required acceptance tests.

(c) A component must undergo each qualification test in a flight representative configuration, with all flight representative hardware such as connectors, cables, and any cable clamps, and with all attachment hardware, such as dynamic isolators, brackets and bolts, as part of that flight representative configuration.

(d) A component must undergo re-qualification tests if there is a change in the design of the component or if the environmental levels to which it will be exposed exceed the levels for which the component is qualified. A component must undergo re-qualification if the manufacturer's location, parts, materials, or processes have changed since the previous qualification. A change in the name of the manufacturer as a result of a sale does not require re-qualification if the personnel, factory location or the parts, material and processes remain unchanged since the last component qualification. The extent of any re-qualification tests must be the same as the initial qualification tests except where paragraph (f) of this section applies.

(e) A launch operator must not use for flight any component sample that has been subjected to a qualification test environment.

(f) A launch operator may reduce the testing required to qualify or re-qualify a component's design through qualification by similarity to tests performed on identical or similar hardware. To qualify component "A" based on similarity to component "B" that has already been qualified for use, a launch operator must demonstrate that all of the following conditions are satisfied:

(1) "B" must have been qualified through testing, not by similarity;

(2) The environments encountered by "B" during its qualification or flight history must have been equal to or more severe than the qualification environments required for "A;"

(3) "A" must be a minor variation of "B." The demonstration that A is a minor variation of B must account for all of the following:

(i) Any difference in weight, mechanical configuration, thermal effects, or dynamic response;

(ii) Any change in piece-part quality level; and

(iii) Any addition or subtraction of an electronic piece-part, moving part, ceramic or glass part, crystal, magnetic device, or power conversion or distribution equipment;

(4) "A" and "B" must perform the same functions, with "A" having equivalent or better capability; and

(5) The same manufacturer must produce "A" and "B" in the same location using identical tools and manufacturing processes;

(g) For any flight termination system component used for more than one flight, the component qualification tests must demonstrate that the component satisfies all its performance specifications when subjected to:

(1) Each qualification test environment; and

(2) The total number of exposures to each maximum predicted environment for the total number of flights.
