
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Qualification random vibration.

(c)(1) A qualification random vibration test of a component must demonstrate that the component and each connection to any item that attaches to the component satisfy all their performance specifications when subjected to the qualification random vibration environment. The attached items must include any isolator, grounding strap, bracket, explosive transfer system, or cable to the first tie-down. Any cable that interfaces with the component during any test must be representative of the cable used for flight.

(2) For each component required by this appendix to undergo 100% acceptance testing, the minimum qualification random vibration environment must be no less than a 3 dB margin greater than the maximum acceptance random vibration test environment for all frequencies from 20 Hz to 2,000 Hz. The minimum and maximum test environments must account for all the test tolerances to ensure that the test maintains the 3 dB margin.

(3) For each component that is not required by this appendix to undergo 100% acceptance testing, the minimum qualification random vibration environment must be no less than a 4.5-dB margin greater than the greater of the maximum predicted random vibration environment or the minimum workmanship test levels of table E417.11-1 for all frequencies from 20 Hz to 2000 Hz. The minimum qualification test environment must account for all the test tolerances to ensure that the test maintains the 4.5 dB margin.

(4) If a component is mounted on one or more shock or vibration isolators during flight, the component must undergo the qualification random vibration test while hard-mounted or isolator-mounted as follows:

(i) Any qualification random vibration test with the component hard-mounted must subject the component to a qualification random vibration environment that:

(A) Accounts for the isolator attenuation and amplification due to the maximum predicted operating random vibration environment, including any thermal effects and acceleration pre-load performance variability, and adds a 1.5 dB margin to account for any isolator attenuation variability;

(B) Adds the required qualification random vibration margin of paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section after accounting for the isolator effects of paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section and accounts for all tolerances that apply to the isolator's performance specifications to ensure that the qualification test margin is maintained; and

(C) Is no less than the minimum workmanship screening qualification random vibration level of table E417.11-1.

(ii) Any qualification random vibration test with the component isolator-mounted must:

(A) Use an isolator or isolators that passed the tests required by section E417.35;

(B) Have an input to each isolator of no less than the required qualification random vibration environment of paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section; and

(C) Subject the component to no less than the minimum workmanship screening qualification random vibration level of table E417.11-1. If the isolator or isolators prevent the component from experiencing the minimum workmanship level, the component must undergo a test while hard-mounted that subjects the component to the workmanship level.

(5) The test must subject each component sample to the qualification random vibration environment in each of three mutually perpendicular axes. For each axis, the test must last three times as long as the acceptance test duration or a minimum workmanship qualification duration of 180 seconds, whichever is greater.

(6) For a component sample that must experience the acceptance random vibration environment before it experiences the qualification random vibration environment, such as a command receiver decoder, the test must use the same configuration and methods for the acceptance and qualification environments.

(7) If the duration of the qualification random vibration environment leaves insufficient time to complete any required performance verification test while the component is subjected to the full qualification environment, the test must continue at no less than the acceptance random vibration environment. The test need only continue for the additional time needed to complete the performance verification test.

(8) The test must continuously monitor and record all performance and status-of-health parameters while the component is subjected to the qualification environment. This monitoring must have a sample rate that will detect any component performance degradation. Any electrical component must undergo the test while subjected to its nominal operating voltage.

(9) A launch operator may substitute a random vibration test for another required dynamic test, such as acceleration, acoustic, or sinusoidal vibration if the launch operator demonstrates that the forces, displacements, and test duration imparted on a component during the random vibration test are no less severe than the other test environment.
