
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Qualification sinusoidal vibration.

(b)(1) A qualification sinusoidal vibration test or analysis of a component must demonstrate that the component and each connection to any item that attaches to the component satisfy all their performance specifications when subjected to the qualification sinusoidal vibration environment. The attached items must include any vibration or shock isolator, grounding strap, bracket, explosive transfer system, or cable to the first tie-down. Any cable that interfaces with the component during any test must be representative of the cable used for flight.

(2) The qualification sinusoidal vibration environment must be no less than 6dB greater than the maximum predicted sinusoidal vibration environment for no less than three times the maximum predicted duration.

(3) The sinusoidal frequency must range from 50% lower than the maximum predicted frequency range to 50% higher than the maximum predicted frequency range.

(4) Any test must satisfy all of the following:

(i) The test must subject each of three mutually perpendicular axes of the component to the qualification sinusoidal vibration environment, one axis at a time. For each axis, the duration of the vibration must be no less than three times the maximum predicted sinusoidal vibration duration.

(ii) The sinusoidal sweep rate must be no greater than one-third the maximum predicted sweep rate;

(iii) The sinusoidal vibration test amplitude must have an accuracy of +/-10%; and

(iv) For any component that uses one or more shock or vibration isolators, the component must undergo the test mounted on its isolator or isolators as a unit. Each isolator must satisfy the requirements of section E417.35.

(5) Any analysis must demonstrate that the qualification random vibration environment of paragraph (c) of this section encompasses the qualification sinusoidal vibration environment.
