
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Qualification shock.

(e)(1) A qualification shock test of a component must demonstrate that the component and each connection to any item that attaches to the component satisfies all their performance specifications when subjected to the qualification shock environment. The attached items must include any isolator, grounding strap, bracket, explosive transfer system, or cable to the first tie-down. Any cable that interfaces with the component during the test must be representative of the cable used for flight.

(2) The minimum qualification shock environment must be no less than a 3 dB margin plus the greater of the maximum predicted environment or the minimum breakup levels identified in table E417.11-2 for all frequencies from 100 Hz to 10000 Hz. The minimum qualification test environment must account for all the test tolerances to ensure that the test maintains the 3dB margin. For a shock test required by this appendix to have a +/-3 dB tolerance, the qualification test environment must be 6 dB greater than the greater of the maximum predicted shock environment or the minimum breakup test level.

(3) The test must subject the component simultaneously to a shock transient and all the required frequencies.

(4) The test must subject each component to three shocks in each direction along each of the three orthogonal axes.

(5) The shock must last as long as the maximum predicted shock event.

(6) The test must continuously monitor each component's critical performance parameters for any discontinuity or inadvertent output while the component is subjected to the shock environment.

(7) The test must continuously monitor and record all performance and status-of-health parameters while the component is subjected to the qualification environment. This monitoring must have a sample rate of once every millisecond or better.

(8) For any component that uses one or more shock or vibration isolators during flight, the component must undergo the qualification shock test mounted on its isolator or isolators. Each isolator must satisfy the test requirements of section E417.35.
