
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Qualification acoustic.

(d)(1) A qualification acoustic vibration test or analysis of a component must demonstrate that the component and each connection to any item that attaches to the component satisfy all their performance specifications when subjected to the qualification acoustic vibration environment. The attached items must include any isolator, grounding strap, bracket, explosive transfer system, or cable to the first tie-down. Any cable that interfaces with the component during any test must be representative of the cable used for flight.

(2) For each component required by this appendix to undergo 100% acoustic acceptance testing, the minimum qualification acoustic vibration environment must be greater than the maximum acceptance acoustic vibration test environment for all frequencies from 20 Hz to 2000 Hz. The minimum and maximum test environments must account for all the test tolerances to ensure that the test maintains a positive margin between the minimum qualification environment and the maximum acceptance environment. For each acoustic vibration test required by this appendix to have a tolerance of +/-3 dB, the qualification test level must be 6 dB greater than the acceptance test level.

(3) For each component that is not required by this appendix to undergo 100% acceptance testing, such as ordnance, the minimum qualification acoustic vibration environment must be no less than a 3 dB margin greater than the maximum predicted acoustic vibration environment or a minimum workmanship screening test level of 144 dBA for all frequencies from 20 Hz to 2000 Hz. The minimum qualification test environment must account for all the test tolerances to ensure that the test maintains the 3 dB margin. For each acoustic vibration test required by this appendix to have a tolerance of +/-3.0 dB, the qualification test level must be 6 dB greater than the greater of the maximum predicted environment or the minimum workmanship test level.

(4) For any component that uses one or more shock or vibration isolators during flight, the component must undergo any qualification acoustic vibration test mounted on its isolator or isolators as a unit. Each isolator must satisfy the test requirements of section E417.35.

(5) Any test must continuously monitor and record all performance and status-of-health parameters while the component is subjected to the qualification environment. This monitoring must have a sample rate that will detect any component performance degradation.

(6) Any analysis must demonstrate that the qualification random vibration test environment of paragraph (c) of this section encompasses the qualification acoustic vibration environment. The analysis must demonstrate that the qualification random vibration environment is more severe than the qualification acoustic vibration environment. The analysis must account for all peak vibration levels and durations.
