
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Qualification acceleration.

(f)(1) A qualification acceleration test or analysis of a component must demonstrate that the component and each connection to any item that attaches to the component satisfy all their performance specifications when subjected to the qualification acceleration environment. The attached items must include any isolator, grounding strap, bracket, explosive transfer system, or cable to the first tie-down. Any cable that interfaces with the component during any test must be representative of the cable used for flight.

(2) The qualification acceleration test environment must be no less than 200% greater than the maximum predicted acceleration environment.

(3) The qualification acceleration must last three times as long as the maximum predicted environment lasts in each direction for each of the three orthogonal axes.

(4) For any test, if the test tolerance is more than +/-10%, the qualification acceleration test environment of paragraph (f)(1) of this section must account for the test tolerance to ensure that the test maintains the 200% margin between the minimum qualification acceleration test and the maximum predicted environment.

(5) Any analysis must demonstrate that the qualification operating random vibration test required by paragraph (c) of this section encompasses the qualification acceleration environment. The analysis must demonstrate that the qualification random vibration environment is equal to or more severe than the qualification acceleration environment. The analysis must account for the peak vibration and acceleration levels and durations.

(6) Any test must continuously monitor and record all performance and status-of-health parameters while the component is subjected to the qualification environment. This monitoring must have a sample rate that will detect any component performance degradation.

(7) For any component that uses one or more shock and vibration isolators during flight, the component must undergo any qualification acceleration test mounted on its isolator or isolators. Each isolator must satisfy the test requirements of section E417.35.
