
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Acceptance acoustic vibration.

(c)An acceptance acoustic vibration test or analysis must demonstrate that a component satisfies all its performance specifications when exposed to the acceptance acoustic vibration environment as follows:

(1) The acceptance acoustic vibration environment must satisfy all of the following:

(i) The vibration level must equal or exceed the maximum predicted acoustic level for all frequencies from 20 Hz to 2,000 Hz in each of three mutually perpendicular axes; and

(ii) For each axis, the vibration must last the maximum predicted duration or 60 seconds, whichever is greater.

(2) Any test must satisfy all of the following:

(i) The test must continuously monitor all performance and status-of-health parameters with any electrical component at its nominal operating voltage. This monitoring must have a sample rate that will detect any component performance degradation; and

(ii) If the duration of the acceptance acoustic vibration environment leaves insufficient time to complete any required performance verification test while the component is subjected to the full acceptance environment, the test must continue at no lower than 6 dB below the acceptance environment. The test need only continue for the additional time needed to complete the performance verification test.

(3) Any analysis must demonstrate that the acceptance random vibration environment of paragraph (b) of this section encompasses the acceptance acoustic vibration environment. The analysis must demonstrate that the peak acceptance random vibration levels and duration are equal to or are more severe than the acceptance acoustic vibration environment.
