
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### General.

(a)This section applies to each acceptance test or analysis identified by any table of this appendix. An acceptance test or analysis must demonstrate that a component does not have any material or workmanship defect that could adversely affect the component's performance and that the component satisfies all its performance specifications when subjected to each acceptance environment, including each workmanship and maximum predicted operating environment.

(1) An acceptance test of a component must subject the component to one or more of the component's maximum predicted environments as determined under section D417.7. An acceptance test must not subject a component to a force or environment that is not tested during qualification testing.

(2) Each component sample that is intended for flight must undergo each acceptance test identified by any table of this appendix. A single-use component, such as ordnance or a battery, must undergo the production lot sample acceptance tests identified by any tables of this appendix.

(3) If a launch vehicle uses a previously flown and recovered flight termination system component, the component must undergo one or more reuse acceptance tests before each next flight to demonstrate that the component still satisfies all its performance specifications when subjected to each maximum predicted environment. Each reuse acceptance test must be the same as the initial acceptance test for the component's first flight. Each reuse acceptance test must follow a written component reuse qualification, refurbishment, and acceptance plan and procedures. Each acceptance reuse test must compare performance parameter measurements taken during the test to all previous acceptance test measurements to ensure that the data show no trends that indicate any degradation in performance that could prevent the component from satisfying all its performance specifications during flight.

(4) Each acceptance test of a component must use test tolerances that are consistent with the test tolerances used by each qualification test of the component.
