
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Electronic components.

(1)For any command receiver decoder or other electronic component that contains piece-part circuitry, such as microcircuits, transistors, diodes and relays, a qualification thermal cycle test must satisfy all of the following:

(i) The qualification thermal cycle environment must range from 10 &#xB0;C above the acceptance test high temperature to 10 &#xB0;C below the acceptance test low temperature;

(ii) The test must subject a component to no less than three times the acceptance-number of thermal cycles. For each component, the acceptance-number of thermal cycles must satisfy section E417.13(d)(1). For each cycle, the dwell-time at each of the high and low temperatures must last long enough for the component to achieve internal thermal equilibrium and must last no less than one hour. The test must begin each dwell-time at each high and low temperature with the component turned off. The component must remain off until the temperature stabilizes. Once the temperature stabilizes, the component must be turned on and the test must complete each dwell-time with the component turned on;

(iii) When heating or cooling the component, the temperature must change at an average rate of 1 &#xB0;C per minute or the maximum predicted rate, whichever is greater;

(iv) The test must measure all performance parameters with the component powered at its low and high operating voltages when the component is at ambient temperature before beginning the first thermal cycle and after completing the last cycle. The test must measure all performance parameters with the component powered at its low and high operating voltages when the component is at the high and low temperatures during the first, middle, and last thermal dwell cycles; and

(v) The test must continuously monitor and record all critical performance and status-of-health parameters during all cycles and thermal transitions and with the component operating at its nominal operating voltage. The monitoring and recording must have a resolution and sample rate that will detect any component performance degradation.
