
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Electronic components.

(2)For any electronic component, an acceptance thermal cycle test must satisfy all of the following:

(i) The acceptance thermal cycle environment must range from the higher of the maximum predicted environment high temperature or 61 &#xB0;C workmanship screening level, to the lower of the predicted low temperature or a -24 &#xB0;C workmanship screening level.

(ii) The test must subject a component to no fewer than 10 plus the acceptance-number of thermal cycles. For each component, the acceptance-number of thermal cycles must satisfy this paragraph. For each cycle, the dwell-time at each high and low temperature must last long enough for the component to achieve internal thermal equilibrium and must last no less than one hour. The test must begin each dwell-time at each high and low temperature with the component turned off. The component must remain off until the temperature stabilizes. Once the temperature stabilizes, the test must complete each dwell-time with the component turned on.

(iii) When heating or cooling the component, the temperature must change at an average rate of 1 &#xB0;C per minute or the maximum predicted rate, whichever is greater.

(iv) The test must measure all performance parameters with the component powered at its low and high operating voltages when the component is at ambient temperature before beginning the first thermal cycle and after completing the last cycle.

(v) The test must measure all performance parameters with the component at its low and high operating voltages when the component is at the high and low temperatures during the first, middle, and last thermal cycles.

(vi) The test must continuously monitor and record all critical performance and status-of-health parameters during all cycles and thermal transitions and with the component at its nominal operating voltage. The monitoring and recording must have a resolution and sample rate that will detect any component performance degradation.
