
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Safe-and-arm devices.

(4)For any electro-mechanical safe-and-arm device with an internal explosive, an acceptance thermal cycle test must satisfy all of the following:

(i) The acceptance thermal cycle environment must range from the higher of the maximum predicted environment high temperature or the minimum workmanship screening temperature of 61 &#xB0;C to the lower of the predicted lowest temperature or the minimum workmanship screening temperature of -24 &#xB0;C.

(ii) The test must subject a component to no fewer than the acceptance-number of thermal cycles. For each component, the acceptance-number of thermal cycles must satisfy this paragraph. For each cycle, the dwell-time at each high and low temperature must last long enough for the component to achieve internal thermal equilibrium and must last no less than one hour.

(iii) When heating or cooling the component, the temperature must change at an average rate of 1 &#xB0;C per minute or the maximum predicted rate, whichever is greater.

(iv) The test must measure all performance parameters when the component is at ambient temperature before beginning the first thermal cycle and after completing the last cycle.

(v) The test must measure all performance parameters including each critical electrical parameter, when the component is at the high and low temperatures during the first, middle, and last thermal cycles.

(vi) The test must continuously monitor and record all critical performance and status-of-health parameters throughout each thermal cycle with a resolution and sample rate that will detect whether the component satisfies all its performance specifications.
