
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Antenna pattern.

(f)An antenna pattern test must demonstrate that the radiation gain pattern of the entire radio frequency receiving system, including the antenna, radio frequency cables, and radio frequency coupler will satisfy all the system's performance specifications during vehicle flight. This must include all of the following:

(1) The test must determine the radiation gain pattern around the launch vehicle and demonstrate that the system is capable of providing command signals to each command receiver decoder with electromagnetic field intensity at a 12 dB link margin above the level required for reliable receiver operation. The test must demonstrate the 12-dB margin over 95 percent of the antenna radiation sphere surrounding the launch vehicle.

(2) All test conditions must emulate flight conditions, including ground transmitter polarization, using a simulated flight vehicle and a flight configured radio frequency command destruct system.

(3) The test must measure the radiation gain for 360 degrees around the launch vehicle in degree increments that are small enough to identify any deep pattern null and to verify that the required 12 dB link margin is maintained throughout flight. Each degree increment must not exceed two degrees.

(4) The test must generate each antenna pattern in a data format that is compatible with the format needed to perform the flight safety system radio frequency link analysis required by ยง 417.329(h).
