
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Coupon cell acceptance.

(r)A coupon cell acceptance test must demonstrate that the silver zinc cells that make up a flight battery were manufactured the same as the qualification battery cells and satisfy all their performance specifications after being subjected to the environments that the battery experiences from the time of manufacture until activation and installation. This must include all of the following:

(1) One test cell that is from the same production lot as the flight battery, with the same lot date code as the cells in the flight battery, must undergo the test.

(2) The test cell must have been attached to the battery from the time of the manufacturer's acceptance test and have experienced the same non-operating environments as the battery.

(3) The test must occur immediately before activation of the flight battery.

(4) The test cell must undergo activation that satisfies paragraph (j) of this section.

(5) The test cell must undergo discharge at a moderate rate, using the manufacturer's specification, undergo two qualification load profiles of paragraph (k)(7)(ii) of this section at the nameplate capacity, and then undergo further discharge until the minimum manufacturer specified voltage is achieved. The test must demonstrate that the cell's amp-hour capacity and voltage characteristics satisfy all their performance specifications and are in-family.

(6) For a silver-zinc battery that will undergo charging during normal operations, the test cell must undergo the requirements of paragraph (r)(5) of this section for each qualification charge-discharge cycle. The test must demonstrate that the cell capacity and electrical characteristics satisfy all their performance specifications and are in family for each charge-discharge cycle.
