
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Internal inspection.

(q)An internal inspection must identify any excessive wear or damage to a silver-zinc battery, including any of its cells, or an individual cell after the battery or cell is exposed to all the qualification test environments. An internal inspection must satisfy section E417.5(g) and include all of the following:

(1) An internal examination of any battery to verify that there was no movement of any component within the battery that could stress that component beyond its design limit during flight:

(2) An examination to verify the integrity of all cell and wiring interconnects.

(3) An examination to verify the integrity of all potting and shimming materials.

(4) The removal of all cells from the battery and examination of each cell for any physical damage.

(5) A destructive physical analysis to verify the integrity of all plate tab to cell terminal connections and the integrity of each plate and separator. For each battery sample required to undergo all the qualification tests, one cell from each corner and two cells from the middle of the battery must undergo the destructive physical analysis. For storage life testing, one of the two cells required to undergo all the storage life tests must undergo destructive physical analysis. The inspection must verify the integrity of each plate tab, identify any anomaly in each plate, including its color or shape, and identify any anomaly in each separator, including its condition, silver migration, and any oxalate crystals.

(6) A test that demonstrates that the zinc plate capacity of the cells satisfies the manufacturer's specification. For each battery sample required to undergo all the qualification tests, the test must determine the zinc plate capacity for three cells from the battery, other than the cells of paragraph (q)(5) of this section. For storage life testing, the test must determine the zinc plate capacity for one cell that is required to undergo all the storage life tests, other than the cell of paragraph (q)(5) of this section.
