
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Discharge and pulse capacity.

(p)A discharge and pulse capacity test must demonstrate that a silver zinc battery or cell satisfies all its electrical performance specifications at the end of its specified capacity limit for the last operating charge and discharge cycle. The test must include all of the following:

(1) The battery or cell must undergo discharge at flight loads until the total capacity consumed during this discharge and during all previous qualification tests reaches the manufacturer's specified capacity.

(2) The test must demonstrate that the total amount of capacity consumed during the discharge test and all previous qualification tests satisfies the battery or cell's minimum performance specification.

(3) After satisfying paragraphs (p)(1) and (p)(2) of this section, the test must measure the battery or cell's no-load voltage and then apply a qualification load profile that satisfies all of the following:

(i) The load profile must begin with a steady state flight load for no less than 180 seconds followed by a current pulse;

(ii) The pulse width must be no less than three times the ordnance initiator qualification pulse width or a minimum workmanship screening pulse width of 200 milliseconds; whichever is greater;

(iii) The pulse amplitude must be no less than 1.5 times the ordnance initiator qualification pulse amplitude; and

(iv) After the pulse, the qualification load profile must end with a steady state flight load that lasts for no less than 15 seconds.

(4) The test must monitor each of the battery or cell's critical electrical performance parameters; including voltage, current, and temperature, with a resolution and sample rate that detects any failure to satisfy a performance specification. For a battery, the test must monitor the battery's performance parameters and the voltage of each cell within the battery. During the current pulse portion of the load profile, the voltage monitoring must have sample rate that will detect any component performance degradation.

(5) The test must demonstrate that the battery or cell voltage does not fall below the voltage needed to provide the minimum acceptance voltage of each electronic component that the battery powers while the battery or cell is subjected to the steady state portion of the load profile.

(6) The test must demonstrate that the battery or cell voltage does not fall below the voltage needed to provide the minimum qualification voltage of each electronic component that the battery powers while the battery or cell is subjected to the pulse portion of the load profile.

(7) After satisfying paragraphs (p)(1) through (p)(6) of this section, the battery or cell must undergo a complete discharge and the test must demonstrate that the total silver plate capacity is in-family.
