
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Charging and discharging of nickel-cadmium batteries and cells.

(2)Each test required by any table of this section that requires a nickel-cadmium battery or cell to undergo a charge or discharge must include all of the following:

(i) The rate of each charge or discharge must prevent any damage to the battery or cell and provide for the battery or cell's electrical characteristics to remain consistent. Unless otherwise specified, the charge or discharge rate used for qualification testing must be identical to the rate that the flight battery experiences during acceptance and preflight testing;

(ii) A discharge of a cell must subject the cell to the discharge rate until the cell voltage reaches no greater than 0.9 volt. A discharge of a battery, must subject the battery to the discharge rate until the battery voltage reaches no greater than 0.9 volt times the number of cells in the battery. Any discharge that results in a cell voltage below 0.9 volt must use a discharge rate that is slow enough to prevent cell damage or cell reversal. Each discharge must include monitoring of voltage, current, and time with sufficient resolution and sample rate to determine capacity and demonstrate that the battery or cell is in-family;

(iii) A charge of a battery or cell must satisfy the manufacturer's charging specifications and procedures. The charging input to the battery or cell must be no less than 160% of the manufacturer's specified capacity. The charge rate must not exceed C/10 unless the launch operator demonstrates that a higher charge rate does not damage the battery or cell and results in repeatable battery or cell performance. The cell voltage must not exceed 1.55 volts during charging to avoid creating a hydrogen gas explosion hazard; and

(iv) The test must monitor each of the battery or cell's critical electrical performance parameters with a resolution and sample rate to detect any failure to satisfy a performance specification. For a battery, the test must monitor the battery's performance parameters and those of each cell within the battery. During the current pulse portion of the load profile, the monitoring must have a resolution and sample rate that will detect any component performance degradation.
