
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Electrical performance.

(n)An electrical performance test of a nickel-cadmium battery or cell must demonstrate that the battery or cell satisfies all its performance specifications and is in-family while the battery or cell is subjected to an acceptance or qualification electrical load profile. The test must also demonstrate that the battery or cell satisfies all its electrical performance specifications at the beginning, middle, and end of its specified preflight and flight capacity plus the required margin. The test must include and satisfy each of the following:

(1) The test must measure a battery or cell's no-load voltage before applying any load to ensure it is within the manufacturer's specification limits.

(2) The test must demonstrate that the battery or cell voltage does not violate the manufacturer's specification limits while the battery or cell is subjected to the steady-state flight load. The test must also demonstrate that the battery provides the minimum acceptance voltage of each electronic component that the battery powers.

(3) The test must demonstrate that the battery or cell supplies the required current while maintaining the required voltage regulation that satisfies the manufacturer's specification. The test must demonstrate that the battery or cell voltage does not fall below the voltage needed to provide the minimum qualification voltage of each electronic component that the battery powers while the battery or cell is subjected to the pulse portion of the load profile. The test must subject the battery or cell to one of the following load profiles:

(i) For acceptance testing, the test load profile must satisfy all of the following:

(A) The load profile must begin with a steady-state flight load that lasts for no less than 180 seconds followed without interruption by a current pulse;

(B) The pulse width must be no less than 1.5 times the ordnance initiator qualification pulse width or a minimum workmanship screening pulse width of 100 milliseconds, whichever is greater;

(C) The pulse amplitude must be no less than 1.5 times the ordnance initiator qualification pulse amplitude; and

(D) After the pulse, the acceptance load profile must end with a steady state flight load that lasts for no less than 15 seconds.

(ii) For qualification testing, the test load profile must satisfy all of the following:

(A) The load profile must begin with a steady-state flight load that lasts for no less than 180 seconds followed by a current pulse;

(B) The pulse width must be no less than three times the ordnance initiator qualification pulse width or a minimum workmanship screening pulse width of 200 milliseconds, whichever is greater;

(C) The pulse amplitude must be no less than 1.5 times the ordnance initiator qualification pulse amplitude; and

(D) After the pulse, the qualification load profile must end with a steady-state flight load that lasts for no less than 15 seconds.

(4) The test must repeat, satisfy, and accomplish paragraphs (n)(1)-(n)(3) of this section with the battery or cell at each of the following levels of charge-discharge and in the following order:

(A) Fully charged;

(B) After the battery or cell undergoes a discharge that removes 50% of the capacity required for launch and all required margins; and

(C) After the battery or cell undergoes a discharge that removes an additional 50% of the capacity required for launch.

(5) The test must subject the battery or cell the a final discharge that determines the remaining capacity. The test must demonstrate that the total capacity removed from the battery during all testing, including this final discharge, satisfies all the battery's performance specifications and is in-family.
