
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Acceptance thermal cycle.

(o)An acceptance thermal cycle test must demonstrate that a nickel-cadmium battery satisfies all it performance specifications when subjected to workmanship and maximum predicted thermal cycle environments. This must include each of the following:

(1) The acceptance-number of thermal cycles for a component means the number of thermal cycles that the component must experience during the acceptance thermal cycle test. The test must subject each component to no less than eight thermal cycles or 1.5 times the maximum number of thermal cycles that the component could experience during launch processing and flight, including all launch delays and recycling, rounded up to the nearest whole number, whichever is greater.

(2) The acceptance thermal cycle high temperature must be a 30 &#xB0;C workmanship screening level or the maximum predicted environment high temperature, whichever is higher. The acceptance thermal cycle low temperature must be a -24 &#xB0;C workmanship screening temperature or the predicted environment low temperature, whichever is lower;

(3) When heating or cooling the battery during each cycle, the temperature must change at an average rate of 1 &#xB0;C per minute or the maximum predicted rate, whichever is greater. The dwell time at each high and low temperature must be long enough for the battery to achieve internal thermal equilibrium and must be no less than one hour.

(4) The test must measure all of a battery's critical status-of-health parameters at the thermal extremes on all cycles and during thermal transition to demonstrate that the battery satisfies all its performance specifications. The battery must undergo monitoring of its open circuit voltage throughout the test to demonstrate that it satisfies all its performance specifications throughout testing. The sample rate must be once every 10 seconds or more often.

(5) The battery must undergo an electrical performance test that satisfies paragraph (n) of this section while the battery is at the high, ambient, and low temperatures, during the first, middle, and last thermal cycles.

(6) If either the workmanship high or low temperature exceeds the battery's maximum predicted operating temperature range and the battery is not capable of passing the electrical performance test at the workmanship temperature, the battery may undergo the electrical performance test at an interim temperature during the cycle. This must include all of the following:

(i) Any interim high temperature must be no less than the maximum predicted high temperature;

(ii) Any interim low temperature must be no greater than the maximum predicted low temperature;

(iii) The dwell-time at any interim temperature must be long enough for the battery to reach thermal equilibrium; and

(iv) After any electrical performance test at an interim temperature, the thermal cycle must continue until the battery reaches its workmanship temperature.
