
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Operational stand time.

(q)An operational stand time test must demonstrate that a nickel-cadmium battery will maintain its required capacity, including all required margins, from the final charge that the battery receives before flight until the planned safe flight state. This must include each of the following:

(1) The battery must undergo a charge to full capacity and then an immediate capacity discharge to establish a baseline capacity for comparison to the capacity after the battery experiences the operational stand time.

(2) The battery must undergo a charge to full capacity. The test must then subject the battery to the maximum predicted pre-flight temperature for the maximum operating stand time between final battery charging to the planned safe flight state while in an open circuit configuration. The maximum operating stand time must account for all launch processing and launch delay contingencies that could occur after the battery receives its final charge.

(3) After the maximum operating stand time has elapsed, the battery must undergo a capacity discharge to determine any capacity loss due to any self-discharge by comparing the operational stand time capacity with the baseline capacity in paragraph (q)(1) of this section.

(4) The test must demonstrate that the battery's capacity, including all required margins, and any loss in capacity due to the operational stand time satisfy all associated performance specifications.
