
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Leak test 2:

(2)

(i) The cell must develop greater than one atmosphere differential pressure during the 0 &#xB0;C capacity and overcharge test of paragraph (g) of this section.

(ii) After the 0 &#xB0;C capacity and overcharge test of paragraph (g) of this section, the cell must undergo a full charge and then inspection with a chemical indicator. If the chemical indicator shows that the cell has a leak, a launch operator may not use the cell in any further test or flight.

This section applies to any component that is critical to the reliability of a flight termination system and is not otherwise identified by this appendix. This includes any new technology or any component that may be unique to the design of a launch vehicle, such as any auto-destruct box, current limiter, or timer. A miscellaneous component must satisfy each test or analysis identified by any table of this section to demonstrate that the component satisfies all its performance specifications when subjected to each non-operating and operating environment. For any new or unique component, the launch operator must identify any additional test requirements necessary to ensure its reliability.
