
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix E to Part 417 - Flight Termination System Testing and Analysis
###### Dynamic performance.

(g)A dynamic performance test must demonstrate that a safe-and-arm device satisfies all its performance specifications when subjected to the dynamic operational environments, such as vibration and shock. This demonstration must include all of the following:

(1) The safe-and-arm device must undergo the test while subjected to each required dynamic operational environment;

(2) The test must continuously monitor the bridgewire continuity with the safe-and-arm device in the arm position to detect each and any variation in amplitude. Any amplitude variation constitutes a test failure. The monitoring must have a sample rate that will detect any component performance degradation;

(3) The test must continuously monitor each safe-and-arm device monitor circuit to detect each and any variation in amplitude. Any variation in amplitude constitutes a test failure. This monitoring must have a sample rate that will detect any component performance degradation; and

(4) The test must continuously monitor the safe-and-arm device to demonstrate that it remains in the fully armed position throughout all dynamic environment testing.
