
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix G to Part 417 - Natural and Triggered Lightning Flight Commit Criteria
###### Computation of VAHIRR.

(b)A launch operator who measures VAHIRR to comply with this appendix must ensure that-

(1) A digital signal processor provides radar reflectivity measurements on a three-dimensional Cartesian grid having a maximum grid-point-to-grid-point spacing of one kilometer in each of the three dimensions;

(2) The specified volume is the volume bounded in the horizontal by vertical, plane, perpendicular sides located 5.5 kilometers (3 nautical miles) north, east, south, and west of the point where VAHIRR is to be evaluated; on the bottom by the 0 degree Celsius level; and on the top by an altitude of 20 kilometers;

(3) Volume-averaged radar reflectivity is the arithmetic average of the radar reflectivity measurements in dBZ at grid points within the specified volume. A launch operator must include each grid point within the specified volume in the average if and only if that grid point has a radar reflectivity measurement equal to or greater than 0 dBZ. If fewer than 10% of the grid points in the specified volume have radar reflectivity measurements equal to or greater than 0 dBZ, then the volume-averaged radar reflectivity is either the maximum radar reflectivity measurement in the specified volume, or 0 dBZ, whichever is greater.

(4) Average cloud thickness is the difference in kilometers or thousands of feet between an average top and an average base of all clouds in the specified volume, computed as follows:

(i) The cloud base to be averaged is the higher, at each horizontal position, of either

(A) The 0 degree Celsius altitude, or

(B) The lowest altitude of all radar reflectivity measurements of 0 dBZ or greater.

(ii) The cloud top to be averaged is the highest altitude of all radar reflectivity measurements of 0 dBZ or greater at each horizontal position.

(iii) A launch operator must-

(A) Take the cloud base at any horizontal position as the altitude of the corresponding base grid point minus half of the grid-point vertical separation;

(B) Take the cloud top at that horizontal position as the altitude of the corresponding top grid point plus half of this vertical separation.

(5) All VAHIRR-evaluation points in the flight path itself are:

(i) Greater than a slant distance of 10 nautical miles from any radar reflectivity of 35 dBZ or greater at altitudes of 4 kilometers or greater above mean sea level; and

(ii) Greater than a slant distance of 10 nautical miles from any type of lightning that has occurred in the previous 5 minutes.

(iii) A launch operator need not apply paragraph (b)(5) of this section to VAHIRR evaluation points outside the flight path but within one nautical mile of the flight path.

(6) VAHIRR is the product, expressed in units of dBZ-km or dBZ-kft, of the volume-averaged radar reflectivity defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and the average cloud thickness defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section in the specified volume defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
