
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix I to Part 417 - Methodologies for Toxic Release Hazard Analysis and Operational Procedures
###### Flight meteorological constraints.

(5)For a launch where there is a populated area that is contained or partially contained within a toxic hazard area and that will not be evacuated under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the launch is exempt from any further requirements of this section if the launch operator constrains the flight of a launch vehicle to favorable wind conditions or during times when atmospheric conditions result in reduced toxic hazard distances such that any potentially affected populated area is outside the toxic hazard area. A launch operator must employ wind and other meteorological constraints as follows:

(i) When employing wind constraints, a launch operator must re-define the toxic hazard area by reducing the circular toxic hazard area determined under paragraph (c)(3) of this section to one or more arc segments that do not contain any populated area. Each arc segment toxic hazard area must have the same radius as the circular toxic hazard area and must be defined by a range of downwind bearings.

(ii) The launch operator must demonstrate that there are no populated areas within any arc segment toxic hazard area and that no member of the public is present within an arc segment toxic hazard area during preflight fueling, launch countdown, and immediate postflight operations at the launch site.

(iii) A launch operator must establish wind constraints to ensure that any winds present at the time of flight will transport any toxicant into an arc segment toxic hazard area and away from any populated area. For each arc segment toxic hazard area, the wind constraints must consist of a range of downwind bearings that are within the arc segment toxic hazard area and that provide a safety buffer, in both the clockwise and counterclockwise directions, that accounts for any uncertainty in the spatial and temporal variations of the transport winds. When determining the wind uncertainty, a launch operator must account for the variance of the mean wind directions derived from measurements of the winds through the first 6000 feet in altitude at the launch point. Each clockwise and counterclockwise safety buffer must be no less than 20 degrees of arc width within the arc segment toxic hazard area. A launch operator must ensure that the wind conditions at the time of flight satisfy the wind constraints. To accomplish this, a launch operator must monitor the launch site vertical profile of winds from the altitude of the launch point to no less than 6,000 feet above ground level. The launch operator must proceed with a launch only if all wind vectors within this vertical range satisfy the wind constraints. A launch operator must develop wind constraint flight commit criteria and implementation provisions as part of the launch operator's flight safety plan and its hazard area surveillance and clearance plan developed according to §§ 417.111(b) and 417.111(j), respectively.

(iv) A launch operator may reduce the radius of the circular toxic hazard area determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section by imposing operational meteorological restrictions on specific parameters that mitigate potential toxic downwind concentrations levels at any potentially affected populated area to levels below the toxic concentration threshold of each toxicant in question. The launch operator must establish meteorological constraints to ensure that flight will be allowed to occur only if the specific meteorological conditions that would reduce the toxic hazard area exist and will continue to exist throughout the flight.
