
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix I to Part 417 - Methodologies for Toxic Release Hazard Analysis and Operational Procedures
###### Identification of toxic propellants.

(c)A launch operator's toxic release hazard analysis for flight and for launch processing must identify all toxic propellants used for each launch, including all toxic propellants on all launch vehicle components and payloads. Table I417-2 lists commonly used toxic propellants and the associated toxic concentration thresholds used by the Federal launch ranges for controlling potential public exposure. The toxic concentration thresholds contained in Table I417-2 are peak exposure concentrations in parts per million (ppm). A launch operator must perform a toxic release hazard analysis to ensure that the public is not exposed to concentrations above the toxic concentration thresholds for each toxicant involved in a launch. A launch operator must use the toxic concentration thresholds contained in table I417-2 for those propellants. Any propellant not identified in table I417-1 or table I417-2 falls into the category of unique or uncommon propellants, such as those identified in table I417-3, which are toxic or produce toxic combustion by-products. Table I417.3 is not an exhaustive list of possible toxic propellants and combustion by-products. For a launch that uses any propellant listed in table I417-3 or any other unique propellant not listed, a launch operator must identify the chemical composition of the propellant and all combustion by-products and the release scenarios. A launch operator must determine the toxic concentration threshold in ppm for any uncommon toxic propellant or combustion by-product in accordance with the following:

(1) For a toxicant that has a level of concern (LOC) established by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), or Department of Transportation (DOT), a launch operator must use the LOC as the toxic concentration threshold for the toxic release hazard analysis except as required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) If an EPA acute emergency guidance level (AEGL) exists for a toxicant and is more conservative than the LOC (that is, lower after reduction for duration of exposure), a launch operator must use the AEGL instead of the LOC as the toxic concentration threshold.

(3) A launch operator must use the EPA's Hazard Quotient/Hazard Index (HQ/HI) formulation to determine the toxic concentration threshold for mixtures of two or more toxicants.

(4) If a launch operator must determine a toxic concentration threshold for a toxicant for which an LOC has not been established, the launch operator must clearly and convincingly demonstrate through the licensing process that public exposure at the proposed toxic concentration threshold will not cause a casualty.
