
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix I to Part 417 - Methodologies for Toxic Release Hazard Analysis and Operational Procedures
###### Hazard distances for uncommon or unique propellants.

(2)For a launch that involves any uncommon or unique propellant, a launch operator must determine the toxic hazard distance for each such propellant using an analysis methodology that accounts for the following worst case conditions:

(i) Surface wind speed of 2.9 knots with a wind speed increase of 1.0 knot per 1000 feet of altitude.

(ii) Surface temperature of 32 degrees Fahrenheit with a dry bulb temperature lapse rate of 13.7 degrees Fahrenheit per 1000 feet over the first 500 feet of altitude and a lapse rate of 3.0 degrees F per 1000 feet above 500 feet.

(iii) Directional wind shear of 2 degrees per 1000 feet of altitude.

(iv) Relative humidity of 50 percent.

(v) Capping temperature inversion at the thermally stabilized exhaust cloud center of mass altitude.

(vi) Worst case initial source term assuming instantaneous release of fully loaded propellant storage tanks or pressurized motor segments.

(vii) Worst case combustion or mixing ratios such that production of toxic chemical species is maximized within the bounds of reasonable uncertainties.

(viii) Evaluation of toxic hazards for both normal launch and vehicle abort failure modes.
