
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix I to Part 417 - Methodologies for Toxic Release Hazard Analysis and Operational Procedures
###### Toxic containment for launch vehicle flight.

(c)For a launch that uses any toxic propellant, a launch operator's toxic release hazard analysis must determine a hazard distance for each toxicant and a toxic hazard area for the launch. A hazard distance for a toxicant is the furthest distance from the launch point where toxic concentrations may be greater than the toxicant's toxic concentration threshold in the event of a release during flight. A launch operator must determine the toxic hazard distance for each toxicant as required by paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. A toxic hazard area defines the region on the Earth's surface that may be exposed to toxic concentrations greater than any toxic concentration threshold of any toxicant involved in a launch in the event of a release during flight. A launch operator must determine a toxic hazard area in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section. In order to achieve containment, a launch operator must evacuate the public from a toxic hazard area as required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section or employ meteorological constraints as required by paragraph (c)(5) of this section. A launch operator must determine the hazard distance for a quantity of toxic propellant and determine and implement a toxic hazard area for a launch as follows:
