
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix I to Part 417 - Methodologies for Toxic Release Hazard Analysis and Operational Procedures
###### Process hazards analysis.

(b)A launch operator must perform an analysis on all processes to identify toxic hazards and determine the potential for release of a toxic propellant. The analysis must account for the complexity of the process and must identify and evaluate the hazards and each hazard control involved in the process. An analysis that complies with 29 CFR 1910.119(e) satisfies paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. A launch operator's process hazards analysis must include the following:

(1) Identify and evaluate each hazard of a process involving a toxic propellant using an analysis method, such as a failure mode and effects analysis or fault tree analysis.

(2) Describe:

(i) Each toxic hazard associated with the process and the potential for release of toxic propellants;

(ii) Each mishap or incident experienced which has a potential for catastrophic consequences;

(iii) Each engineering and administrative control applicable to each hazard and their interrelationships, such as application of detection methodologies to provide early warning of releases and evacuation of toxic hazard areas prior to conducting an operation that involves a toxicant;

(iv) Consequences of failure of engineering and administrative controls;

(v) Location of the source of the release;

(vi) All human factors;

(vii) Each opportunity for equipment malfunction or human error that can cause an accidental release;

(viii) Each safeguard used or needed to control each hazard or prevent equipment malfunctions or human error;

(ix) Each step or procedure needed to detect or monitor releases; and

(x) A qualitative evaluation of a range of the possible safety and health effects of failure of controls.

(3) The process hazards analysis must be updated for each launch. The launch operator must conduct a review of all the hazards associated with each process involving a toxic propellant for launch processing. The review must include inspection of equipment to determine whether the process is designed, fabricated, maintained, and operated according to the current process hazards analysis. A launch operator must revise a process hazards analysis to reflect changes in processes, types of toxic propellants stored or handled, or other aspects of a source of a potential toxic release that can affect the results of overall toxic release hazard analysis.

(4) The personnel who perform a process hazard analysis must possess expertise in engineering and process operations, and at least one person must have experience and knowledge specific to the process being evaluated. At least one person must be knowledgeable in the specific process hazard analysis methodology being used.

(5) A launch operator must resolve all recommendations resulting from a process hazards analysis in a timely manner prior to launch processing and the resolution must be documented. The documentation must identify each corrective action and include a written schedule of when any such actions are to be completed.
