
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix I to Part 417 - Methodologies for Toxic Release Hazard Analysis and Operational Procedures
###### Flight toxic release hazard analysis products.

(e)The products of a launch operator's toxic release hazard analysis for launch vehicle flight to be filed in accordance with ยง 417.203(e) must include the following:

(1) For each launch, a listing of all propellants used on all launch vehicle components and any payloads.

(2) The chemical composition of each toxic propellant and all toxic combustion products.

(3) The quantities of each toxic propellant and all toxic combustion products involved in the launch.

(4) For each toxic propellant and combustion product, identification of the toxic concentration threshold used in the toxic risk analysis and a description of how the toxic concentration threshold was determined if other than specified in table I417.2.

(5) When using the toxic containment approach of paragraph (c) of this section:

(i) The hazard distance for each toxic propellant and combustion product and a description of how it was determined.

(ii) A graphic depiction of the toxic hazard area or areas.

(iii) A listing of any wind or other constraints on flight, and any plans for evacuation.

(iv) A description of how the launch operator determines real-time wind direction in relation to the launch site and any populated area and any other meteorological condition in order to implement constraints on flight or to implement evacuation plans.

(6) When using the statistical toxic risk management approach of paragraph (d) of this section:

(i) A description of the launch operator's toxic risk management process, including an explanation of how the launch operator ensures that any toxic risk from launch meets the toxic risk criteria of ยง 417.107(b).

(ii) A listing of all models used.

(iii) A listing of all flight commit criteria that protect the public from unacceptable risk due to planned and potential toxic release.

(iv) A description of how the launch operator measures and displays real-time meteorological conditions in order to determine whether conditions at the time of flight are within the envelope of those used by the launch operator for toxic risk assessment and to develop flight commit criteria, or for use in any real-time physics models used to ensure compliance with the toxic flight commit criteria.
