
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix I to Part 417 - Methodologies for Toxic Release Hazard Analysis and Operational Procedures
###### Statistical toxic risk management for flight.

(d)If a launch that involves the use of a toxic propellant does not satisfy the containment requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, the launch operator must use statistical toxic risk management to protect public safety. For each such case, a launch operator must perform a toxic risk assessment and develop launch commit criteria that protect the public from unacceptable risk due to planned and potential toxic release. A launch operator must ensure that the resultant toxic risk meets the collective and individual risk criteria requirements contained in ยง 417.107(b). A launch operator's toxic risk assessment must account for the following:

(1) All credible vehicle failure and non-failure modes, along with the consequent release and combustion of propellants and other vehicle combustible materials.

(2) All vehicle failure rates.

(3) The effect of positive or negative buoyancy on the rise or descent of each released toxicant.

(4) The influence of atmospheric physics on the transport and diffusion of each toxicant.

(5) Meteorological conditions at the time of launch.

(6) Population density, location, susceptibility (health categories) and sheltering for all populations within each potential toxic hazard area.

(7) Exposure duration and toxic propellant concentration or dosage that would result in casualty for all populations.
