
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix I to Part 417 - Methodologies for Toxic Release Hazard Analysis and Operational Procedures
###### Implementation of meteorological constraints.

(k)A launch operator must use one or more of the following approaches to determine wind direction or other meteorological conditions in order to establish constraints on a launch processing operation or evacuate the populated area in a potential toxic hazard area:

(1) The launch operator must ensure that the wind conditions at the time of the process comply with the wind constraints used to define each arc segment toxic hazard area. The launch operator must monitor the vertical profile of winds at the potential toxic release site from ground level to an altitude of 10 meters or the maximum height above ground of the potential release, whichever is larger. The launch operator may proceed with a launch processing operation only if wind vectors meet the wind constraints used to define each arc segment toxic hazard area.

(2) A launch operator must monitor the specific meteorological parameters that affect toxic downwind concentrations at a potential toxic release site for a process and for the sphere of influence out to each populated area within the potential toxic hazard area as defined by paragraph (h) of this section. The launch operator must monitor spatial variations in the wind field that could affect the transport of toxic material between the potential release site and populated areas. The launch operator must acquire real-time meteorological data from sites between the potential release site and each populated area sufficient to demonstrate that the toxic hazard area, when adjusted to the spatial wind field variations, excludes populated areas. Meteorological parameters that affect toxic downwind concentrations from the potential release site and covering the sphere of influence out to the populated areas must fall within the conditions as determined in paragraph (j)(4) of this section. A launch operator must use one of the following methods to determine the meteorological conditions that will constrain a launch processing operation:

(i) A launch operator may employ real-time air dispersion models to determine the toxic hazard distance for the toxic concentration threshold and proximity of a toxicant to populated areas. A launch operator, when employing this method, must proceed with a launch processing operation only if real-time modeling of the potential release demonstrates that the toxic hazard distance would not reach populated areas. The launch operator's process for carrying out this method must include the use of an air dispersion modeling technique that complies with paragraph (g) of this section and providing real-time meteorological data for the sphere of influence around a potential toxic release site as input to the air dispersion model. The launch operator's process must also include a review of the meteorological conditions to identify changing conditions that could affect the toxic hazard distance for a toxic concentration threshold prior to proceeding with the operation.

(ii) A launch operator may use air dispersion modeling techniques to define the meteorological conditions that, when present, would prevent a toxic hazard distance for a toxic concentration threshold from reaching populated areas. The launch operator, when employing this method, must constrain the associated launch processing operation to be conducted only when the prescribed meteorological conditions exist. A launch operator's air dispersion modeling technique must comply with paragraph (g) of this section.
