
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 417 - LAUNCH SAFETY
##### Appendix J to Part 417 - Ground Safety Analysis Report
###### Subsystem description.

(2)For each hardware system identified in a ground safety analysis report as falling under one of the hazardous systems listed in paragraphs (c)(3), (c)(4) and (c)(5) of this section, the report must identify each of the hardware system's subsystems. A ground safety analysis report must describe each hazardous subsystem using the following format:

(i) General description including nomenclature, function, and a pictorial overview;

(ii) Technical operating description including text and figures describing how a subsystem works and any safety features and fault tolerance levels;

(iii) Each safety critical parameter, including those that demonstrate established system safety approaches that are not evident in the technical operating description or figures, such as factors of safety for structures and pressure vessels;

(iv) Each major component, including any part of a subsystem that must be technically described in order to understand the subsystem hazards. For a complex subsystem such as a propulsion subsystem, the ground safety analysis report must provide a majority of the detail of the subsystem including any figures at the major component level such as tanks, engines and vents. The presentation of figures in the report must progress in detail from broad overviews to narrowly focused figures. Each figure must have supporting text that explains what the figure is intended to illustrate;

(v) Ground operations and interfaces including interfaces with other launch vehicle and launch site subsystems. A ground safety analysis report must identify a launch operator's and launch site operator's hazard controls for all operations that are potentially hazardous to the public. The report must contain facility figures that illustrate where hazardous operations take place and must identify all areas where controlled access is employed as a hazard control; and

(vi) Hazard analysis summary of subsystem hazards that identifies each specific hazard and the threat to public safety. This summary must provide cross-references to the hazard analysis form required by paragraph (d) of this section and indicate the nature of the control, such as design margin, fault tolerance, or procedure.
