
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 450 - LAUNCH AND REENTRY LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart C - Safety Requirements
###### ยง 450.109 Flight hazard analysis.
####### Analysis.

(b)A flight hazard analysis must identify, describe, and analyze all reasonably foreseeable hazards to public safety resulting from the flight of a launch or reentry vehicle. Each flight hazard analysis must-

(1) Identify all reasonably foreseeable hazards, and the corresponding failure mode for each hazard, associated with the launch or reentry system relevant to public safety, including those resulting from:

(i) Vehicle operation, including staging and release;

(ii) System, subsystem, and component failures or faults;

(iii) Software operations;

(iv) Environmental conditions;

(v) Human factors;

(vi) Design inadequacies;

(vii) Procedure deficiencies;

(viii) Functional and physical interfaces between subsystems, including any vehicle payload;

(ix) Reuse of components or systems; and

(x) Interactions of any of the above.

(2) Assess each hazard's likelihood and severity.

(3) Ensure that the likelihood of any hazardous condition that may cause death or serious injury to the public is extremely remote.

(4) Identify and describe the risk elimination and mitigation measures required to satisfy paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(5) Document that the risk elimination and mitigation measures achieve the risk level of paragraph (b)(3) of this section through validation and verification. Verification includes:

(i) Analysis;

(ii) Test;

(iii) Demonstration; or

(iv) Inspection.
