
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter III - Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Licensing
#### PART 450 - LAUNCH AND REENTRY LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart D - Terms and Conditions of a Vehicle Operator License
###### ยง 450.211 Continuing accuracy of license application; application for modification of license.

(a) A licensee is responsible for the continuing accuracy of representations contained in its application for the entire term of the license.

(b) After a license has been issued, a licensee must apply to the FAA for modification of the license if-

(1) The licensee proposes to conduct a launch or reentry in a manner not authorized by the license; or

(2) Any representation contained in the license application that is material to public health and safety or the safety of property is no longer accurate and complete or does not reflect the licensee's procedures governing the actual conduct of a launch or reentry. A change is material to public health and safety or the safety of property if it alters or affects-

(i) The class of payload;

(ii) The type of launch or reentry vehicle;

(iii) The type or quantity of hazardous material;

(iv) The flight trajectory;

(v) The launch site or reentry site or other landing site; or

(vi) Any system, policy, procedure, requirement, criteria, or standard that is safety critical.

(c) An application to modify a license must be prepared and submitted in accordance with part 413 of this chapter. If requested during the application process, the FAA may approve an alternate method for requesting license modifications. The licensee must indicate any part of its license or license application that would be changed or affected by a proposed modification.

(d) Upon approval of a modification, the FAA issues either a written approval to the licensee or a license order amending the license if a stated term or condition of the license is changed, added, or deleted. An approval has the full force and effect of a license order and is part of the licensing record.
