
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1203 - INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - NASA Information Security Program
##### § 1203.200 Background and discussion.

(a) In establishing a civilian space program, the Congress required NASA to "provide for the widest practicable and appropriate dissemination of information concerning its activities and the results thereof," and for the withholding from public inspection of that information that is classified to protect the national security.

(b) The Order was promulgated in recognition of the essential requirement for an informed public concerning the activities of its Government, as well as the need to protect certain national security information from unauthorized disclosure. It delegates to NASA certain responsibility for matters pertaining to national security and confers on the Administrator of NASA, or such responsible officers or employees as the Administrator may designate, the authority for original classification of official information or material which requires protection in the interest of national security. It also provides for:

(1) Basic classification, downgrading and declassification guidelines;

(2) The issuance of directives prescribing the procedures to be followed in safeguarding classified information or material;

(3) A monitoring system to ensure the effectiveness of the Order;

(4) Appropriate administrative sanctions against officers and employees of the United States Government who are found to be in violation of the Order or implementing directive; and

(5) Classification limitations and restrictions as discussed in §§ 1203.410 and 1203.411.

(c) The Order requires the timely identification and protection of that NASA information the disclosure of which would be contrary to the best interest of national security. Accordingly, the determination in each case must be based on a judgment as to whether disclosure of information could reasonably be expected to result in damage to the national security.
