
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1203 - INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM
#### Subpart D - Guides for Original Classification
##### ยง 1203.412 Classification guides.
###### General.

(a)A classification guide, based upon classification determinations made by appropriate program and classification authorities, shall be issued for each classified system, program or project. Classification guides shall:

(1) Identify the information elements to be protected, using categorization and subcategorization to the extent necessary to ensure that the information involved can be readily and uniformly identified.

(2) State which of the classification designations (i.e., Top Secret, Secret or Confidential) apply to the identified information elements.

(3) State the duration of each specified classification in terms of a period of time or future event. If the original classification authority cannot determine an earlier specific date or event for declassification, information shall be marked for declassification 10 years from the date of the original decision, unless the original classification authority otherwise determines that the sensitivity of the information requires it be marked for declassification for up to 25 years from the date of the original decision.

(4) Indicate specifically that the designations, time limits, markings and other requirements of "the Order" are to be applied to information classified pursuant to the guide.

(5) All security classification guides should be forwarded to the Office of Protective Services for review and final approval. The Office of Protective Services will maintain a list of all classification guides in current use.
