
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1203 - INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Derivative Classification
##### ยง 1203.500 Use of derivative classification.

(a) Persons who reproduce, extract, or summarize classified information, or who apply classification markings derived from source material or as directed by a classification guide, need not possess original classification authority.

(b) Persons who apply derivative classification markings shall:

(1) Be identified by name and position or by personal identifier, in a manner that is immediately apparent for each derivative classification action;

(2) Observe and respect original classification decisions; and

(3) Carry forward to any newly created documents the pertinent classification markings. For information derivatively classified based on multiple sources, the derivative classifier shall carry forward:

(i) The date or event for declassification that corresponds to the longest period of classification among the sources or the marking established pursuant to section 1.6(a)(4)(D) of the Order; and

(ii) A listing of the source materials.

(c) Derivative classifiers shall, whenever practicable, use a classified addendum when classified information constitutes a small portion of an otherwise unclassified document or prepare a product to allow for dissemination at the lowest level of classification possible or in unclassified form.

(d) Persons who apply derivative classification markings shall receive training in the proper application of the derivative classification principles of the Order, with an emphasis on avoiding over-classification, at least once every two years. Derivative classifiers who do not receive such training at least once every two years shall have their authority to apply derivative classification markings suspended until they have received such training. A waiver may be granted by the Administrator, the Deputy Administrator, or the Assistant Administrator for Protective Services if an individual is unable to receive such training due to unavoidable circumstances. Whenever a waiver is granted, the individual shall receive such training as soon as practicable.
