
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1203 - INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM
#### Subpart F - Declassification and Downgrading
##### ยง 1203.604 Mandatory review for declassification.
###### Processing of requests.

(e)Requests that meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section will be processed as follows:

(1) The NASA Office of Protective Services review upon receiving the initial request shall be completed within 365 days.

(2) Receipt of the request shall be acknowledged promptly. The NASA Office of Protective Services shall determine whether, under the declassification provisions of this part 1203, the requested information may be declassified and, if so, shall make such information available to the requestor, unless withholding is otherwise warranted under applicable law. If the information may not be released in whole or in part, the requestor shall be given a brief statement of the reasons for denial, a notice of the right to appeal the determination to the Chairperson, NASA Information Security Program Committee, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Washington, DC 20546, and a notice that such an appeal must be filed within 60 days in order to be considered.

(3) All appeals of denials of requests for declassification shall be acted upon and determined finally within 120 working days after receipt, and the requester shall be advised that the appeal determination is final. If the requester is dissatisfied with NASA's appeal decision, the requester may initiate an appeal to the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel (ISCAP), within the Information Security Oversight Office. If continued classification is required under the provisions of this part 1203, the requester shall be notified of the reasons thereof.

(4) The declassification and release of foreign government information that is subjected to mandatory review under this section shall be determined only in accordance with ยง 1203.703.

(5) When the NASA Office of Protective Services receives any request for declassification of information in documents in its custody that was classified by another Government agency, it shall refer copies of the request and the requested documents to the originating agency for processing and may, after consultation with the originating agency, inform the requester of the referral.
