
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1203 - INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM
#### Subpart F - Declassification and Downgrading
##### ยง 1203.604 Mandatory review for declassification.
###### Presidential papers.

(b)Information originated by the President or Vice President; the President's White House Staff, or the Vice President's Staff; committees, commissions, or boards appointed by the President; or other entities within the Executive Office of the President that solely advise and assist the President are exempted from the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. However, the Archivist shall have the authority to review, downgrade, and declassify papers or records of former Presidents and Vice Presidents under the control of the Archivist pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 2107, 2111, 2111 note, or 2203. Procedures developed by the Archivist shall provide for consultation with agencies having primary subject matter interest and shall be consistent with the provisions of applicable laws or lawful agreements that pertain to the respective Presidential papers or records. Agencies with primary subject matter interest shall be notified promptly of the Archivist's decision. Any final decision by the Archivist may be appealed by the requester or an agency to the Panel. The information shall remain classified pending a decision on the appeal.
