
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1204 - ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY AND POLICY
#### Subpart 4 - Small Business Policy
##### ยง 1204.402 Responsibilities.
###### NASA Headquarters and NASA Centers.

(b)Center Directors (including the Executive Director for the NASA Shared Services Center and the Director for the NASA Management Office, but excluding the Director for the Jet Propulsion Laboratory) along with the Associate Administrator for the Office of Small Business Programs shall nominate a qualified individual in their contracting office as a small business specialist to provide a central point of contact to which small business concerns may direct inquiries concerning small business matters and participation in NASA acquisitions. When a Center Director determines that the volume of acquisitions or the functions relating to acquisitions at the Center do not warrant a full-time small business specialist, these duties may be assigned to procurement personnel on a part-time basis, with the concurrence of the Associate Administrator for the Office of Small Business Programs. NASA Centers shall establish and maintain liaison with the Small Business Administration (SBA) Procurement Center Representative (PCR) or the appropriate SBA Regional Office in matters relating to NASA Center procurement activities. Small Business Specialists shall perform the duties delineated in NASA FAR Supplement 1819.201(e)(ii). The Associate Administrator for Small Business Programs shall assign a Small Business Technical Advisor to each contracting activity within the Agency to which the SBA has assigned a PCR, pursuant to FAR 19.201(d)(8).
