
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1203b - SECURITY PROGRAMS; ARREST AUTHORITY AND USE OF FORCE BY NASA SECURITY FORCE PERSONNEL
#### ยง 1203b.107 Use of firearms.

(a) If it becomes necessary to use a firearm in any of the circumstances described in ยง 1203b.106, NASA security force personnel shall comply with the following precautions whenever possible:

(1) Give an order to halt or desist before firing.

(2) Do not fire if shots are likely to harm innocent bystanders.

(3) Shoot to stop.

(b) Warning shots are not authorized.

(c) In the event that a security force personnel discharges a weapon while in a duty status:

(1) The incident shall be reported to the Center Chief of Security who, in turn, will report it to the NASA Assistant Administrator for Protective Services as expeditiously as possible, with as many details supplied as are available.

(2) The officer shall be promptly suspended from duty with pay or reassigned to other duties not involving the use of a firearm, as the Center Director or the Assistant Administrator for Protective Services deems appropriate, pending investigation of the incident.

(3) The cognizant Center Director, or for incidents occurring at NASA Headquarters, the Executive Director for Headquarters Operations, shall appoint an investigating officer to conduct a thorough investigation of the incident. Additional personnel may also be appointed, as needed to assist the investigating officer. Upon conclusion of the investigation, the investigating officer shall submit a written report of findings and recommendations to the appropriate Installation Director or the Assistant Administrator for Protective Services.

(4) Upon conclusion of the investigation, the Center Director or the Assistant Administrator for Protective Services, with the advice of Counsel, shall determine the disposition appropriate to the case.

(d) Firearms will be periodically inspected and kept in good working order by a qualified gunsmith. Ammunition, holsters, and related equipment will be periodically inspected for deterioration and kept in good working order. Firearms and ammunition will be securely stored separately in locked containers. Firearms will not be stored in a loaded condition. Neither firearms nor ammunition will be stored in the same containers as money, drugs, precious materials, or classified information. NASA Headquarters and each Installation shall adopt procedures for the maintenance of records with respect to the issuance of firearms and ammunition.
