
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1204 - ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY AND POLICY
#### Subpart 5 - Delegations and Designations
##### ยง 1204.501 Delegation of authority - to take actions in real estate and related matters.
###### Delegation of authority.

(a)The Assistant Administrator for Strategic Infrastructure and the Director, Integrated Asset Management Division, are delegated authority, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and subject to conditions imposed by immediate superiors, to:

(1) Prescribe agency real estate policies, procedures, and regulations;

(2) Enter into and take other actions including, but not limited to, the following;

(i) Acquire (by purchase, lease, condemnation, or otherwise) fee and lesser interests in real property and, in the case of acquisition by condemnation, to sign declarations of taking.

(ii) Use, with their consent, the facilities of Federal and other agencies with or without reimbursement.

(iii) Determine entitlement to and quantum of, financial compensation under, and otherwise exercise the authority contained in the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4601), and regulations in implementation thereof.

(iv) Grant easements, leaseholds, licenses, permits, or other interests (wherever located) controlled by NASA.

(v) Grant the use of NASA-controlled real property and approve the acquisition and use of nongovernment owned real property for any NASA-related, nonappropriated fund activity purpose with the concurrence of the NASA Comptroller.

(vi) Sell and otherwise dispose of real property in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 471, et seq).

(vii) Exercise control over the acquisition, utilization, and disposal of movable/relocatable structures including prefabricated buildings, commercial packaged accommodations, trailers, and other like items used as facility substitutes.

(viii) Request other government agencies to act as real estate agent for NASA.

(ix) Authorize other NASA officials to take specific implementing action with regard to any real property transaction included in the scope of authority delegated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
