
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1204 - ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY AND POLICY
#### Subpart 5 - Delegations and Designations
##### ยง 1204.504 Delegation of authority to grant leaseholds, permits, and licenses in real property.
###### Restrictions.

(e)Except as otherwise specifically provided, no leasehold, permit, or license shall be granted under the authority stated in paragraph (d) of this section unless:

(1) The Director of the Center Director concerned determines:

(i) That the interest to be granted is not required for a NASA program.

(ii) That the grantee's exercise of rights granted will not interfere with NASA operations.

(2) Fair value in money is received by NASA on behalf of the Government as consideration.

(3) The instrument provides:

(i) For a term not to exceed 5 years.

(ii) For the termination thereof, in whole or in part, and without cost to the Government if there has been:

(A) A failure to comply with any term or condition of the grant; or

(B) A determination by the Assistant Administrator for Strategic Infrastructure, the Director, Integrated Asset Management Division, or the Center Director concerned that the interests of the national space program, the national defense, or the public welfare require the termination of the interest granted; and a 30-day notice, in writing, to the grantee that such determination has been made.

(iii) That written notice of termination shall be given to the grantee, or its successors or assigns, by the Assistant Administrator for Strategic Infrastructure, the Director, Integrated Asset Management Division, or the Center Director concerned, and that termination shall be effective as of the date specified by such notice.

(iv) For any other reservations, exceptions, limitations, benefits, burdens, terms, or conditions necessary to protect the interests of the United States.
