
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1204 - ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY AND POLICY
#### Subpart 5 - Delegations and Designations
##### ยง 1204.503 Delegation of authority to grant easements.
###### Restrictions.

(f)Except as otherwise specifically provided, no such easement shall be authorized or granted under the authority stated in paragraph (e) of this section unless:

(1) The appropriate Center Director determines:

(i) That the interest in real property to be conveyed is not required for a NASA program.

(ii) That the grantee's exercise of rights under the easement will not interfere with NASA operations.

(2) Monetary or other benefit, including any interest in real property, is received by the government as consideration for the granting of the easement.

(3) The instrument granting the easement provides:

(i) For the termination of the easement, in whole or in part, and without cost to the government, if there has been:

(A) A failure to comply with any term or condition of the grant;

(B) A nonuse of the easement for a consecutive 2-year period for the purpose for which granted; or

(C) An abandonment of the easement; or

(D) A determination by the Assistant Administrator for Strategic Infrastructure, the Director, Integrated Asset Management Division, or the appropriate Center Director that the interests of the national space program, the national defense, or the public welfare require the termination of the easement; and a 30-day notice, in writing, to the grantee that the determination has been made.

(ii) That written notice of the termination shall be given to the grantee, or its successors or assigns, by the Assistant Administrator for Strategic Infrastructure , the Director, Integrated Asset Management Division, or the appropriate Center Director, and that termination shall be effective as of the date of the notice.

(iii) For any other reservations, exceptions, limitations, benefits, burdens, terms, or conditions necessary to protect the interests of the United States.
