
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1204 - ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY AND POLICY
#### Subpart 10 - Inspection of Persons and Personal Effects at NASA Installations or on NASA Property; Trespass or Unauthorized Introduction of Weapons or Dangerous Materials
##### ยง 1204.1003 Procedures.

(a) All entrances to NASA real property or facilities (including NASA Headquarters, NASA Centers, or Component Facilities) will be conspicuously posted with the following notices:

(1) CONSENT TO INSPECTION: YOUR ENTRY INTO, CONTINUED PRESENCE ON, OR EXIT FROM THIS FACILITY IS CONTINGENT UPON YOUR CONSENT TO INSPECTION OF PERSON AND PROPERTY.

(2) UNAUTHORIZED INTRODUCTION OF WEAPONS OR DANGEROUS MATERIALS IS PROHIBITED UNLESS SPECIFICALLY AUTHORIZED BY NASA. YOU MAY NOT CARRY, TRANSPORT, INTRODUCE, STORE, OR USE FIREARMS OR OTHER DANGEROUS WEAPONS, EXPLOSIVES OR OTHER INCENDIARY DEVICES, OR OTHER DANGEROUS INSTRUMENT OR MATERIAL LIKELY TO PRODUCE SUBSTANTIAL INJURY OR DAMAGE TO PERSONS OR PROPERTY UNLESS AUTHORIZED BY NASA.

(b) Only NASA security personnel or members of the facility's uniformed security force will conduct inspections pursuant to this subpart. Such inspections will be conducted in accordance with guidelines established by the Assistant Administrator for Protective Services , NASA Headquarters.

(c) If an individual does not consent to an inspection, it will not be conducted, but the individual will be denied entry to, or be escorted off the facililty.

(d) If, during an inspection, an individual is found to be in unauthorized possession of items believed to represent a threat to the safety or security of the facility, the individual will be denied entry to or be escorted off the facility, and appropriate law enforcement authorities will be notified immediately.

(e) If, during an inspection conducted pursuant to this subpart, an individual is in possession of U.S. Government property without proper authorization, that person will be required to relinquish the property to the security representative pending proper authorization for the possession of the property or its removal from the facility. The individual relinquishing the property will be provided with a receipt for the property.
