
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1204 - ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY AND POLICY
#### Subpart 11 - Enforcing Traffic Laws at NASA Centers and Component Facilities
##### ยง 1204.1101 Policy.
###### Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.

(c)The following requirements apply to the drivers or all vehicles on or in NASA-owned, controlled, or leased property:

(1) A driver shall be in possession of a current and valid state- or territory-issued driver's license and vehicle registration, and the vehicle shall display all current and valid tags and licenses required by the jurisdiction in which it is registered.

(2) A driver who has had his or her privilege or license to drive suspended or revoked by any state or territory shall not drive any vehicle in or on such property during such period of suspension or revocation.

(3) Drivers shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of security personnel and other authorized individuals; all posted traffic signs, including speed limits; and all rules implemented under section 1204.1102.

(4) Drivers shall not block entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, or fire hydrants.

(5) Drivers shall not park without authority, park in unauthorized locations or in locations reserved for other persons, park continuously in excess of 18 hours without permission, or park in any manner contrary to the direction of posted signs.

(d) A copy of this subpart shall be posted in an appropriate place at each NASA Center or component facility.
