
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1204 - ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY AND POLICY
#### Subpart 14 - Use of NASA Airfield Facilities by Aircraft Not Operated for the Benefit of the Federal Government
##### ยง 1204.1402 Policy.

(a) NASA airfields are not normally available to the general public; hence, any use of airfield facilities by aircraft not operated for the benefit of the Federal Government shall be within the sole discretion of the approving authorities.

(b) Except in the event of a declared in-flight emergency (see ยง 1204.1406) or as otherwise determined by an approving authority, aircraft not operated for the benefit of the Federal Government are not permitted to land or otherwise use NASA airfield facilities.

(c) Any use of a NASA airfield facility by aircraft not operated for the benefit of the Federal Government shall be free of charge and no consideration (monetary or otherwise) shall be exacted or received by NASA for such use. However, each user, as a condition of receiving permission to use such airfield facility, shall agree to become familiar with the physical condition of the airfield; abide by the conditions placed upon such use; subject the aircraft, the user, and those accompanying the user to any requirements imposed by NASA in the interest of security and safety while the aircraft or persons are on a NASA facility; use the facilities entirely at the user's own risk; hold the Federal Government harmless with respect to any and all liabilities which may arise as a result of the use of the facilities; and carry insurance covering liability to others in amounts not less than those listed in the Hold Harmless Agreement.

(d) Permission to use a NASA airfield facility will be granted only in accordance with the limitations and procedures established by an approving authority and then only when such use will not compete with another airport in the vicinity which imposes landing fees or other user charges.

(e) In no event, except for an in-flight emergency (see ยง 1204.1406), will permission to use NASA airfield facilities be granted to an aircraft arriving directly from, or destined for, any location outside the continental United States unless previously arranged and approved by the authorized approving official.

(f) Permission to use NASA airfields may be granted only to those users having the legal capacity to contract and whose aircraft are in full compliance with applicable Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or other cognizant regulatory agency requirements.

(g) Permission to use NASA airfields, except in connection with a declared in-flight emergency, will consist only of the right to land, park an aircraft, and subsequently take off. NASA is not equipped to provide any other services such as maintenance or fuel and such services will not be provided except following an in-flight emergency.
