
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1204 - ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY AND POLICY
#### Subpart 15 - Intergovernmental Review of National Aeronautics and Space Administration Programs and Activities
##### § 1204.1509 Receiving and responding to comments.

(a) The Administrator follows the procedures in § 1204.1510 if:

(1) A state office or official is designated to act as a single point of contact between a state process and all federal agencies; and

(2) That office or official transmits a state process recommendation for a program selected under § 1204.1506.

(b)(1) The single point of contact is not obligated to transmit comments from state, areawide, regional or local officials and entities where there is no state process recommendation.

(2) If a state process recommendation is transmitted by a single point of contact, all comments from state, areawide, regional, and local officials and entities that differ from it must also be transmitted.

(c) If a state has not established a process, or is unable to submit a state process recommendation, state, areawide, regional and local officals and entities may submit comments to the Agency.

(d) If a program or activity is not selected for a state process, state, areawide, regional and local officials and entities may submit comments to the Agency. In addition, if a state process recommendation for a nonselected program or activity is transmitted to the Agency by the single point of contact, the Administrator follows the procedures of § 1204.1510 of this part.

(e) The Administrator considers comments which do not constitute a state process recommendation submitted under these regulations and for which the Administrator is not required to apply the procedures of § 1204.1510 of this part, when such comments are provided by a single point of contact, or directly to the Agency by a commenting party.
