
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1206 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### Subpart C - Procedures
##### ยง 1206.300 How to make a request for Agency records.
###### hq-foia@nasa.gov,

(b) NASA does not have a central location for submitting FOIA requests and it does not maintain a central index or database of records in its possession. Instead, Agency records are decentralized and maintained by various Centers and offices throughout the country. All NASA Centers have the capability to receive requests electronically, either through email or a Web portal. To make a request for any of the NASA Center records, a requester should write directly to the FOIA office of the Center that maintains the records being sought. A request will receive the quickest possible response if it is addressed to the FOIA office of the Center that maintains the records requested. If a requester does not know which Center(s) may have the requested records, he/she may send his/her request(s) to the NASA's Headquarters (HQ) FOIA Public Liaison, 300 E Street SW, Room 5L19, Washington, DC 20546, Fax number: (202) 358-4332, email address:and the HQ FOIA unit will forward the request to the Center(s) that it determines to be most likely to maintain the records that are sought.

(c) NASA has not yet implemented a records management application for automated capture and control of e-records; therefore, official files are primarily paper files.

(d) A member of the public may submit a FOIA request for an Agency record by mail, facsimile (FAX), electronic mail (email), or by submitting a written request in person to the FOIA office having responsibility over the record requested or to the NASA Headquarters (HQ) FOIA Office. A requester may also submit a request online via the NASA FOIA website.

(e) When a requester is unable to determine the proper NASA FOIA Office to direct a request to, the requester may send the request to the NASA HQ FOIA Office, 300 E. Street SW., Washington, DC 20546-0001. The HQ FOIA Office will forward the request to the Center(s) that it determines to be most likely to maintain the records that are sought.
