
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1206 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### Subpart C - Procedures
##### ยง 1206.301 Describing records sought.

In view of the time limits under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6) for an initial determination on a request for an Agency record, a request must meet the following requirements:

(a) The request must be addressed to an appropriate FOIA office or otherwise be clearly identified in the letter as a request for an Agency record under the "Freedom of Information Act."

(b) Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable Agency personnel who are familiar with the subject area of the request to identify and locate the record with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may assist a FOIA office in identifying the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. In general, requesters should include as much detail as possible about the specific records or the types of records sought.

(c) If NASA, after receiving a request, determines that the request does not reasonably describe the records sought, it shall inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the NASA's designated FOIA contact or the Principal Agency FOIA Officer, each of whom is available to assist the requester in reasonably describing the records sought. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the Agency's response to the request may be delayed or NASA may at its discretion close the request administratively.

(d) Requests for clarification or more information will be made in writing (either via U.S. mail or electronic mail whenever possible). Requesters may respond by U.S. mail or by electronic mail regardless of the method used by NASA to transmit the request for additional information. In order to be considered timely, responses to requests for additional information must be postmarked or received by electronic mail within twenty (20) working days of the postmark date or date of the electronic mail request for additional information or received by electronic mail by 11:59:59 p.m. ET on the 20th working day. If the requester does not respond to a request for additional information within the 20 working days, the request may be administratively closed at NASA's discretion. This administrative closure does not prejudice the requester's ability to submit a new request for further consideration with additional information.

(e) NASA need not comply with a blanket or categorical request (such as "all matters relating to" a general subject) where it is not reasonably feasible to determine what record is sought.

(f) NASA will in good faith attempt to identify and locate the record(s) sought and will consult with the requester when necessary and appropriate for that purpose in accordance with these regulations.

(g) NASA is not required to create or compile records in response to a FOIA request.
