
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1206 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### Subpart D - Procedures and Time Limits for Responding to Requests
##### ยง 1206.403 Time extensions.

(a) In "unusual circumstances" as defined in this section, the time limits for an initial determination and for a final determination may be extended, but not to exceed a total of 10 working days in the aggregate in the processing of any specific request for an Agency record. The extension must be taken before the expiration of the 20 working day time limits. The requester will be notified in writing of:

(1) The unusual circumstances surrounding the extension of the time limit;

(2) The date by which the FOIA office expects to complete the processing of the request.

(b) Unusual circumstances are defined as:

(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from offices other than the office processing the request;

(2) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous number of documents;

(3) The need to coordinate and/or consult with another NASA office or agency having a substantial subject-matter interest in the determination of the request.

(c) If initial processing time will exceed or is expected to exceed 30 working days, the FOIA office will notify the requester of the delay in processing and:

(1) Provide the opportunity to limit the scope of the request so that it may be processed within that time limit or an opportunity to arrange with the Agency an alternative time frame for processing the request or a modified request;

(2) Provide contact information for the NASA FOIA Public Liaison;

(3) Offer the right of the requester to seek dispute resolution services from the OGIS;

(4) Provide information regarding the intended determination; and

(5) Shall make available its designated FOIA contact and its FOIA Public Liaison for the purpose of this paragraph (c).

(d) The requester's refusal to reasonably modify the scope of a request or arrange an alternative timeframe for processing a request after being given the opportunity to do so may be considered a factor when determining whether exceptional circumstances exist. A delay that results from a predictable workload of requests does not constitute exceptional circumstances unless the Agency demonstrates reasonable progress in reducing its backlog of pending requests.
