
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1206 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### Subpart E - Fees Associated With Processing Requests
##### ยง 1206.501 Review.

(a) Review means the process of examining a document(s) located in response to a request to determine whether the document(s) or any portion thereof is disclosable. Review does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.

(b) Review fees will be assessed in connection with the initial review of the record, i.e., the review conducted by Agency staff to determine whether an exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record.

(c) Review fees will be charged to commercial use requesters.

(d) No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal stage of exemptions applied at the initial review stage. However, when the appellate authority determines that a particular exemption no longer applies, any costs associated with an additional review of the records in order to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees.

(e) Review fees will be charged at the same rates as those charged for a search under ยง 1206.500.

(f) Review fees can be charged even if the record(s) reviewed ultimately is not disclosed.

(g) Review fees will not include costs incurred in resolving issues of law or policy that may be raised in the course of processing a request under this section.
