
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1206 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### Subpart E - Fees Associated With Processing Requests
##### ยง 1206.507 Categories of requesters.
###### Education and non-commercial scientific institution requesters.

(2)To be eligible for inclusion in the category in this paragraph (c)(2), requesters must show that the request being made is authorized by and under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not being sought for a commercial use (not operated for commerce, trade, or profit), but are being sought in furtherance of scholarly (if the request is from an educational institution) or scientific (if the request is from a non-commercial scientific institution) research.

(i) Educational institution is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in the fee category in this paragraph (c)(2) must show that the request is made in connection with the requester's role at the educational institution. NASA may seek assurance from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research and will advise requesters of their placement in the category in this paragraph (c)(2). A request for educational purposes may be presumed if submitted on the Institution's letterhead and signed by the Dean of the School or Department.
