
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1206 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### Subpart E - Fees Associated With Processing Requests
##### ยง 1206.507 Categories of requesters.
###### Representative of the news media.

(3)(i) NASA shall provide documents to requesters in the category in this paragraph (c)(3) for the cost of duplication alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages.

(ii) Representative of the news media is any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term "news" means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of new media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast "news" to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate "news" and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. These examples are not all inclusive. As methods of news delivery evolve, alternative news media entities may come into existence. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester will not be considered to be for a commercial use. "Freelance" journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity will be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, agencies can also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination. Agencies will advise requesters of their placement in the category in this paragraph (c)(3).

(iii) Requesters seeking the fee category in this paragraph (c)(3) who do not articulate sufficient information to support their request will not be included in the fee category in this paragraph (c)(3). Additionally, FOIA staff may grant a reduction of fees if the requester can articulate the information of this section for some of the documents.
