
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1206 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### Subpart E - Fees Associated With Processing Requests
##### ยง 1206.507 Categories of requesters.

(a) A request should indicate the fee category. If the requester does not indicate a fee category, or it is unclear to the FOIA office, the FOIA office will make a determination of the fee category based on the request. If the requester does not agree with their determination, he/she will be afforded the opportunity to provide information to support a different fee category.

(b) If the request is submitted on behalf of another person or organization (e.g., if an attorney is submitting a request on behalf of a client), the fee category will be determined by considering the underlying requester's identity and intended use of the information. The following table outlines the basic fee categories and applicable fees:

(c) The FOIA provides for three categories of requesters. However, for clarity purposes, NASA has broken them down to four for the purposes of determining fees. These four categories of FOIA requesters are: Commercial use requesters; educational and noncommercial scientific institutions; representatives of the news media; and all other requesters. The Act prescribes specific levels of fees for each of these categories, which is indicated in the FOIA fee table above.
