
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1206 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### Subpart G - Appeals
##### § 1206.701 Actions on appeals.

(a) Except as provided in § 1206.403, the Administrator or designee, or in the case of records as specified in § 1206.805, the Inspector General or designee, shall make a final determination on an appeal and notify the appellant thereof, within 20 working days after the receipt of the appeal by the Administrator's Office.

(b) In "unusual circumstances" as defined in § 1206.403, the time limit for a final determination may be extended, but not to exceed a total of 10 working days in the aggregate in the processing of any specific appeal for an Agency record. The extension must be taken before the expiration of the 20 working day time limit. The appellant will be notified in writing in accordance with § 1206.403.

(c) If processing time will exceed or is expected to exceed 30 working days, the appellant will be notified of the delay in processing and the reason for the delay.

(d) If the final determination reverses in whole or in part the initial determination, the record requested (or portions thereof) shall be made available promptly to the requester, as provided in the final determination.

(e) If a reversal in whole or in part of the initial determination requires additional document search or production, associated fees will be applicable in accordance with fee guidance in this regulation.

(f) If the final determination sustains in whole or in part an adverse initial determination, the notification of the final determination shall:

(1) Explain the basis on which the record (or portions thereof) will not be made available;

(2) Include the name and title of the person making the final determination;

(3) Include a statement that the final determination is subject to judicial review under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4);

(4) Provide a statement regarding the mediation services of the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation; and

(5) Enclose a copy of 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4).

(g) Before seeking a review by a court of a FOIA office's adverse initial determination, a requester must generally submit a timely administrative appeal in accordance with this part.
