
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1206 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### Subpart H - Responsibilities
##### ยง 1206.801 Chief FOIA Officer.

(a) The Associate Administrator, Office of Communications, is designated as the Chief FOIA Officer for the Agency. The Chief FOIA Officer is delegated authority for administering the FOIA and all related laws and regulations within the Agency. The Associate Administrator has delegated the day-to-day oversight of the Agency FOIA Program to the Deputy Associate Administrator for Communications.

(b) The Deputy Associate Administrator for Communications has delegated the overall responsibility for developing and administering the FOIA program within NASA to the Principal Agency FOIA Officer, located in the Office of Communications. This includes:

(1) Developing regulations in consultation with the Office of General Counsel, providing guidelines, procedures, and standards for the Agency's FOIA program;

(2) Overseeing all FOIA offices and programs and ensuring they are in compliance with FOIA laws and regulations;

(3) Ensuring implementation of the FOIA Programs throughout the Agency and keeping the Chief FOIA Officer and the Deputy Associate Administrator for Communications informed of the Agency's FOIA performance;

(4) Providing program oversight, technical assistance, and training to employees to ensure compliance with the Act;

(5) Preparing the Agency's FOIA Annual Report to the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Congress, as well as the Chief FOIA Officer's Report;

(6) Preparing all other reports as required to DOJ, OGIS, and Congress or within the Agency;

(7) Developing, conducting, and reviewing all internal Agency FOIA training for NASA FOIA staff;

(8) Directly supervising the Headquarters FOIA Office.

(c) The Chief FOIA Officer is responsible for ensuring NASA has appointed FOIA Public Liaisons, who are responsible for and able to assist in reducing delays, increasing transparency and understanding of the status of requests, and assisting in the resolution of disputes at each Center or Component.
