
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Subpart C - Structure
###### Flight Maneuver and Gust Conditions
####### ยง 25.341 Gust and turbulence loads.
######## Continuous turbulence design criteria.

(b)The dynamic response of the airplane to vertical and lateral continuous turbulence must be taken into account. The dynamic analysis must take into account unsteady aerodynamic characteristics and all significant structural degrees of freedom including rigid body motions. The limit loads must be determined for all critical altitudes, weights, and weight distributions as specified in ยง 25.321(b), and all critical speeds within the ranges indicated in ยง 25.341(b)(3).

(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section, the following equation must be used:

(2) Values ofmust be determined according to the following formula:

(3) The limit turbulence intensities, U, in feet per second true airspeed required for compliance with this paragraph are-

(i) At airplane speeds between Vand V:

(ii) At speed V: Uis equal tothe values obtained under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.

(iii) At speeds between Vand V: Uis equal to a value obtained by linear interpolation.

(iv) At all speeds, both positive and negative incremental loads due to continuous turbulence must be considered.

(4) When an automatic system affecting the dynamic response of the airplane is included in the analysis, the effects of system non-linearities on loads at the limit load level must be taken into account in a realistic or conservative manner.

(5) If necessary for the assessment of loads on airplanes with significant non-linearities, it must be assumed that the turbulence field has a root-mean-square velocity equal to 40 percent of the Uvalues specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The value of limit load is that load with the same probability of exceedance in the turbulence field asUof the same load quantity in a linear approximated model.
