
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1209 - BOARDS AND COMMITTEES
#### Subpart 4 - Inventions and Contributions Board
##### ยง 1209.404 Membership.

(a) The Board will consist of a full-time Chairperson and at least six members appointed by the Administrator from within NASA. One of the members will be designated by the Chairperson as Vice-Chairperson. The Chairperson is responsible directly to the Administrator.

(b) The Chairperson of the Board is appointed for an unlimited period. All other Board members normally will be appointed initially for a period of 3 years. The Chairperson is authorized to extend the initial appointment of any Board member for an additional period of service. If a member resigns or is otherwise unable to participate in the Board's activities, a replacement may be appointed for the remainder of the uncompleted term and, with the approval of the Chairperson, may be appointed for a full 3-year term upon the expiration of the original term. This procedure will provide the Board with a continual infusion of new members with a variety of professional backgrounds and interests. Duties performed by the members of the Board will be in addition to their regular duties.

(c) The Chairperson is authorized to:

(1) Assemble the Board as required to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the Board;

(2) Establish such panels as may be considered necessary to discharge the responsibilities and perform the functions of the Board; and

(3) Issue implementing rules and procedures, and take such other actions as are necessary to perform the Board's functions.
