
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1212 - PRIVACY ACT - NASA REGULATIONS
#### Subpart 1212.5 - Exemptions to Individuals' Rights of Access
##### ยง 1212.501 Record systems determined to be exempt.
###### Reason for exemptions.

(2)(i) The Office of Inspector General is an office of NASA, a component of which performs as its principal function activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws, within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). This exemption applies only to those records and information contained in the system of records pertaining to criminal investigations. This system of records is exempt for one or more of the following reasons:

(A) To prevent interference with law enforcement proceedings.

(B) To avoid unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, by disclosure of information about third parties, including other subjects of investigation, investigators, and witnesses.

(C) To protect the identity of Federal employees who furnish a complaint or information to the OIG, consistent with section 7(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App.

(D) To protect the confidentiality of non-Federal employee sources of information.

(E) To assure access to sources of confidential information, including that contained in Federal, State, and local criminal law enforcement information systems.

(F) To prevent disclosure of law enforcement techniques and procedures.

(G) To avoid endangering the life or physical safety of confidential sources and law enforcement personnel.
