
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1212 - PRIVACY ACT - NASA REGULATIONS
#### Subpart 1212.5 - Exemptions to Individuals' Rights of Access
##### ยง 1212.501 Record systems determined to be exempt.
###### Provided, however,

(ii) Investigative records within this system of records which are compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection (j)(2), are exempt under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2):That if any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit that they would otherwise be entitled by Federal law, or for which they would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such material, such material shall be provided to such individual, except to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to January 1, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the sources would be held in confidence. This system of records is exempt for one or more of the following reasons:

(A) To prevent interference with law enforcement proceedings.

(B) To protect investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes.

(C) To avoid unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, by disclosure of information about third parties, including other subjects of investigation, law enforcement personnel, and sources of information.

(D) To fulfill commitments made to protect the confidentiality of sources.

(E) To protect the identity of Federal employees who furnish a complaint or information to the OIG, consistent with section 7(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App.

(F) To assure access to sources of confidential information, including that contained in Federal, State, and local criminal law enforcement information systems.

(G) To prevent disclosure of law enforcement techniques and procedures.

(H) To avoid endangering the life or physical safety of confidential sources and law enforcement personnel.

(iii) Records within this system of records comprised of investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability or eligibility for Federal civilian employment or access to classified information, are exempt under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or prior to January 1, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. This system of records is exempt for one or more of the following reasons:

(A) To fulfill commitments made to protect the confidentiality of sources.

(B) To assure access to sources of confidential information, including that contained in Federal, State, and local criminal law enforcement information systems.
