
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1212 - PRIVACY ACT - NASA REGULATIONS
#### Subpart 1212.6 - Instructions for NASA Employees
##### ยง 1212.601 Maintenance and publication requirements for systems of records.

(a) In maintaining systems of records, NASA shall:

(1) Maintain any record in a system of records for necessary and lawful purposes only, assure that the information is current and accurate for its intended use, and provide adequate safeguards to prevent misuse of the information.

(2) Maintain only information about an individual relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose or to carry out a function of NASA authorized by law or by Executive order of the President.

(3) Maintain records used by NASA officials in making any determination about any individual with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in making the determination.

(4) Maintain no record describing how an individual exercises rights guaranteed by the First Amendment unless expressly authorized by statute, by the individual about whom the record is maintained or unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity.

(5) Maintain and provide access to records of other agencies under NASA's control consistent with the regulations of this part.

(b) Any system of records maintained by NASA which is in addition to or substantially different from a Governmentwide systems of records described in a systems notice published by another agency shall be regarded as a NASA system of records subject to the requirements of this part.

(c) NASA shall provide adequate advance notice to Congress and OMB of any proposal to establish a new system of records or alter any existing system of records as prescribed by OMB Circular No. A-130, appendix I.
