
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1212 - PRIVACY ACT - NASA REGULATIONS
#### Subpart 1212.6 - Instructions for NASA Employees
##### ยง 1212.602 Requirements for collecting information.

In collecting information for systems of records, the following requirements shall be met:

(a) Information shall be collected to the greatest extent practicable directly from the subject individual when the information may result in adverse determinations about an individual's rights, benefits, and privileges under Federal programs. Exceptions to this policy may be made under certain circumstances, such as one of the following:

(1) There is a need to verify the accuracy of the information supplied by an individual.

(2) The information can only be obtained from a third party.

(3) There is no risk that information collected from third parties, if inaccurate, could result in an adverse determination to the individual concerned.

(4) Provisions are made to verify with the individual information collected from a third party.

(b) Each individual who is asked to supply information shall be informed of the following:

(1) The authority (whether granted by statute, or by Executive order of the President) for requesting the information;

(2) Whether disclosure is mandatory or voluntary;

(3) The intended official use of the information;

(4) The routine uses which may be made of the information, as published in the system notices;

(5) The effects, if any, on the individual of not providing all or any part of the requested information.
