
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1213 - RELEASE OF INFORMATION TO NEWS AND INFORMATION MEDIA
#### ยง 1213.103 Responsibilities.
##### See

(e) Center Directors have ultimate responsibility for the accuracy of public information that does not require the concurrence of Headquarters.ยง 1213.104(d).

(f) All NASA employees are required to coordinate, in a timely manner, with the appropriate Public Affairs Officers prior to releasing information that has the potential to generate significant media or public interest or inquiry.

(g) All NASA Public Affairs Officers are required to notify the appropriate Headquarters Public Affairs Officers, in a timely manner, about activities or events that have the potential to generate significant media or public interest or inquiry.

(h) All NASA public affairs employees are expected to adhere to the following code of conduct:

(1) Be honest and accurate in all communications.

(2) Honor publication embargoes.

(3) Respond promptly to media requests, and respect media deadlines.

(4) Act promptly to notify the public of, and correct, erroneous information, either internally or externally.

(5) Promote the free flow of scientific and technical information.

(6) Protect non-public information.

(i) All NASA employees are responsible for adhering to plans (including schedules) for activities established by public affairs offices and senior management for the coordinated release of public information.

(j) All NASA-funded missions will have a public affairs plan, approved by the Assistant Administrator for Public Affairs, which will be managed by Headquarters and/or a designated NASA Center.

(k) Public affairs activities for NASA-funded missions will not be managed by non-NASA institutions, unless authorized by the Assistant Administrator for Public Affairs.
