
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Subpart C - Structure
###### Flight Maneuver and Gust Conditions
####### ยง 25.353 Rudder control reversal conditions.

Airplanes with a powered rudder control surface or surfaces must be designed for loads, considered to be ultimate, resulting from the yaw maneuver conditions specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section at speeds from Vto V/M. Any permanent deformation resulting from these ultimate load conditions must not prevent continued safe flight and landing. The applicant must evaluate these conditions with the landing gear retracted and speed brakes (and spoilers when used as speed brakes) retracted. The applicant must evaluate the effects of flaps, flaperons, or any other aerodynamic devices when used as flaps, and slats-extended configurations, if they are used in en route conditions. Unbalanced aerodynamic moments about the center of gravity must be reacted in a rational or conservative manner considering the airplane inertia forces. In computing the loads on the airplane, the yawing velocity may be assumed to be zero. The applicant must assume a pilot force of 200 pounds when evaluating each of the following conditions:

(a) With the airplane in unaccelerated flight at zero yaw, the flightdeck rudder control is suddenly and fully displaced to achieve the resulting rudder deflection, as limited by the control system or the control surface stops.

(b) With the airplane yawed to the overswing sideslip angle, the flightdeck rudder control is suddenly and fully displaced in the opposite direction, as limited by the control system or control surface stops.

(c) With the airplane yawed to the opposite overswing sideslip angle, the flightdeck rudder control is suddenly and fully displaced in the opposite direction, as limited by the control system or control surface stops.

(d) With the airplane yawed to the subsequent overswing sideslip angle, the flightdeck rudder control is suddenly and fully displaced in the opposite direction, as limited by the control system or control surface stops.

(e) With the airplane yawed to the opposite overswing sideslip angle, the flightdeck rudder control is suddenly returned to neutral.
