
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1215 - TRACKING AND DATA RELAY SATELLITE SYSTEM (TDRSS)
#### Subpart 1215.1 - Use and Reimbursement Policy for Non-U.S. Government Users
##### ยง 1215.105 Delivery of user data.

(a) As a standard service, NASA will provide to the user its data from TDRSS in the form of one or more digital or analog bit streams synchronized to associated clock streams at WSC or GRGT.

(b) User data-handling requirements beyond WSC or GRGT interface will be provided as a standard service to the user, to the extent that the requirements do not exceed NASA's planned standard communications system. Any additional data transport or handling requirements exceeding NASA's capability will be dealt with as a mission-unique service.

(c) No storage of the user data is provided in the standard service. NASA will provide short-term temporary recording of data at WSC in the event of a NASA Integrated Services Network (NISN) link outage.

(d) NASA will provide TDRSS services on a "reasonable efforts" basis, and, accordingly, will not be liable for damages of any kind to the user or third parties for any reason, including, but not limited to, failure to provide agreed-to services. The price for TDRSS services does not include a contingency or premium for any potential damages. The user will assume any risk of damages or obtain insurance to protect against any risk.
