
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1215 - TRACKING AND DATA RELAY SATELLITE SYSTEM (TDRSS)
#### Subpart 1215.1 - Use and Reimbursement Policy for Non-U.S. Government Users
##### ยง 1215.109 Scheduling user service.

(a) User service shall be scheduled only by NASA. TDRSS services will be provided in accordance with operational priorities established by the NASA Administrator or his/her designee. See Appendix A for a description of a typical user activity timeline.

(b) Schedule conflict will be resolved in general by application of principles of priority to user service requirements. Services shall be provided either as normally scheduled service or as emergency service. Priorities will be different for emergency service than for normal services.

(1) Normally scheduled service is service which is planned and ordered under normal operational conditions and is subject to schedule conflict resolution under normal service priorities. Requests for normally scheduled service must be received by the schedulers at the GSFC WSC Data Services Management Center (DSMC) no later than 21 days prior to the requested support time.

(2) At times, emergency service requirements will override normal schedule priority. Under emergency service conditions, disruptions to scheduled service will occur.

(3) The DSMC reserves the sole right to schedule, reschedule, or cancel TDRSS service.

(4) NASA schedulers will exercise judgment and endeavor to see that lower-priority users are not excluded from a substantial portion of their contracted-for service due to the requirements of higher-priority users.

(c) General user service requirements, which will be used for preliminary planning and mission modeling, should include all pertinent information necessary for NASA to determine if the proposed service is achievable. Contact Near Space Network to discuss usage and requirements.

(d) Such user service requirements information typically includes:

(1) Date of service initiation.
