
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1215 - TRACKING AND DATA RELAY SATELLITE SYSTEM (TDRSS)
#### Subpart 1215.1 - Use and Reimbursement Policy for Non-U.S. Government Users
##### ยง 1215.113 User charges.

(a) The user shall reimburse NASA the sum of the charges for standard and mission-unique services. Charges will be based on the service rates applicable at the time of service.

(b) For standard services, the user shall be charged only for services rendered, except that if a total cancellation of service occurs, the user shall be charged in accordance with the provisions of ยง 1215.110.

(1) Standard services which are scheduled, and then cancelled by the user less than 72 hours prior to the start of that scheduled service period, will be charged as if the scheduled service actually occurred.

(2) The time scheduled by the user project shall include the slew time, set up and/or configuration time, TDRSS contact time, and all other conditions for which TDRSS services were allocated to the user.

(3) Charges will be accumulated by the minute, based on the computerized schedule/configuration messages which physically set up TDRSS equipment at the start of a support period and free the equipment for other users at the end of a support period.

(c) The user shall reimburse NASA for the costs of any mission-unique services provided by NASA.
