
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1215 - TRACKING AND DATA RELAY SATELLITE SYSTEM (TDRSS)
#### Subpart 1215.1 - Use and Reimbursement Policy for Non-U.S. Government Users
##### ยง 1215.115 Payment and billing.

(a) The procedure for billing and payment of standard TDRSS services is as follows:

(1) NASA shall be reimbursed by customers in connection with the use of Government property and services provided under an approved reimbursable agreement. Advance payment for services is required. Advance payments shall be scheduled to keep pace with the rate at which NASA anticipates incurring costs. NASA will provide a Customer Budget/Estimate (CBE) for services rendered nominally 60-90 days in advance, or as otherwise agreed, of the first anticipated property use or required service date for each mission. The full cost of the mission shall be paid by the customer not later than 30 days prior to the first anticipated property use or required service date.

(2) In some cases, an advance partial payment will be required six-nine months prior to the first anticipated property use or required service date in order for advance planning work and/or travel to take place. The amount of this partial payment and its receipt shall be negotiated on an as-needed basis. Adjustments to the amounts prepaid will be made to the succeeding billings as the actual services are rendered.

(3) If the customer fails to make payment by the payment due date, NASA may terminate the agreement and any subagreements for breach of agreement after notice to the customer is given of this breach and failure to cure such breach within a time period established by NASA.

(b) Late payments by the user will require the user to pay a late payment charge.
