
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1217 - DUTY-FREE ENTRY OF SPACE ARTICLES
#### ยง 1217.103 Authority to certify.

(a) The following NASA officials, their deputies, and designees within their respective organizations are authorized, under the conditions described herein, to make the certification to the Commissioner of Customs required for the duty-free entry of space articles pursuant to subheading HTSUS 9808.00.80.

(1) The NASA Assistant Administrator for Procurement is authorized to issue the certification for articles imported into the United States which are procured by NASA or by other U.S. Government agencies, or by U.S. Government contractors or subcontractors when title to the articles is or will be vested in the U.S. Government pursuant to the terms of the contract or subcontract. Requests for certification should be sent to: Office of Procurement, Attn: Director, Contract and Grant Policy Division, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Washington, DC 20546.

(2) The NASA Associate Administrator for International and Interagency Relations is authorized to issue the certification for articles imported into the United States pursuant to international agreements. Requests for certification should be sent to: Office of International and Interagency Relations, Attn: Director, Export Control and Interagency Liaison Division, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Washington, DC 20546.

(3) The NASA Associate Administrator for Human Exploration and Operations is authorized to issue the certification for articles imported into the United States by persons or entities under agreements other than those identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, including launch services agreements. Requests for certification should be sent to: Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate, Attn: Director, International Space Station Office, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Washington, DC 20546.

(b) Each certification by the officials identified in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of this section shall receive the concurrence of the Office of the General Counsel.

(c) Subject to procedures established by the officials identified in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section, as appropriate, the Center Procurement Officer or a Program Manager at a NASA Installation who is designated by an official identified in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section may make the certification to the Commissioner of Customs required for the duty-free entry of space articles pursuant to subheading HTSUS 9808.00.80. Such procedures shall include the following requirements:

(1) All such certifications by designated Procurement Officers or Program Managers shall receive the concurrence of the Chief Counsel of the issuing NASA Installation; and

(2) All such certifications by designated Procurement Officers or Program Managers shall be promptly reported to an official identified in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section, as appropriate.
