
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1221 - THE NASA SEAL AND OTHER DEVICES, AND THE CONGRESSIONAL SPACE MEDAL OF HONOR
#### Subpart 1221.1 - NASA Seal, NASA Insignia, NASA Logotype, NASA Program Identifiers, NASA Flags, and the Agency's Unified Visual Communications System
##### § 1221.101 Policy.

(a) The NASA Seal, the NASA Insignia, NASA Logotype, NASA Program Identifiers, the NASA Flags, and the Agency's Unified Visual Communications System, as prescribed in § 1221.102 through § 1221.108 of this subpart, shall be used exclusively to represent NASA, its programs, projects, functions, activities, or elements. The use of any devices other than those provided by or subsequently approved in accordance with the provisions of this subpart is prohibited.

(b) The use of the devices prescribed in this section shall be governed by the provisions of this subpart. The use of the devices prescribed in this section for any purpose other than as authorized by this subpart is prohibited. Their misuse shall be subject to the penalties authorized by statute, as set forth in § 1221.115 and shall be reported as provided in § 1221.116.

(c) Any proposal for a new NASA Insignia, NASA Logotype, NASA Program Identifier, or for modification to those prescribed in this section shall be processed in accordance with § 1221.114.
