
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1221 - THE NASA SEAL AND OTHER DEVICES, AND THE CONGRESSIONAL SPACE MEDAL OF HONOR
#### Subpart 1221.1 - NASA Seal, NASA Insignia, NASA Logotype, NASA Program Identifiers, NASA Flags, and the Agency's Unified Visual Communications System
##### ยง 1221.108 Establishment of the NASA Unified Visual Communications System.

(a) The NASA Administrator directed the establishment of a NASA Unified Visual Communications System. The system, which is comprised of the NASA Graphics Standards Manual and any accompanying style guides or related NASA directive or specification, was developed under the Federal Design Improvement Program initiated by the President in May 1972. This system is the Agency-wide program by which NASA projects a contemporary, business-like, progressive, and forward-looking image through the use of effective design for improved communications. The system provides a professional and cohesive NASA identity by imparting continuity of graphics design in all layout, reproduction art, stationery, forms, publications, signs, films, video productions, vehicles, aircraft, and spacecraft markings and other items. It creates a unified image which is representative and symbolic of NASA's progressive attitudes and programs.

(b) The Associate Administrator for Communications is responsible for the development and implementation of the NASA Graphics Standards Manual and any accompanying style guides for the Agency or related NASA directive or specification.
