
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1221 - THE NASA SEAL AND OTHER DEVICES, AND THE CONGRESSIONAL SPACE MEDAL OF HONOR
#### Subpart 1221.1 - NASA Seal, NASA Insignia, NASA Logotype, NASA Program Identifiers, NASA Flags, and the Agency's Unified Visual Communications System
##### ยง 1221.110 Use of the NASA Insignia.
###### NASA articles.

(a)(1) NASA letterhead stationary.

(2) Films, videotapes, and sound recordings produced by or for NASA.

(3) Wearing apparel and personal property items used by NASA employees in the performance of their duties.

(4) Required uniforms of contractor employees when performing public affairs, guard or fire protection duties, and similar duties within NASA Installations or at other assigned NASA duty stations, and on any required contractor-owned vehicles used exclusively in the performance of these duties, when authorized by NASA contracting officers.

(5) Spacecraft, aircraft, automobiles, trucks and similar vehicles owned by, leased to, or contractor-furnished to NASA, or produced for NASA by contractors, but excluding NASA-owned vehicles used and operated by contractors for the conduct of contractor business.

(6) Equipment and facilities owned by, leased to, or contractor-furnished to NASA, such as machinery, major tools, ground handling equipment, office and shop furnishings (if appropriate), and similar items of a permanent nature, including those produced for NASA by contractors.

(7) NASA publications, including pamphlets, brochures, manuals, handbooks, house organs, bulletins, general reports, posters, signs, charts, exhibits, and items of similar nature for general use, as specified in the NASA Graphics Standards Manual and the NASA Insignia Standards Supplement.

(8) Briefcases or dispatch cases issued by NASA.

(9) Certificates covering authority to NASA and contractor security personnel to carry firearms.

(10) NASA occupied buildings when the use of the NASA Insignia is more appropriate than use of the NASA Seal.
