
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1221 - THE NASA SEAL AND OTHER DEVICES, AND THE CONGRESSIONAL SPACE MEDAL OF HONOR
#### Subpart 1221.1 - NASA Seal, NASA Insignia, NASA Logotype, NASA Program Identifiers, NASA Flags, and the Agency's Unified Visual Communications System
##### ยง 1221.110 Use of the NASA Insignia.
###### Miscellaneous articles.

(c)(1) The manufacture and commercial sale of the NASA Insignia as a separate and distinct device in the form of an emblem, patch, insignia, badge, decal, vinylcal, cloth, metal, or other material which would preclude NASA's control over its use or application is prohibited.

(2) Use of the NASA Uniform Patches, which incorporate the NASA Insignia, is authorized only as prescribed in the NASA Graphics Standards Manual and the NASA Insignia Standards Supplement, for NASA personnel and NASA contractor personnel identification.

(3) No approval for use of the NASA Insignia will be authorized when its use can be construed as an endorsement by NASA of a product or service.

(4) Items bearing the NASA Insignia and NASA Logotype such as souvenirs, novelties, toys, models, clothing, and similar items (including items for sale through the NASA employees' nonappropriated fund activities) may be manufactured and sold only after the a request has been submitted to, and approved by, the NASA Office for Communications, NASA Headquarters, Washington, DC 20546.

(d) Use of the NASA Insignia for any other purpose than as prescribed in this section is prohibited, except that the Associate Administrator for Public Affairs may authorize on a case-by-case basis the use of the NASA Insignia for other purposes when the Associate Administrator for the Public Affairs deems such use to be appropriate.
