
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1221 - THE NASA SEAL AND OTHER DEVICES, AND THE CONGRESSIONAL SPACE MEDAL OF HONOR
#### Subpart 1221.2 - The Congressional Space Medal of Honor
##### ยง 1221.203 Nominations.

(a) Formal nominations for award of the Congressional Space Medal of Honor on behalf of NASA will be made by the Administrator to the President.

(b) Any person may recommend to the Administrator that an astronaut be nominated for award of the Medal. Such a recommendation must be in writing, and must describe in concise detail the events believed to warrant award of the Medal. The recommendation should, if appropriate, be accompanied by supporting documentation, such as eyewitness statements, extracts from official records, sketches, photographs, etc.

(c) All recommendations for nominations submitted to the Administrator or made on his own initiative will be referred to the NASA Incentive Awards Board for the purpose of investigating and making findings of fact and giving advice to the Administrator.

(d) Any recommendation involving an astronaut who is a member of the armed services on active duty or who is employed by another agency of the Federal Government but temporarily assigned or detailed to NASA shall also be transmitted to the Secretary of Defense or the head of the employing agency, as appropriate, for his or her recommendation.

(e) The Administrator will forward to the President his recommendation, and that of the astronaut's employing agency, as appropriate.
