
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1241 - TO RESEARCH, EVALUATE, ASSESS, AND TREAT (TREAT) ASTRONAUTS
#### ยง 1241.10 Covered medical care.

(a) Subject to the limitations in paragraph (b) of this section, an eligible individual, as defined in ยง 1241.15, is eligible for:

(1) Monitoring and diagnosis for potentially spaceflight-associated conditions; and

(2) Treatment for spaceflight-associated conditions.

(b) Medical monitoring, diagnosis, and treatment authorized and described in paragraph (a) of this section will not be provided for any condition that is found by the NASA Administrator or designee to have resulted from a cause other than the eligible individual's participation in spaceflight-related activities. Should a condition be diagnosed that is not related to spaceflight, the individual will be referred to their primary care physician.

(c) Medical monitoring, diagnosis, and treatment authorized and described in paragraph (a) of this section may be provided by a local health care provider if the NASA Administrator or designee determines it is unadvisable for the eligible individual to travel to the NASA Johnson Space Center (JSC) due to the individual's condition or if it is otherwise advantageous to the Government.

(d) Medical monitoring, diagnosis, and treatment authorized and described in paragraph (a) of this section will be provided without a cost sharing obligation imposed on the eligible individual.

(e) NASA is a secondary payer.
