
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1241 - TO RESEARCH, EVALUATE, ASSESS, AND TREAT (TREAT) ASTRONAUTS
#### ยง 1241.35 Claims review and decisions.

(a) NASA will establish the TREAT Astronauts Act Board (TAAB) to review claims for medical monitoring, diagnosis, and treatment under this program. This review is independent of any review conducted by primary payers.

(b) The TAAB will review each claim submitted by the eligible individual, in consultation with specialists, as appropriate. A typical case will be reviewed within 30 calendar days, but cases that are more complex may take additional time.

(c) The TAAB will make a recommendation to the Administrator or designee for each claim stating whether the condition is determined to be spaceflight associated.

(d) For those eligible individuals who have had other exposures in addition to those experienced during their career as active U.S. Government astronauts or payload specialists, the TAAB will consider that history when making its recommendation.

(e) The NASA Administrator or designee will review each claim and associated TAAB recommendation to determine whether the claim should be approved or denied. A typical case can be reviewed within 30 calendar days, but cases that are more complex may take additional time.

(f) The decision will be provided to the eligible individual within seven calendar days of the final decision by the NASA Administrator or designee. Decisions not in favor of the eligible individual will include information on how to request reconsideration.

(g) An eligible individual or their authorized representative may request reconsideration of the decision at any time if new information is obtained that enhances the claim. Reconsideration requests can be made to the JSC Flight Medicine Clinic.

(h) Requests for reconsideration are reviewed by the TAAB and decisions made by the Administrator or designee, following the same process described in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.
