
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1241 - TO RESEARCH, EVALUATE, ASSESS, AND TREAT (TREAT) ASTRONAUTS
#### ยง 1241.40 Payment of approved claims.

(a) The NASA Administrator or designee is responsible for ensuring that medical monitoring, diagnosis, and treatment to eligible individuals under this program is paid only to the extent described in this part.

(b) Payment for medical monitoring, diagnosis, and treatment is applied secondarily to primary payers and may include the remaining out-of-pocket costs from primary payer coverage.

(c) NASA will pay necessary travel expenses related to this program consistent with the Federal Travel Regulations.

(d) NASA may provide conditional payments for medical monitoring, diagnosis, and treatment that is obligated to be paid by the U.S. Government or other primary payers prior to a final decision by NASA in accordance with ยง 1241.35. Such requests for conditional payments can be made to JSC Flight Medicine Clinic. Such payments are permitted when payment for such medical monitoring, diagnosis, and treatment has either not been made or will not be made promptly.

(1) NASA may seek to recover costs associated with conditional payments from the U.S. Government, private health insurance company, or other primary payer as allowable by law.

(2) If the claim is denied in accordance with ยง 1241.35, NASA may seek to recover such conditional payments from the eligible individual in accordance with 31 U.S.C. Chapter 37.
