
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1245 - PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
#### Subpart 1 - Patent Waiver Regulations
##### ยง 1245.108 License to contractor.

(a) Each contractor reporting an invention is granted a revocable, nonexclusive, royalty-free license in each patent application filed in any country on the invention and in any resulting patent in which the Government acquires title. The license extends to the contractor's domestic subsidiaries and affiliates, if any, within the corporate structure of which the contractor is a party and includes the right to grant sublicenses of the same scope to the extent the contractor was legally obligated to do so at the time the contract was awarded. The license and right is transferable only with the approval of the Administrator except when transferred to the successor of that part of the contractor's business to which the invention pertains.

(b) The contractor's domestic license may be revoked or modified by the Administrator to the extent necessary to achieve expeditious practical application of the invention pursuant to an application for an exclusive license submitted in accordance with the Licensing of Government-Owned Inventions (37 CFR part 404). This license will not be revoked in that field of use and/or the geographical areas in which the contractor has achieved practical application and continues to make the benefits of the invention available to the public on reasonable terms. The license in any foreign country may be revoked or modified at the discretion of the Administrator to the extent the contractor, its licensees, or its domestic subsidiaries or affiliates have failed to achieve practical application in that foreign country.

(c) Before revocation or modification of the license, the contractor will be provided a written notice of the Administrator's intention to revoke or modify the license, and the contractor will be allowed 30 days (or any other time as may be allowed by the Administrator for good cause shown by the contractor) after the notice to show cause why the license should not be revoked or modified. The contractor shall have the right to appeal, in accordance with applicable regulations in 37 CFR part 404, any decision concerning the revocation or modification of its license.
