
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1245 - PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
#### Subpart 1 - Patent Waiver Regulations
##### ยง 1245.112 Notice of proposed Board action and reconsideration.
###### Request for reconsideration and statements required.

(b)(1) If, under paragraph (a) of this section, the Board notifies the petitioner that the Board proposes to recommend action adverse to or different from the waiver requested, the petitioner may, within the period as the Board may set, but not less than 15 days from the notification, request reconsideration by the Board.

(2) If reconsideration has been requested within the prescribed time, the petitioner shall, within 30 days from the date of the request for reconsideration, or within any other time as the Board may set, file its statement setting forth the points, authorities, arguments, and any additional material on which it relies.

(3) Upon filing of the reconsideration statement by the petitioner, the petition will be assigned for reconsideration by the Board upon the contents of the petition, the record, and the reconsideration statement submitted by the petitioner.

(4) The Board, after its reconsideration, will promptly notify the petitioner of its proposed recommendation to the Administrator. If the Board's proposed action is adverse to, or different from, the waiver requested, the petitioner may request an oral hearing within the time as the Board has set.
