
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1245 - PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
#### Subpart 2 - Claims for Patent and Copyright Infringement
##### ยง 1245.202 Contents of communication initiating claim.
###### Requirements for claim.

(a)A patent or copyright infringement claim for compensation, asserted against the United States as represented by NASA under any of the applicable statutes cited above, must be actually communicated to and received by an organization, office, or within a NASA Center. Claims must be in writing and must include the following:

(1) An allegation of infringement.

(2) A request for compensation, either expressed or implied.

(3) A citation to the patent(s) or copyright(s) alleged to be infringed.

(4) In the case of a patent infringement claim, a sufficient designation to permit identification of the accused subject matter (e.g. article(s) or process(es)) alleged to infringe the patent(s), giving the commercial designation, if known to the claimant, or, in the case of a copyright infringement claim, the accused subject matter (e.g. act(s) or work(s)) alleged to infringe the copyright.

(5) In the case of a patent infringement claim, a designation of at least one claim of each patent alleged to be infringed or, in the case of a copyright infringement claim, a copy of each work alleged to be infringed.

(6) As an alternative to paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) of this section, certification that the claimant has made a bona fide attempt to determine the accused subject matter, which is alleged to infringe the patent(s), or the accused subject matter alleged to infringe the copyright(s), but was unable to do so, giving reasons and stating a reasonable basis for the claimant's belief that the patent(s) or copyright(s) is being infringed.
