
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1250 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF NASA - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### ยง 1250.103-4 Illustrative applications.

(a) In training grant services discrimination is forbidden in the selection or eligibility of individuals to be trained and in their treatment by the grantee during their training. In any case where selection is made from a predetermined group, such as the students in an institution, the group must have been selected without discrimination.

(b) In a research or training grant to a university for activities to be conducted in a graduate school, discrimination in the admission and treatment of students in the graduate school is prohibited and the prohibition extends to the entire university.

(c) Discrimination in the treatment of students or other trainees includes the prohibition of discrimination among the students or trainees in the availability or use of any academic, dormitory, eating, recreational, or other facilities of the grantee or other recipient.

(d) In a research or training grant, discrimination is prohibited with respect to the availability of any educational activity and any provision of medical or other services and any financial aid to individuals incident to the grant.

(e) Upon transfers of real or personal property for research or educational uses, discrimination is forbidden to the same extent as in the case of grants for the construction of facilities or the provision of equipment for like purposes.

(f) In some situations even though past discriminatory practices have been abandoned, the consequences of such practices continue to impede the full availability of a benefit. If the efforts required of the applicant or recipient under ยง 1250.105 to provide information as to the availability of the program or activity, and the rights of beneficiaries under this regulation, have failed to overcome these consequences, it will become necessary for such applicant or recipient to take additional steps to make the benefits fully available to racial and nationality groups previously subjected to discrimination. This action might take the form, for example, of special arrangements for obtaining referrals or making selections which will insure that groups previously subjected to discrimination are adequately served.

(g) Even though an applicant or recipient has never used discriminatory policies, the services and benefits of the program or activity it administers may not in fact be equally available to some racial or nationality groups. In such circumstances an applicant or recipient may properly give special consideration to race, color, or national origin to make the benefits of its program more widely available to such groups, not then being adequately served. For example, where a university is not adequately serving members of a particular racial or nationality group, it may establish special recruitment policies to make its program better known and more readily available to such group, and take other steps to provide that group with more adequate service.
