
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1251 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON BASIS OF DISABILITY
#### Subpart 1251.1 - General Provisions
##### ยง 1251.112 Communications.

(a) A recipient shall take appropriate steps to ensure that communications with applicants, participants, beneficiaries, members of the public, and companions with disabilities, are as effective as communications with others.

(b)(1) A recipient shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids or services where necessary to afford qualified individuals with disabilities, including applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and members of the public, an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity of the recipient.

(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid or service is necessary, the recipient shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with a disability.

(ii) The recipient need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.

(2) Where the recipient communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TTY's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with persons who are deaf or hard of hearing or have speech impairments.

(c) This section does not require the recipient to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where the recipient believes that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the recipient has the burden of proving that compliance with ยง 1251.112 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the chief executive officer of the recipient or his or her designee after considering all of the recipient's resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the recipient shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with disabilities receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
