
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1251 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON BASIS OF DISABILITY
#### Subpart 1251.3 - Accessibility
##### ยง 1251.302 New construction.
###### Compliance dates,New Construction and alterations by recipients that are private entities.

(2)-(i)(A) New construction and alterations in which the last application for a building permit or permit extension for such construction or alterations is certified to be complete by a state, county, or local government (or, in those jurisdictions where the government does not certify completion of applications, if the date when the last application for a building permit or permit extension is received by the state, county, or local government) is prior to January 23, 2017, or if no permit is required, if the start of physical construction or alterations occurs prior to January 23, 2017, then such new construction and alterations must comply with either the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards or the 2010 Standards.

(B) New construction and alterations in which the last application for a building permit or permit extension for such construction or alterations is certified to be complete by a state, county, or local government (or, in those jurisdictions where the government does not certify completion of applications, if the date when the last application for a building permit or permit extension is received by the state, county, or local government) is on or after January 23, 2017, or if no permit is required, if the start of physical construction or alterations occurs on or after January 23, 2017, then such new construction and alterations shall comply with the 2010 Standards.

(ii) New construction and alterations by recipients that are public entities. (A) If physical construction or alterations commence prior to January 23, 2017, then such new construction and alterations must comply with either UFAS or the 2010 Standards.

(C) If physical construction or alterations commence on or after January 23, 2017, then such new construction and alterations shall comply with the 2010 Standards.

(3) For the purposes of this section, ceremonial groundbreaking or razing of structures prior to site preparation will not be considered to commence or start physical construction or alterations.

(4)[Reserved]

(5) For purposes of this section, section 4.1.6(1)(g) of UFAS shall be interpreted to exempt from the requirements of UFAS only mechanical rooms and other spaces that, because of their intended use, will not require accessibility to the public or beneficiaries or result in the employment or residence therein of persons with physical disabilities.

(6) This section does not require recipients to make building alterations that have little likelihood of being accomplished without removing or altering a load-bearing structural member.
