
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1252 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart 1252.4 - Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
##### ยง 1252.401 Complaints.

(a) Any person, individually or as a member of a class or on behalf of others, may file a complaint with NASA, alleging discrimination prohibited by the Act or these regulations based on an action occurring on or after July 1, 1979. A complaint must be filed within 180 days from the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged act of discrimination. However, for good cause shown, NASA may extend this time limit.

(b) NASA will attempt to facilitate the filing of complaints wherever possible, including taking the following measures:

(1) Accepting as a sufficient complaint, any written statement, which identifies the parties involved and the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged violation, describes generally the action or practice complained of, and assigned by the complainant.

(2) Freely permitting a complainant to add information to the complaint to meet the requirements of a sufficient complaint.

(3) Widely disseminating information regarding the obligations of recipients under the Act and these regulations.

(4) Notifying the complainant and the recipient of their rights and obligations under the complaint procedure, including the right to have a representative at all stages of the complaint procedure.

(5) Notifying the complainant and the recipient (or their representatives) of their right to contact NASA for information and assistance regarding the complaint resolution process.

(c) NASA will return to the complainant any complaint outside the jurisdiction of these regulations, and will state the reason(s) why it is outside the jurisdiction of these regulations.
