
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1252 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart 1252.2 - Standards for Determining Age Discrimination
##### ยง 1252.201 Exceptions to the rules against age discrimination.
###### Statutory objective

(2)means any purpose of a program or activity expressly stated in any Federal statute, state statute or local statute or ordinance adopted by any elected, general purpose legislative body.

(b) Normal operation or statutory objective of any program or activity. A recipient is permitted to take an action otherwise prohibited by ยง 1252.200 if the action reasonably takes into account age as a factor necessary to the normal operation of the achievement of any statutory objective of a program or activity. An action reasonably takes into account age as a factor necessary to the normal operation or the achievement of any statutory objective of a program or activity, if:

(1) Age is used as a measure of approximation of one or more other characteristics; and

(2) The other characteristic(s) must be measured or approximated in order for the normal operation of the program or activity to continue, or to achieve any statutory objective of the program or activity; and

(3) The other characteristic(s) can be reasonably measured or approximated by the use of age; and

(4) The other characteristic(s) are impractical to measure directly on an individual basis.

(c) Reasonable factors other than age. A recipient is permitted to take an action otherwise prohibited by ยง 1252.200 which is based on a factor other than age, even though that action may have a disproportionate effect on persons of different ages. An action may be based on a factor other than age only if the factor bears a direct and substantial relationship to the normal operation of the program or activity or to the achievement of a statutory objective.
