
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1252 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart 1252.4 - Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
##### § 1252.405 Compliance procedure.

(a) NASA may enforce the Act and these regulations through:

(1) Termination of a recipient's Federal financial assistance from NASA under the program or activity involved where the recipient has violated the Act or these regulations. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge. Therefore, cases which are settled in mediation, or prior to a hearing, will not involve termination of a recipient's Federal financial assistance from NASA.

(2) Any other means authorized by law including but not limited to:

(i) Referral to the Department of Justice for proceedings to enforce any rights of the United States or obligations of the recipient created by the Act or these regulations.

(ii) Use of any requirement of or referral to any Federal, State, or local government agency that will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or these regulations.

(b) NASA will limit any termination under § 1252.405(a)(1) to the particular program or activity NASA finds in violations of these regulations. NASA will not base any part of a termination on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient which does not receive Federal financial assistance from NASA.

(c) NASA will take no action under paragraph (a) until:

(1) The Administrator has advised the recipient of its failure to comply with the Act and these regulations and has determined that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained.

(2) 30 days have elapsed after the Administrator has sent a written report of the circumstances and grounds of the action to the committees of Congress having legislative jurisdiction over the program or activity involved. The Administrator will file a report whenever any action is taken under paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) NASA also may defer granting new Federal financial assistance from NASA to a recipient when a hearing under § 1252.405(a)(1) is initiated.

(1) New Federal financial assistance from NASA includes all assistance for which NASA requires an application or approval, including renewal or continuation of existing activities during the deferral period. New Federal financial assistance from NASA does not include assistance approved prior to the beginning of a hearing under § 1252.405(a)(1).

(2) NASA will not begin a deferral until the recipient has received a notice of an opportunity for a hearing under § 1252.405(a)(1). NASA will not continue a deferral for more than 60 days unless a hearing has begun within that time or the time for beginning the hearing has been extended by mutual consent of the recipient and the Administrator. NASA will not continue a deferral for more than 30 days after the close of the hearing, unless the hearing results in a finding against the recipient.
