
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1259 - NATIONAL SPACE GRANT COLLEGE AND FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
#### Subpart 4 - Space Grant College and Consortium Designation
##### ยง 1259.400 Description.

(a) The Administrator may designate Space Grant colleges, Space Grant college consortia, and Space Grant regional consortia in order to establish Federal/university partnerships to promote a strong educational base in the space and aeronautical sciences. These designated colleges and consortia will provide leadership for a network of American colleges and universities, industry, and state and local governments in space-related fields. The Administrator hereby delegates this authority to the Director, NASA Space Grant Program.

(b) Designation of Space Grant colleges, Space Grant college consortia, and Space Grant regional consortia shall be for five years. Designation of Space Grant colleges and consortia may be continued for more than five years based on the results of a merit review at the beginning of the fifth year. A claim arising in the United States should be submitted to the Chief Counsel of the NASA installation whose activities are believed to have given rise to the claimed injury, loss, or death. If the identity of such installation is not known, or if the claim arose in a foreign country, the claim should be submitted to the General Counsel, Headquarters, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Washington, DC 20546.

(c) Each designated Space Grant college or consortium will receive:

(1) A Space Grant award that requires a 100 percent match; and

(2) Funds for fellowships.

(d) Each Space Grant college or consortium will be funded annually.
