
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1259 - NATIONAL SPACE GRANT COLLEGE AND FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
#### Subpart 6 - Space Grant Review Panel
##### ยง 1259.601 Establishment and composition.

(a) The Panel, to be located at NASA Headquarters in Washington, DC, will be composed of ten (10) voting members who are not current NASA employees.

(b) The Panel shall include four representatives from Federal departments, agencies, or entities that have an interest in space programs or science and education, as well as six representatives from non-Federal entities.

(c) The non-Federal representatives shall include two persons who are directly involved with the Space Grant program at a Space Grant college or consortium, one person who is involved with the Space Grant program at a university that is not a designated Space Grant college, a university president or chancellor, one representative from a space-related industry, and the last person to be from whatever field the Administrator determines to be of greatest concern.

(d) The Panel members shall be appointed by the Administrator or designee.

(e) The relevant organizations and associations in aerospace and science education fields will be asked to provide three names for each position on the panel. The Administrator shall consider them, but not be limited to them, in the selection process.

(f) The Administrator or designee, Director, NASA Space Grant Program, shall select a Chair and a Vice Chair for the Panel. The Vice Chair shall act as Chair in the absence or incapacity of the Chair.

(g) The Administrator or designee, Director, NASA Space Grant Program, may select NASA officials to serve as ex officio, non-voting members of the Panel.
