
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.1 - Employees' Personal Property Claims
##### ยง 1261.110 Settlement of claims.
###### Action by settlement official.

(b)(1) For each claim, the settlement official shall complete a report in duplicate on NASA Form 1204 and retain a claim file consisting of the original claim, the report, and any other relevant evidence or documents.

(2) When a claim is allowed in an amount acceptable to the claimant, the settlement official shall prepare a "Voucher for Payment of Employees' Personal Property Claims" (NASA Form 1220), have it properly executed by the claimant, and forward it with a copy of the approved claim (NASA Form 1204) to the appropriate NASA fiscal or financial management office for payment.

(3) When a claim is disallowed or is partially allowed in an amount unacceptable to the claimant, the settlement official shall notify the claimant in writing of the action taken and the reasons therefor. If not satisfied with the action taken, the claimant may, within 60 days after receipt of such notice, request reconsideration of the claim and may submit any new evidence that he/she feels to be pertinent to the claim. If such a claim has been disallowed at the field installation level, the claimant may request reconsideration by the field installation, or by the General Counsel, or both.
