
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.3 - Claims Against NASA or Its Employees for Damage to or Loss of Property or Personal Injury or Death - Accruing On or After January 18, 1967
##### ยง 1261.303 Claimant.

(a) A claim for damage to or loss of property may be presented by the owner of the property, duly authorized agent or legal representative.

(b) A claim for personal injury may be presented by the injured person, duly authorized agent, or legal representative.

(c) A claim based on death may be presented by the executor(rix) or administrator(rix) of the decedent's estate, or by any other person legally entitled to assert such a claim in accordance with applicable State law.

(d) A claim for loss wholly compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer. A claim for loss partially compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the parties individually as their respective interests appear, or jointly.

(e) A claim presented by an agent or legal representative shall be presented in the name of the claimant, be signed by the agent or legal representative, show the title or legal capacity of the person signing and be accompanied by evidence of the agent's or legal representative's authority to present a claim on behalf of the claimant as agent, executor(rix), administrator (rix), parent, guardian, or other representative.
