
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.3 - Claims Against NASA or Its Employees for Damage to or Loss of Property or Personal Injury or Death - Accruing On or After January 18, 1967
##### ยง 1261.316 Policy.

(a) The National Aeronautics and Space Administration may indemnify a present or former NASA employee, who is personally named as a defendant in any civil suit in state or Federal court, or in an arbitration proceeding or other proceeding seeking damages against that employee personally, for any verdict, judgment, appeal bond, or other monetary award which is rendered against such employee, provided that the conduct giving rise to the verdict, judgment, appeal bond, or award was taken within the scope of his or her employment and that such indemnification is in the interest of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, as determined by the Administration or designee.

(b) The National Aeronautics and Space Administration may settle or compromise a personal damage claim against a present or former NASA employee by the payment of available funds, at any time, provided the alleged conduct giving rise to the personal damage claim was taken within the employee's scope of employment and that such settlement or compromise is in the interest of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, as determined by the Administrator or designee.

(c) Absent exceptional circumstances as determined by the Administrator or designee, the agency will not entertain a request either to agree to indemnify or to settle a personal damage claim before entry of an adverse verdict, judgment, or award.

(d) A present or past NASA employee may request indemnification to satisfy a verdict, judgment, or award entered against that employee. The employee shall submit a written request, with appropriate documentation including copies of the verdict, judgment, appeal bond, award, or settlement proposal to the General Counsel, who shall make a recommended disposition of the request. Where appropriate, the agency shall seek the views of the Department of Justice. The General Counsel shall forward the request, the accompanying documentation, and the General Counsel's recommendation to the Administrator for decision.

(e) Any payment under this section either to indemnify a National Aeronautics and Space Administration employee or to settle a personal damage claim shall be contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
