
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.4 - Collection of Civil Claims of the United States Arising Out of the Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
##### § 1261.402 Delegation of authority.

The following NASA officials are delegated authority, as qualified by § 1261.403, to take such action as is authorized by these regulations to collect, compromise, suspend/terminate collection, and upon consultation with and through legal counsel, to refer the claim (as applicable) to the GAO or Department of Justice:

(a) For field installations, with regard to subpart 1261.4 and subpart 1261.5: The Director of the Installation or a designee who reports directly to the Installation Director. A copy of such designation, if any, shall be sent to the Director, Financial Management Division, NASA Headquarters.

(b) For Headquarters, with regard to subpart 1261.4 and subpart 1261.5: The Associate Administrator for Mission Support or a designee who reports directly to the Associate Administrator for Mission Support. A copy of such designation, if any, shall be sent to the Director, Financial Management Division, NASA Headquarters.

(c) With respect to the analysis required by § 1261.413: The NASA Chief Financial Officer or designee.

(d) NASA-wide, with regard to subpart 1261.6: The NASA Chief Financial Officer or designee.

(e) NASA-wide, for complying with pertinent provisions under these regulations for agency hearing or review (see §§ 1261.408(b), 1261.503, and 1261.603(c)): The NASA General Counsel or designee.
