
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.4 - Collection of Civil Claims of the United States Arising Out of the Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
##### ยง 1261.403 Consultation with appropriate officials; negotiation.

(a) The authority pursuant to ยง 1261.402 to determine to forgo collection of interest, to accept payment of a claim in installments, or, as to claims which do not exceed $100,000, exclusive of interest and related charges, to compromise a claim or to refrain from doing so, or to refrain from, suspend, or terminate collection action, shall be exercised only after consultation with legal counsel for the particular installation and the following NASA officials or designees, who may also be requested to negotiate the appropriate agreements or arrangements with the debtor:

(1) With respect to claims against contractors or grantees arising in connection with contracts or grants-the contracting officer and the financial management officer of the installation concerned.

(2) With respect to claims against commercial carriers for loss of or damage to NASA freight shipment-the cognizant transportation officers or the official who determined the amount of the claim, as appropriate, and the financial management officers of the installation concerned.

(3) With respect to claims against employees of NASA incident to their employment-the personnel officer and the financial management officer of the installation concerned.

(b) The appropriate counsel's office shall review and concur in the following:

(1) All communications to and agreements with debtors relating to claims collection.

(2) All determinations to compromise a claim, or to suspend or terminate collection action.

(3) All referrals of claims, other than referrals to the Department of Justice pursuant to ยง 1261.404(b)(1).

(4) All documents releasing debtors from liability to the United States.

(5) All other actions relating to the collection of a claim which in the opinion of the official designated in or pursuant to ยง 1261.402 may affect the rights of the United States.
