
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.4 - Collection of Civil Claims of the United States Arising Out of the Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
##### ยง 1261.414 Compromise of claims.
###### Enforcement policy.

(f)Statutory penalties, forfeitures, or debts established as an aid to enforcement and to compel compliance may be compromised pursuant to this part if the agency's enforcement policy in terms of deterrence and securing compliance, both present and future, will be adequately served by acceptance of the sum to be agreed upon. Mere accidental or technical violations may be dealt with less severely than willful and substantial violations.

(g) Compromises payable in installments are to be discouraged. However, if payment of a compromise by installments is necessary, a legally enforceable agreement for the reinstatement of the prior indebtedness less sums paid thereon and acceleration of the balance due upon default in the payment of any installment should be obtained, together with security in the manner set forth in ยง 1261.411, in every case in which this is possible.

(h) If the agency's files do not contain reasonably up-to-date credit information as a basis for assessing a compromise proposal, such information may be obtained from the individual debtor by obtaining a statement executed under penalty of perjury showing the debtor's assets and liabilities, income, and expenses. Forms such as Department of Justice Form OBD-500 or OBD-500B may be used for this purpose. Similar data may be obtained from corporate debtors using a form such as Department of Justice Form OBD-500C or by resort to balance sheets and such additional data as seems required. Samples of the Department of Justice forms are available from the Office of the NASA General Counsel. Neither a percentage of a debtor's profits nor stock in a debtor corporation will be accepted in compromise of a claim. In negotiating a compromise with a business concern, consideration should be given to requiring a waiver of the tax-loss-carry-back rights of the debtor.
