
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.4 - Collection of Civil Claims of the United States Arising Out of the Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
##### ยง 1261.416 Suspending or terminating collection action.
###### Suspension of collection activity,Inability to locate debtor.

(c)-(1)Collection action may be suspended temporarily on a claim when the debtor cannot be located after diligent effort and there is reason to believe that future collection action may be sufficiently productive to justify periodic review and action on the claim, with due consideration for the size and amount which may be realized thereon. The following sources may be of assistance in locating missing debtors: Telephone directories; city directories; postmasters; drivers' license records; automobile title and registration records; state and local government agencies; the Internal Revenue Service (see 4 CFR 102.18); other Federal agencies; employers, relatives, friends; credit agency skip locate reports, and credit bureaus. Suspension as to a particular debtor should not defer the early liquidation cf security for the debt. Every reasonable effort should be made to locate missing debtors sufficiently in advance of the bar of the applicable statute of limitations, such as 28 U.S.C. 2415, to permit the timely filing of suit if such action is warranted. If the missing debtor has signed a confess-judgment note and is in default, referral of the note for the entry of judgment should not be delayed because of the debtor's missing status.
