
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.4 - Collection of Civil Claims of the United States Arising Out of the Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
##### ยง 1261.417 Referral to Department of Justice or Government Accountability Office.
###### Minimum amount.

(3)NASA is not to refer claims of less than $600, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, for litigation unless:

(i) Referral is important to a significant enforcement policy; or

(ii) The debtor not only has the clear ability to pay the claim but the Government can effectively enforce payment, having due regard for the exemptions available to the debtor under State and Federal law and the judicial remedies available to the Government.

(b) Claims arising from audit exceptions taken by the GAO to payments made by agencies must be referred to the GAO for review and approval prior to referral to the Department of Justice for litigation, unless NASA has been granted an exception by the GAO. Referrals shall comply with instructions, including monetary limitations, contained in the GAO Policy and Procedures Manual for Guidance to Federal Agencies and paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.

(c) When the merits of the claim, the amount owed on the claim, or the propriety of acceptance of a proposed compromise, suspension, or termination are in doubt, the designated official should refer the matter to the Government Accountability Office for resolution and instructions prior to proceeding with collection action and/or referral to the Department of Justice for litigation.

(d) Once a claim has been referred to the Government Accountability Office or to the Department of Justice pursuant to this section, NASA shall refrain from having any contact with the debtor about the pending claim and shall direct the debtor to the Government Accountability Office or to the Department of Justice, as appropriate, when questions concerning the claim are raised by the debtor. The Government Accountability Office or the Department of Justice, as appropriate, shall be immediately notified by NASA of any payments which are received from the debtor subsequent to referral of a claim under this section.
