
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.4 - Collection of Civil Claims of the United States Arising Out of the Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
##### § 1261.417 Referral to Department of Justice or Government Accountability Office.
###### Prompt referral.

(a)Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, claims on which aggressive collection action has been taken in accordance with § 1261.406 and which cannot be compromised, or on which collection action cannot be suspended or terminated, in accordance with §§ 1261.414 and 1261.416, shall be promptly referred to the Department of Justice for litigation.

(1) Claims for which the gross original amount is over $200,000 shall be referred to the Commercial Litigation Branch, Civil Division, Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20530.

(2) Claims for which the gross original amount is $200,000 or less shall be referred to the United States Attorney in whose judicial district the debtor can be found. Referrals should be made as early as possible, consistent with aggressive agency collection action and the observance of the regulations contained in this subpart, and in any event, well within the period for bringing a timely suit against the debtor. Ordinarily, referrals should be made within l year of the agency's final determination of the fact and the amount of the debt.
