
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.5 - Administrative Offset of Claims
##### ยง 1261.504 Interagency requests.

(a) Requests to NASA by other Federal agencies for administrative offset should be in writing and forwarded to the Office of the NASA Comptroller, NASA Headquarters, Washington, DC 20546.

(b) Requests by NASA to other Federal agencies holding funds payable to the debtor should be in writing and forwarded, certified return receipt, as specified by that agency in its regulations; however, if such rule is not readily available or identifiable, the request should be submitted to that agency's office of legal counsel with a request that it be processed in accordance with their internal procedures.

(c) Requests to and from NASA should be processed within 30 calendar days of receipt. If such processing is impractical or not feasible, notice to extend the time period for another 30 calendar days should be forwarded 10 calendar days prior to the expiration of the first 30-day period.

(d) Requests from or to NASA must be accompanied by a certification that the debtor owes the debt (including the amount) and that the provisions of (or comparable to) subpart 1261.5 or subpart 1261.6, as applicable, have been fully complied with. NASA will cooperate with other agencies in effecting collection.
