
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.5 - Administrative Offset of Claims
##### ยง 1261.502 Notification procedures.

(a) Before collecting any claims through administrative offset, a 30-day written notice must be sent to the debtor by certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice must include:

(1) The nature and amount of the debt;

(2) NASA's intention to collect by administrative offset; and

(3) An explanation of the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716(a), or other relied upon statutory authority, which must include a statement that the debtor has the opportunity, within the 30-day notice period, to:

(i) Inspect and copy records of NASA with respect to the debt;

(ii) Request a review by NASA of its decision related to the claim; and

(iii) Enter into a written agreement with the designated official (see ยง 1261.402) to repay the amount of the claim. However, sound judgment should be exercised in determining whether to accept a repayment agreement in lieu of offset. The determination should balance the Government's interest in collecting the debt against fairness to the debtor. If the debt is delinquent and the debtor has not disputed its existence or amount, NASA should accept a repayment agreement in lieu of offset only if the debtor is able to establish that offset would result in undue financial hardship or would be against equity and good conscience.

(b) NASA may effect administrative offset against a payment to be made to a debtor prior to the completion of the procedures required by paragraph (a) of this section if:

(1) Failure to take the offset would substantially prejudice the Government's ability to collect the debt; and

(2) The time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of those procedures. Such prior offset must be promptly followed by the completion of those procedures. Amounts recovered by offset but later found not to be owed to the Government shall be promptly refunded.

(3) In cases where the procedural requirements of paragraph (a) of this section had previously been provided to the debtor in connection with the same debt under some other statutory or regulatory authority, such as pursuant to a notice of audit disallowance or salary offset under ยง 1261.603, the agency is not required to duplicate those requirements before taking administrative offset.
