
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.5 - Administrative Offset of Claims
##### § 1261.503 Agency records inspection; hearing or review.

(a) NASA shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for a live, telephonic, or video-teleconference hearing when:

(1) An applicable statute authorizes or requires the agency to consider waiver of the indebtedness involved, the debtor requests waiver of the indebtedness, and the waiver determination turns on an issue of credibility or veracity; or

(2) Unless otherwise required by law, a hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary-type hearing, although significant matters discussed at the hearing should be documented. See 31 CFR 901.3(e)(1). Such hearing may be an informal discussion/interview with the debtor, face-to-face meeting between debtor and cognizant NASA personnel, or written formal submission by the debtor and response by the NASA cognizant personnel with an opportunity for oral presentation. The hearing will be conducted before or in the presence of an official as designated by the NASA General Counsel on a case-by-case basis. The hearing is not an adversarial adjudication and need not take the form of an evidentiary hearing. However, depending on the particular facts and circumstances, the hearing may be analogous to a fact-finding proceeding with oral presentations; or an informal meeting with or interview of the employee; or formal written submissions, with an opportunity for oral presentation, and decision based on the available written record. Ordinarily, hearings may consist of informal conferences before the hearing official in which the employee and Agency officials will be given full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and argument. The employee may represent himself or herself or be represented by an individual of his or her choice at no cost to the United States. The hearing official must maintain or provide for a summary record of the hearing provided under this subpart. The decision of the reviewing/hearing official should be communicated in writing (no particular form is required) to the affected parties and will constitute the final administrative decision of the Agency.

(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not require a hearing with respect to debt collection systems, as determinations of indebtedness or waiver from these rarely involve issues of credibility or veracity since NASA has determined that review of the written record is ordinarily an adequate means to correct prior mistakes. See 31 CFR 901.3(e)(3).

(c) In those cases where a live, telephonic, or video-teleconference hearing is not required or granted, NASA will nevertheless accord the debtor an opportunity to submit any position regarding the matter by documentation and/or written presentation-that is, the Agency will make its determination on the request for waiver or reconsideration based upon a review of the available written record. See 31 CFR 901.3(e)(4). In such case, the responsible official or designee shall refer the request to the appropriate NASA Office of General Counsel or Chief Counsel for review and recommendation.

(d) A request to inspect and/or copy the debtor's own debt records or related files, and/or for a hearing or review accompanied by a statement of the basis or grounds for such hearing or review, must be submitted within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the written notice under § 1261.502(a). A reasonable time to inspect and copy records will be provided during official working hours, but not to exceed 5 business days, unless a verified statement showing good cause requires a longer period. Any suspension of collection or other charges during the period of the inspection, or hearing or review, shall comply with §§ 1261.412 and 1261.416. Requests for or consideration of compromising the debt must comply with § 1261.414.
