
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.5 - Administrative Offset of Claims
##### ยง 1261.507 Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
###### et seq.

(a) Unless otherwise prohibited by law, NASA may request that moneys which are due and payable to a debtor from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund be administratively offset in reasonable amounts in order to collect in one full payment or a minimal number of payments debts owed to the United States by the debtor. Such requests shall be made to the appropriate officials of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) in accordance with the OPM regulations (see 5 CFR 831.1801,).

(b) When making a request for administrative offset under paragraph (a) of this section, NASA shall include a written certification that:

(1) The debtor owes the United States a debt, including the amount of the debt;

(2) NASA has complied with the applicable statutes, regulations, and procedures of the Office of Personnel Management; and

(3) NASA has complied with the requirements of this subpart 1261.5 which implements 4 CFR 102.3, including any required hearing or review.

(c) Once NASA has decided to request administrative offset under this section, the request should be made as soon as practical after completion of the applicable procedures in order that the Office of Personnel Management may identify and "flag" the debtor's account in anticipation of the time when the debtor requests or becomes eligible to receive payments from the Fund. This will satisfy any requirement that offset be initiated prior to expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. At such time as the debtor makes a claim for payments from the Fund, if at least a year has elapsed since the offset request was originally made, the debtor should be permitted to offer a satisfactory repayment plan in lieu of offset upon establishing that changed financial circumstances would render the offset unjust.

(d) If NASA collects part or all of the debt by other means before deductions are made or completed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the designated official should act promptly to modify or terminate the agency's request to OPM for offset.

(e) OPM is not required or authorized by 4 CFR 102.4 to review the merits of NASA's determination with respect to:

(1) The amount and validity of the debt;

(2) Waiver under an applicable statute; or

(3) Provide or not provide a live, telephonic, or video-teleconference hearing.
