
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1261 - PROCESSING OF MONETARY CLAIMS (GENERAL)
#### Subpart 1261.6 - Collection by Offset From Indebted Government Employees
##### ยง 1261.603 Procedures for salary offset.
###### Petition filing; hearing; decision and review.

(c)The notice described in paragraph (a) of this section should include the following provisions, which may be copied and attached to the notice.

(1) The employee may petition for a hearing, but such petition must be in writing and received by NASA on or before the 15th day following receipt of the notice, and include a statement of the reasons for such hearing. No particular form is required, and a timely, legible letter request (with the stated reasons) will suffice; however, the employee must sign the petition and include with it, with reasonable specificity, all the supporting facts and evidence, including a list of the witnesses, if any.

(2) The petition should be addressed to the Agency counsel designated in the notice, but the hearing will be conducted by an official not under the supervision or control of the NASA Administrator. The Agency Chief Financial Officer is authorized to appoint an administrative law judge or other Federal executive branch employee or official on a reimbursable or other basis. Notice of the name and address of the hearing official will be sent to the employee within 10 days of receipt of petition.

(3) The timely filing of the petition will stay the commencement of collection; and the final decision on the hearing will be issued at the earliest practicable date, but not later than 60 days after the filing of the petition requesting the hearing unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings.

(4) Any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the employee to:

(i) Disciplinary procedures appropriate under Chapter 75 of Title 5, United States Code, 5 CFR part 752, or any other applicable statutes or regulations;

(ii) Penalties under the False Claims Act, sections 3729 through 3731 of Title 31, United States Code, or any other applicable statutory authority; or

(iii) Criminal penalties under sections 286, 287, 1001, and 1002 of Title 18, United States Code, or any other applicable statutory authority.

(5) As for the conduct of any live, telephonic, or video teleconference hearing, for additional guidance see 14 CFR 1261.503.

(d) Petition after time expiration. No petition for a hearing is to be granted if made after the 15-day period prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the employee can show to the satisfaction of the agency official indicated on the notice that the delay was caused by circumstances beyond his or her control (for example, proven incapacity, illness, or hospitalization), or that the agency did not give notice of the time limit and the employee was otherwise unaware of such limit.
