
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1264 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL PENALTIES ACT OF 1986
#### ยง 1264.138 Appeal to authority head.

(a) Any defendant who has filed a timely answer and who is determined in an initial decision to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment may appeal such decision to the authority head by filing a notice of appeal with the authority head in accordance with this section.

(b) The time for appeal to the authority head is as follows:

(1) A notice of appeal may be filed at any time within 30 days after the presiding officer issues an initial decision. However, if any other party files a motion for a reconsideration under ยง 1264.137, consideration of the appeal shall be stayed automatically pending resolution of the motion for reconsideration.

(2) If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal must be filed within 30 days after the presiding officer denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies.

(3) If no motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal must be filed within 30 days after the presiding officer issues the initial decision.

(4) The authority head may extend the initial 30-day period for an additional 30 days if the defendant files with the authority head a request for an extension within the initial 30-day period and shows good cause.

(c) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the authority head and the time for filing motions for reconsideration under ยง 1264.137 has expired, the presiding officer shall forward the record of the proceeding to the authority head.

(d) A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decision and reasons supporting the exceptions.

(e) The representative for the Government may file a brief in opposition to exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief.

(f) There is no right to appear personally before the authority head.

(g) There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the presiding officer.

(h) In reviewing the initial decision, the authority head shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the presiding officer unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.

(i) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the authority head that additional evidence not presented at such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at such hearing, the authority head shall remand the matter to the presiding officer for consideration of such additional evidence.

(j) The authority head may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment, determined by the presiding officer in any initial decision.

(k) The authority head shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of the decision of the authority head. At the same time the authority head shall serve the defendant with a statement describing the defendant's right to seek judicial review.

(l) Unless a petition for review is filed as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3805, after a defendant has exhausted all administrative remedies under this part and within 60 days after the date on which the authority head serves the defendant with a copy of the authority head's decision, a determination that a defendant is liable under ยง 1264.102 is final and is not subject to judicial review.
