
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1264 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL PENALTIES ACT OF 1986
#### ยง 1264.137 Reconsideration of initial decision.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 20 days of receipt of the initial decision. If service was made by mail, receipt will be presumed to be 5 days from the date of mailing in the absence of contrary proof.

(b) Every such motion must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. Such motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief.

(c) Responses to such motions shall be allowed only upon request of the presiding officer.

(d) No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.

(e) The presiding officer may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.

(f) If the presiding officer denies a motion for reconsideration, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the presiding officer denies the motion, unless the initial decision is timely appealed to the authority head in accordance with ยง 1264.138.

(g) If the presiding officer issues a revised initial decision, the revised decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued, unless it is timely appealed to the authority head in accordance with ยง 1264.138.
