
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1264 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL PENALTIES ACT OF 1986
#### ยง 1264.145 Compromise or settlement.

(a) Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time, including proposals for alternative dispute resolution.

(b) The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to refer allegations of liability to a presiding officer and before the date on which the presiding officer issues an initial decision.

(c) The authority head has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the presiding officer issues an initial decision, except during the pendency of any judicial review under ยง 1264.141 or during the pendency of any civil action to collect penalties and assessments under ยง 1264.142.

(d) The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part during the pendency of any judicial review under 31 U.S.C. 3805 or of any civil action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.

(e) The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official, the authority head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the authority head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate.

(f) Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.
