
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter V - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### PART 1275 - RESEARCH MISCONDUCT
#### ยง 1275.106 Administrative actions.

(a) Listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section are possible administrative actions that may be recommended by the investigation report and adopted by the adjudication process. They are not exhaustive, and are in addition to any administrative actions necessary to correct the research record. The administrative actions range from minimal restrictions (Group I Actions) to severe restrictions (Group III Actions), and do not include possible criminal sanctions.

(1) Group I Actions.

(i) Send a letter of reprimand to the individual or institution.

(ii) Require as a condition of an award that for a specified period of time an individual, department, or institution obtain special prior approval of particular activities from NASA.

(iii) Require for a specified period of time that an institutional official other than those guilty of research misconduct certify the accuracy of reports generated under an award or provide assurance of compliance with particular policies, regulations, guidelines, or special terms and conditions.

(2) Group II Actions.

(i) Restrict for a specified period of time designated activities or expenditures under an active award.

(ii) Require for a specified period of time special reviews of all requests for funding from an affected individual, department, or institution to ensure that steps have been taken to prevent repetition of the research misconduct.

(3) Group III Actions.

(i) Immediately suspend or terminate an active award.

(ii) Debar or suspend an individual, department, or institution from participation in NASA programs for a specified period of time.

(iii) Prohibit participation of an individual as a NASA reviewer, advisor, or consultant for a specified period of time.

(b) In deciding what actions are appropriate when research misconduct is found, NASA officials should consider the seriousness of the misconduct, including, but not limited to:

(i) The degree to which the misconduct was knowing, intentional, or reckless;

(ii) Whether the misconduct was an isolated event or part of a pattern;

(iii) Whether the misconduct had a significant impact on the research record, research subjects, or other researchers, institutions, or the public welfare.
