
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Subpart E - Powerplant
###### General
####### ยง 25.945 Thrust or power augmentation system.
######## Fluid tanks.

(b)Each augmentation system fluid tank must meet the following requirements:

(1) Each tank must be able to withstand without failure the vibration, inertia, fluid, and structural loads that it may be subject to in operation.

(2) The tanks as mounted in the airplane must be able to withstand without failure or leakage an internal pressure 1.5 times the maximum operating pressure.

(3) If a vent is provided, the venting must be effective under all normal flight conditions.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) Each tank must have an expansion space of not less than 2 percent of the tank capacity. It must be impossible to fill the expansion space inadvertently with the airplane in the normal ground attitude.

(c) Augmentation system drains must be designed and located in accordance with ยง 25.1455 if-

(1) The augmentation system fluid is subject to freezing; and

(2) The fluid may be drained in flight or during ground operation.

(d) The augmentation liquid tank capacity available for the use of each engine must be large enough to allow operation of the airplane under the approved procedures for the use of liquid-augmented power. The computation of liquid consumption must be based on the maximum approved rate appropriate for the desired engine output and must include the effect of temperature on engine performance as well as any other factors that might vary the amount of liquid required.

(e) This section does not apply to fuel injection systems.
