
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Subpart E - Powerplant
###### Powerplant Fire Protection
####### ยง 25.1189 Shutoff means.

(a) Each engine installation and each fire zone specified in ยง 25.1181(a)(4) and (5) must have a means to shut off or otherwise prevent hazardous quantities of fuel, oil, deicer, and other flammable fluids, from flowing into, within, or through any designated fire zone, except that shutoff means are not required for-

(1) Lines, fittings, and components forming an integral part of an engine; and

(2) Oil systems for turbine engine installations in which all components of the system in a designated fire zone, including oil tanks, are fireproof or located in areas not subject to engine fire conditions.

(b) The closing of any fuel shutoff valve for any engine may not make fuel unavailable to the remaining engines.

(c) Operation of any shutoff may not interfere with the later emergency operation of other equipment, such as the means for feathering the propeller.

(d) Each flammable fluid shutoff means and control must be fireproof or must be located and protected so that any fire in a fire zone will not affect its operation.

(e) No hazardous quantity of flammable fluid may drain into any designated fire zone after shutoff.

(f) There must be means to guard against inadvertent operation of the shutoff means and to make it possible for the crew to reopen the shutoff means in flight after it has been closed.

(g) Each tank-to-engine shutoff valve must be located so that the operation of the valve will not be affected by powerplant or engine mount structural failure.

(h) Each shutoff valve must have a means to relieve excessive pressure accumulation unless a means for pressure relief is otherwise provided in the system.
