
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Subpart E - Powerplant
###### Powerplant Fire Protection
####### ยง 25.1203 Fire detector system.

(a) There must be approved, quick acting fire or overheat detectors in each designated fire zone, and in the combustion, turbine, and tailpipe sections of turbine engine installations, in numbers and locations ensuring prompt detection of fire in those zones.

(b) Each fire detector system must be constructed and installed so that-

(1) It will withstand the vibration, inertia, and other loads to which it may be subjected in operation;

(2) There is a means to warn the crew in the event that the sensor or associated wiring within a designated fire zone is severed at one point, unless the system continues to function as a satisfactory detection system after the severing; and

(3) There is a means to warn the crew in the event of a short circuit in the sensor or associated wiring within a designated fire zone, unless the system continues to function as a satisfactory detection system after the short circuit.

(c) No fire or overheat detector may be affected by any oil, water, other fluids or fumes that might be present.

(d) There must be means to allow the crew to check, in flight, the functioning of each fire or overheat detector electric circuit.

(e) Components of each fire or overheat detector system in a fire zone must be fire-resistant.

(f) No fire or overheat detector system component for any fire zone may pass through another fire zone, unless-

(1) It is protected against the possibility of false warnings resulting from fires in zones through which it passes; or

(2) Each zone involved is simultaneously protected by the same detector and extinguishing system.

(g) Each fire detector system must be constructed so that when it is in the configuration for installation it will not exceed the alarm activation time approved for the detectors using the response time criteria specified in the appropriate Technical Standard Order for the detector.

(h) EWIS for each fire or overheat detector system in a fire zone must meet the requirements of ยง 25.1731.
