
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Subpart F - Equipment
###### General
####### § 25.1305 Powerplant instruments.
######## For turbine engine-powered airplanes.

(c)In addition to the powerplant instruments required by paragraph (a) of this section, the following powerplant instruments are required:

(1) A gas temperature indicator for each engine.

(2) A fuel flowmeter indicator for each engine.

(3) A tachometer (to indicate the speed of the rotors with established limiting speeds) for each engine.

(4) A means to indicate, to the flight crew, the operation of each engine starter that can be operated continuously but that is neither designed for continuous operation nor designed to prevent hazard if it failed.

(5) An indicator to indicate the functioning of the powerplant ice protection system for each engine.

(6) An indicator for the fuel strainer or filter required by § 25.997 to indicate the occurrence of contamination of the strainer or filter before it reaches the capacity established in accordance with § 25.997(d).

(7) A warning means for the oil strainer or filter required by § 25.1019, if it has no bypass, to warn the pilot of the occurrence of contamination of the strainer or filter screen before it reaches the capacity established in accordance with § 25.1019(a)(2).

(8) An indicator to indicate the proper functioning of any heater used to prevent ice clogging of fuel system components.
