
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Appendix E to Part 25
###### Takeoff path.

(2)

(a) The one-engine-inoperative takeoff path with standby power in use must be determined in accordance with the performance requirements of the applicable airworthiness regulations.

(b) The one-engine-inoperative takeoff path (excluding that part where the airplane is on or just above the takeoff surface) determined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section must lie above the one-engine-inoperative takeoff path without standby power at the maximum takeoff weight at which all of the applicable air-worthiness requirements are met. For the purpose of this comparison, the flight path is considered to extend to at least a height of 400 feet above the takeoff surface.

(c) The takeoff path with all engines operating, but without the use of standby power, must reflect a conservatively greater overall level of performance than the one-engine-inoperative takeoff path established in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The margin must be established by the Administrator to insure safe day-to-day operations, but in no case may it be less than 15 percent. The all-engines-operating takeoff path must be determined by a procedure consistent with that established in complying with paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) For reciprocating-engine-powered airplanes, the takeoff path to be scheduled in the Airplane Flight Manual must represent the one-engine-operative takeoff path determined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section and modified to reflect the procedure (see paragraph (6)) established by the applicant for flap retraction and attainment of the en route speed. The scheduled takeoff path must have a positive slope at all points of the airborne portion and at no point must it lie above the takeoff path specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
