
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Appendix F to Part 25
###### Calibration.

(f)To ensure the proper thermal output of the burner, the following test must be made:

(1) Place the calorimeter on the test stand as shown in Figure 4 at a distance of 4 +/-inches (102 +/-3 mm) from the exit of the burner cone.

(2) Turn on the burner, allow it to run for 2 minutes for warmup, and adjust the burner air intake damper to produce a reading of 10.5 +/-0.5 BTU/ft-sec. (11.9 +/-0.6 w/cm) on the calorimeter to ensure steady state conditions have been achieved. Turn off the burner.

(3) Replace the calorimeter with the thermocouple rake (Figure 5).

(4) Turn on the burner and ensure that the thermocouples are reading 1900 +/-100 &#xB0;F (1038 +/-38 &#xB0;C) to ensure steady state conditions have been achieved.

(5) If the calorimeter and thermocouples do not read within range, repeat steps in paragraphs 1 through 4 and adjust the burner air intake damper until the proper readings are obtained. The thermocouple rake and the calorimeter should be used frequently to maintain and record calibrated test parameters. Until the specific apparatus has demonstrated consistency, each test should be calibrated. After consistency has been confirmed, several tests may be conducted with the pre-test calibration before and a calibration check after the series.
