
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Appendix F to Part 25
###### Specimen Holders.

(6)(i) The specimen must be tested in a vertical orientation. The specimen holder (Figure 3 of this part IV) must incorporate a frame that touches the specimen (which is wrapped with aluminum foil as required by paragraph (d)(3) of this Part) along only the .25 inch (6 mm) perimeter. A "V" shaped spring is used to hold the assembly together. A detachable .50 x 50 x 5.91 inch (12 x 12 x 150 mm) drip pan and two .020 inch (.5 mm) stainless steel wires (as shown in Figure 3 of this part IV) must be used for testing materials prone to melting and dripping. The positioning of the spring and frame may be changed to accommodate different specimen thicknesses by inserting the retaining rod in different holes on the specimen holder.

(ii) Since the radiation shield described in ASTM E-906 is not used, a guide pin must be added to the injection mechanism. This fits into a slotted metal plate on the injection mechanism outside of the holding chamber. It can be used to provide accurate positioning of the specimen face after injection. The front surface of the specimen must be 3.9 inches (100 mm) from the closed radiation doors after injection.

(iii) The specimen holder clips onto the mounted bracket (Figure 3 of this part IV). The mounting bracket must be attached to the injection rod by three screws that pass through a wide-area washer welded onto a-inch (13 mm) nut. The end of the injection rod must be threaded to screw into the nut, and a .020 inch (5.1 mm) thick wide area washer must be held between two-inch (13 mm) nuts that are adjusted to tightly cover the hole in the radiation doors through which the injection rod or calibration calorimeter pass.
