
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Appendix H to Part 25 - Instructions for Continued Airworthiness
###### Electrical Wiring Interconnection System (EWIS) Instructions for Continued Airworthiness.

H25.5

(a) The applicant must prepare Instructions for Continued Airworthiness (ICA) applicable to EWIS as defined by ยง 25.1701 that are approved by the FAA and include the following:

(1) Maintenance and inspection requirements for the EWIS developed with the use of an enhanced zonal analysis procedure that includes:

(i) Identification of each zone of the airplane.

(ii) Identification of each zone that contains EWIS.

(iii) Identification of each zone containing EWIS that also contains combustible materials.

(iv) Identification of each zone in which EWIS is in close proximity to both primary and back-up hydraulic, mechanical, or electrical flight controls and lines.

(v) Identification of-

(A) Tasks, and the intervals for performing those tasks, that will reduce the likelihood of ignition sources and accumulation of combustible material, and

(B) Procedures, and the intervals for performing those procedures, that will effectively clean the EWIS components of combustible material if there is not an effective task to reduce the likelihood of combustible material accumulation.

(vi) Instructions for protections and caution information that will minimize contamination and accidental damage to EWIS, as applicable, during performance of maintenance, alteration, or repairs.

(2) Acceptable EWIS maintenance practices in a standard format.

(3) Wire separation requirements as determined under ยง 25.1707.

(4) Information explaining the EWIS identification method and requirements for identifying any changes to EWIS under ยง 25.1711.

(5) Electrical load data and instructions for updating that data.

(b) The EWIS ICA developed in accordance with the requirements of H25.5(a)(1) must be in the form of a document appropriate for the information to be provided, and they must be easily recognizable as EWIS ICA. This document must either contain the required EWIS ICA or specifically reference other portions of the ICA that contain this information.
