
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Appendix K to Part 25 - Extended Operations (ETOPS)
###### Fuel system design.

(a)Fuel necessary to complete an ETOPS flight (including a diversion for the longest time for which the applicant seeks approval) must be available to the operating engines at the pressure and fuel-flow required by ยง 25.955 under any airplane failure condition not shown to be extremely improbable. Types of failures that must be considered include, but are not limited to: crossfeed valve failures, automatic fuel management system failures, and normal electrical power generation failures.

(1) If the engine has been certified for limited operation with negative engine-fuel-pump-inlet pressures, the following requirements apply:

(i) Airplane demonstration-testing must cover worst case cruise and diversion conditions involving:

(A) Fuel grade and temperature.

(B) Thrust or power variations.

(C) Turbulence and negative G.

(D) Fuel system components degraded within their approved maintenance limits.

(ii) Unusable-fuel quantity in the suction feed configuration must be determined in accordance with ยง 25.959.

(2) For two-engine airplanes to be certificated for ETOPS beyond 180 minutes, one fuel boost pump in each main tank and at least one crossfeed valve, or other means for transferring fuel, must be powered by an independent electrical power source other than the three power sources required to comply with section K25.1.3(b) of this appendix. This requirement does not apply if the normal fuel boost pressure, crossfeed valve actuation, or fuel transfer capability is not provided by electrical power.

(3) An alert must be displayed to the flightcrew when the quantity of fuel available to the engines falls below the level required to fly to the destination. The alert must be given when there is enough fuel remaining to safely complete a diversion. This alert must account for abnormal fuel management or transfer between tanks, and possible loss of fuel. This paragraph does not apply to airplanes with a required flight engineer.
