
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Appendix K to Part 25 - Extended Operations (ETOPS)
###### Airplane flight manual.

K25.1.7

The airplane flight manual must contain the following information applicable to the ETOPS type design approval:

(a) Special limitations, including any limitation associated with operation of the airplane up to the maximum diversion time being approved.

(b) Required markings or placards.

(c) The airborne equipment required for extended operations and flightcrew operating procedures for this equipment.

(d) The system time capability for the following:

(1) The most limiting fire suppression system for Class C cargo or baggage compartments.

(2) The most limiting ETOPS significant system other than fire suppression systems for Class C cargo or baggage compartments.

(e) This statement: "The type-design reliability and performance of this airplane-engine combination has been evaluated under 14 CFR 25.1535 and found suitable for (identify maximum approved diversion time) extended operations (ETOPS) when the configuration, maintenance, and procedures standard contained in (identify the CMP document) are met. The actual maximum approved diversion time for this airplane may be less based on its most limiting system time capability. This finding does not constitute operational approval to conduct ETOPS."
