
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Appendix K to Part 25 - Extended Operations (ETOPS)
###### Propulsion system assessment.

(c)(1) The applicant must conduct a propulsion system assessment based on the following data collected from the world-fleet of the airplane-engine combination:

(i) A list of all IFSD's, unplanned ground engine shutdowns, and occurrences (both ground and in-flight) when an engine was not shut down, but engine control or the desired thrust or power level was not achieved, including engine flameouts. Planned IFSD's performed during flight training need not be included. For each item, the applicant must provide-

(A) Each airplane and engine make, model, and serial number;

(B) Engine configuration, and major alteration history;

(C) Engine position;

(D) Circumstances leading up to the engine shutdown or occurrence;

(E) Phase of flight or ground operation;

(F) Weather and other environmental conditions; and

(G) Cause of engine shutdown or occurrence.

(ii) A history of unscheduled engine removal rates since introduction into service (using 6- and 12-month rolling averages), with a summary of the major causes for the removals.

(iii) A list of all propulsion system events (whether or not caused by maintenance or flightcrew error), including dispatch delays, cancellations, aborted takeoffs, turnbacks, diversions, and flights that continue to destination after the event.

(iv) The total number of engine hours and cycles, the number of hours for the engine with the highest number of hours, the number of cycles for the engine with the highest number of cycles, and the distribution of hours and cycles.

(v) The mean time between failures (MTBF) of propulsion system components that affect reliability.

(vi) A history of the IFSD rates since introduction into service using a 12-month rolling average.

(2) The cause or potential cause of each item listed in K25.2.1(c)(1)(i) must have a corrective action or actions that are shown to be effective in preventing future occurrences. Each corrective action must be identified in the CMP document specified in section K25.1.6. A corrective action is not required:

(i) For an item where the manufacturer is unable to determine a cause or potential cause.

(ii) For an event where it is technically unfeasible to develop a corrective action.

(iii) If the world-fleet IFSD rate-

(A) Is at or below 0.02 per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours for approval up to and including 180-minute ETOPS; or

(B) Is at or below 0.01 per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours for approval greater than 180-minute ETOPS.
