
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Appendix K to Part 25 - Extended Operations (ETOPS)
###### Airplane demonstration.

(d)For each airplane-engine combination to be approved for ETOPS, the applicant must flight test at least one airplane to demonstrate that the airplane, and its components and equipment are capable of functioning properly during ETOPS flights and diversions of the longest duration for which the applicant seeks approval. This flight testing may be performed in conjunction with, but may not substitute for the flight testing required by ยง 21.35(b)(2).

(1) The airplane demonstration flight test program must include:

(i) Flights simulating actual ETOPS including flight at normal cruise altitude, step climbs, and, if applicable, APU operation.

(ii) Maximum duration flights with maximum duration diversions.

(iii) Maximum duration engine-inoperative diversions distributed among the engines installed on the airplanes used for the airplane demonstration flight test program. At least two one engine-inoperative diversions must be conducted at maximum continuous thrust or power using the same engine.

(iv) Flights under non-normal conditions to validate the flightcrew's ability to safely conduct an ETOPS diversion with worst-case ETOPS significant system failures or malfunctions that could occur in service.

(v) Diversions to airports that represent airports of the types used for ETOPS diversions.

(vi) Repeated exposure to humid and inclement weather on the ground followed by a long duration flight at normal cruise altitude.

(2) The airplane demonstration flight test program must validate the adequacy of the airplane's flying qualities and performance, and the flightcrew's ability to safely conduct an ETOPS diversion under the conditions specified in section K25.3.2(d)(1) of this appendix.

(3) During the airplane demonstration flight test program, each test airplane must be operated and maintained using the applicant's recommended operating and maintenance procedures.

(4) At the completion of the airplane demonstration, each ETOPS significant system must undergo an on-wing inspection or test in accordance with the tasks defined in the proposed Instructions for Continued Airworthiness to establish its condition for continued safe operation. Each engine must also undergo a gas path inspection. These inspections must be conducted in a manner to identify abnormal conditions that could result in an IFSD or diversion. The applicant must identify, track and resolve any abnormal conditions in accordance with the problem tracking and resolution system specified in section K25.3.2(e) of this appendix.
