
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Appendix M to Part 25 - Fuel Tank System Flammability Reduction Means
###### Fuel tank flammability exposure requirements.

M25.1

(a) The Fleet Average Flammability Exposure of each fuel tank, as determined in accordance with Appendix N of this part, may not exceed 3 percent of the Flammability Exposure Evaluation Time (FEET), as defined in Appendix N of this part. As a portion of this 3 percent, if flammability reduction means (FRM) are used, each of the following time periods may not exceed 1.8 percent of the FEET:

(1) When any FRM is operational but the fuel tank is not inert and the tank is flammable; and

(2) When any FRM is inoperative and the tank is flammable.

(b) The Fleet Average Flammability Exposure, as defined in Appendix N of this part, of each fuel tank may not exceed 3 percent of the portion of the FEET occurring during either ground or takeoff/climb phases of flight during warm days. The analysis must consider the following conditions.

(1) The analysis must use the subset of those flights that begin with a sea level ground ambient temperature of 80 &#xB0;F (standard day plus 21 &#xB0;F atmosphere) or above, from the flammability exposure analysis done for overall performance.

(2) For the ground and takeoff/climb phases of flight, the average flammability exposure must be calculated by dividing the time during the specific flight phase the fuel tank is flammable by the total time of the specific flight phase.

(3) Compliance with this paragraph may be shown using only those flights for which the airplane is dispatched with the flammability reduction means operational.
