
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Appendix O to Part 25 - Supercooled Large Drop Icing Conditions

This Appendix consists of two parts. Part I defines this Appendix as a description of supercooled large drop icing conditions in which the drop median volume diameter (MVD) is less than or greater than 40 µm, the maximum mean effective drop diameter (MED) of Appendix C of this part continuous maximum (stratiform clouds) icing conditions. For this Appendix, supercooled large drop icing conditions consist of freezing drizzle and freezing rain occurring in and/or below stratiform clouds. Part II defines ice accretions used to show compliance with the airplane performance and handling qualities requirements of subpart B of this part.

In this Appendix icing conditions are defined by the parameters of altitude, vertical and horizontal extent, temperature, liquid water content, and water mass distribution as a function of drop diameter distribution.

(a) Freezing Drizzle (Conditions with spectra maximum drop diameters from 100µm to 500 µm):

(1) Pressure altitude range: 0 to 22,000 feet MSL.

(2) Maximum vertical extent: 12,000 feet.

(3) Horizontal extent: Standard distance of 17.4 nautical miles.

(4) Total liquid water content.

(5) Drop diameter distribution: Figure 2.

(6) Altitude and temperature envelope: Figure 3.

(b) Freezing Rain (Conditions with spectra maximum drop diameters greater than 500 µm):

(1) Pressure altitude range: 0 to 12,000 ft MSL.

(2) Maximum vertical extent: 7,000 ft.

(3) Horizontal extent: Standard distance of 17.4 nautical miles.

(4) Total liquid water content.

LWC in grams per cubic meter (g/m) based on horizontal extent standard distance of 17.4 nautical miles.

(5) Drop Diameter Distribution: Figure 5.

(6) Altitude and temperature envelope: Figure 6.

(c) Horizontal extent.

The liquid water content for freezing drizzle and freezing rain conditions for horizontal extents other than the standard 17.4 nautical miles can be determined by the value of the liquid water content determined from Figure 1 or Figure 4, multiplied by the factor provided in Figure 7, which is defined by the following equation:
