
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 25 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Appendix O to Part 25 - Supercooled Large Drop Icing Conditions
###### General.

(a)The most critical ice accretion in terms of airplane performance and handling qualities for each flight phase must be used to show compliance with the applicable airplane performance and handling qualities requirements for icing conditions contained in subpart B of this part. Applicants must demonstrate that the full range of atmospheric icing conditions specified in part I of this Appendix have been considered, including drop diameter distributions, liquid water content, and temperature appropriate to the flight conditions (for example, configuration, speed, angle of attack, and altitude).

(1) For an airplane certified in accordance with ยง 25.1420(a)(1), the ice accretions for each flight phase are defined in part II, paragraph (b) of this Appendix.

(2) For an airplane certified in accordance with ยง 25.1420(a)(2), the most critical ice accretion for each flight phase defined in part II, paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Appendix, must be used. For the ice accretions defined in part II, paragraph (c) of this Appendix, only the portion of part I of this Appendix in which the airplane is capable of operating safely must be considered.

(3) For an airplane certified in accordance with ยง 25.1420(a)(3), the ice accretions for each flight phase are defined in part II, paragraph (c) of this Appendix.

(b) Ice accretions for airplanes certified in accordance with ยง 25.1420(a)(1) or (2).
