
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 26 - CONTINUED AIRWORTHINESS AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS FOR TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Subpart D - Fuel Tank Flammability
###### ยง 26.35 Changes to type certificates affecting fuel tank flammability.
####### Compliance Planning.

(f)By the applicable date specified in Table 2 of this section, each person subject to paragraph (a)(1) of this section must submit for approval by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office compliance plans for the flammability exposure analysis required by paragraph (b) of this section, the impact assessment required by paragraph (c) of this section, and the design changes and service instructions required by paragraph (d) of this section. Each person's compliance plans must include the following:

(1) A proposed project schedule for submitting the required analysis or impact assessment.

(2) A proposed means of compliance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) For the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, a proposal for submitting a draft of all design changes, if any are required, and Airworthiness Limitations (including CDCCLs) for review by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office not less than 60 days before the compliance time specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(4) For the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, a proposal for how the approved service information and any necessary modification parts will be made available to affected persons.

(g) Each person subject to this section must implement the compliance plans, or later revisions, as approved under paragraph (f) of this section.
