
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 26 - CONTINUED AIRWORTHINESS AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS FOR TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
##### Subpart E - Aging Airplane Safety - Damage Tolerance Data for Repairs and Alterations
###### § 26.45 Holders of type certificates - Alterations and repairs to alterations.
####### Compliance times.

(e)Holders of type certificates must submit the following to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees for review and approval by the specified compliance time:

(1) The list of fatigue critical alteration structure identified under paragraph (b)(3) of this section must be submitted-

(i) No later than 360 days after January 11, 2008, for alteration data approved before January 11, 2008.

(ii) No later than 30 days after March 12, 2010 or before initial approval of the alteration data, whichever occurs later, for alteration data approved on or after January 11, 2008.

(2) For alteration data developed and approved before January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section must be submitted by June 30, 2009.

(3) For alteration data approved on or after January 11, 2008, DT data required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section must be submitted before initial approval of the alteration data.

(4) For repair data developed and approved before January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section must be submitted by June 30, 2009.

(5) For repair data developed and approved after January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section must be submitted within 12 months after initial approval of the repair data and before making the DT data available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
