
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 27 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: NORMAL CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 27.2 Special retroactive requirements.

(a) For each rotorcraft manufactured after September 16, 1992, each applicant must show that each occupant's seat is equipped with a safety belt and shoulder harness that meets the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.

(1) Each occupant's seat must have a combined safety belt and shoulder harness with a single-point release. Each pilot's combined safety belt and shoulder harness must allow each pilot, when seated with safety belt and shoulder harness fastened, to perform all functions necessary for flight operations. There must be a means to secure belts and harnesses, when not in use, to prevent interference with the operation of the rotorcraft and with rapid egress in an emergency.

(2) Each occupant must be protected from serious head injury by a safety belt plus a shoulder harness that will prevent the head from contacting any injurious object.

(3) The safety belt and shoulder harness must meet the static and dynamic strength requirements, if applicable, specified by the rotorcraft type certification basis.

(4) For purposes of this section, the date of manufacture is either-

(i) The date the inspection acceptance records, or equivalent, reflect that the rotorcraft is complete and meets the FAA-Approved Type Design Data; or

(ii) The date the foreign civil airworthiness authority certifies that the rotorcraft is complete and issues an original standard airworthiness certificate, or equivalent, in that country.

(b) For rotorcraft with a certification basis established prior to October 18, 1999-

(1) The maximum passenger seat capacity may be increased to eight or nine provided the applicant shows compliance with all the airworthiness requirements of this part in effect on October 18, 1999.

(2) The maximum weight may be increased to greater than 6,000 pounds provided-

(i) The number of passenger seats is not increased above the maximum number certificated on October 18, 1999, or

(ii) The applicant shows compliance with all of the airworthiness requirements of this part in effect on October 18, 1999.
