
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 29 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 29.1 Applicability.

(a) This part prescribes airworthiness standards for the issue of type certificates, and changes to those certificates, for transport category rotorcraft.

(b) Transport category rotorcraft must be certificated in accordance with either the Category A or Category B requirements of this part. A multiengine rotorcraft may be type certificated as both Category A and Category B with appropriate and different operating limitations for each category.

(c) Rotorcraft with a maximum weight greater than 20,000 pounds and 10 or more passenger seats must be type certificated as Category A rotorcraft.

(d) Rotorcraft with a maximum weight greater than 20,000 pounds and nine or less passenger seats may be type certificated as Category B rotorcraft provided the Category A requirements of Subparts C, D, E, and F of this part are met.

(e) Rotorcraft with a maximum weight of 20,000 pounds or less but with 10 or more passenger seats may be type certificated as Category B rotorcraft provided the Category A requirements of §§ 29.67(a)(2), 29.87, 29.1517, and subparts C, D, E, and F of this part are met.

(f) Rotorcraft with a maximum weight of 20,000 pounds or less and nine or less passenger seats may be type certificated as Category B rotorcraft.

(g) Each person who applies under Part 21 for a certificate or change described in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section must show compliance with the applicable requirements of this part.
