
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 29 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT
##### Subpart D - Design and Construction
###### Personnel and Cargo Accommodations
####### ยง 29.812 Emergency lighting.

For transport Category A rotorcraft, the following apply:

(a) A source of light with its power supply independent of the main lighting system must be installed to-

(1) Illuminate each passenger emergency exit marking and locating sign; and

(2) Provide enough general lighting in the passenger cabin so that the average illumination, when measured at 40-inch intervals at seat armrest height on the center line of the main passenger aisle, is at least 0.05 foot-candle.

(b) Exterior emergency lighting must be provided at each emergency exit. The illumination may not be less than 0.05 foot-candle (measured normal to the direction of incident light) for minimum width on the ground surface, with landing gear extended, equal to the width of the emergency exit where an evacuee is likely to make first contact with the ground outside the cabin. The exterior emergency lighting may be provided by either interior or exterior sources with light intensity measurements made with the emergency exits open.

(c) Each light required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must be operable manually from the cockpit station and from a point in the passenger compartment that is readily accessible. The cockpit control device must have an "on," "off," and "armed" position so that when turned on at the cockpit or passenger compartment station or when armed at the cockpit station, the emergency lights will either illuminate or remain illuminated upon interruption of the rotorcraft's normal electric power.

(d) Any means required to assist the occupants in descending to the ground must be illuminated so that the erected assist means is visible from the rotorcraft.

(1) The assist means must be provided with an illumination of not less than 0.03 foot-candle (measured normal to the direction of the incident light) at the ground end of the erected assist means where an evacuee using the established escape route would normally make first contact with the ground, with the rotorcraft in each of the attitudes corresponding to the collapse of one or more legs of the landing gear.

(2) If the emergency lighting subsystem illuminating the assist means is independent of the rotorcraft's main emergency lighting system, it-

(i) Must automatically be activated when the assist means is erected;

(ii) Must provide the illumination required by paragraph (d)(1); and

(iii) May not be adversely affected by stowage.

(e) The energy supply to each emergency lighting unit must provide the required level of illumination for at least 10 minutes at the critical ambient conditions after an emergency landing.

(f) If storage batteries are used as the energy supply for the emergency lighting system, they may be recharged from the rotorcraft's main electrical power system provided the charging circuit is designed to preclude inadvertent battery discharge into charging circuit faults.
