
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 29 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT
##### Subpart E - Powerplant
###### Rotor Drive System
####### ยง 29.923 Rotor drive system and control mechanism tests.
######## Endurance tests; takeoff run.

(b)The takeoff run must be conducted as follows:

(1) Except as prescribed in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the takeoff torque run must consist of 1 hour of alternate runs of 5 minutes at takeoff torque and the maximum speed for use with takeoff torque, and 5 minutes at as low an engine idle speed as practicable. The engine must be declutched from the rotor drive system, and the rotor brake, if furnished and so intended, must be applied during the first minute of the idle run. During the remaining 4 minutes of the idle run, the clutch must be engaged so that the engine drives the rotors at the minimum practical r.p.m. The engine and the rotor drive system must be accelerated at the maximum rate. When declutching the engine, it must be decelerated rapidly enough to allow the operation of the overrunning clutch.

(2) For helicopters for which the use of a 2-minute OEI rating is requested, the takeoff run must be conducted as prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except for the third and sixth runs for which the takeoff torque and the maximum speed for use with takeoff torque are prescribed in that paragraph. For these runs, the following apply:

(i) Each run must consist of at least one period of 2minutes with takeoff torque and the maximum speed for use with takeoff torque on all engines.

(ii) Each run must consist of at least one period, for each engine in sequence, during which that engine simulates a power failure and the remaining engines are run at the 2-minute OEI torque and the maximum speed for use with 2-minute OEI torque for 2minutes.

(3) For multiengine, turbine-powered rotorcraft for which the use of 30-second/2-minute OEI power is requested, the takeoff run must be conducted as prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section except for the following:

(i) Immediately following any one 5-minute power-on run required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, simulate a failure for each power source in turn, and apply the maximum torque and the maximum speed for use with 30-second OEI power to the remaining affected drive system power inputs for not less than 30 seconds. Each application of 30-second OEI power must be followed by two applications of the maximum torque and the maximum speed for use with the 2 minute OEI power for not less than 2 minutes each; the second application must follow a period at stabilized continuous or 30 minute OEI power (whichever is requested by the applicant). At least one run sequence must be conducted from a simulated "flight idle" condition. When conducted on a bench test, the test sequence must be conducted following stabilization at take-off power.

(ii) For the purpose of this paragraph, an affected power input includes all parts of the rotor drive system which can be adversely affected by the application of higher or asymmetric torque and speed prescribed by the test.

(iii) This test may be conducted on a representative bench test facility when engine limitations either preclude repeated use of this power or would result in premature engine removals during the test. The loads, the vibration frequency, and the methods of application to the affected rotor drive system components must be representative of rotorcraft conditions. Test components must be those used to show compliance with the remainder of this section.
