
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 29 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT
##### Subpart E - Powerplant
###### Rotor Drive System
####### ยง 29.923 Rotor drive system and control mechanism tests.
######## Endurance tests, clutch and brake engagements.

(j)A total of at least 400 clutch and brake engagements, including the engagements of paragraph (b) of this section, must be made during the takeoff torque runs and, if necessary, at each change of torque and speed throughout the test. In each clutch engagement, the shaft on the driven side of the clutch must be accelerated from rest. The clutch engagements must be accomplished at the speed and by the method prescribed by the applicant. During deceleration after each clutch engagement, the engines must be stopped rapidly enough to allow the engines to be automatically disengaged from the rotors and rotor drives. If a rotor brake is installed for stopping the rotor, the clutch, during brake engagements, must be disengaged above 40 percent of maximum continuous rotor speed and the rotors allowed to decelerate to 40 percent of maximum continuous rotor speed, at which time the rotor brake must be applied. If the clutch design does not allow stopping the rotors with the engine running, or if no clutch is provided, the engine must be stopped before each application of the rotor brake, and then immediately be started after the rotors stop.
