
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 29 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT
##### Subpart E - Powerplant
###### Rotor Drive System
####### ยง 29.927 Additional tests.
######## Overspeed test.

(d)The rotor drive system must be subjected to 50 overspeed runs, each 30 +/-3 seconds in duration, at not less than either the higher of the rotational speed to be expected from an engine control device failure or 105 percent of the maximum rotational speed, including transients, to be expected in service. If speed and torque limiting devices are installed, are independent of the normal engine control, and are shown to be reliable, their rotational speed limits need not be exceeded. These runs must be conducted as follows:

(1) Overspeed runs must be alternated with stabilizing runs of from 1 to 5 minutes duration each at 60 to 80 percent of maximum continuous speed.

(2) Acceleration and deceleration must be accomplished in a period not longer than 10 seconds (except where maximum engine acceleration rate will require more than 10 seconds), and the time for changing speeds may not be deducted from the specified time for the overspeed runs.

(3) Overspeed runs must be made with the rotors in the flattest pitch for smooth operation.

(e) The tests prescribed in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section must be conducted on the rotorcraft and the torque must be absorbed by the rotors to be installed, except that other ground or flight test facilities with other appropriate methods of torque absorption may be used if the conditions of support and vibration closely simulate the conditions that would exist during a test on the rotorcraft.

(f) Each test prescribed by this section must be conducted without intervening disassembly and, except for the lubrication system failure test required by paragraph (c) of this section, each part tested must be in a serviceable condition at the conclusion of the test.
