
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 29 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT
##### Subpart E - Powerplant
###### Cooling
####### § 29.1045 Climb cooling test procedures.

(a) Climb cooling tests must be conducted under this section for-

(1) Category A rotorcraft; and

(2) Multiengine category B rotorcraft for which certification is requested under the category A powerplant installation requirements, and under the requirements of § 29.861(a) at the steady rate of climb or descent established under § 29.67(b).

(b) The climb or descent cooling tests must be conducted with the engine inoperative that produces the most adverse cooling conditions for the remaining engines and powerplant components.

(c) Each operating engine must-

(1) For helicopters for which the use of 30-minute OEI power is requested, be at 30-minute OEI power for 30 minutes, and then at maximum continuous power (or at full throttle when above the critical altitude);

(2) For helicopters for which the use of continuous OEI power is requested, be at continuous OEI power (or at full throttle when above the critical altitude); and

(3) For other rotorcraft, be at maximum continuous power (or at full throttle when above the critical altitude).

(d) After temperatures have stabilized in flight, the climb must be-

(1) Begun from an altitude not greater than the lower of-

(i) 1,000 feet below the engine critcal altitude; and

(ii) 1,000 feet below the maximum altitude at which the rate of climb is 150 f.p.m; and

(2) Continued for at least five minutes after the occurrence of the highest temperature recorded, or until the rotorcraft reaches the maximum altitude for which certification is requested.

(e) For category B rotorcraft without a positive rate of climb, the descent must begin at the all-engine-critical altitude and end at the higher of-

(1) The maximum altitude at which level flight can be maintained with one engine operative; and

(2) Sea level.

(f) The climb or descent must be conducted at an airspeed representing a normal operational practice for the configuration being tested. However, if the cooling provisions are sensitive to rotorcraft speed, the most critical airspeed must be used, but need not exceed the speeds established under § 29.67(a)(2) or § 29.67(b). The climb cooling test may be conducted in conjunction with the takeoff cooling test of § 29.1047.
