
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 29 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT
##### Subpart F - Equipment
###### Instruments: Installation
####### ยง 29.1325 Static pressure and pressure altimeter systems.

(a) Each instrument with static air case connections must be vented to the outside atmosphere through an appropriate piping system.

(b) Each vent must be located where its orifices are least affected by airflow variation, moisture, or foreign matter.

(c) Each static pressure port must be designed and located in such manner that the correlation between air pressure in the static pressure system and true ambient atmospheric static pressure is not altered when the rotorcraft encounters icing conditions. An anti-icing means or an alternate source of static pressure may be used in showing compliance with this requirement. If the reading of the altimeter, when on the alternate static pressure system, differs from the reading of altimeter when on the primary static system by more than 50 feet, a correction card must be provided for the alternate static system.

(d) Except for the vent into the atmosphere, each system must be airtight.

(e) Each pressure altimeter must be approved and calibrated to indicate pressure altitude in a standard atmosphere with a minimum practicable calibration error when the corresponding static pressures are applied.

(f) Each system must be designed and installed so that an error in indicated pressure altitude, at sea level, with a standard atmosphere, excluding instrument calibration error, does not result in an error of more than +/-30 feet per 100 knots speed. However, the error need not be less than +/-30 feet.

(g) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, if the static pressure system incorporates both a primary and an alternate static pressure source, the means for selecting one or the other source must be designed so that-

(1) When either source is selected, the other is blocked off; and

(2) Both sources cannot be blocked off simultaneously.

(h) For unpressurized rotorcraft, paragraph (g)(1) of this section does not apply if it can be demonstrated that the static pressure system calibration, when either static pressure source is selected, is not changed by the other static pressure source being open or blocked.
