
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 29 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT
##### Subpart F - Equipment
###### Instruments: Installation
####### ยง 29.1329 Automatic pilot and flight guidance system.

For the purpose of this subpart, an automatic pilot and flight guidance system may consist of an autopilot, flight director, or a component that interacts with stability augmentation or trim.

(a) Each automatic pilot and flight guidance system must be designed so that it:

(1) Can be overpowered by one pilot to allow control of the rotorcraft;

(2) Provides a means to disengage the system, or any malfunctioning component of the system, by each pilot to prevent it from interfering with the control of the rotorcraft; and

(3) Provides a means to indicate to the flight crew its current mode of operation. Selector switch position is not acceptable as a means of indication.

(b) Unless there is automatic synchronization, each system must have a means to readily indicate to the pilot the alignment of the actuating device in relation to the control system it operates.

(c) Each manually operated control for the system's operation must be readily accessible to the pilots.

(d) The system must be designed so that, within the range of adjustment available to the pilot, it cannot produce hazardous loads on the rotorcraft, or create hazardous deviations in the flight path, under any flight condition appropriate to its use or in the event of a malfunction, assuming that corrective action begins within a reasonable period of time.

(e) If the automatic pilot and flight guidance system integrates signals from auxiliary controls or furnishes signals for operation of other equipment, there must be a means to prevent improper operation.

(f) If the automatic pilot system can be coupled to airborne navigation equipment, means must be provided to indicate to the pilots the current mode of operation. Selector switch position is not acceptable as a means of indication.
