
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 29 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT
##### Subpart F - Equipment
###### Electrical Systems and Equipment
####### ยง 29.1351 General.
######## External power.

(c)If provisions are made for connecting external power to the rotorcraft, and that external power can be electrically connected to equipment other than that used for engine starting, means must be provided to ensure that no external power supply having a reverse polarity, or a reverse phase sequence, can supply power to the rotorcraft's electrical system.

(d) Operation with the normal electrical power generating system inoperative.

(1) It must be shown by analysis, tests, or both, that the rotorcraft can be operated safely in VFR conditions for a period of not less than 5 minutes, with the normal electrical power generating system (electrical power sources excluding the battery) inoperative, with critical type fuel (from the standpoint of flameout and restart capability), and with the rotorcraft initially at the maximum certificated altitude. Parts of the electrical system may remain on if-

(i) A single malfunction, including a wire bundle or junction box fire, cannot result in loss of the part turned off and the part turned on;

(ii) The parts turned on are electrically and mechanically isolated from the parts turned off; and

(2) Additional requirements for Category A Rotorcraft.

(i) Unless it can be shown that the loss of the normal electrical power generating system is extremely improbable, an emergency electrical power system, independent of the normal electrical power generating system, must be provided, with sufficient capacity to power all systems necessary for continued safe flight and landing.

(ii) Failures, including junction box, control panel, or wire bundle fires, which would result in the loss of the normal and emergency systems, must be shown to be extremely improbable.

(iii) Systems necessary for immediate safety must continue to operate following the loss of the normal electrical power generating system, without the need for flight crew action.

(e) Electrical equipment, controls, and wiring must be installed so that operation of any one unit or system of units will not adversely affect the simultaneous operation of any other electrical unit or system essential to safe operation.

(f) Cables must be grouped, routed, and spaced so that damage to essential circuits will be minimized if there are faults in heavy current-carrying cables.
