
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 29 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT
##### Subpart G - Operating Limitations and Information
###### Rotorcraft Flight Manual
####### § 29.1585 Operating procedures.

(a) The parts of the manual containing operating procedures must have information concerning any normal and emergency procedures, and other information necessary for safe operation, including the applicable procedures, such as those involving minimum speeds, to be followed if an engine fails.

(b) For multiengine rotorcraft, information identifying each operating condition in which the fuel system independence prescribed in § 29.953 is necessary for safety must be furnished, together with instructions for placing the fuel system in a configuration used to show compliance with that section.

(c) For helicopters for which a V(power-off) is established under § 29.1505(c), information must be furnished to explain the V(power-off) and the procedures for reducing airspeed to not more than the V(power-off) following failure of all engines.

(d) For each rotorcraft showing compliance with § 29.1353 (c)(6)(ii) or (c)(6)(iii), the operating procedures for disconnecting the battery from its charging source must be furnished.

(e) If the unusable fuel supply in any tank exceeds 5 percent of the tank capacity, or 1 gallon, whichever is greater, information must be furnished which indicates that when the fuel quantity indicator reads "zero" in level flight, any fuel remaining in the fuel tank cannot be used safely in flight.

(f) Information on the total quantity of usable fuel for each fuel tank must be furnished.

(g) For Category B rotorcraft, the airspeeds and corresponding rotor speeds for minimum rate of descent and best glide angle as prescribed in § 29.71 must be provided.
