
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 29 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT
##### Appendix D to Part 29 - Criteria for Demonstration of Emergency Evacuation Procedures Under ยง 29.803

(a) The demonstration must be conducted either during the dark of the night or during daylight with the dark of night simulated. If the demonstration is conducted indoors during daylight hours, it must be conducted inside a darkened hangar having doors and windows covered. In addition, the doors and windows of the rotorcraft must be covered if the hangar illumination exceeds that of a moonless night. Illumination on the floor or ground may be used, but it must be kept low and shielded against shining into the rotorcraft's windows or doors.

(b) The rotorcraft must be in a normal attitude with landing gear extended.

(c) Safety equipment such as mats or inverted liferafts may be placed on the floor or ground to protect participants. No other equipment that is not part of the rotorcraft's emergency evacuation equipment may be used to aid the participants in reaching the ground.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this appendix, only the rotorcraft's emergency lighting system may provide illumination.

(e) All emergency equipment required for the planned operation of the rotorcraft must be installed.

(f) Each external door and exit and each internal door or curtain must be in the takeoff configuration.

(g) Each crewmember must be seated in the normally assigned seat for takeoff and must remain in that seat until receiving the signal for commencement of the demonstration. For compliance with this section, each crewmember must be-

(1) A member of a regularly scheduled line crew; or

(2) A person having knowledge of the operation of exits and emergency equipment.

(h) A representative passenger load of persons in normal health must be used as follows:

(1) At least 25 percent must be over 50 years of age, with at least 40 percent of these being females.

(2) The remaining, 75 percent or less, must be 50 years of age or younger, with at least 30 percent of these being females.

(3) Three life-size dolls, not included as part of the total passenger load, must be carried by passengers to simulate live infants 2 years old or younger, except for a total passenger load of fewer than 44 but more than 19, one doll must be carried. A doll is not required for a 19 or fewer passenger load.

(4) Crewmembers, mechanics, and training personnel who maintain or operate the rotorcraft in the normal course of their duties may not be used as passengers.

(i) No passenger may be assigned a specific seat except as the Administrator may require. Except as required by paragraph (1) of this appendix, no employee of the applicant may be seated next to an emergency exit, except as allowed by the Administrator.

(j) Seat belts and shoulder harnesses (as required) must be fastened.

(k) Before the start of the demonstration, approximately one-half of the total average amount of carry-on baggage, blankets, pillows, and other similar articles must be distributed at several locations in the aisles and emergency exit access ways to create minor obstructions.

(l) No prior indication may be given to any crewmember or passenger of the particular exits to be used in the demonstration.

(m) The applicant may not practice, rehearse, or describe the demonstration for the participants nor may any participant have taken part in this type of demonstration within the preceding 6 months.

(n) A pretakeoff passenger briefing may be given. The passengers may also be advised to follow directions of crewmembers, but not be instructed on the procedures to be followed in the demonstration.

(o) If safety equipment, as allowed by paragraph (c) of this appendix, is provided, either all passenger and cockpit windows must be blacked out or all emergency exits must have safety equipment to prevent disclosure of the available emergency exits.

(p) Not more than 50 percent of the emergency exits in the sides of the fuselage of a rotorcraft that meet all of the requirements applicable to the required emergency exits for that rotorcraft may be used for demonstration. Exits that are not to be used for the demonstration must have the exit handle deactivated or must be indicated by red lights, red tape, or other acceptable means placed outside the exits to indicate fire or other reasons why they are unusable. The exits to be used must be representative of all the emergency exits on the rotorcraft and must be designated by the applicant, subject to approval by the Administrator. If installed, at least one floor level exit (Type I; ยง 29.807(a)(1)) must be used as required by ยง 29.807(c).

(q) All evacuees must leave the rotorcraft by a means provided as part of the rotorcraft's equipment.

(r) Approved procedures must be fully utilized during the demonstration.

(s) The evacuation time period is completed when the last occupant has evacuated the rotorcraft and is on the ground.
