
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 33 - AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: AIRCRAFT ENGINES
##### Subpart D - Block Tests; Reciprocating Aircraft Engines
###### ยง 33.49 Endurance test.
####### Unsupercharged engines and engines incorporating a gear-driven single-speed supercharger.

(b)For engines not incorporating a supercharger and for engines incorporating a gear-driven single-speed supercharger the applicant must conduct the following runs:

(1) A 30-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 5 minutes at rated takeoff power with takeoff speed, and 5 minutes at maximum best economy cruising power or maximum recommended cruising power.

(2) A 20-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 1hours at rated maximum continuous power with maximum continuous speed, andhour at 75 percent rated maximum continuous power and 91 percent maximum continuous speed.

(3) A 20-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 1hours at rated maximum continuous power with maximum continuous speed, andhour at 70 percent rated maximum continuous power and 89 percent maximum continuous speed.

(4) A 20-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 1hours at rated maximum continuous power with maximum continuous speed, andhour at 65 percent rated maximum continuous power and 87 percent maximum continuous speed.

(5) A 20-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 1hours at rated maximum continuous power with maximum continuous speed, andhour at 60 percent rated maximum continuous power and 84.5 percent maximum continuous speed.

(6) A 20-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 1hours at rated maximum continuous power with maximum continuous speed, andhour at 50 percent rated maximum continuous power and 79.5 percent maximum continuous speed.

(7) A 20-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 2hours at rated maximum continuous power with maximum continuous speed, and 2hours at maximum best economy cruising power or at maximum recommended cruising power.
