
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 34 - FUEL VENTING AND EXHAUST EMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR TURBINE ENGINE POWERED AIRPLANES
##### Subpart C - Exhaust Emissions (New Aircraft Gas Turbine Engines)
###### § 34.23 Exhaust Emission Standards for Engines Manufactured on and after July 18, 2012.

The standards of this section apply to aircraft engines manufactured on and after July 18, 2012, unless otherwise exempted or excepted. Where a gaseous emission standard is specified by a formula, calculate and round the standard to three significant figures or to the nearest 0.1 g/kN (for standards at or above 100 g/kN). Where a smoke standard is specified by a formula, calculate and round the standard to the nearest 0.1 SN. Engines comply with an applicable standard if the testing results show that the engine type certificate family's characteristic level does not exceed the numerical level of that standard, as described in § 34.60.

(a) Gaseous exhaust emissions from each new aircraft gas turbine engine shall not exceed:

(1) For Classes TF, T3 and T8 of rated output less than 26.7 kN (6,000 lb) manufactured on and after July 18, 2012:

(2) Except as provided in §§ 34.9(b) and 34.21(c), for Classes TF, T3 and T8 engines manufactured on and after July 18, 2012, and for which the first individual production model was manufactured on or before December 31, 2013 (Tier 6):

(3) Engines exempted from paragraph (a)(2) of this section produced on or before December 31, 2016 must be labeled "EXEMPT NEW" in accordance with § 45.13 of this chapter. No exemptions to the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section will be granted after December 31, 2016.

(4) For Class TSS Engines manufactured on and after July 18, 2012:

(b) Gaseous exhaust emissions from each new aircraft gas turbine engine shall not exceed:

(1) For Classes TF, T3 and T8 engines of a type or model of which the first individual production model was manufactured after December 31, 2013 (Tier 8):

(c) Engines (including engines that are determined to be derivative engines for the purposes of emission certification) type certificated with characteristic levels at or below the NOstandards of § 34.21(d)(1)(vi) of this part (as applicable based on rated output and rated pressure ratio) and introduced before July 18, 2012, may be produced through December 31, 2012, without meeting the NOstandard of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
