
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 34 - FUEL VENTING AND EXHAUST EMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR TURBINE ENGINE POWERED AIRPLANES
##### Subpart E - Certification Provisions
###### ยง 34.48 Derivative engines for emissions certification purposes.
####### General.

(a)A derivative engine for emissions certification purposes is an engine configuration that is determined to be similar in design to a previously certificated (original) engine for purposes of compliance with exhaust emissions standards (gaseous and smoke). A type certificate holder may request from the FAA a determination that an engine configuration is considered a derivative engine for emissions certification purposes. To be considered a derivative engine for emission purposes under this part, the configuration must have been derived from the original engine that was certificated to the requirements of part 33 of this chapter and one of the following:

(1) The FAA has determined that a safety issue exists that requires an engine modification.

(2) Emissions from the derivative engines are determined to be similar. In general, this means the emissions must meet the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The FAA may amend the criteria of paragraph (b) in unusual circumstances, for individual cases, consistent with good engineering judgment.

(3) All of the regulated emissions from the derivative engine are lower than the original engine.
