
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 34 - FUEL VENTING AND EXHAUST EMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR TURBINE ENGINE POWERED AIRPLANES
##### Subpart E - Certification Provisions
###### ยง 34.48 Derivative engines for emissions certification purposes.
####### Emissions similarity.

(b)(1) The type certificate holder must demonstrate that the proposed derivative engine model's emissions meet the applicable standards and differ from the original model's emission rates only within the following ranges:

(i) +/-3.0 g/kN for NO.

(ii) +/-1.0 g/kN for HC.

(iii) +/-5.0 g/kN for CO.

(iv) +/-2.0 SN for smoke.

(2) If the characteristic level of the original certificated engine model (or any other sub-models within the emission type certificate family tested for certification) before modification is at or above 95% of the applicable standard for any pollutant, an applicant must measure the proposed derivative engine model's emissions for all pollutants to demonstrate that the derivative engine's resulting characteristic levels will not exceed the applicable emission standards. If the characteristic levels of the originally certificated engine model (and all other sub-models within the emission type certificate family tested for certification) are below 95% of the applicable standard for each pollutant, the applicant may use engineering analysis consistent with good engineering judgment to demonstrate that the derivative engine will not exceed the applicable emission standards. The engineering analysis must address all modifications from the original engine, including those approved for previous derivative engines.
