
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 36 - NOISE STANDARDS: AIRCRAFT TYPE AND AIRWORTHINESS CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 36.7 Acoustical change: Transport category large airplanes and jet airplanes.
####### Stage 3 airplanes.

(e)If an airplane is a Stage 3 airplane prior to the change in type design, the following apply, in addition to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section:

(1) If compliance with Stage 3 noise levels is not required before the change in type design, the airplane must-

(i) Be a Stage 2 airplane after the change in type design and compliance must be shown under the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section, as appropriate; or

(ii) Remain a Stage 3 airplane after the change in type design. Compliance must be shown under the provisions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(2) If compliance with Stage 3 noise levels is required before the change in type design, the airplane must be a Stage 3 airplane after the change in type design.

(3) Applications on or after [August 14, 1989.] The airplane must remain a Stage 3 airplane after the change in type design.

(4) If an airplane is a Stage 3 airplane prior to a change in type design, and becomes a Stage 4 after the change in type design, the airplane must remain a Stage 4 airplane.

(5) If an airplane is a Stage 3 airplane prior to a change in type design, and becomes a Stage 5 airplane after the change in type design, the airplane must remain a Stage 5 airplane.
