
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 36 - NOISE STANDARDS: AIRCRAFT TYPE AND AIRWORTHINESS CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Transport Category Large Airplanes and Jet Airplanes
###### ยง 36.103 Noise limits.

(a) For subsonic transport category large airplanes and subsonic jet airplanes compliance with this section must be shown with noise levels measured and evaluated as prescribed in appendix A of this part, and demonstrated at the measuring points, and in accordance with the test procedures under section B36.8 (or an approved equivalent procedure), stated under appendix B of this part.

(b) Type certification applications between November 5, 1975 and December 31, 2005. If application is made on or after November 5, 1975, and before January 1, 2006, it must be shown that the noise levels of the airplane are no greater than the Stage 3 noise limit prescribed in section B36.5(c) of appendix B of this part.

(c) Type certification applications between January 1, 2006, and the date specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, as applicable for airplane weight. If application is made on or after January 1, 2006, and before the date specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section (as applicable for airplane weight), it must be shown that the noise levels of the airplane are no greater than the Stage 4 noise limit prescribed in section B36.5(d) of appendix B of this part. If an applicant chose to voluntarily certificate an airplane to Stage 4 prior to January 2006, then the requirements of ยง 36.7(f) apply to that airplane.

(d) For airplanes with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 121,254 pounds (55,000 kg) or more, type certification applications on or after December 31, 2017. If application is made on or after December 31, 2017, it must be shown that the noise levels of the airplane are no greater than the Stage 5 noise limit prescribed in section B36.5(e) of appendix B of this part. Prior to December 31, 2017, an applicant may seek voluntary certification to Stage 5. If Stage 5 certification is chosen, the requirements of ยง 36.7(g) will apply.

(e) For airplanes with a maximum certificated take-off weight of less than 121,254 pounds (55,000 kg), type certification applications on or after December 31, 2020. If application is made on or after December 31, 2020, it must be shown that the noise levels of the airplane are no greater than the Stage 5 noise limit prescribed in section B36.5(e) of appendix B of this part. Prior to December 31, 2020, an applicant may seek voluntary certification to Stage 5. If Stage 5 certification is chosen, the requirements of ยง 36.7(g) will apply.
