
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 36 - NOISE STANDARDS: AIRCRAFT TYPE AND AIRWORTHINESS CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart O - Documentation, Operating Limitations and Information
###### § 36.1581 Manuals, markings, and placards.

(a) If an Airplane Flight Manual or Rotorcraft Flight Manual is approved, the approved portion of the Airplane Flight Manual or Rotorcraft Flight Manual must contain the following information, in addition to that specified under § 36.1583 of this part. If an Airplane Flight Manual or Rotorcraft Flight Manual is not approved, the procedures and information must be furnished in any combination of approved manual material, markings, and placards.

(1) For transport category large airplanes and jet airplanes, the noise level information must be one value for each flyover, lateral, and approach as defined and required by appendix B of this part, along with the maximum takeoff weight, maximum landing weight, and configuration.

(2) For propeller driven small airplanes, the noise level information must be one value for takeoff as defined and required by appendix G of this part, along with the maximum takeoff weight and configuration.

(3) For rotorcraft, the noise level information must be one value for each takeoff, flyover, and approach as defined and required by appendix H of this part, or one value for flyover as defined and required by appendix J of this part, at the maximum takeoff weight and configuration.

(b) If supplemental operational noise level information is included in the approved portion of the Airplane Flight Manual, it must be segregated, identified as information in addition to the certificated noise levels, and clearly distinguished from the information required under § 36.1581(a).

(c) The following statement must be furnished near the listed noise levels:

(d) For transport category large airplanes and jet airplanes, for which the weight used in meeting the takeoff or landing noise requirements of this part is less than the maximum weight established under the applicable airworthiness requirements, those lesser weights must be furnished, as operating limitations in the operating limitations section of the Airplane Flight Manual. Further, the maximum takeoff weight must not exceed the takeoff weight that is most critical from a takeoff noise standpoint.

(e) For propeller driven small airplanes and for propeller-driven, commuter category airplanes for which the weight used in meeting the flyover noise requirements of this part is less than the maximum weight by an amount exceeding the amount of fuel needed to conduct the test, that lesser weight must be furnished, as an operating limitation, in the operating limitations section of an approved Airplane Flight Manual, in approved manual material, or on an approved placard.

(f) For primary, normal, transport, and restricted category helicopters, if the weight used in meeting the takeoff, flyover, or approach noise requirements of appendix H of this part, or the weight used in meeting the flyover noise requirement of appendix J of this part, is less than the certificated maximum takeoff weight established under either § 27.25(a) or § 29.25(a) of this chapter, that lesser weight must be furnished as an operating limitation in the operating limitations section of the Rotorcraft Flight Manual, in FAA-approved manual material, or on an FAA-approved placard.

(g) Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section, no operating limitations are furnished under this part.
