
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 36 - NOISE STANDARDS: AIRCRAFT TYPE AND AIRWORTHINESS CERTIFICATION
##### Appendix A to Part 36 - Aircraft Noise Measurement and Evaluation Under ยง 36.101
###### i.e.,

A36.3.7.4 When slow time averaging is performed in the analyzer, the response of the one-third octave band analysis system to a sudden onset or interruption of a constant sinusoidal signal at the respective one-third octave nominal midband frequency, must be measured at sampling instants 0.5, 1, 1.5 and 2 seconds(s) after the onset and 0.5 and 1s after interruption. The rising response must be -4 +/-1 dB at 0.5s, -1.75 +/-0.75 dB at 1s, -1 +/-0.5 dB at 1.5s and -0.5 +/-0.5 dB at 2s relative to the steady-state level. The falling response must be such that the sum of the output signal levels, relative to the initial steady-state level, and the corresponding rising response reading is -6.5 +/-1 dB, at both 0.5 and 1s. At subsequent times the sum of the rising and falling responses must be -7.5 dB or less. This equates to an exponential averaging process (slow time-weighting) with a nominal 1s time constant (2s averaging time).

A36.3.7.5 When the one-third octave band sound pressure levels are determined from the output of the analyzer without slow time-weighting, slow time-weighting must be simulated in the subsequent processing. Simulated slow time-weighted sound pressure levels can be obtained using a continuous exponential averaging process by the following equation:

The sum of the weighting factors is 1.0 in the two equations. Sound pressure levels calculated by means of either equation are valid for the sixth and subsequent 0.5s data samples, or for times greater than 2.5s after initiation of data analysis.

A36.3.7.6 The instant in time by which a slow time-weighted sound pressure level is characterized must be 0.75s earlier than the actual readout time.

A36.3.7.7 The resolution of the sound pressure levels, both displayed and stored, must be 0.1 dB or finer.
