
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 36 - NOISE STANDARDS: AIRCRAFT TYPE AND AIRWORTHINESS CERTIFICATION
##### Appendix A to Part 36 - Aircraft Noise Measurement and Evaluation Under ยง 36.101
###### Adjustments to PNL and PNLT.

A36.9.3.2

(a) The portions of the test flight path and the reference flight path described below, and illustrated in Figure A36-6, include the noise time history that is relevant to the calculation of flyover and approach EPNL. In figure A36-6:

(1) XY represents the portion of the measured flight path that includes the noise time history relevant to the calculation of flyover and approach EPNL; XYrepresents the corresponding portion of the reference flight path.

(2) Q represents the airplane's position on the measured flight path at which the noise was emitted and observed as PNLTM at the noise measuring station K. Qis the corresponding position on the reference flight path, and Kthe reference measuring station. QK and QKare, respectively, the measured

(b) The portions of the test flight path and the reference flight path described in paragraph (b)(1) and (2), and illustrated in Figure A36-7(a) and (b), include the noise time history that is relevant to the calculation of lateral EPNL.

(1) In figure A36-7(a), XY represents the portion of the measured flight path that includes the noise time history that is relevant to the calculation of lateral EPNL; in figure A36-7(b), XYrepresents the corresponding portion of the reference flight path.

(2) Q represents the airplane position on the measured flight path at which the noise was emitted and observed as PNLTM at the noise measuring station K. Qis the corresponding position on the reference flight path, and Kthe reference measuring station. QK and QKare, respectively, the measured and reference noise propagation paths. In this case Kis only specified as being on a particular Lateral line; Kand Qare therefore determined from the assumptions that QK and QK:

(i) Form the same angle &#x3B8; with their respective flight paths; and

(ii) Form the same angle &#x3C8; with the ground.

A36.9.3.2.1 The one-third octave band levels SPL(i) comprising PNL (the PNL at the moment of PNLTM observed at K) must be adjusted to reference levels SPL(i)as follows:

A36.9.3.2.1(a) For calculations using the English System of Units:

In this expression,
