
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 36 - NOISE STANDARDS: AIRCRAFT TYPE AND AIRWORTHINESS CERTIFICATION
##### Appendix A to Part 36 - Aircraft Noise Measurement and Evaluation Under ยง 36.101
###### in Figure A36-11(a) and (b),

(b) The portions of the test flight path and the reference flight path described in paragraph (b)(1) and (2), and illustratedinclude the noise time history that is relevant to the calculation of lateral EPNL.

(1) In figure A36-11(a) XY represents the portion of the measured flight path that includes the noise time history that is relevant to the calculation of lateral EPNL; in figure A36-11(b), XYrepresents the corresponding portion of the reference flight path.

(2) The points Q, Qand Qrepresent airplane positions on the measured flight path at time t, tand trespectively. Point Qis the point at which the noise was emitted and observed as one-third octave values SPL(i)at the noise measuring station K at time t. The point Qrepresents the corresponding position on the reference flight path for noise observed as SPL(i)at the measuring station Kat time t. QK and QKare respectively the measured and reference noise propagation paths. Qand Qare similarly the points on the reference flight path corresponding to Qand Qon the measured flight path.

Qand Qare chosen to that between Qand Qall values of PNLT(computed as described in paragraphs A36.9.4.2.2 and A36.9.4.2.3) within 10 dB of the peak value are included. In this case Kis only specified as being on a particular lateral line. The position of Kand Qare determined from the following requirements.

(i) QK and QKform the same angle &#x3B8;with their respective flight paths; and

(ii) The differences between the anglesandmust be minimized using a method, approved by the FAA. The differences between the angles are minimized since, for geometrical reasons, it is generally not possible to choose Kso that the condition described in paragraph A36.9.4.2(b)(2)(i) is met while at the same time keepingandequal.

A36.9.4.2.1 In paragraphs A36.9.4.2(a)(2) and (b)(2) the time tis later (for QK>QK) than tby two separate amounts:

(1) The time taken for the airplane to travel the distance QQat a speed Vless the time taken for it to travel QQat V;

(2) The time taken for sound to travel the distance QK-QK.

A36.9.4.2.2 The measured values of SPL(i)must be adjusted to the reference values SPL(i)to account for the differences between measured and reference noise path lengths and between measured and reference atmospheric conditions, using the methods of section A36.9.3.2.1 of this appendix. A corresponding value of PNLmust be computed according to the method in section A36.4.2. Values of PNLmust be computed for times tthrough t.

A36.9.4.2.3 For each value of PNL, a tone correction factor Cmust be determined by analyzing the reference values SPL(i)using the methods of section A36.4.3 of this appendix, and added to PNLto yield PNLT. Using the process described in this paragraph, values of PNLTmust be computed for times tthrough t.
