
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 36 - NOISE STANDARDS: AIRCRAFT TYPE AND AIRWORTHINESS CERTIFICATION
##### Appendix F to Part 36 - Flyover Noise Requirements for Propeller-Driven Small Airplane and Propeller-Driven, Commuter Category Airplane Certification Tests Prior to December 22, 1988
###### Section F36.1 Scope.

This appendix prescribes noise level limits and procedures for measuring and correcting noise data for the propeller driven small airplanes specified in §§ 36.1 and 36.501(b).

(a) The test area must be relatively flat terrain having no excessive sound absorption characteristics such as those caused by thick, matted, or tall grass, by shrubs, or by wooded areas. No obstructions which significantly influence the sound field from the airplane may exist within a conical space above the measurement position, the cone being defined by an axis normal to the ground and by a half-angle 75 degrees from this axis.

(b) The tests must be carried out under the following conditions:

(1) There may be no precipitation.

(2) Relative humidity may not be higher than 90 percent or lower than 30 percent.

(3) Ambient temperature may not be above 86 degrees F. or below 41 degrees F. at 33&#x2032; above ground. If the measurement site is within 1 n.m. of an airport thermometer the airport reported temperature may be used.

(4) Reported wind may not be above 10 knots at 33&#x2032; above ground. If wind velocities of more than 4 knots are reported, the flight direction must be aligned to within +/-15 degrees of wind direction and flights with tail wind and head wind must be made in equal numbers. If the measurement site is within 1 n.m. of an airport anemometer, the airport reported wind may be used.

(5) There may be no temperature inversion or anomalous wind conditions that would significantly alter the noise level of the airplane when the noise is recorded at the required measuring point.

(6) The flight test procedures, measuring equipment, and noise measurement procedures must be approved by the FAA.

(7) Sound pressure level data for noise evaluation purposes must be obtained with acoustical equipment that complies with section F36.103 of this appendix.
