
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 36 - NOISE STANDARDS: AIRCRAFT TYPE AND AIRWORTHINESS CERTIFICATION
##### Appendix H to Part 36 - Noise Requirements For Helicopters Under Subpart H
###### Aircraft testing procedures.

(d)(1) The aircraft testing procedures and noise measurements must be conducted and processed in a manner that yields the noise evaluation measure designated as Effective Perceived Noise Level (EPNL) in units of EPNdB, as prescribed in Appendix A of this part.

(2) The helicopter height and lateral position relative to the reference flight track (which passes through the flight track noise measuring station) must be determined using an FAA-approved method. The equipment used to make the determination must be independent of normal flight instrumentation. Applicable independent systems are radar tracking, theodolite triangulation, laser trajectography, photo scaling, or differential global positioning system.

(3) The helicopter position along the flight path must be related to the noise recorded at the noise measuring stations by means of synchronized signals recorded at an approved sampling rate. The helicopter position must be recorded relative to the reference flight track during the entire time interval in which the recorded signal is within 10 dB of PNLTM. Measuring and sampling equipment must be approved by the FAA before testing.

(4) Aircraft performance data sufficient to make the corrections required under section H36.205 of this appendix must be recorded at an FAA-approved sampling rate using FAA-approved equipment.

(a) This section, in addition to the applicable requirements of sections H36.101 and H36.205(b) of this appendix, applies to all takeoff noise tests conducted under this appendix to show compliance with Part 36.

(b) A test series must consist of at least six flights over the flight-track noise measuring station (with simultaneous measurements at all three noise measuring stations) as follows:

(1) An airspeed of either V+/-5 knots or the lowest approved speed +/-5 knots for the climb after takeoff, whichever speed is greater, must be established and maintained throughout the 10 dB-down time interval.

(2) The horizontal portion of each test flight must be conducted at an altitude of 65 feet (20 meters) above the ground level at the flight-track noise measuring station.

(3) Upon reaching a point 1,640 feet (500 meters) from the noise measuring station, the helicopter must be stabilized at the maximum takeoff power that corresponds to minimum installed engine(s) specification power available for the reference ambient conditions or gearbox torque limit, whichever is lower.

(4) The helicopter must be maintained throughout the 10 dB-down time interval at the best rate of climb speed V+/-5 knots, or the lowest approved speed for climb after takeoff, whichever is greater, for an ambient temperature of 25 &#xB0;C at sea level.

(5) The average rotor speed must not vary from the maximum normal operating rotor RPM by more than +/-1.0 percent during the 10 dB-down time interval.

(6) The helicopter must stay within +/-10&#xB0; or +/-65 feet (+/-20 meters), whichever is greater, from the vertical above the reference track throughout the 10dB-down time interval.

(7) A constant takeoff configuration selected by the applicant must be maintained throughout the takeoff reference procedure with the landing gear position consistent with the airworthiness certification tests for establishing best rate-of-climb speed, V.

(a) This section, in addition to the applicable requirements of sections H36.101 and H36.205(c) of this appendix, applies to all flyover noise tests conducted under this appendix to show compliance with Part 36.

(b) A test series consists of at least six flights. The number of level flights made with a headwind component must be equal to the number of level flights made with a tailwind component with simultaneous measurements at all three noise measuring stations-

(1) In level flight cruise configuration;

(2) At a height of 492 feet +/-30 feet (150 +/-9 meters) above the ground level at the flight-track noise measuring station; and

(3) The helicopter must fly within +/-10&#xB0; or +/-65 feet (+/-20 meters), whichever is greater, from the vertical above the reference track throughout the 10 dB-down time interval.

(c) Each flyover noise test must be conducted-

(1) At a speed of 0.9V; 0.9V; 0.45V+ 65 kts (0.45V+ 120 km/h); or 0.45V+ 65 kts (0.45V+ 120 km/h), whichever speed is least, to be maintained throughout the measured portion of the flyover;

(2) At average rotor speed, which must not vary from the maximum normal operating rotor RPM by more than +/-1.0 percent during the 10 dB-down time interval.

(3) With the power stabilized during the period when the measured helicopter noise level is within 10 dB of PNLTM.

(d) The airspeed shall not vary from the reference airspeed by more than +/-5 knots (9 km/hr).

(a) This section, in addition to the requirements of sections H36.101 and H36.205(d) of this appendix, applies to all approach tests conducted under this appendix to show compliance with Part 36.

(b) A test series must consist of at least six flights over the flight-track noise measuring station (with simultaneous measurements at the three noise measuring stations)-

(1) On an approach slope of 6&#xB0; +/-0.5&#xB0;;

(2) At a height of 394 +/-33 feet (120 +/-10 meters)

(3) The helicopter must fly within +/-10&#xB0; or +/-65 feet (+/-20 meters) lateral deviation tolerance, whichever is greater, from the vertical above the reference track throughout the 10 dB-down time interval;

(4) At stabilized airspeed equal to the certificated best rate of climb V, or the lowest approved speed for approach, whichever is greater, with power stabilized during the approach and over the flight path reference point, and continued to a normal touchdown; and

(5) At average rotor speed, which may not vary from the maximum normal operating rotor RPM by more than +/-1.0 percent during the 10 dB-down time interval; and

(6) The constant approach configuration used in airworthiness certification tests, with the landing gear extended, must be maintained throughout the approach reference procedure.

(c) The airspeed shall not vary from the reference airspeed by more than +/-5 knots (+/-9 km/hr).

The measurement system and the measurement, calibration and general analysis procedures to be used are provided in Appendix A, section A36.3 of this part.
