
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 36 - NOISE STANDARDS: AIRCRAFT TYPE AND AIRWORTHINESS CERTIFICATION
##### Appendix J to Part 36 - Alternative Noise Certification Procedure for Helicopters Under Subpart H Having a Maximum Certificated Takeoff Weight of Not More Than 7,000 Pounds
###### Level flyover reference profile.

(c)The reference flyover profile is a level flight, 492 feet (150 meters) above ground level as measured at the noise measuring station. The reference flyover profile has a linear flight track and passes directly over the noise monitoring station. Airspeed is stabilized at 0.9V; 0.9V; 0.45V+ 65 kts (120 km/h); or 0.45V+ 65 kts (120 km/h), whichever of the four airspeeds is least, and maintained throughout the measured portion of the flyover. Rotor speed is stabilized at the maximum normal operating RPM throughout the 10 dB-down time interval.

(1) For noise certification purposes, Vis defined as the airspeed in level flight obtained using the minimum specification engine power corresponding to maximum continuous power available for sea level pressure of 2,116 psf (1,013.25 hPa) at 77 &#xB0;F (25 &#xB0;C) ambient conditions at the relevant maximum certificated weight. The value of Vand Vused for noise certification must be included in the Flight Manual.

(2) Vis the never-exceed airspeed.

(d) The weight of the helicopter shall be the maximum takeoff weight at which noise certification is requested.
