
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 45 - IDENTIFICATION AND REGISTRATION MARKING
##### Subpart B - Marking of Products and Articles
###### ยง 45.11 Marking of products.
####### Aircraft manufactured before March 7, 1988.

(e)The owner or operator of an aircraft manufactured before March 7, 1988 must mark the aircraft by attaching the identification plate required by paragraph (a) of this section. The plate must be secured at an accessible exterior or interior location near an entrance, if the model designation and builder's serial number are also displayed on the exterior of the aircraft fuselage. The model designation and builder's serial number must be-

(1) Legible to a person on the ground,

(2) Located either adjacent to and aft of the rear-most entrance door or on the fuselage near the tail surfaces, and

(3) Displayed in such a manner that they are not likely to be defaced or removed during normal service.

(f) For powered parachutes and weight-shift-control aircraft, the identification plate required by paragraph (a) of this section must be secured to the exterior of the aircraft fuselage so that it is legible to a person on the ground.

(g) The identification plate described in paragraph (a) of this section may be secured to the aircraft at an accessible location near an entrance for-

(1) Aircraft produced for-

(i) Operations under part 121 of this chapter,

(ii) Commuter operations (as defined in ยง 110.2 of this chapter), or

(iii) Export.

(2) Aircraft operating under part 121 of this chapter and under an FAA-approved continuous airworthiness maintenance program; or

(3) Aircraft operating in commuter air carrier operations (as defined in ยง 110.2 of this chapter) under an FAA-approved continuous airworthiness maintenance program.
