
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 49 - RECORDING OF AIRCRAFT TITLES AND SECURITY DOCUMENTS
##### Subpart B - General
###### ยง 49.17 Conveyances recorded.

(a)(1) Each instrument recorded under this part is a "conveyance" within the following definition in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(19):

(2) A notice of Federal tax lien is not recordable under this part, since it is required to be filed elsewhere by the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 6321, 6323; 26 CFR 301.6321-1, 301.6323-1).

(b) The kinds of conveyance recordable under this part include those used as evidence of ownership under ยง 47.11 of this chapter.

(c) The validity of any instrument, eligible for recording under this part, is governed by the laws of the State, possession, Puerto Rico, or District of Columbia, as the case may be, in which the instrument was delivered, regardless of the location or place of delivery of the property affected by the instrument. If the place where an instrument is intended to be delivered is stated in the instrument, it is presumed that the instrument was delivered at that place. The recording of a conveyance is not a decision of the FAA that the instrument does, in fact, affect title to, or an interest in, the aircraft or other property it covers.

(d) The following rules apply to conveyances executed for security purposes and assignments thereof:

(1) A security agreement must be signed by the debtor. If the debtor is not the registered owner of the aircraft, the security agreement must be accompanied by the debtor's Application for Aircraft Registration and evidence of ownership, as prescribed in Part 47 of this chapter, unless the debtor-

(i) Holds a Dealer's Aircraft Registration Certificate and submits evidence of ownership as provided in ยง 47.67 of this chapter (if applicable);

(ii) Was the owner of the aircraft on the date the security agreement was signed, as shown by documents recorded at the FAA Aircraft Registry; or

(iii) Is the vendor, bailor, or lessor under a contract of conditional sale.

(2) The name of a cosigner may not appear in the security agreement as a debtor or owner. If a person other than the registered owner signs the security agreement, that person must show the capacity in which that person signs, such as "cosigner" or "guarantor".

(3) An assignment of an interest in a security agreement must be signed by the assignor and, unless it is attached to and is a part of the original agreement, must describe the agreement in sufficient detail to identify it, including its date, the names of the parties, the date of FAA recording, and the recorded conveyance number.

(4) An amendment of, or a supplement to, a conveyance executed for security purposes that has been recorded by the FAA must meet the requirements for recording the original conveyance and must describe the original conveyance in sufficient detail to identify it, including its date, the names of the parties, the date of FAA recording, and the recorded conveyance number.

(5) Immediately after a debt secured by a conveyance given for security purposes has been satisfied, or any of the encumbered aircraft have been released from the conveyance, the holder shall execute a release on AC Form 8050-41, Part II-Release, provided to him by the FAA when the conveyance was recorded by the FAA, or its equivalent, and shall send it to the FAA Aircraft Registry for recording. If the debt is secured by more than one aircraft and all of the collateral is released, the collateral need not be described in detail in the release. However, the original conveyance must be clearly described in enough detail to identify it, including its date, the names of the parties, the date of FAA recording, and the recorded conveyance number.

(6) A contract of conditional sale, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(18), must be signed by all parties to the contract.
