
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Airmen
#### PART 60 - FLIGHT SIMULATION TRAINING DEVICE INITIAL AND CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND USE
##### ยง 60.15 Initial qualification requirements.
###### e.g.

(3) Identification of the configuration of the aircraft or set of aircraft being simulated (, engine model or models, flight instruments, or navigation or other systems).

(4) A statement that the FSTD is qualified as either a full flight simulator or a flight training device.

(5) Identification of the qualification level of the FSTD.

(6) A statement that (with the exception of the noted exclusions for which the FSTD has not been subjectively tested by the sponsor or the responsible Flight Standards office and for which qualification is not sought) the qualification of the FSTD includes the tasks set out in the applicable QPS appendix relevant to the qualification level of the FSTD.

(7) A statement referencing any deviations that have been granted and included in the permanent qualification basis of the FSTD.

(h) After the responsible Flight Standards office completes the evaluation for initial qualification, the sponsor must update the Qualification Test Guide (QTG), with the results of the FAA-witnessed tests together with the results of all the objective tests described in the applicable QPS.

(i) Upon issuance of the Statement of Qualification the updated QTG becomes the Master Qualification Test Guide (MQTG). The MQTG must be made available to the responsible Flight Standards office upon request.
