
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Airmen
#### PART 60 - FLIGHT SIMULATION TRAINING DEVICE INITIAL AND CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND USE
##### § 60.16 Additional qualifications for a currently qualified FSTD.

(a) A currently qualified FSTD is required to undergo an additional qualification process if a user intends to use the FSTD for meeting training, evaluation, or flight experience requirements of this chapter beyond the qualification issued for that FSTD. This process consists of the following:

(1) The sponsor:

(i) Must submit to the responsible Flight Standards office all modifications to the MQTG that are required to support the additional qualification.

(ii) Must describe to the responsible Flight Standards office all modifications to the FSTD that are required to support the additional qualification.

(iii) Must submit to the responsible Flight Standards office a confirmation statement as described in § 60.15(c) that a pilot, designated by the sponsor in accordance with § 60.15(d), has subjectively evaluated the FSTD in those areas not previously evaluated.

(2) The FSTD must successfully pass an evaluation-

(i) Consisting of all the elements of an initial evaluation for qualification in those circumstances where the responsible Flight Standards office has determined that all the elements of an initial evaluation for qualification is necessary; or

(ii) Consisting of those elements of an initial evaluation for qualification designated as necessary by the responsible Flight Standards office.

(b) In making the determinations described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the responsible Flight Standards office considers factors including the existing qualification of the FSTD, any modifications to the FSTD hardware or software that are involved, and any additions or modifications to the MQTG.

(c) The FSTD is qualified for the additional uses when the responsible Flight Standards office issues an amended Statement of Qualification in accordance with § 60.15(h).

(d) The sponsor may not modify the FSTD except as described in § 60.23.
