
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Airmen
#### PART 60 - FLIGHT SIMULATION TRAINING DEVICE INITIAL AND CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND USE
##### ยง 60.19 Inspection, continuing qualification evaluation, and maintenance requirements.
###### Continuing qualification evaluation.

(b)(1) This evaluation consists of objective tests, and subjective tests, including general FSTD requirements, as described in the applicable QPS or as may be amended by an FSTD Directive.

(2) The sponsor must contact the responsible Flight Standards office to schedule the FSTD for continuing qualification evaluations not later than 60 days before the evaluation is due.

(3) The sponsor must provide the responsible Flight Standards officeresponsible Flight Standards office access to the objective test results in the MQTG and access to the FSTD for the length of time necessary for the responsible Flight Standards office to complete the required continuing qualification evaluations.

(4) The frequency of the responsible Flight Standards office -conducted continuing qualification evaluations for each FSTD will be established by the responsible Flight Standards office and specified in the Statement of Qualification.

(5) Continuing qualification evaluations conducted in the 3 calendar months before or after the calendar month in which these continuing qualification evaluations are required will be considered to have been conducted in the calendar month in which they were required.

(6) No sponsor may use or allow the use of or offer the use of an FSTD for flight crewmember training or evaluation or for obtaining flight experience for the flight crewmember to meet any requirement of this chapter unless the FSTD has passed a responsible Flight Standards office -conducted continuing qualification evaluation within the time frame specified in the Statement of Qualification or within the grace period as described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
