
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Airmen
#### PART 60 - FLIGHT SIMULATION TRAINING DEVICE INITIAL AND CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND USE
##### Appendix D to Part 60 - Qualification Performance Standards for Helicopter Flight Training Devices

This appendix establishes the standards for Helicopter Flight Training Device (FTD) evaluation and qualification at Level 4, Level 5, Level 6, or Level 7. The Flight Standards Service is responsible for the development, application, and implementation of the standards contained within this appendix. The procedures and criteria specified in this appendix will be used by the responsible Flight Standards office when conducting helicopter FTD evaluations.

1. Introduction.

2. Applicability (§§ 60.1, 60.2).

3. Definitions (§ 60.3).

4. Qualification Performance Standards (§ 60.4).

5. Quality Management System (§ 60.5).

6. Sponsor Qualification Requirements (§ 60.7).

7. Additional Responsibilities of the Sponsor (§ 60.9).

8. FTD Use (§ 60.11).

9. FTD Objective Data Requirements (§ 60.13).

10. Special Equipment and Personnel Requirements for Qualification of the FTD (§ 60.14).

11. Initial (and Upgrade) Qualification Requirements (§ 60.15).

12. Additional Qualifications for Currently Qualified FTDs (§ 60.16).

13. Previously Qualified FTDs (§ 60.17).

14. Inspection, Continuing Qualification Evaluation, and Maintenance Requirements (§ 60.19).

15. Logging FTD Discrepancies (§ 60.20).

16. Interim Qualification of FTDs for New Helicopter Types or Models (§ 60.21).

17. Modifications to FTDs (§ 60.23).

18. Operations with Missing, Malfunctioning, or Inoperative Components (§ 60.25).

19. Automatic Loss of Qualification and Procedures for Restoration of Qualification (§ 60.27).

20. Other Losses of Qualification and Procedures for Restoration of Qualification (§ 60.29).

21. Recordkeeping and Reporting (§ 60.31).

22. Applications, Logbooks, Reports, and Records: Fraud, Falsification, or Incorrect Statements (§ 60.33).

23. [Reserved]

24. Levels of FTD.

25. FTD Qualification on the Basis of a Bilateral Aviation Safety Agreement (BASA) (§ 60.37).

Attachment 1 to Appendix D to Part 60-General FTD Requirements.

Attachment 2 to Appendix D to Part 60-Flight Training Device (FTD) Objective Tests.

Attachment 3 to Appendix D to Part 60-Flight Training Device (FTD) Subjective Evaluation.

Attachment 4 to Appendix D to Part 60-Sample Documents.

a. This appendix contains background information as well as regulatory and informative material as described later in this section. To assist the reader in determining what areas are required and what areas are permissive, the text in this appendix is divided into two sections: "QPS Requirements" and "Information." The QPS Requirements sections contain details regarding compliance with the part 60 rule language. These details are regulatory, but are found only in this appendix. The Information sections contain material that is advisory in nature, and designed to give the user general information about the regulation.

b. [Reserved]

c. The responsible Flight Standards office encourages the use of electronic media for all communication, including any record, report, request, test, or statement required by this appendix. The electronic media used must have adequate security provisions and be acceptable to the responsible Flight Standards office.

d. Related Reading References.

(1) 14 CFR part 60.

(2) 14 CFR part 61.

(3) 14 CFR part 63.

(4) 14 CFR part 119.

(5) 14 CFR part 121.

(6) 14 CFR part 125.

(7) 14 CFR part 135.

(8) 14 CFR part 141.

(9) 14 CFR part 142.

(10) AC 120-28, as amended, Criteria for Approval of Category III Landing Weather Minima.

(11) AC 120-29, as amended, Criteria for Approving Category I and Category II Landing Minima for part 121 operators.

(12) AC 120-35, as amended, Flightcrew Member Line Operational Simulations: Line-Oriented Flight Training, Special Purpose Operational Training, Line Operational Evaluation.

(13) AC 120-41, as amended, Criteria for Operational Approval of Airborne Wind Shear Alerting and Flight Guidance Systems.

(14) AC 120-57, as amended, Surface Movement Guidance and Control System (SMGCS).

(15) AC 120-63, as amended, Helicopter Simulator Qualification.

(16) AC 150/5300-13, as amended, Airport Design.

(17) AC 150/5340-1, as amended, Standards for Airport Markings.

(18) AC 150/5340-4, as amended, Installation Details for Runway Centerline Touchdown Zone Lighting Systems.

(19) AC 150/5390-2, as amended, Heliport Design.

(20) AC 150/5340-19, as amended, Taxiway Centerline Lighting System.

(21) AC 150/5340-24, as amended, Runway and Taxiway Edge Lighting System.

(22) AC 150/5345-28, as amended, Precision Approach Path Indicator (PAPI) Systems.

(23) International Air Transport Association document, "Flight Simulator Design and Performance Data Requirements," as amended.

(24) AC 29-2, as amended, Flight Test Guide for Certification of Transport Category Rotorcraft.

(25) AC 27-1, as amended, Flight Test Guide for Certification of Normal Category Rotorcraft.

(26) International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Manual of Criteria for the Qualification of Flight Simulators, as amended.

(27) Airplane Flight Simulator Evaluation Handbook, Volume I, as amended and Volume II, as amended, The Royal Aeronautical Society, London, UK.

(28) FAA Airman Certification Standards and Practical Test Standards for Airline Transport Pilot, Type Ratings, Commercial Pilot, and Instrument Ratings.
