
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Airmen
#### PART 60 - FLIGHT SIMULATION TRAINING DEVICE INITIAL AND CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND USE
##### Appendix E to Part 60 - Qualification Performance Standards for Quality Management Systems for Flight Simulation Training Devices

a. Not later than May 30, 2010, each current sponsor of an FSTD must submit to the NSPM a proposed Quality Management System (QMS) program as described in this appendix. The responsible Flight Standards office will notify the sponsor of the acceptability of the program, including any required adjustments. Within 6 months of the notification of acceptability, the sponsor must implement the program, conduct internal audits, make required program adjustments as a result of any internal audit, and schedule the responsible Flight Standards office initial audit.

b. First-time FSTD sponsors must submit to the responsible Flight Standards office the proposed QMS program no later than 120 days before the initial FSTD evaluation. The responsible Flight Standards office will notify the sponsor of the acceptability of the program, including any required adjustments. Within 6 months of the notification of acceptability, the sponsor must implement the program, conduct internal audits, make required program adjustments as a result of any internal audit, and schedule the responsible Flight Standards office initial audit.

c. The Director of Operations for a Part 119 certificate holder, the Chief Instructor for a Part 141 certificate holder, or the equivalent for a Part 142 or Flight Engineer School sponsor must designate a Management Representative (MR) who has the authority to establish and modify the sponsor's policies, practices, and procedures regarding the QMS program for the recurring qualification and the daily use of each FSTD.

d. The minimum content required for an acceptable QMS is found in Table E1. The policies, processes, or procedures described in this table must be maintained in a Quality Manual and will serve as the basis for the following:

(1) The sponsor-conducted initial and recurring periodic assessments;

(2) The responsible Flight Standards office-conducted initial and recurring periodic assessments; and

(3) The continuing surveillance and analysis by the responsible Flight Standards office of the sponsor's performance and effectiveness in providing a satisfactory FSTD for use on a regular basis.

e. The sponsor must conduct assessments of its QMS program in segments. The segments will be established by the responsible Flight Standards office at the initial assessment, and the interval for the segment assessments will be every 6 months. The intervals for the segment assessments may be extended beyond 6 months as the QMS program matures, but will not be extended beyond 12 months. The entire QMS program must be assessed every 24 months.

f. The periodic assessments conducted by the responsible Flight Standards office will be conducted at intervals not less than once every 24 months, and include a comprehensive review of the QMS program. These reviews will be conducted more frequently if warranted.

g. An example of a segment assessment-At the initial QMS assessment, the responsible Flight Standards office will divide the QMS program into segments (e.g., 6 separate segments). There must be an assessment of a certain number of segments every 6 months (i.e., segments 1 and 2 at the end of the first 6 month period; segments 3 and 4 at the end of the second 6 month period (or one year); and segments 5 and 6 at the end of the third 6 month period (or 18 months). As the program matures, the interval between assessments may be extended to 12 months (e.g., segments 1, 2, and 3 at the end of the first year; and segments 4, 5, and 6 at the end of the second year). In both cases, the entire QMS program is assessed at least every 24 months.

h. The following materials are presented to assist sponsors in preparing for an responsible Flight Standards office evaluation of the QMS program. The sample documents include:

(1) The desk assessment tool for initial evaluation of the required elements of a QMS program.

(2) The on-site assessment tool for initial and continuing evaluation of the required elements of a QMS program.

(3) An Element Assessment Table that describes the circumstances that exist to warrant a finding of "non-compliance," or "non-conformity"; "partial compliance," or "partial conformity"; and "acceptable compliance," or "acceptable conformity."

(4) A sample Continuation Sheet for additional comments that may be added by the sponsor or the responsible Flight Standards office during a QMS evaluation.

(5) A sample Sponsor Checklist to assist the sponsor in verifying the elements that comprise the required QMS program.

(6) A table showing the essential functions, processes, and procedures that relate to the required QMS components and a cross-reference to each represented task.

i. Additional Information.

(1) In addition to specifically designated QMS evaluations, the responsible Flight Standards office will evaluate the sponsor's QMS program as part of regularly scheduled FSTD continuing qualification evaluations and no-notice FSTD evaluations, focusing in part on the effectiveness and viability of the QMS program and its contribution to the overall capability of the FSTD to meet the requirements of this part.

(2) The sponsor or MR may delegate duties associated with maintaining the qualification of the FSTD (e.g., corrective and preventive maintenance, scheduling and conducting tests or inspections, functional preflight checks) but retain the responsibility and authority for the day-to-day qualification of the FSTD. One person may serve as the sponsor or MR for more than one FSTD, but one FSTD may not have more than one sponsor or MR.

(3) A QMS program may be applicable to more than one certificate holder (e.g., part 119 and part 142 or two part 119 certificate holders) and an MR may work for more than one certificate holder (e.g., part 119 and part 142 or two part 119 certificate holders) as long as the sponsor's QMS program requirements and the MR requirements are met for each certificate holder.

j. The FAA does not mandate a specific QMS program format, but an acceptable QMS program should contain the following:

(1) A Quality Policy. This is a formal written Quality Policy Statement that is a commitment by the sponsor outlining what the Quality System will achieve.

(2) A MR who has overall authority for monitoring the on-going qualification of assigned FSTDs to ensure that all FSTD qualification issues are resolved as required by this part. The MR should ensure that the QMS program is properly implemented and maintained, and should:

(a) Brief the sponsor's management on the qualification processes;

(b) Serve as the primary contact point for all matters between the sponsor and the responsible Flight Standards office regarding the qualification of the assigned FSTDs; and

(c) Oversee the day-to-day quality control.

(3) The system and processes outlined in the QMS should enable the sponsor to monitor compliance with all applicable regulations and ensure correct maintenance and performance of the FSTD in accordance with part 60.

(4) A QMS program and a statement acknowledging completion of a periodic review by the MR should include the following:

(a) A maintenance facility that provides suitable FSTD hardware and software tests and maintenance capability.

(b) A recording system in the form of a technical log in which defects, deferred defects, and development projects are listed, assigned and reviewed within a specified time period.

(c) Routine maintenance of the FSTD and performance of the QTG tests with adequate staffing to cover FSTD operating periods.

(d) A planned internal assessment schedule and a periodic review should be used to verify that corrective action was complete and effective. The assessor should have adequate knowledge of FSTDs and should be acceptable to the responsible Flight Standards office.

(5) The MR should receive Quality System training and brief other personnel on the procedures.




