
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Airmen
#### PART 63 - CERTIFICATION: FLIGHT CREWMEMBERS OTHER THAN PILOTS
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Requirements for Flight Navigator Certificate
###### Ground test.

(d)For the ground test, in the order of the numbered items on the examination check sheet, an applicant will be required to:

(1) Identify without a star identifier, at least six navigational stars and all planets available for navigation at the time of the examination and explain the method of identification.

(2) Identify two additional stars with a star identifier or sky diagrams and explain identification procedure.

(3) Precompute a time-altitude curve for a period of about 20 minutes and take 10 single observations of a celestial body which is rising or setting rapidly. The intervals between observations should be at least one minute. Mark each observation on the graph to show accuracy. All observations, after corrections, shall plot within 8 minutes of arc from the time-altitude curve, and the average error shall not exceed 5 minutes of arc.

(4) Take and plot one 3-star fix and 3 LOP's of the sun. Plotted fix or an average of LOP's must fall within 5 miles of the actual position of the observer.

(5) Demonstrate or explain the compensation and swinging of a liquid-type magnetic compass.

(6) Demonstrate or explain a method of aligning one type of drift meter.

(7) Demonstrate or explain a method of aligning an astro-compass or periscopic sextant.
