
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - Airspace
#### PART 71 - DESIGNATION OF CLASS A, B, C, D, AND E AIRSPACE AREAS; AIR TRAFFIC SERVICE ROUTES; AND REPORTING POINTS
##### ยง 71.1 Applicability.
###### www.faa.gov/air_traffic/publications.,www.regulations.gov.,fr.inspection@nara.gov,www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.

A listing for Class A, B, C, D, and E airspace areas; air traffic service routes; and reporting points can be found in FAA Order JO 7400.11G, Airspace Designations and Reporting Points, dated August 19, 2022. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552 (a) and 1 CFR part 51. The approval to incorporate by reference FAA Order JO 7400.11G is effective September 15, 2022, through September 15, 2023. During the incorporation by reference period, proposed changes to the listings of Class A, B, C, D, and E airspace areas; air traffic service routes; and reporting points will be published in full text as proposed rule documents in theunless there is good cause to forego notice and comment. Amendments to the listings of Class A, B, C, D, and E airspace areas; air traffic service routes; and reporting points will be published in full text as final rules in thePeriodically, the final rule amendments will be integrated into a revised edition of FAA Order JO 7400.11 and submitted to the Director of the Federal Register for approval for incorporation by reference in this section. Copies of FAA Order JO 7400.11G may be obtained from Rules and Regulations Group, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591, (202) 267-8783. An electronic version of FAA Order JO 7400.11G is available on the FAA website atCopies of FAA Order JO 7400.11G may be inspected in Docket No. FAA-2022-1022; Amendment No. 71-54, onA copy of FAA Order JO 7400.11G may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of FAA Order JO 7400.11G at NARA, email:or go to
