
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - Airspace
#### PART 77 - SAFE, EFFICIENT USE, AND PRESERVATION OF THE NAVIGABLE AIRSPACE
##### Subpart C - Standards for Determining Obstructions to Air Navigation or Navigational Aids or Facilities
###### ยง 77.19 Civil airport imaginary surfaces.
####### Primary surface.

(c)A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway; but when the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface ends at each end of that runway. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline. The width of the primary surface is:

(1) 250 feet for utility runways having only visual approaches.

(2) 500 feet for utility runways having non-precision instrument approaches.

(3) For other than utility runways, the width is:

(i) 500 feet for visual runways having only visual approaches.

(ii) 500 feet for non-precision instrument runways having visibility minimums greater than three-fourths statute mile.

(iii) 1,000 feet for a non-precision instrument runway having a non-precision instrument approach with visibility minimums as low as three-fourths of a statute mile, and for precision instrument runways.

(iv) The width of the primary surface of a runway will be that width prescribed in this section for the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that runway.
