
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter F - Air Traffic and General Operating Rules
#### PART 89 - REMOTE IDENTIFICATION OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
##### Subpart F - Remote Identification Design and Production
###### ยง 89.540 Rescission and reconsideration.
####### Rescission of the FAA's acceptance of a declaration of compliance.

(a)(1) A declaration of compliance is subject to ongoing review by the Administrator. The Administrator may rescind acceptance of a declaration of compliance under circumstances including but not limited to the following:

(i) A standard remote identification unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast module listed under an accepted declaration of compliance does not meet the minimum performance requirements of ยง 89.310 or ยง 89.320.

(ii) A previously FAA-accepted declaration of compliance does not meet a requirement of this subpart; or

(iii) The FAA rescinds acceptance of the means of compliance listed in an FAA-accepted declaration of compliance.

(2) The Administrator will notify the person who submitted the FAA-accepted declaration of compliance of any issue of noncompliance.

(3) If the Administrator determines that it is in the public interest, prior to rescinding acceptance of a declaration of compliance, the Administrator may provide a reasonable period of time for the person who submitted the declaration of compliance to remediate the noncompliance. A failure to remediate the noncompliance constitutes cause for rescission of the FAA's acceptance of the declaration of compliance.

(4) The Administrator will notify the person who submitted the declaration of compliance of the decision to rescind acceptance of the declaration of compliance by publishing a notice of rescission in the.
