
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter F - Air Traffic and General Operating Rules
#### PART 89 - REMOTE IDENTIFICATION OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
##### Subpart F - Remote Identification Design and Production
###### ยง 89.540 Rescission and reconsideration.
####### Petition to reconsider the FAA's decision to rescind acceptance of a declaration of compliance.

(b)(1) The person who submitted the FAA-accepted declaration of compliance or any person adversely affected by the rescission of the Administrator's acceptance of a declaration of compliance may petition for a reconsideration of the decision by submitting a request to the FAA in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator within 60 calendar days of the date of publication in theof notification of rescission.

(2) A petition to reconsider the rescission of the Administrator's acceptance of a declaration of compliance must show that the petitioner is an interested party and has been adversely affected by the decision of the FAA. The petition must also demonstrate at least one of the following:

(i) The petitioner adduces a significant additional fact not previously presented to the FAA.

(ii) The Administrator made a material error of fact in the decision to rescind acceptance of the declaration of compliance.

(iii) The Administrator did not correctly interpret a law, regulation, or precedent.

(3) Upon consideration of the information submitted by the petitioner, the Administrator will notify the petitioner and the person who submitted the declaration of compliance (if different) of the decision on whether to reinstate the Administrator's acceptance of the declaration of compliance.
