
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Procedural Rules
#### PART 13 - INVESTIGATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Rules of Practice for FAA Hearings
###### ยง 13.65 Appeal to the Administrator, reconsideration, and judicial review.

(a) Any party to a hearing may appeal from the order of the hearing officer by filing with the FAA Hearing Docket a notice of appeal to the Administrator within 20 days after the date of issuance of the order. Filing and service of the notice of appeal, and any other papers, are accomplished according to the procedures in ยง 13.43.

(b) If a notice of appeal is not filed from the order issued by a hearing officer, such order is final with respect to the parties. Such order is not binding precedent and is not subject to judicial review.

(c) Any person filing an appeal authorized by paragraph (a) of this section must file an appeal brief with the Administrator within 40 days after the date of issuance of the order, and serve a copy on the other party. A reply brief must be filed within 40 days after service of the appeal brief and a copy served on the appellant.

(d) On appeal, the Administrator reviews the record of the proceeding and issues an order dismissing, reversing, modifying or affirming the order. The Administrator's order includes the reasons for the Administrator's action. The Administrator considers only whether:

(1) Each finding of fact is supported by a preponderance of the reliable, probative, and substantial evidence;

(2) Each conclusion is made in accordance with law, precedent, and policy; and

(3) The hearing officer committed any prejudicial error.

(e) The Director and legal personnel of the Office of Adjudication serve as the advisors to the Administrator for appeals under this section.

(1) The Director has the authority to:

(i) Manage all or portions of individual appeals; and to prepare written decisions and proposed final orders in such appeals;

(ii) Issue procedural and other interlocutory orders aimed at proper and efficient appeal management, including, without limitation, scheduling and sanctions orders;

(iii) Grant or deny motions to dismiss appeals;

(iv) Dismiss appeals upon request of the appellant or by agreement of the parties;

(v) Stay decisions and orders of the Administrator, pending judicial review or reconsideration by the Administrator;

(vi) Summarily dismiss repetitious or frivolous petitions to reconsider or modify orders;

(vii) Correct typographical, grammatical, and similar errors in the Administrator's decisions and orders, and to make non-substantive editorial changes; and

(viii) Take all other reasonable steps deemed necessary and proper for the management of the appeals process, in accordance with this part and applicable law.

(2) The Director's authority in paragraph (e)(1) of this section may be re-delegated, as necessary, except to hearing officers and others materially involved in the hearing that is the subject of the appeal.

(f) Motions to reconsider the final order of the Administrator must be filed with the FAA Hearing Docket within thirty days of service of the Administrator's order.

(g) Judicial review of the Administrator's final order under this section is provided in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5127 or 46110, as applicable.
