
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter F - Air Traffic and General Operating Rules
#### PART 91 - GENERAL OPERATING AND FLIGHT RULES
##### Subpart K - Fractional Ownership Operations
###### Program Management
####### § 91.1045 Additional equipment requirements.

No person may operate a program aircraft on a program flight unless the aircraft is equipped with the following-

(a) Airplanes having a passenger-seat configuration of more than 30 seats or a payload capacity of more than 7,500 pounds:

(1) A cockpit voice recorder as required by § 121.359 of this chapter as applicable to the aircraft specified in that section.

(2) A flight recorder as required by § 121.343 or § 121.344 of this chapter as applicable to the aircraft specified in that section.

(3) A terrain awareness and warning system as required by § 121.354 of this chapter as applicable to the aircraft specified in that section.

(4) A traffic alert and collision avoidance system as required by § 121.356 of this chapter as applicable to the aircraft specified in that section.

(5) Airborne weather radar as required by § 121.357 of this chapter, as applicable to the aircraft specified in that section.

(b) Airplanes having a passenger-seat configuration of 30 seats or fewer, excluding each crewmember, and a payload capacity of 7,500 pounds or less, and any rotorcraft (as applicable):

(1) A cockpit voice recorder as required by § 135.151 of this chapter as applicable to the aircraft specified in that section.

(2) A flight recorder as required by § 135.152 of this chapter as applicable to the aircraft specified in that section.

(3) A terrain awareness and warning system as required by § 135.154 of this chapter as applicable to the aircraft specified in that section.

(4) A traffic alert and collision avoidance system as required by § 135.180 of this chapter as applicable to the aircraft specified in that section.

(5) As applicable to the aircraft specified in that section, either:

(i) Airborne thunderstorm detection equipment as required by § 135.173 of this chapter; or

(ii) Airborne weather radar as required by § 135.175 of this chapter.
