
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter F - Air Traffic and General Operating Rules
#### PART 93 - SPECIAL AIR TRAFFIC RULES
##### Subpart D - Anchorage, Alaska, Terminal Area
###### ยง 93.53 Description of area.

The Anchorage, Alaska, Terminal Area is designated as that airspace extending upward from the surface to the upper limit of each of the segments described in ยง 93.55. It is bounded by a line beginning at Point MacKenzie, extending westerly along the bank of Knik Arm to a point intersecting the 350&#xB0; bearing from the Anchorage International ATCT; thence north to intercept the 5.2-mile arc centered on the geographical center of Anchorage, Alaska, ATCT; thence counterclockwise along that arc to its intersection with a line bearing 180&#xB0; from the intersection of the new Seward Highway and International Airport Road; thence due north to O'Malley Road; thence east along O'Malley Road to its intersection with Lake Otis Parkway; thence northerly along Lake Otis Parkway to its intersection with Abbott Road; thence east along Abbott Road to its intersection with Abbott Loop Road; thence north to its intersection with Tudor Road; thence easterly along Tudor Road to its intersection with Muldoon Road; thence northerly along Muldoon Road to the intersection of the Glenn Highway; thence north and east along the Glenn Highway to Ski Bowl Road; thence southeast along the Ski Bowl Road to a point one-half mile south of the Glenn Highway; thence north and east one-half mile south of and parallel to the Glenn Highway to its intersection with a line one-half mile east of and parallel to the Bryant Airport Runway 16/34 extended centerline; thence northeast along a line one-half mile east of and parallel to Bryant Airport Runway 16/34 extended centerline to lat. 61&#xB0;17&#x2032;13&#x2033; N., long. 149&#xB0;37&#x2032;35&#x2033; W.; thence west along lat. 61&#xB0;17&#x2032;13&#x2033; N., to long. 149&#xB0;43&#x2032;08&#x2033; W.; thence north along long. 149&#xB0;43&#x2032;08&#x2033; W., to lat. 61&#xB0;17&#x2032;30&#x2033; N.; thence to lat. 61&#xB0;17&#x2032;58&#x2033; N., long 149&#xB0;44&#x2032;08&#x2033; W.; thence to lat. 61&#xB0;19&#x2032;10&#x2033; N., long. 149&#xB0;46&#x2032;44&#x2033; W.; thence north along long. 149&#xB0;46&#x2032;44&#x2033; W., to intercept the 4.7-mile radius arc centered on Elmendorf Air Force Base (AFB), Alaska; thence counterclockwise along the 4.7-mile radius arc to its intersection with the west bank of Knik Arm; thence southerly along the west bank of Knik Arm to the point of beginning.
