
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter F - Air Traffic and General Operating Rules
#### PART 93 - SPECIAL AIR TRAFFIC RULES
##### Subpart D - Anchorage, Alaska, Terminal Area
###### ยง 93.65 General rules: Elmendorf segment.

(a) Each person operating a turbine-powered aircraft within this segment shall operate that aircraft at an altitude of at least 1,700 feet MSL until maneuvering for a safe landing requires further descent.

(b) Each person operating an airplane (other than turbine-powered aircraft) at a speed of more than 105 knots within this segment shall operate that airplane at an altitude of at least 1,200 feet MSL until maneuvering for a safe landing requires further descent.

(c) Each person operating an airplane (other than turbine-powered aircraft) at a speed of 105 knots or less within the segment shall operate that airplane at an altitude of at least 800 feet MSL until maneuvering for a safe landing requires further descent.

(d) A person landing or departing from Elmendorf AFB, may operate that aircraft at an altitude between 1,500 feet MSL and 1,700 feet MSL within that portion of the International and Lake Hood segments lying north of the midchannel of Knik Arm.

(e) A person landing or departing from Elmendorf AFB, may operate that aircraft at an altitude between 900 feet MSL and 1,700 feet MSL within that portion of the Merrill segment lying north of the midchannel of Knik Arm.

(f) A person operating in VFR conditions, at or below 600 feet MSL, north of a line beginning at the intersection of Farrell Road and the long. 149&#xB0;43&#x2032;08&#x2033; W.; thence west along Farrell Road to the east end of Sixmile Lake; thence west along a line bearing on the middle of Lake Lorraine to the northwest bank of Knik Arm; is not required to establish two-way radio communications with ATC.
