
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter F - Air Traffic and General Operating Rules
#### PART 93 - SPECIAL AIR TRAFFIC RULES
##### Subpart N - Pearson Field (Vancouver, WA) Airport Traffic Rule
###### § 93.163 Aircraft operations.

(a) Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft within the airspace described in § 93.162, or taxi onto the runway at Pearson Field, unless-

(1) That person establishes two-way radio communications with Pearson Advisory on the common traffic advisory frequency for the purpose of receiving air traffic advisories and continues to monitor the frequency at all times while operating within the specified airspace.

(2) That person has obtained the Pearson Field weather prior to establishing two-way communications with Pearson Advisory.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, if two-way radio communications failure occurs in flight, a person may operate an aircraft within the airspace described in § 93.162, and land, if weather conditions are at or above basic VFR weather minimums. If two-way radio communications failure occurs while in flight under IFR, the pilot must comply with § 91.185.

(c) Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, persons operating an aircraft within the airspace described in § 93.162 must-

(1) When operating over the runway or extended runway centerline of Pearson Field Runway 8/26 maintain an altitude at or below 700 feet above mean sea level.

(2) Remain outside Portland Class C Airspace.

(3) Make a right traffic pattern when operating to/from Pearson Field Runway 26.
