
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter F - Air Traffic and General Operating Rules
#### PART 93 - SPECIAL AIR TRAFFIC RULES
##### Subpart W - New York Class B Airspace Hudson River and East River Exclusion Special Flight Rules Area
###### ยง 93.350 Definitions.
####### New York Class B airspace Hudson River Exclusion

(d)is that area from the surface up to but not including the overlying floor of the New York Class B airspace area, between the east and west banks of, and overlying, the Hudson River within the area beginning north of LaGuardia Airport on the west bank of the Hudson River at lat. 40&#xB0;57&#x2032;45&#x2033; N., long. 73&#xB0;54&#x2032;48&#x2033; W. (near Alpine Tower), thence south along the west bank of the Hudson River to intersect the Colts Neck VOR/DME 012&#xB0; radial, thence southwest along the Colts Neck 012&#xB0; radial to the Hudson River shoreline, thence south along the shoreline to the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, thence east along the Bridge to the east bank of the Hudson River, thence north along the east bank of the Hudson River to lat. 40&#xB0;38&#x2032;39&#x2033; N., long. 74&#xB0;02&#x2032;03&#x2033; W., thence north along a line drawn direct to the southwesternmost point of Governors Island, thence north along a line drawn direct to the southwest tip of Manhattan Island, thence north along the east bank of the Hudson River to the LGA VOR/DME 11-mile arc, north of LaGuardia Airport, thence counterclockwise along the 11-mile arc to lat. 40&#xB0;57&#x2032;54&#x2033; N., long. 73&#xB0;54&#x2032;23&#x2033; W., thence to the point of beginning.
