
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 111 - PILOT RECORDS DATABASE
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 111.1 Applicability.

(a) This part prescribes rules governing the use of the Pilot Records Database (PRD).

(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, this part applies to:

(1) Each operator that holds an air carrier or operating certificate issued in accordance with part 119 of this chapter and is authorized to conduct operations under part 121, 125, or 135 of this chapter.

(2) Each operator that holds management specifications for a fractional ownership program issued in accordance with subpart K of part 91 of this chapter.

(3) Each operator that holds a letter of authorization issued in accordance with § 91.147 of this chapter.

(4) Each operator that operates two or more aircraft described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section, in furtherance of or incidental to a business, solely pursuant to the general operating and flight rules in part 91 of this chapter, or that operates aircraft pursuant to a Letter of Deviation Authority issued under § 125.3 of this chapter.

(i) Standard airworthiness airplanes that require a type rating under § 61.31(a) of this chapter.

(ii) Turbine-powered rotorcraft.

(5) Each entity that conducts public aircraft operations as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(41) on a flight that meets the qualification criteria for public aircraft status in 49 U.S.C. 40125, unless the entity is any branch of the United States Armed Forces, National Guard, or reserve component of the Armed Forces.

(6) Each trustee in bankruptcy of any operator or entity described in this paragraph, subject to the following criteria:

(i) If any operator subject to the requirements of this subpart files a petition for protection under the Federal bankruptcy laws, the trustee appointed by the bankruptcy court must comply with the requirements of subparts A and C of this part.

(ii) The operator may delegate its authority to the trustee appointed by the bankruptcy court to access the PRD on its behalf in accordance with § 111.20 or the trustee may submit an application to the FAA requesting access to the PRD consistent with the requirements of § 111.15.

(7) Each person that submits or is identified on the application described in § 111.15 and is approved by the Administrator to access the PRD.

(8) Each person who is employed as a pilot by, or is seeking employment as a pilot with, an operator subject to the applicability of this part.

(c) This part does not apply to foreign air carriers or operators subject to part 375 of this title.
