
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 111 - PILOT RECORDS DATABASE
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 111.15 Application for database access.

(a)(1) Each operator or entity to which this part applies that plans to initiate operations after September 8, 2021, must submit the application required by this section to the FAA at least 30 days before the operator or entity initiates aircraft operations.

(2) Within 30 days of appointment by a bankruptcy court as described in § 111.1(b)(6)(i), a trustee must submit the application required by this section or receive delegation of access from the applicable operator or entity.

(b) The application required by this section must contain the following information:

(1) The full name, job title, telephone number, and electronic mail address of the responsible person who is authorized to submit the application in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section;

(2) The name of the operator, entity, or trustee;

(3) The FAA air carrier or operating certificate number, as applicable; and

(4) Any other item the Administrator determines is necessary to verify the identity of all individuals designated by an operator, entity, or trustee to access the PRD.

(c) The application required by this section must be submitted by a responsible person who holds at least one of the following positions, unless otherwise approved by the Administrator:

(1) For each operator that holds an air carrier or operating certificate issued in accordance with part 119 for operations under part 121, a person serving in a management position required by § 119.65(a) of this chapter.

(2) For each operator that holds an operating certificate issued in accordance with part 119 for operations under part 125, a person serving in a management position required by § 125.25(a) of this chapter.

(3) For each operator that holds an operating certificate issued in accordance with part 119 for operations under part 135 using more than one pilot in its operations, a person serving in a management position required by § 119.69(a) of this chapter.

(4) For each operator that holds an operating certificate issued in accordance with part 119 for operations under part 135 authorized to use only one pilot in its operations, the pilot named in that certificate holder's operation specifications.

(5) For each operator that holds a letter of authorization issued in accordance with § 91.147 of this chapter, an individual designated as the responsible person on the operator's letter of authorization.

(6) For each operator that holds management specifications for a fractional ownership program issued in accordance with subpart K of part 91 of this chapter, an authorized individual designated by the fractional ownership program manager, as defined in § 91.1001(b) of this chapter, who is employed by the fractional ownership program and whose identity the Administrator has verified.

(7) For any other operator or entity subject to the applicability of this part, or any trustee appointed in a bankruptcy proceeding, an individual authorized to sign and submit the application required by this section who is employed by the operator and whose identity the Administrator has verified.

(d) Each operator, entity, or trustee must submit to the FAA-

(1) An amended application for database access no later than 30 days after any change to the information included on the initial application for database access occurs, except when the change pertains to the identification or designation of the responsible person.

(2) An amended application identifying another responsible person eligible for database access in accordance with this section, immediately when the operator, entity, or trustee is aware of information that would cause the current responsible person's database access to be cancelled or denied.

(e) Upon approval by the FAA of a request for access to the PRD, each person identified in paragraph (e) is authorized to:

(1) Access the database for purposes consistent with the provisions of this part, on behalf of the operator, entity, or trustee for which the person is authorized, for purposes consistent with the provisions of this part; and

(2) Delegate PRD access to authorized users and proxies in accordance with § 111.20.
