
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 111 - PILOT RECORDS DATABASE
##### Subpart C - Reporting of Records by Air Carriers and Operators
###### § 111.215 Method of reporting.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section of this part, all records created on or after June 10, 2022, and required to be reported to the PRD under this subpart must be reported within 30 days of the effective date of the record, or within 30 days of the record becoming final when the record is a disciplinary action record or a separation from employment record.

(b) Each operator conducting an operation described in § 111.1(b)(4), entity conducting a public aircraft operation, operator conducting an air tour operation under § 91.147, or a trustee for such an operator or entity must either comply with paragraph (a) of this section or report and retain pilot records in accordance with all requirements of this paragraph.

(1) Operators, entities, or trustees listed in this paragraph (b) must report a record described in § 111.225, § 111.230, or § 111.235 to the PRD upon receipt of a request from a reviewing entity within 14 days, unless the record memorializes one or more of the following:

(i) A disciplinary action that resulted in permanent or temporary removal of the pilot from aircraft operations as described in § 111.230, which must be reported in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(ii) A separation from employment action resulting from a termination as described in § 111.235, which must be reported in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) If no records are available at time of request from a reviewing entity, the operator, entity, or trustee must provide written confirmation within 14 of the days of the request to the PRD that no records are available.

(3) An operator, entity, or trustee must retain a record eligible to be reported upon request under paragraph (b)(1) of this section for five years from the date of creation, unless the operator or entity already reported that record to the PRD.

(c) For records created before June 10, 2022, and maintained in accordance with PRIA, an operator, entity, or trustee listed in paragraph (b) of this section must continue to maintain all records that would have been provided in response to a PRIA request for five years from the date of creation of the record, and must report that record upon request from a reviewing entity in accordance with paragraph (b).
