
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 111 - PILOT RECORDS DATABASE
##### Subpart C - Reporting of Records by Air Carriers and Operators
###### § 111.225 Training, qualification, and proficiency records.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each reporting entity must provide to the PRD the following records for each individual whom the reporting entity has employed as a pilot:

(1) Records establishing an individual's compliance with FAA-required training, qualifications, and proficiency events, which the reporting entity maintains pursuant to § 91.1027(a)(3), § 121.683, § 125.401 or § 135.63(a)(4) of this chapter, as applicable, including comments and evaluations made by a check pilot or evaluator; and

(2) Other records the reporting entity maintains documenting an individual's compliance with FAA or employer-required training, checking, testing, proficiency, or other events related to pilot performance concerning the training, qualifications, proficiency, and professional competence of the individual, including any comments and evaluations made by a check pilot or evaluator.

(b) No person may report any of the following information for inclusion in the PRD:

(1) Records related to flight time, duty time, and rest time.

(2) Records demonstrating compliance with physical examination requirements or any other protected medical records.

(3) Records documenting recent flight experience.

(4) Records identified in § 111.245.

(c) Each record reported to the PRD in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section must include:

(1) Date of the event;

(2) Aircraft type, if applicable;

(3) Duty position of the pilot, if applicable;

(4) Training program approval part and subpart of this chapter, as applicable;

(5) Crewmember training and qualification curriculum and category of training as reflected in either a FAA-approved or employer-mandated training program;

(6) Result of the event (satisfactory or unsatisfactory);

(7) Comments of check pilot or evaluator, if applicable under part 91, 121, 125, or 135 of this chapter. For unsatisfactory events, the tasks or maneuvers considered unsatisfactory must be included.

(d) An operator, entity, or trustee that complies with § 111.215(b) must report records in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section upon request, if that operator or entity possesses those records.

(e)(1) Each reporting entity must provide a record within 30 days of creating that record, in accordance with § 111.215(a), unless the reporting entity is an operator, entity, or trustee complying with § 111.215(b).

(2) An operator, entity, or trustee complying with § 111.215(b) must provide records described in this section or a statement that it does not have any records described in this section within 14 days of receiving a request from a reviewing entity.
