
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 111 - PILOT RECORDS DATABASE
##### Subpart C - Reporting of Records by Air Carriers and Operators
###### § 111.230 Final disciplinary action records.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each reporting entity must provide to the PRD any final disciplinary action record pertaining to pilot performance with respect to an individual whom the reporting entity has employed as a pilot.

(b) No person may report to the PRD any record of disciplinary action that was subsequently overturned because the event prompting the action did not occur or the pilot was not at fault as determined by-

(1) A documented agreement between the employer and the pilot; or

(2) The official and final decision or order of any panel or person with authority to review employment disputes, or by any court of law.

(c) If a reporting entity receives notice that any disciplinary action record reported to the PRD under paragraph (a) of this section was overturned in accordance with paragraph (b), that entity must correct the pilot's PRD record in accordance with § 111.250 within 10 days.

(d) Each final disciplinary action record that must be reported to the PRD under paragraph (a) of this section must include the following information:

(1) The type of disciplinary action taken by the employer, including written warning, suspension, or termination;

(2) Whether the disciplinary action resulted in permanent or temporary removal of the pilot from aircraft operations;

(3) The date the disciplinary action occurred; and

(4) Whether there are additional documents available that are relevant to the record.

(e) An operator, entity, or trustee complying with § 111.215(b) must report records described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section upon request, unless the disciplinary action resulted in permanent or temporary removal of the pilot from aircraft operations. If the disciplinary action resulted in permanent or temporary removal of the pilot from aircraft operations, the operator, entity, or trustee must report the record in accordance with § 111.215(a).

(f)(1) A reporting entity must provide records of final disciplinary actions no later than 30 days after the action is final, unless the reporting entity is an operator, entity or trustee complying with § 111.215(b).

(2) An operator, entity or trustee complying with § 111.215(b) must report records described in this section, or state that it does not have any applicable records, within 14 days of receiving a request from a reviewing entity.

(g) Each reporting entity must:

(1) Retain documents relevant to the record reported under paragraph (a) of this section for five years, if available; and

(2) Provide such documents upon request within 14 days to:

(i) A reviewing entity; or

(ii) The pilot that is the subject of the record.
