
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 120 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Drug Testing Program Requirements
###### ยง 120.115 Employee Assistance Program (EAP).
####### EAP training program.

(c)(1) Each employer shall implement a reasonable program of initial training for employees. The employee training program must include at least the following elements:

(i) The effects and consequences of drug use on individual health, safety, and work environment;

(ii) The manifestations and behavioral cues that may indicate drug use and abuse; and

(2) The employer's supervisory personnel who will determine when an employee is subject to testing based on reasonable cause shall receive specific training on specific, contemporaneous physical, behavioral, and performance indicators of probable drug use in addition to the training specified in ยง 120.115 (c).

(3) The employer shall ensure that supervisors who will make reasonable cause determinations receive at least 60 minutes of initial training.

(4) The employer shall implement a reasonable recurrent training program for supervisory personnel making reasonable cause determinations during subsequent years.

(5) Documentation of all training given to employees and supervisory personnel must be included in the training program.

(6) The employer shall identify the employee and supervisor EAP training in the employer's drug testing program.
