
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 120 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Drug Testing Program Requirements
###### ยง 120.117 Implementing a drug testing program.
####### Obtaining an Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program Operations Specification.

(d)(1) To obtain an Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program Operations Specification, you must contact your FAA Principal Operations Inspector or Principal Maintenance Inspector. Provide him/her with the following information:

(i) Company name.

(ii) Certificate number.

(iii) Telephone number.

(iv) Address where your drug and alcohol testing program records are kept.

(v) Whether you have 50 or more safety-sensitive employees, or 49 or fewer safety-sensitive employees. (Part 119 certificate holders with authority to operate only under part 121 of this chapter are not required to provide this information.)

(2) You must certify on your Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program Operations Specification issued by your FAA Principal Operations Inspector or Principal Maintenance Inspector that you will comply with this part and 49 CFR part 40.

(3) You are required to obtain only one Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program Operations Specification to satisfy this requirement under this part.

(4) You must update the Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program Operations Specification when any changes to the information contained in the Operation Specification occur.
