
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 120 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Alcohol Testing Program Requirements
###### § 120.217 Tests required.
####### Reasonable suspicion alcohol testing.

(d)(1) An employer shall require a covered employee to submit to an alcohol test when the employer has reasonable suspicion to believe that the employee has violated the alcohol misuse prohibitions in §§ 120.19 or 120.37.

(2) The employer's determination that reasonable suspicion exists to require the covered employee to undergo an alcohol test shall be based on specific, contemporaneous, articulable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech or body odors of the employee. The required observations shall be made by a supervisor who is trained in detecting the symptoms of alcohol misuse. The supervisor who makes the determination that reasonable suspicion exists shall not conduct the breath alcohol test on that employee.

(3) Alcohol testing is authorized by this section only if the observations required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section are made during, just preceding, or just after the period of the work day that the covered employee is required to be in compliance with this rule. An employee may be directed by the employer to undergo reasonable suspicion testing for alcohol only while the employee is performing safety-sensitive functions; just before the employee is to perform safety-sensitive functions; or just after the employee has ceased performing such functions.

(4)(i) If a test required by this section is not administered within 2 hours following the determination made under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the employer shall prepare and maintain on file a record stating the reasons the test was not promptly administered. If a test required by this section is not administered within 8 hours following the determination made under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the employer shall cease attempts to administer an alcohol test and shall state in the record the reasons for not administering the test.

(ii) Notwithstanding the absence of a reasonable suspicion alcohol test under this section, no covered employee shall report for duty or remain on duty requiring the performance of safety-sensitive functions while the employee is under the influence of, or impaired by, alcohol, as shown by the behavioral, speech, or performance indicators of alcohol misuse, nor shall an employer permit the covered employee to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions until:

(A) An alcohol test is administered and the employee's alcohol concentration measures less than 0.02; or

(B) The start of the employee's next regularly scheduled duty period, but not less than 8 hours following the determination made under paragraph (d)(2) of this section that there is reasonable suspicion that the employee has violated the alcohol misuse provisions in §§ 120.19 or 120.37.

(iii) No employer shall take any action under this subpart against a covered employee based solely on the employee's behavior and appearance in the absence of an alcohol test. This does not prohibit an employer with authority independent of this subpart from taking any action otherwise consistent with law.
