
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 120 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Alcohol Testing Program Requirements
###### § 120.217 Tests required.
####### Follow-up alcohol testing.

(f)(1) Each employer shall ensure that the employee who engages in conduct prohibited by §§ 120.19 or 120.37, is subject to unannounced follow-up alcohol testing as directed by a SAP.

(2) The number and frequency of such testing shall be determined by the employer's SAP, but must consist of at least six tests in the first 12 months following the employee's return to duty.

(3) The employer must direct the employee to undergo testing for drugs in accordance with subpart E of this part, in addition to alcohol, if the SAP determines that drug testing is necessary for the particular employee. Any such drug testing shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of 49 CFR part 40.

(4) Follow-up testing shall not exceed 60 months after the date the individual begins to perform, or returns to the performance of, a safety-sensitive function. The SAP may terminate the requirement for follow-up testing at any time after the first six tests have been conducted, if the SAP determines that such testing is no longer necessary.

(5) A covered employee shall be tested for alcohol under this section only while the employee is performing safety-sensitive functions, just before the employee is to perform safety-sensitive functions, or just after the employee has ceased performing such functions.
