
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 120 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Alcohol Testing Program Requirements
###### ยง 120.223 Alcohol misuse information, training, and substance abuse professionals.
####### Required content.

(2)The materials to be made available to employees shall include detailed discussion of at least the following:

(i) The identity of the individual designated by the employer to answer employee questions about the materials.

(ii) The categories of employees who are subject to the provisions of these alcohol testing requirements.

(iii) Sufficient information about the safety-sensitive functions performed by those employees to make clear what period of the work day the covered employee is required to be in compliance with these alcohol testing requirements.

(iv) Specific information concerning employee conduct that is prohibited by this chapter.

(v) The circumstances under which a covered employee will be tested for alcohol under this subpart.

(vi) The procedures that will be used to test for the presence of alcohol, protect the employee and the integrity of the breath testing process, safeguard the validity of the test results, and ensure that those results are attributed to the correct employee.

(vii) The requirement that a covered employee submit to alcohol tests administered in accordance with this subpart.

(viii) An explanation of what constitutes a refusal to submit to an alcohol test and the attendant consequences.

(ix) The consequences for covered employees found to have violated the prohibitions in this chapter, including the requirement that the employee be removed immediately from performing safety-sensitive functions, and the process in 49 CFR part 40, subpart O.

(x) The consequences for covered employees found to have an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater but less than 0.04.

(xi) Information concerning the effects of alcohol misuse on an individual's health, work, and personal life; signs and symptoms of an alcohol problem; available methods of evaluating and resolving problems associated with the misuse of alcohol; and intervening when an alcohol problem is suspected, including confrontation, referral to any available employee assistance program, and/or referral to management.

(xii) Optional provisions. The materials supplied to covered employees may also include information on additional employer policies with respect to the use or possession of alcohol, including any consequences for an employee found to have a specified alcohol level, that are based on the employer's authority independent of this subpart. Any such additional policies or consequences must be clearly and obviously described as being based on independent authority.
