
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 120 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Alcohol Testing Program Requirements
###### ยง 120.225 How to implement an alcohol testing program.

(a) Each company must meet the requirements of this subpart. Use the following chart to determine whether your company must obtain an Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program Operations Specification, Letter of Authorization, or Drug and Alcohol Testing Program Registration from the FAA:

(b) Use the following chart for implementing an alcohol testing program if you are applying for a part 119 certificate with authority to operate under part 121 or part 135 of this chapter, if you intend to begin operations as defined in ยง 91.147 of this chapter, or if you intend to begin air traffic control operations (not operated by the FAA or by or under contract to the U.S. Military). Use it to determine whether you need to have an Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program Operations Specification, Letter of Authorization, or Drug and Alcohol Testing Program Registration from the FAA. Your employees who perform safety-sensitive duties must be tested in accordance with this subpart. The chart follows:

(c) If you are an individual or a company that intends to provide safety-sensitive services by contract to a part 119 certificate holder with authority to operate under parts 121 and/or 135 of this chapter or an operator as defined in ยง 91.147 of this chapter, use the following chart to determine what you must do if you opt to have your own alcohol testing program.

(d)(1) To obtain an Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program Operations Specification, you must contact your FAA Principal Operations Inspector or Principal Maintenance Inspector. Provide him/her with the following information:

(i) Company name.

(ii) Certificate number.

(iii) Telephone number.

(iv) Address where your drug and alcohol testing program records are kept.

(v) Whether you have 50 or more covered employees, or 49 or fewer covered employees. (Part 119 certificate holders with authority to operate only under part 121 of this chapter are not required to provide this information.)

(2) You must certify on your Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program Operations Specification, issued by your FAA Principal Operations Inspector or Principal Maintenance Inspector, that you will comply with this part and 49 CFR part 40.

(3) You are required to obtain only one Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program Operations Specification to satisfy this requirement under this part.

(4) You must update the Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program Operations Specification when any changes to the information contained in the Operation Specification occur.
