
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 121 - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS: DOMESTIC, FLAG, AND SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS
##### Subpart E - Approval of Routes: Domestic and Flag Operations
###### ยง 121.97 Airports: Required data.

(a) Each certificate holder conducting domestic or flag operations must show that each route it submits for approval has enough airports that are properly equipped and adequate for the proposed operation, considering such items as size, surface, obstructions, facilities, public protection, lighting, navigational and communications aids, and ATC.

(b) Each certificate holder conducting domestic or flag operations must show that it has an approved system for obtaining, maintaining, and distributing to appropriate personnel current aeronautical data for each airport it uses to ensure a safe operation at that airport. The aeronautical data must include the following:

(1) Airports.

(i) Facilities.

(ii) Public protection. After February 15, 2008, for ETOPS beyond 180 minutes or operations in the North Polar area and South Polar area, this includes facilities at each airport or in the immediate area sufficient to protect the passengers from the elements and to see to their welfare.

(iii) Navigational and communications aids.

(iv) Construction affecting takeoff, landing, or ground operations.

(v) Air traffic facilities.

(2) Runways, clearways and stopways.

(i) Dimensions.

(ii) Surface.

(iii) Marking and lighting systems.

(iv) Elevation and gradient.

(3) Displaced thresholds.

(i) Location.

(ii) Dimensions.

(iii) Takeoff or landing or both.

(4) Obstacles.

(i) Those affecting takeoff and landing performance computations in accordance with Subpart I of this part.

(ii) Controlling obstacles.

(5) Instrument flight procedures.

(i) Departure procedure.

(ii) Approach procedure.

(iii) Missed approach procedure.

(6) Special information.

(i) Runway visual range measurement equipment.

(ii) Prevailing winds under low visibility conditions.

(c) If the responsible Flight Standards office charged with the overall inspection of the certificate holder's operations finds that revisions are necessary for the continued adequacy of the certificate holder's system for collection, dissemination, and usage of aeronautical data that has been granted approval, the certificate holder shall, after notification by the responsible Flight Standards office, make those revisions in the system. Within 30 days after the certificate holder receives such notice, the certificate holder may file a petition to reconsider the notice with the Executive Director, Flight Standards Service. This filing of a petition to reconsider stays the notice pending a decision by the Executive Director, Flight Standards Service. However, if the responsible Flight Standards office finds that there is an emergency that requires immediate action in the interest of safety in air transportation, the Executive Director, Flight Standards Service may, upon statement of the reasons, require a change effective without stay.
