
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 121 - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS: DOMESTIC, FLAG, AND SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS
##### Subpart I - Airplane Performance Operating Limitations
###### § 121.173 General.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, each certificate holder operating a reciprocating-engine-powered airplane shall comply with §§ 121.175 through 121.187.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, each certificate holder operating a turbine-engine-powered airplane shall comply with the applicable provisions of §§ 121.189 through 121.197, except that when it operates-

(1) A turbo-propeller-powered airplane type certificated after August 29, 1959, but previously type certificated with the same number of reciprocating engines, the certificate holder may comply with §§ 121.175 through 121.187; or

(2) Until December 20, 2010, a turbo-propeller-powered airplane described in § 121.157(f), the certificate holder may comply with the applicable performance requirements of appendix K of this part.

(c) Each certificate holder operating a large nontransport category airplane type certificated before January 1, 1965, shall comply with §§ 121.199 through 121.205 and any determination of compliance must be based only on approved performance data.

(d) The performance data in the Airplane Flight Manual applies in determining compliance with §§ 121.175 through 121.197. Where conditions are different from those on which the performance data is based, compliance is determined by interpolation or by computing the effects of changes in the specific variables if the results of the interpolation or computations are substantially as accurate as the results of direct tests.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, no person may take off a reciprocating-engine-powered airplane at a weight that is more than the allowable weight for the runway being used (determined under the runway takeoff limitations of the operating rules of 14 CFR part 121, subpart I) after taking into account the temperature operating correction factors in the applicable Airplane Flight Manual.

(f) The Administrator may authorize in the operations specifications deviations from the requirements in the subpart if special circumstances make a literal observance of a requirement unnecessary for safety.

(g) The ten-mile width specified in §§ 121.179 through 121.183 may be reduced to five miles, for not more than 20 miles, when operating VFR or where navigation facilities furnish reliable and accurate identification of high ground and obstructions located outside of five miles, but within ten miles, on each side of the intended track.
