
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 121 - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS: DOMESTIC, FLAG, AND SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS
##### Subpart N - Training Program
###### ยง 121.403 Training program: Curriculum.

(a) Each certificate holder must prepare and keep current a written training program curriculum for each type of airplane with respect to dispatchers and each crewmember required for that type airplane. The curriculum must include ground and flight training required by this subpart.

(b) Each training program curriculum must include:

(1) A list of principal ground training subjects, including emergency training subjects, that are provided.

(2) A list of all the training device mockups, systems trainers, procedures trainers, or other training aids that the certificate holder will use. No later than March 12, 2019, a list of all the training equipment approved under ยง 121.408 as well as other training aids that the certificate holder will use.

(3) Detailed descriptions or pictorial displays of the approved normal, abnormal, and emergency maneuvers, procedures and functions that will be performed during each flight training phase or flight check, indicating those maneuvers, procedures and functions that are to be performed during the inflight portions of flight training and flight checks.

(4) A list of FSTDs approved under ยง 121.407, including approvals for particular maneuvers, procedures, or functions.

(5) The programmed hours of training that will be applied to each phase of training.

(6) A copy of each statement issued by the Administrator under ยง 121.405(d) for reduction of programmed hours of training.
