
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 121 - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS: DOMESTIC, FLAG, AND SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS
##### Subpart N - Training Program
###### § 121.405 Training program and revision: Initial and final approval.

(a) To obtain initial and final approval of a training program, or a revision to an approved training program, each certificate holder must submit to the Administrator-

(1) An outline of the proposed program or revision, including an outline of the proposed or revised curriculum, that provides enough information for a preliminary evaluation of the proposed training program or revised training program; and

(2) Additional relevant information as may be requested by the Administrator.

(b) If the proposed training program or revision complies with this subpart the Administrator grants initial approval in writing after which the certificate holder may conduct the training in accordance with that program. The Administrator then evaluates the effectiveness of the training program and advises the certificate holder of deficiencies, if any, that must be corrected.

(c) The Administrator grants final approval of the training program or revision if the certificate holder shows that the training conducted under the initial approval set forth in paragraph (b) of this section ensures that each person that successfully completes the training is adequately trained to perform his assigned duties.

(d) In granting initial and final approval of training programs or revisions, including reductions in programmed hours specified in this subpart, the Administrator considers the training aids, devices, methods, and procedures listed in the certificate holder's curriculum as set forth in § 121.403 that increase the quality and effectiveness of the teaching-learning process.

(e) Whenever the Administrator finds that revisions are necessary for the continued adequacy of a training program that has been granted final approval, the certificate holder shall, after notification by the Administrator, make any changes in the program that are found necessary by the Administrator. Within 30 days after the certificate holder receives such notice, it may file a petition to reconsider the notice with the responsible Flight Standards office. The filing of a petition to reconsider stays the notice pending a decision by the Administrator. However, if the Administrator finds that there is an emergency that requires immediate action in the interest of safety in air transportation, he may, upon a statement of the reasons, require a change effective without stay.

(f) Each certificate holder described in § 135.3 (b) and (c) of this chapter must include the material required by § 121.403 in the manual required by § 135.21 of this chapter.

(g) The Administrator may grant a deviation to certificate holders described in § 135.3 (b) and (c) of this chapter to allow reduced programmed hours of ground training required by § 121.419 if it is found that a reduction is warranted based on the certificate holder's operations and the complexity of the make, model, and series of the aircraft used.
