
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 121 - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS: DOMESTIC, FLAG, AND SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS
##### Subpart N - Training Program
###### § 121.407 Training program: Approval of flight simulation training devices.

(a) Each FSTD used to satisfy a training requirement of this part in an approved training program, must meet all of the following requirements:

(1) Be specifically approved by the Administrator for-

(i) Use in the certificate holder's approved training program;

(ii) The type airplane and, if applicable, the particular variation within type, for which the training or check is being conducted; and

(iii) The particular maneuver, procedure, or flightcrew member function involved.

(2) Maintain the performance, function, and other characteristics that are required for qualification in accordance with part 60 of this chapter or a previously qualified device, as permitted in accordance with § 60.17 of this chapter.

(3) Be modified in accordance with part 60 of this chapter to conform with any modification to the airplane being simulated that results in changes to performance, function, or other characteristics required for qualification.

(4) Be given a daily functional preflight check before being used.

(5) Have a daily discrepancy log kept with each discrepancy entered in that log by the appropriate instructor or check airman at the end of each training or check flight.

(b) A particular FSTD may be approved for use by more than one certificate holder.

(c) A Level B or higher FFS may be used instead of the airplane to satisfy the inflight requirements of §§ 121.439 and 121.441 and appendices E and F of this part, if the FFS-

(1) Is approved under this section and meets the appropriate FFS requirements of appendix H of this part; and

(2) Is used as part of an approved program that meets the training requirements of §§ 121.424 (a) and (c), 121.426, and appendix H of this part.

(d) An FFS approved under this section must be used instead of the airplane to satisfy the pilot flight training requirements prescribed in the certificate holder's approved low-altitude windshear flight training program set forth in § 121.409(d) of this part.

(e) An FFS approved under this section must be used instead of the airplane to satisfy the pilot flight training requirements prescribed in the extended envelope training set forth in § 121.423 of this part. Compliance with this paragraph is required no later than March 12, 2019.
