
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 121 - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS: DOMESTIC, FLAG, AND SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS
##### Subpart N - Training Program
###### ยง 121.417 Crewmember emergency training.
####### 6

() Boarding of passengers and crew into raft or a slide/raft pack.

(ii) Observe the following drills:

(A) Removal from the airplane (or training device) and inflation of each type of life raft, if applicable;

(B) Transfer of each type of slide/raft pack from one door to another;

(C) Deployment, inflation, and detachment from the airplane (or training device) of each type of slide/raft pack; and

(D) Emergency evacuation including the use of a slide.

(d) After September 1, 1993, no crewmember may serve in operations under this part unless that crewmember has performed the PBE drill and the firefighting drill described by paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section, as part of a one-time training requirement of paragraphs (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section as appropriate. Any crewmember who performs the PBE drill and the firefighting drill prescribed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section after May 26, 1987, is deemed to be in compliance with this regulation upon presentation of information or documentation, in a form and manner acceptable to the Executive Director, Flight Standards Service, showing that the appropriate drills have been accomplished.

(e) Crewmembers who serve in operations above 25,000 feet must receive instruction in the following:

(1) Respiration.

(2) Hypoxia.

(3) Duration of consciousness without supplemental oxygen at altitude.

(4) Gas expansion.

(5) Gas bubble formation.

(6) Physical phenomena and incidents of decompression.

(f) For the purposes of this section the following definitions apply:
