
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 121 - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS: DOMESTIC, FLAG, AND SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS
##### Subpart N - Training Program
###### § 121.424 Pilots: Initial, transition, conversion, and upgrade flight training.
####### Group II airplanes.

(2)Pilot in command, 20 hours; second in command, 10 hours.

(e) If the certificate holder's approved training program includes a course of training utilizing an FFS under § 121.409 (c) and (d) of this part, each pilot must successfully complete-

(1) With respect to § 121.409(c) of this part-

(i) Training and practice in the FFS in at least all of the maneuvers and procedures set forth in appendix E of this part for initial flight training that are capable of being performed in an FFS; and

(ii) A proficiency check in the FFS or the airplane to the level of proficiency of a pilot in command or second in command, as applicable, in at least the maneuvers and procedures set forth in appendix F of this part that are capable of being performed in an FFS.

(2) With respect to § 121.409(d) of this part, training and practice in at least the maneuvers and procedures set forth in the certificate holder's approved low-altitude windshear flight training program that are capable of being performed in an FFS in which the maneuvers and procedures are specifically authorized.

(f) Compliance with paragraphs (a)(2) and (c)(2) of this section is required no later than March 12, 2019.

(g) Before April 27, 2022, upgrade flight training must be provided in accordance with paragraphs (a), (c), (e), and (f), of this section or § 121.426. Beginning on April 27, 2022, upgrade flight training must be provided as specified in § 121.426.
