
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 121 - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS: DOMESTIC, FLAG, AND SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS
##### Subpart O - Crewmember Qualifications
###### § 121.433 Training required.
####### Recurrent training.

(c)(1) No certificate holder may use any person nor may any person serve as a required crewmember on an airplane unless, within the preceding 12 calendar months-

(i) For flight crewmembers, the person has satisfactorily completed recurrent ground and flight training for that airplane and crewmember position and a flight check as applicable;

(ii) For flight attendants and dispatchers, the person has satisfactorily completed recurrent ground training and a competence check; and

(iii) In addition, for pilots in command the person has satisfactorily completed, within the preceding 6 calendar months, recurrent flight training in addition to the recurrent flight training required in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, in an airplane in which the person serves as pilot in command in operations under this part.

(2) For pilots, a proficiency check as provided in § 121.441 of this part may be substituted for the recurrent flight training required by this paragraph and the approved FFS course of training under § 121.409(b) of this part may be substituted for alternate periods of recurrent flight training required in that airplane, except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(d) For each airplane in which a pilot serves as pilot in command, the person must satisfactorily complete either recurrent flight training or a proficiency check within the preceding 12 calendar months. The requirement in this paragraph expires on March 12, 2019. After that date, the requirement in § 121.441(a)(1)(ii) of this part applies.

(e) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(2) and (d) of this section, a proficiency check as provided in § 121.441 of this part may not be substituted for the extended envelope training required by § 121.423 or training in those maneuvers and procedures set forth in a certificate holder's approved low-altitude windshear flight training program when that program is included in a recurrent flight training course as required by § 121.409(d) of this part.
