
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 121 - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS: DOMESTIC, FLAG, AND SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS
##### Subpart T - Flight Operations
###### ยง 121.537 Responsibility for operational control: Supplemental operations.

(a) Each certificate holder conducting supplemental operations-

(1) Is responsible for operational control; and

(2) Shall list each person authorized by it to exercise operational control in its operator's manual.

(b) The pilot in command and the director of operations are jointly responsible for the initiation, continuation, diversion, and termination of a flight in compliance with this chapter and the operations specifications. The director of operations may delegate the functions for the initiation, continuation, diversion, and termination of a flight but he may not delegate the responsibility for those functions.

(c) The director of operations is responsible for cancelling, diverting, or delaying a flight if in his opinion or the opinion of the pilot in command the flight cannot operate or continue to operate safely as planned or released. The director of operations is responsible for assuring that each flight is monitored with respect to at least the following:

(1) Departure of the flight from the place of origin and arrival at the place of destination, including intermediate stops and any diversions therefrom.

(2) Maintenance and mechanical delays encountered at places of origin and destination and intermediate stops.

(3) Any known conditions that may adversely affect the safety of flight.

(d) Each pilot in command of an aircraft is, during flight time, in command of the aircraft and crew and is responsible for the safety of the passengers, crewmembers, cargo, and aircraft. The pilot in command has full control and authority in the operation of the aircraft, without limitation, over other crewmembers and their duties during flight time, whether or not he holds valid certificates authorizing him to perform the duties of those crewmembers.

(e) Each pilot in command of an aircraft is responsible for the preflight planning and the operation of the flight in compliance with this chapter and the operations specifications.

(f) No pilot may operate an aircraft, in a careless or reckless manner, so as to endanger life or property.
