
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 121 - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS: DOMESTIC, FLAG, AND SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS
##### Subpart V - Records and Reports
###### ยง 121.703 Service difficulty reports.
####### during flight

(b) For the purpose of this sectionmeans the period from the moment the aircraft leaves the surface of the earth on takeoff until it touches down on landing.

(c) In addition to the reports required by paragraph (a) of this section, each certificate holder shall report any other failure, malfunction, or defect in an aircraft that occurs or is detected at any time if, in its opinion, that failure, malfunction, or defect has endangered or may endanger the safe operation of an aircraft used by it.

(d) Each certificate holder shall submit each report required by this section, covering each 24-hour period beginning at 0900 local time of each day and ending at 0900 local time on the next day, to the FAA offices in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Each report of occurrences during a 24-hour period shall be submitted to the collection point within the next 96 hours. However, a report due on Saturday or Sunday may be submitted on the following Monday, and a report due on a holiday may be submitted on the next work day.

(e) The certificate holder shall submit the reports required by this section on a form or in another format acceptable to the Administrator. The reports shall include the following information:

(1) Type and identification number of the aircraft.

(2) The name of the operator.

(3) The date, flight number, and stage during which the incident occurred (e.g., preflight, takeoff, climb, cruise, descent landing, and inspection).

(4) The emergency procedure effected (e.g., unscheduled landing and emergency descent).

(5) The nature of the failure, malfunction, or defect.

(6) Identification of the part and system involved, including available information pertaining to type designation of the major component and time since overhaul.

(7) Apparent cause of the failure, malfunction, or defect (e.g., wear, crack, design deficiency, or personnel error).

(8) Whether the part was repaired, replaced, sent to the manufacturer, or other action taken.

(9) Whether the aircraft was grounded.

(10) Other pertinent information necessary for more complete identification, determination of seriousness, or corrective action.

(f) A certificate holder that is also the holder of a Type Certificate (including a Supplemental Type Certificate), a Parts Manufacturer Approval, or a Technical Standard Order Authorization, or that is the licensee of a type certificate holder, need not report a failure, malfunction, or defect under this section if the failure, malfunction, or defect has been reported by it under ยง 21.3 of this chapter or under the accident reporting provisions of 49 CFR part 830.

(g) No person may withhold a report required by this section even though all information required in this section is not available.

(h) When certificate holder gets additional information, including information from the manufacturer or other agency, concerning a report required by this section, it shall expeditiously submit it as a supplement to the first report and reference the date and place of submission of the first report.
