
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 121 - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS: DOMESTIC, FLAG, AND SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS
##### Subpart X - Emergency Medical Equipment and Training
###### ยง 121.805 Crewmember training for in-flight medical events.

(a) Each training program must provide the instruction set forth in this section with respect to each airplane type, model, and configuration, each required crewmember, and each kind of operation conducted, insofar as appropriate for each crewmember and the certificate holder.

(b) Training must provide the following:

(1) Instruction in emergency medical event procedures, including coordination among crewmembers.

(2) Instruction in the location, function, and intended operation of emergency medical equipment.

(3) Instruction to familiarize crewmembers with the content of the emergency medical kit.

(4) Instruction to familiarize crewmembers with the content of the emergency medical kit as modified on April 12, 2004.

(5) For each flight attendant-

(i) Instruction, to include performance drills, in the proper use of automated external defibrillators.

(ii) Instruction, to include performance drills, in cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

(iii) Recurrent training, to include performance drills, in the proper use of an automated external defibrillators and in cardiopulmonary resuscitation at least once every 24 months.

(c) The crewmember instruction, performance drills, and recurrent training required under this section are not required to be equivalent to the expert level of proficiency attained by professional emergency medical personnel.
