
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and Operations
#### PART 121 - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS: DOMESTIC, FLAG, AND SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS
##### Appendix F to Part 121 - Proficiency Check Requirements

(a) The maneuvers and procedures required by § 121.441 for pilot proficiency checks are set forth in this appendix. Except for the equipment examination, these maneuvers and procedures must be performed inflight. Certain maneuvers and procedures may be performed in an FFS or an FTD as indicated by the appropriate symbol in the respective column opposite the maneuver or procedure.

(b) Whenever a maneuver or procedure is authorized to be performed in an FTD, it may be performed in an FFS.

(c) A Level B or higher FFS may be used instead of the airplane to satisfy the inflight requirements if the FFS is approved under § 121.407 and is used as part of an approved program that meets the requirements for an Advanced Simulation Training Program in Appendix H of this part.

(d) For the purpose of this appendix, the following symbols mean-

B = Both Pilot in Command (PIC) and Second in Command (SIC).

W = May be waived for both PIC and SIC, except during a proficiency check conducted to qualify a PIC after completing an upgrade training curriculum in accordance with §§ 121.420 and 121.426.

* = A symbol and asterisk (B* or W*) indicates that a particular condition is specified in the maneuvers and procedures column.
