
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
##### Appendix G to Part 121 - Doppler Radar and Inertial Navigation System (INS): Request for Evaluation; Equipment and Equipment Installation; Training Program; Equipment Accuracy and Reliability; Evaluation Program
###### Application authority.

1.(a) An applicant for authority to use a Doppler Radar or Inertial Navigation System must submit a request for evaluation of the system to the responsible Flight Standards office charged with the overall inspection of its operations 30 days prior to the start of evaluation flights.

(b) The application must contain:

(1) A summary of experience with the system showing to the satisfaction of the Administrator a history of the accuracy and reliability of the system proposed to be used.

(2) A training program curriculum for initial approval under ยง 121.405.

(3) A maintenance program for compliance with subpart L of this part.

(4) A description of equipment installation.

(5) Proposed revisions to the Operations Manual outlining all normal and emergency procedures relative to use of the proposed system, including detailed methods for continuing the navigational function with partial or complete equipment failure, and methods for determining the most accurate system when an unusually large divergence between systems occurs. For the purpose of this appendix, a large divergence is a divergence that results in a track that falls beyond clearance limits.

(6) Any proposed revisions to the minimum equipment list with adequate justification therefor.

(7) A list of operations to be conducted using the system, containing an analysis of each with respect to length, magnetic compass reliability, availability of en route aids, and adequacy of gateway and terminal radio facilities to support the system. For the purpose of this appendix, a gateway is a specific navigational fix where use of long range navigation commences or terminates.
