
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
##### Appendix G to Part 121 - Doppler Radar and Inertial Navigation System (INS): Request for Evaluation; Equipment and Equipment Installation; Training Program; Equipment Accuracy and Reliability; Evaluation Program
###### Equipment and equipment installation-Inertial Navigation Systems,INS

3.(). (a) If an applicant elects to use an Inertial Navigation System it must be at least a dual system (including navigational computers and reference units). At least two systems must be operational at takeoff. The dual system may consist of either two INS units, or one INS unit and one Doppler Radar unit.

(b) Each Inertial Navigation System must incorporate the following:

(1) Valid ground alignment capability at all latitudes appropriate for intended use of the installation.

(2) A display of alignment status or a ready to navigate light showing completed alignment to the flight crew.

(3) The present position of the airplane in suitable coordinates.

(4) Information relative to destinations or waypoint positions:

(i) The information needed to gain and maintain a desired track and to determine deviations from the desired track.

(ii) The information needed to determine distance and time to go to the next waypoint or destination.

(c) For INS installations that do not have memory or other inflight alignment means, a separate electrical power source (independent of the main propulsion system) must be provided which can supply, for at least 5 minutes, enough power (as shown by analysis or as demonstrated in the airplane) to maintain the INS in such condition that its full capability is restored upon the reactivation of the normal electrical supply.

(d) The equipment must provide such visual, mechanical, or electrical output signals as may be required to permit the flight crew to detect probable failures or malfunctions in the system.
