
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
##### Appendix K to Part 121 - Performance Requirements for Certain Turbopropeller Powered Airplanes
###### Final Airplane Performance Operating Limitations.

5.

a. Through an amended type certification program or a supplemental type certification program, each airplane described in paragraph 1.a and 1.b.ii of this appendix must be shown to comply with the commuter category performance requirements specified in this appendix, which are included in part 23 of this chapter. Each new revision to a current airplane performance operating limitation for an airplane that is or has been demonstrated to comply, must also be approved by the Administrator. An airplane approved to the requirements of section 1.(b) of SFAR No. 41 of 14 CFR part 21, as described in paragraph 1.a.iv of this appendix, and that has been demonstrated to comply with the additional requirements of section 4.(c) of SFAR No. 41 of 14 CFR part 21 and International Civil Aviation Organization Annex 8 (available from the FAA, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591), will be considered to be in compliance with the commuter category performance requirements.

b. Each turbopropeller powered airplane subject to this appendix must be demonstrated to comply with the airplane performance operating limitation requirements of this chapter specified as follows:

i. Section 23.45 Performance General.

ii. Section 23.51 Takeoff.

iii. Section 23.53 Takeoff speeds.

iv. Section 23.55 Accelerate stop distance.

v. Section 23.57 Takeoff path.

vi. Section 23.59 Takeoff distance and takeoff run.

vii. Section 23.61 Takeoff flight path.

viii. Section 23.65 Climb: All engines operating.

ix. Section 23.67 Climb: one engine inoperative.

x. Section 23.75 Landing.

xi. Section 23.77 Balked landing.

xii. Sections 23.1581 through 23.1589 Airplane flight manual and approved manual material.
