
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
#### PART 129 - OPERATIONS: FOREIGN AIR CARRIERS AND FOREIGN OPERATORS OF U.S.-REGISTERED AIRCRAFT ENGAGED IN COMMON CARRIAGE
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 129.5 Operations specifications.

(a) Each foreign air carrier conducting operations within the United States, and each foreign air carrier or foreign person operating U.S.-registered aircraft solely outside the United States in common carriage must conduct its operations in accordance with operations specifications issued by the Administrator under this part.

(b) Each foreign air carrier conducting operations within the United States must conduct its operations in accordance with the Standards contained in Annex 1 (Personnel Licensing), Annex 6 (Operation of Aircraft), Part I (International Commercial Air Transport-Aeroplanes) or Part III (International Operations-Helicopters), as appropriate, and in Annex 8 (Airworthiness of Aircraft) to the Convention on International Civil Aviation.

(c) No foreign air carrier may operate to or from locations within the United States without, or in violation of, appropriate operations specifications.

(d) No foreign air carrier or foreign person shall operate U.S.-registered aircraft solely outside the United States in common carriage without, or in violation of, appropriate operations specifications.

(e) Each foreign air carrier must keep each of its employees and other persons used in its operations informed of the provisions of its operations specifications that apply to that employee's or person's duties and responsibilities.

(f) Operations specifications issued under this part are effective until-

(1) The foreign air carrier or foreign person surrenders them to the FAA;

(2) The Administrator suspends or terminates the operations specifications; or

(3) The operations specifications are amended as provided in ยง 129.11.

(g) Within 30 days after a foreign air carrier or foreign person terminates operations under part 129 of this subchapter, the operations specifications must be surrendered by the foreign air carrier or foreign person to the responsible Flight Standards office.

(h) No person operating under this part may operate or list on its operations specifications any airplane listed on operations specifications issued under part 125 of this chapter.
