
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
#### PART 133 - ROTORCRAFT EXTERNAL-LOAD OPERATIONS
##### Subpart B - Certification Rules
###### ยง 133.21 Personnel.

(a) The applicant must hold, or have available the services of at least one person who holds, a current commercial or airline transport pilot certificate, with a rating appropriate for the rotorcraft prescribed in ยง 133.19, issued by the Administrator.

(b) The applicant must designate one pilot, who may be the applicant, as chief pilot for rotorcraft external-load operations. The applicant also may designate qualified pilots as assistant chief pilots to perform the functions of the chief pilot when the chief pilot is not readily available. The chief pilot and assistant chief pilots must be acceptable to the Administrator and each must hold a current Commercial or Airline Transport Pilot Certificate, with a rating appropriate for the rotorcraft prescribed in ยง 133.19.

(c) The holder of a Rotorcraft External-Load Operator Certificate shall report any change in designation of chief pilot or assistant chief pilot immediately to the responsible Flight Standards office. The new chief pilot must be designated and must comply with ยง 133.23 within 30 days or the operator may not conduct further operations under the Rotorcraft External-Load Operator Certificate unless otherwise authorized by the responsible Flight Standards office.
