
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
#### PART 133 - ROTORCRAFT EXTERNAL-LOAD OPERATIONS
##### Subpart B - Certification Rules
###### ยง 133.23 Knowledge and skill.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the applicant, or the chief pilot designated in accordance with ยง 133.21(b), must demonstrate to the Administrator satisfactory knowledge and skill regarding rotorcraft external-load operations as set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(b) The test of knowledge (which may be oral or written, at the option of the applicant) covers the following subjects:

(1) Steps to be taken before starting operations, including a survey of the flight area.

(2) Proper method of loading, rigging, or attaching the external load.

(3) Performance capabilities, under approved operating procedures and limitations, of the rotorcraft to be used.

(4) Proper instructions of flight crew and ground workers.

(5) Appropriate rotorcraft-load combination flight manual.

(c) The test of skill requires appropriate maneuvers for each class requested. The appropriate maneuvers for each load class must be demonstrated in the rotorcraft prescribed in ยง 133.19.

(1) Takeoffs and landings.

(2) Demonstration of directional control while hovering.

(3) Acceleration from a hover.

(4) Flight at operational airspeeds.

(5) Approaches to landing or working area.

(6) Maneuvering the external load into the release position.

(7) Demonstration of winch operation, if a winch is installed to hoist the external load.

(d) Compliance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section need not be shown if the Administrator finds, on the basis of the applicant's (or his designated chief pilot's) previous experience and safety record in rotorcraft external-load operations, that his knowledge and skill are adequate.
