
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
#### PART 133 - ROTORCRAFT EXTERNAL-LOAD OPERATIONS
##### Subpart D - Airworthiness Requirements
###### § 133.45 Operating limitations.

In addition to the operating limitations set forth in the approved Rotorcraft Flight Manual, and to any other limitations the Administrator may prescribe, the operator shall establish at least the following limitations and set them forth in the Rotorcraft-Load Combination Flight Manual for rotorcraft-load combination operations:

(a) The rotorcraft-load combination may be operated only within the weight and center of gravity limitations established in accordance with § 133.43(c).

(b) The rotorcraft-load combination may not be operated with an external load weight exceeding that used in showing compliance with §§ 133.41 and 133.43.

(c) The rotorcraft-load combination may not be operated at airspeeds greater than those established in accordance with § 133.41 (b), (c), and (d).

(d) No person may conduct an external-load operation under this part with a rotorcraft type certificated in the restricted category under § 21.25 of this chapter over a densely populated area, in a congested airway, or near a busy airport where passenger transport operations are conducted.

(e) The rotorcraft-load combination of Class D may be conducted only in accordance with the following:

(1) The rotorcraft to be used must have been type certificated under transport Category A for the operating weight and provide hover capability with one engine inoperative at that operating weight and altitude.

(2) The rotorcraft must be equipped to allow direct radio intercommunication among required crewmembers.

(3) The personnel lifting device must be FAA approved.

(4) The lifting device must have an emergency release requiring two distinct actions.
