
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Procedural Rules
#### PART 15 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT
##### Subpart A - General Procedures
###### ยง 15.7 Administrative claims; evidence and information to be submitted.
####### Personal injury.

(b)In support of a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:

(1) A written report by the attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injuries, nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability, the prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity.

(2) In addition to the report required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the claimant may be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed by the FAA or another Federal agency. A copy of the report of the examining physician is made available to the claimant upon the claimant's written request if the claimant has, upon request, furnished the report required by paragraph (b)(1), and has made or agrees to make available to the FAA any other physician's reports previously or thereafter made on the physical or mental condition which is the subject matter of the claim.

(3) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.

(4) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement of expected expenses for such treatment.

(5) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from the claimant's employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether the claimant is a full or part-time employee, and wages or salary actually lost.

(6) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings actually lost.

(7) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
