
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
#### PART 139 - CERTIFICATION OF AIRPORTS
##### Subpart D - Operations
###### § 139.339 Airport condition reporting.

In a manner authorized by the Administrator, each certificate holder must-

(a) Provide for the collection and dissemination of airport condition information to air carriers.

(b) In complying with paragraph (a) of this section, use the NOTAM system, as appropriate, and other systems and procedures authorized by the Administrator.

(c) In complying with paragraph (a) of this section, provide information on the following airport conditions that may affect the safe operations of air carriers:

(1) Construction or maintenance activity on movement areas, safety areas, or loading ramps and parking areas.

(2) Surface irregularities on movement areas, safety areas, or loading ramps and parking areas.

(3) Snow, ice, slush, or water on the movement area or loading ramps and parking areas.

(4) Snow piled or drifted on or near movement areas contrary to § 139.313.

(5) Objects on the movement area or safety areas contrary to § 139.309.

(6) Malfunction of any lighting system, holding position signs, or ILS critical area signs required by § 139.311.

(7) Unresolved wildlife hazards as identified in accordance with § 139.337.

(8) Nonavailability of any rescue and firefighting capability required in §§ 139.317 or 139.319.

(9) Any other condition as specified in the Airport Certification Manual or that may otherwise adversely affect the safe operations of air carriers.

(d) Each certificate holder must prepare and keep, for at least 12 consecutive calendar months, a record of each dissemination of airport condition information to air carriers prescribed by this section.

(e) FAA Advisory Circulars contain methods and procedures for using the NOTAM system and the dissemination of airport information that are acceptable to the Administrator.
