
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter H - Schools and Other Certificated Agencies
#### PART 141 - PILOT SCHOOLS
##### Appendix H to Part 141 - Ground Instructor Certification Course
###### Aeronautical knowledge training.

2.(a) Each approved course must include at least the following ground training on the knowledge areas listed in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section, appropriate to the ground instructor rating for which the course applies:

(1) 20 hours of training if the course is for an initial issuance of a ground instructor certificate; or

(2) 10 hours of training if the course is for an additional ground instructor rating.

(b) Ground training must include the following aeronautical knowledge areas:

(1) Learning process;

(2) Elements of effective teaching;

(3) Student evaluation and testing;

(4) Course development;

(5) Lesson planning; and

(6) Classroom training techniques.

(c) Ground training for a basic ground instructor certificate must include the aeronautical knowledge areas applicable to a recreational and private pilot.

(d) Ground training for an advanced ground instructor rating must include the aeronautical knowledge areas applicable to a recreational, private, commercial, and airline transport pilot.

(e) Ground training for an instrument ground instructor rating must include the aeronautical knowledge areas applicable to an instrument rating.

(f) A student who satisfactorily completed 2 years of study on the principles of education at a college or university may be credited with 10 hours of the training required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
