
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter H - Schools and Other Certificated Agencies
#### PART 141 - PILOT SCHOOLS
##### Appendix M to Part 141 - Combined Private Pilot Certification and Instrument Rating Course
###### For an airplane single engine course:

(1)70 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor on the approved areas of operation in paragraph (d)(1) of this section that includes at least-

(i) Except as provided in ยง 61.111 of this chapter, 3 hours of cross-country flight training in a single engine airplane.

(ii) 3 hours of night flight training in a single-engine airplane that includes-

(A) One cross-country flight of more than 100 nautical miles total distance.

(B) 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport.

(iii) 35 hours of instrument flight training in a single-engine airplane that includes at least one cross-country flight that is performed under IFR and-

(A) Is a distance of at least 250 nautical miles along airways or air traffic control-directed (ATC-directed) routing with one segment of the flight consisting of at least a straight-line distance of 100 nautical miles between airports.

(B) Involves an instrument approach at each airport.

(C) Involves three different kinds of approaches with the use of navigation systems.

(iv) 3 hours of flight training in a single-engine airplane in preparation for the practical test within 60 days preceding the date of the test.
