
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter H - Schools and Other Certificated Agencies
#### PART 142 - TRAINING CENTERS
##### Subpart B - Aircrew Curriculum and Syllabus Requirements
###### ยง 142.37 Approval of flight aircrew training program.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each applicant for, or holder of, a training center certificate must apply to the Administrator for training program approval.

(b) A curriculum approved under SFAR 58 of part 121 of this chapter is approved under this part without modifications.

(c) Application for training program approval shall be made in a form and in a manner acceptable to the Administrator.

(d) Each application for training program approval must indicate-

(1) Which courses are part of the core curriculum and which courses are part of the specialty curriculum;

(2) Which requirements of part 61 of this chapter would be satisfied by the curriculum or curriculums; and

(3) Which requirements of part 61 of this chapter would not be satisfied by the curriculum or curriculums.

(e) If, after a certificate holder begins operations under an approved training program, the Administrator finds that the certificate holder is not meeting the provisions of its approved training program, the Administrator may require the certificate holder to make revisions to that training program.

(f) If the Administrator requires a certificate holder to make revisions to an approved training program and the certificate holder does not make those required revisions, within 30 calendar days, the Administrator may suspend, revoke, or terminate the training center certificate under the provisions of ยง 142.11(e).
