
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter H - Schools and Other Certificated Agencies
#### PART 142 - TRAINING CENTERS
##### Subpart C - Personnel and Flight Training Equipment Requirements
###### § 142.47 Training center instructor eligibility requirements.

(a) A certificate holder may not employ a person as an instructor in a flight training course that is subject to approval by the Administrator unless that person-

(1) Is at least 18 years of age;

(2) Is able to read, write, and speak and understand in the English language;

(3) If instructing in an aircraft in flight, is qualified in accordance with subpart H of part 61 of this chapter;

(4) Satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section; and

(5) Meets at least one of the following requirements-

(i) Except as allowed by paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section, meets the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.129 (a), (b), (c), or (e) of this chapter, as applicable, excluding the required hours of instruction in preparation for the commercial pilot practical test;

(ii) If instructing in flight simulator or flight training device that represents an airplane requiring a type rating or if instructing in a curriculum leading to the issuance of an airline transport pilot certificate or an added rating to an airline transport pilot certificate, meets the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159, § 61.161, or § 61.163 of this chapter, as applicable; or

(iii) Is employed as a flight simulator instructor or a flight training device instructor for a training center providing instruction and testing to meet the requirements of part 61 of this chapter on August 1, 1996.

(b) A training center must designate each instructor in writing to instruct in each approved course, prior to that person functioning as an instructor in that course.

(c) Prior to initial designation, each instructor shall:

(1) Complete at least 8 hours of ground training on the following subject matter:

(i) Instruction methods and techniques.

(ii) Training policies and procedures.

(iii) The fundamental principles of the learning process.

(iv) Instructor duties, privileges, responsibilities, and limitations.

(v) Proper operation of simulation controls and systems.

(vi) Proper operation of environmental control and warning or caution panels.

(vii) Limitations of simulation.

(viii) Minimum equipment requirements for each curriculum.

(ix) Revisions to the training courses.

(x) Cockpit resource management and crew coordination.

(2) Satisfactorily complete a written test-

(i) On the subjects specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and

(ii) That is accepted by the Administrator as being of equivalent difficulty, complexity, and scope as the tests provided by the Administrator for the flight instructor airplane and instrument flight instructor knowledge tests.
