
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter H - Schools and Other Certificated Agencies
#### PART 145 - REPAIR STATIONS
##### Subpart C - Housing, Facilities, Equipment, Materials, and Data
###### ยง 145.107 Satellite repair stations.

(a) A certificated repair station under the managerial control of another certificated repair station may operate as a satellite repair station with its own certificate issued by the FAA. A satellite repair station-

(1) May not hold a rating not held by the certificated repair station with managerial control;

(2) Must meet the requirements for each rating it holds;

(3) Must submit a repair station manual acceptable to the FAA as required by ยง 145.207; and

(4) Must submit a quality control manual acceptable to the FAA as required by ยง 145.211(c).

(b) Unless the FAA indicates otherwise, personnel and equipment from the certificated repair station with managerial control and from each of the satellite repair stations may be shared. However, inspection personnel must be designated for each satellite repair station and available at the satellite repair station any time a determination of airworthiness or return to service is made. In other circumstances, inspection personnel may be away from the premises but must be available by telephone, radio, or other electronic means.

(c) A satellite repair station may not be located in a country other than the domicile country of the certificated repair station with managerial control.
