
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 150 - AIRPORT NOISE COMPATIBILITY PLANNING
##### Subpart B - Development of Noise Exposure Maps and Noise Compatibility Programs
###### ยง 150.23 Noise compatibility programs.

(a) Any airport operator who has submitted an acceptable noise exposure map under ยง 150.21 may, after FAA notice of acceptability and other consultation and public procedure specified under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, as applicable, submit to the Regional Airports Division Manager five copies of a noise compatibility program.

(b) An airport operator may submit the noise compatibility program at the same time as the noise exposure map. In this case, the Regional Airports Division Manager will not begin the statutory 180-day review period (for the program) until after FAA reviews the noise exposure map and finds that it and its supporting documentation are in compliance with the applicable requirements.

(c) Each noise compatibility program must be developed and prepared in accordance with appendix B of this part, or an FAA approved equivalent, and in consultation with FAA regional officials, the officials of the state and of any public agencies and planning agencies whose area, or any portion or whose area, of jurisdiction within the L65 dB noise contours is depicted on the noise exposure map, and other Federal officials having local responsibility of land uses depicted on the map. Consultation with FAA regional officials shall include, to the extent practicable, informal agreement from FAA on proposed new or modified flight procedures. For air carrier airports, consultation must include any air carriers and, to the extent practicable, other aircraft operators using the airport. For other airports, consultation must include, to the extent practicable, aircraft operators using the airport.

(d) Prior to and during the development of a program, and prior to submission of the resulting draft program to the FAA, the airport operator shall afford adequate opportunity for the active and direct participation of the States, public agencies and planning agencies in the areas surrounding the airport, aeronautical users of the airport, the airport operator, and the general public to submit their views, data, and comments on the formulation and adequacy of that program. Prior to submitting the program to the FAA, the airport operator shall also provide notice and the opportunity for a public hearing.

(e) Each noise compatibility program submitted to the FAA must consist of at least the following:

(1) A copy of the noise exposure map and its supporting documentation as found in compliance with the applicable requirements by the FAA, per ยง 150.21(c).

(2) A description and analysis of the alternative measures considered by the airport operator in developing the program, together with a discussion of why each rejected measure was not included in the program.

(3) Program measures proposed to reduce or eliminate present and future noncompatible land uses and a description of the relative contribution of each of the proposed measures to the overall effectiveness of the program.

(4) A description of public participation and the consultation with officials of public agencies and planning agencies in areas surrounding the airport, FAA regional officials and other Federal officials having local responsibility for land uses depicted on the map, any air carriers and other users of the airport.

(5) The actual or anticipated effect of the program on reducing noise exposure to individuals and noncompatible land uses and preventing the introduction of additional noncompatible uses within the area covered by the noise exposure map. The effects must be based on expressed assumptions concerning the type and frequency of aircraft operations, number of nighttime operations, flight patterns, airport layout including planned airport development, planned land use changes, and demographic changes within the L65 dB noise contours.

(6) A description of how the proposed future actions may change any noise control or compatibility plans or actions previously adopted by the airport proprietor.

(7) A summary of the comments at any public hearing on the program and a copy of all written material submitted to the operator under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, together with the operator's response and disposition of those comments and materials to demonstrate the program is feasible and reasonably consistent with obtaining the objectives of airport noise compatibility planning under this part.

(8) The period covered by the program, the schedule for implementation of the program, the persons responsible for implementation of each measure in the program, and, for each measure, documentation supporting the feasibility of implementation, including any essential governmental actions, costs, and anticipated sources of funding, that will demonstrate that the program is reasonably consistent with achieving the goals of airport noise compatibility planning under this part.

(9) Provision for revising the program if made necessary by revision of the noise exposure map.
