
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 150 - AIRPORT NOISE COMPATIBILITY PLANNING
##### Subpart C - Evaluations and Determinations of Effects of Noise Compatibility Programs
###### ยง 150.31 Preliminary review: Acknowledgments.

(a) Upon receipt of a noise compatibility program submitted under ยง 150.23, the Regional Airports Division Manager acknowledges to the airport operator receipt of the program and conducts a preliminary review of the submission.

(b) If, based on the preliminary review, the Regional Airports Division Manager finds that the submission does not conform to the requirements of this part, he disapproves and returns the unacceptable program to the airport operator for reconsideration and development of a program in accordance with this part.

(c) If, based on the preliminary review, the Regional Airports Division Manager finds that the program conforms to the requirements of this part, the Regional Airports Division Manager publishes in thea notice of receipt of the program for comment which indicates the following:

(1) The airport covered by the program, and the date of receipt.

(2) The availability of the program for examination in the offices of the Regional Airports Division Manager and the airport operator.

(3) That comments on the program are invited and, will be considered by the FAA.

(d) The date of signature of the published notice of receipt starts the 180-day approval period for the program.
