
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 150 - AIRPORT NOISE COMPATIBILITY PLANNING
##### Subpart C - Evaluations and Determinations of Effects of Noise Compatibility Programs
###### ยง 150.33 Evaluation of programs.

(a) The FAA conducts an evaluation of each noise compatibility program and, based on that evaluation, either approves or disapproves the program. The evaluation includes consideration of proposed measures to determine whether they-

(1) May create an undue burden on interstate or foreign commerce (including unjust discrimination);

(2) Are reasonably consistent with obtaining the goal of reducing existing noncompatible land uses and preventing the introduction of additional noncompatible land uses; and

(3) Include the use of new or modified flight procedures to control the operation of aircraft for purposes of noise control, or affect flight procedures in any way.

(b) The evaluation may also include an evaluation of those proposed measures to determine whether they may adversely affect the exercise of the authority and responsibilities of the Administrator under the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended.

(c) To the extent considered necessary, the FAA may-

(1) Confer with the airport operator and other persons known to have information and views material to the evaluation;

(2) Explore the objectives of the program and the measures, and any alternative measures, for achieving the objectives.

(3) Examine the program for developing a range of alternatives that would eliminate the reasons, if any, for disapproving the program.

(4) Convene an informal meeting with the airport operator and other persons involved in developing or implementing the program for the purposes of gathering all facts relevant to the determination of approval or disapproval of the program and of discussing any needs to accommodate or modify the program as submitted.

(d) If requested by the FAA, the airport operator shall furnish all information needed to complete FAA's review under (c).

(e) An airport operator may, at any time before approval or disapproval of a program, withdraw or revise the program. If the airport operator withdraws or revises the program or indicates to the Regional Airports Division Manager, in writing, the intention to revise the program, the Regional Airports Division Manager terminates the evaluation and notifies the airport operator of that action. That termination cancels the 180-day review period. The FAA does not evaluate a second program for any airport until any previously submitted program has been withdrawn or a determination on it is issued. A new evaluation is commenced upon receipt of a revised program, and a new 180-day approval period is begun, unless the Regional Airports Division Manager finds that the modification made, in light of the overall revised program, can be integrated into the unmodified portions of the revised program without exceeding the original 180-day approval period or causing undue expense to the government.
