
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 150 - AIRPORT NOISE COMPATIBILITY PLANNING
##### Subpart C - Evaluations and Determinations of Effects of Noise Compatibility Programs
###### ยง 150.35 Determinations; publications; effectivity.

(a) The FAA issues a determination approving or disapproving each airport noise compatibility program (and revised program). Portions of a program may be individually approved or disapproved. No conditional approvals will be issued. A determination on a program acceptable under this part is issued within 180 days after the program is received under ยง 150.23 of this part or it may be considered approved, except that this time period may be exceeded for any portion of a program relating to the use of flight procedures for noise control purposes. A determination on portions of a program covered by the exceptions to the 180-day review period for approval will be issued within a reasonable time after receipt of the program. Determinations relating to the use of any flight procedure for noise control purposes may be issued either in connection with the determination on other portions of the program or separately. Except as provided by this paragraph, no approval of any noise compatibility program, or any portion of a program, may be implied in the absence of the FAA's express approval.

(b) The Administrator approves programs under this part, if-

(1) It is found that the program measures to be implemented would not create an undue burden on interstate or foreign commerce (including any unjust discrimination) and are reasonably consistent with achieving the goals of reducing existing noncompatible land uses around the airport and of preventing the introduction of additional noncompatible land uses;

(2) The program provides for revision if made necessary by the revision of the noise map; and

(3) Those aspects of programs relating to the use of flight procedures for noise control can be implemented within the period covered by the program and without-

(i) Reducing the level of aviation safety provided;

(ii) Derogating the requisite level of protection for aircraft, their occupants and persons and property on the ground;

(iii) Adversely affecting the efficient use and management of the Navigable Airspace and Air Traffic Control Systems; or

(iv) Adversely affecting any other powers and responsibilities of the Administrator prescribed by law or any other program, standard, or requirement established in accordance with law.

(c) When a determination is issued, the Regional Airports Division Manager notifies the airport operator and publishes a notice of approval or disapproval in theidentifying the nature and extent of the determination.

(d) Approvals issued under this part for a program or portion thereof become effective as specified therein and may be withdrawn when one of the following occurs:

(1) The program or portion thereof is required to be revised under this part or under its own terms, and is not so revised;

(2) If a revision has been submitted for approval, a determination is issued on the revised program or portion thereof, that is inconsistent with the prior approval.

(3) A term or condition of the program, or portion thereof, or its approval is violated by the responsible government body.

(4) A flight procedure or other FAA action upon which the approved program or portion thereof is dependent is subsequently disapproved, significantly altered, or rescinded by the FAA.

(5) The airport operator requests rescission of the approval.

(6) Impacts on flight procedures, air traffic management, or air commerce occur which could not be foreseen at the time of approval.

(e) Determinations may contain conditions which must be satisfied prior to implementation of any portion of the program relating to flight procedures affecting airport or aircraft operations.

(f) Noise exposure maps for current and forecast year map conditions that are submitted and approved with noise compatibility programs are considered to be the new FAA accepted noise exposure maps for purposes of part 150.
