
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 151 - FEDERAL AID TO AIRPORTS
##### Subpart B - Rules and Procedures for Airport Development Projects
###### ยง 151.21 Procedures: Application; general information.

(a) An eligible sponsor that desires to obtain Federal aid for eligible airport development must submit to the Area Manager of the area in which the sponsor is located (hereinafter in this part referred to as the "Area Manager"), a request on FAA Form 5100-3, accompanied by-

(1) The sponsor's written statement as to whether the proposed project involves the displacement and relocation of persons residing on land physically acquired or to be acquired for the project development; and

(2) The sponsor's written assurance, if the project involves displacement and relocation of such persons, that adequate replacement housing will be available or provided for (built, if necessary), without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, before the execution of a grant agreement for the project.

(b) A proposed project is selected for inclusion in a program only if the sponsor has submitted a written assurance when required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or if the Administrator has determined that the project does not involve the displacement and relocation of persons residing on land to be physically acquired or to be acquired for the project development. If the Administrator selects a proposed project for inclusion in a program, a tentative allocation of funds is made for it and the sponsor is notified of the allocation. The tentative allocation may be withdrawn if the sponsor fails to submit an acceptable project application as provided in paragraph (c) of this section or fails to proceed diligently with the project, or if adequate replacement housing is not available or provided for in accordance with a written assurance when required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(c) As soon as practicable after receiving notice of the tentative allocation, the sponsor must submit a project application on FAA Form 1624 to the Area Manager, without changing the language of the form, unless the change is approved in advance by the Administrator. In the case of a joint project, each sponsor executes only those provisions of the project application that apply to it. A sponsor who has executed a grant agreement for a project for the development of an airport under the Program, may, in the Administrator's discretion, submit additional project applications on FAA Form 1624 for further development of that airport.
