
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 151 - FEDERAL AID TO AIRPORTS
##### Subpart B - Rules and Procedures for Airport Development Projects
###### ยง 151.25 Procedures: Application; information as to property interests.

(a) Each sponsor must state in its application all of the property interests that he holds in the lands to be developed or used as part of, or in connection with, the airport as it will be when the project is completed. Each project application contains a covenant on the part of the sponsor to acquire, before starting construction work, or within a reasonable time if not needed for the construction, property interests satisfactory to the Administrator in all the lands in which it does not hold those property interests at the time it submits the application. In the case of a joint project, any one or more of the sponsors may hold or acquire the necessary property interests. In such a case, each sponsor may show on its application only those property interests that it holds or is to acquire.

(b) Each sponsor of a project must send with its application a property map (designated as Exhibit A) or incorporate such a map by reference to one in a previous application that was approved. The sponsor must clearly identify on the map all property interests required in paragraph (a) of this section, showing prior and proposed acquisitions for which United States aid is requested under the project.

(c) For the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the property interest that the sponsor must have or agree to obtain, is-

(1) Title free and clear of any reversionary interest, lien, easement, lease, or other encumbrance that, in the opinion of the Administrator, would create an undue risk that it might deprive the sponsor of possession or control, interfere with its use for public airport purposes, or make it impossible for the sponsor to carry out the agreements and covenants in the application;

(2) A lease of not less than 20 years granted to the sponsor by another public agency that has title as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, on terms that the Administrator considers satisfactory; or

(3) In the case of an offsite area an agreement, easement, leasehold, or other right or property interest that, in the Administrator's opinion, provides reasonable assurance that the sponsor will not be deprived of its right to use the land for the intended purpose during the period necessary to meet the requirements of the grant agreement.

(d) For the purposes of this section, the word "land" includes landing areas, building areas, runway clear zones, clearways and approach zones, and areas required for offsite construction, entrance roads, drainage, protection of approaches, installation of air navigation facilities, or other airport purposes.
