
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 151 - FEDERAL AID TO AIRPORTS
##### Subpart B - Rules and Procedures for Airport Development Projects
###### ยง 151.33 Cosponsorship and agency.

(a) Any two or more public agencies that desire to participate either in accomplishing development under a project or in maintaining or operating the airport, may cosponsor it if they meet the requirements of subparts B and C, including-

(1) The eligibility requirements of ยง 151.37; and

(2) The submission of a single project application, executed by each sponsor, clearly stating the certifications, representations, warranties, and obligations made or assumed by each, or a separate application by each that does not meet all the requirements of subparts B and C if in the Administrator's opinion, the applications collectively meet the requirements of subparts B and C as applied to a project with a single sponsor.

(b) A public agency that desires to participate in a project only by contributing funds to a sponsor need not become a sponsor or an agent of the sponsor, as provided in this section. However, any funds that it contributes are considered as funds of the sponsor for the purposes of the Federal Airport Act and this part.

(c) If the sponsors of a joint project are not each willing to assume, jointly and severally, the obligations that subparts B and C requires a sponsor to assume, they must send a true copy of an agreement between them, satisfactory to the Administrator, to be incorporated into the grant agreement. Each agreement must state-

(1) The responsibilities of each sponsor to the others with respect to accomplishing the proposed development and operating and maintaining the airport;

(2) The obligations that each will assume to the United States; and

(3) The name of the sponsor or sponsors who will accept, receipt for, and disburse grant payments.

(d) A public agency may, if it is authorized by local law, act as agent of the public agency that is to own and operate the airport, with or without participating financially and without becoming a sponsor. The terms and conditions of the agency and the agent's authority to act for the sponsor must be set forth in an agency agreement that is satisfactory to the Administrator. The sponsor must submit a true copy of the agreement with the project application. Such an agent may accept, on behalf of the sponsor, an offer made under ยง 151.29, only if that acceptance has been specifically and legally authorized by the sponsor's governing body and the authority is specifically set forth in the agency agreement.

(e) When the cosponsors of an airport are not located in the same area, they must submit a joint request to the Area Manager of the area in which the airport development will be located.
