
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 151 - FEDERAL AID TO AIRPORTS
##### Subpart B - Rules and Procedures for Airport Development Projects
###### § 151.45 Performance of construction work: General requirements.

(a) All construction work under a project must be performed under contract, except in a case where the Administrator determines that the project, or a part of it, can be more effectively and economically accomplished on a force account basis by the sponsor or by another public agency acting for or as agent of the sponsor.

(b) Each contract under a project must meet the requirements of local law.

(c) No sponsor may issue any change order under any of its construction contracts or enter into a supplemental agreement unless three copies of that order or agreement have been sent to and approved by the Area Manager. §§ 151.47 and 151.49 apply to supplemental agreements as well as to original contracts.

(d) This section and §§ 151.47 through 151.49 do not apply to contracts with the owners of airport hazards, (as described in § 151.39(b)), buildings, pipe lines, power lines, or other structures or facilities, for installing, extending, changing, removing, or relocating that structure or facility. However, the sponsor must obtain the approval of the Area Manager before entering into such a contract.

(e) No sponsor may allow a contractor or subcontractor to begin work under a project until-

(1) The sponsor has furnished three conformed copies of the contract to the Area Manager; and

(2) The Area Manager agrees to the issuance of a notice to proceed with the work to the contractor. However, the Area Manager does not agree to the issuance of such a notice unless he is satisfied that adequate replacement housing is available and has been offered to affected persons, as required for project eligibility by § 151.39(a)(5).

(f) Except when the Area Manager determines that the sponsor has previously demonstrated satisfactory engineering and construction supervision and inspection, no sponsor may allow a contractor or subcontractor to begin work, nor may the sponsor begin force account work, until the sponsor has notified the Area Manager in writing that engineering and construction supervision and inspection have been arranged to insure that construction will conform to FAA approved plans and specifications, and that the sponsor has caused a review to be made of the qualifications of personnel who will be performing such supervision and inspection and is satisfied that they are qualified to do so.
