
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 151 - FEDERAL AID TO AIRPORTS
##### Subpart B - Rules and Procedures for Airport Development Projects
###### ยง 151.47 Performance of construction work: Letting of contracts.
####### Use and effectiveness of the Secretary of Labor's wage determinations.

(d)(1) Wage determinations are effective only for 120 days from the date of the determinations. If it appears that a determination may expire between bid opening and award, the sponsor shall so advise the FAA as soon as possible. If he wishes a new request for wage determination to be made and if any pertinent circumstances have changed, he shall submit a new Form DB-11 and accompanying information. If he claims that the determination expires before award and after bid opening due to unavoidable circumstances, he shall submit proof of the facts which he claims support a finding to that effect.

(2) The Secretary of Labor may modify any wage determination before the award of the contract or contracts for which it was sought. If the proposed contract is awarded on the basis of public advertisement and open competitive bidding, any modification that the FAA receives less than 10 days before the opening of bids is not effective, unless the Administrator finds that there is reasonable time to notify bidders. A modification may not continue in effect beyond the effective period of the wage determination to which it relates. The Administrator sends any modification to the sponsor as soon as possible. If the modification is effective, it must be incorporated in the invitation for bids, by issuing an addendum to the specifications or otherwise.
