
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 151 - FEDERAL AID TO AIRPORTS
##### Subpart B - Rules and Procedures for Airport Development Projects
###### ยง 151.67 Forms.

(a) The various forms used for the purposes of subparts B and C are as follows:

(1) Requests for Federal-aid, FAA Form 5100-3: Contains a statement requesting Federal-aid in carrying out a project under the Federal Airport Act, with appropriate spaces for inserting information needed for considering the request, including the location of the airport, the amount of funds available to the sponsor, a description of the proposed work, and its estimated cost.

(2) Project application, Form FAA-1624: A formal application for Federal-aid to carry out a project under this part. It contains four parts:

(i) Part I-For pertinent information regarding the airport and proposed work included in the project.

(ii) Part II-For incorporating the representations of the sponsor relating to its legal authority to undertake the project, the availability of funds for its share of the project costs, approvals of other non-United States agencies, the existence of any default on the compliance requirements of ยง 151.77(a), possible disabilities, and the ownership of lands and interests in lands to be used in carrying out the project and operating the airport.

(iii) Part III-For incorporating the sponsor's assurances regarding the operation and maintenance of the airport, further development of the airport, and the acquisition of any additional interests in lands that may be needed to carry out the project or for operating the airport.

(iv) Part IV-For a statement of the sponsor's acceptance, to be executed by the sponsor and certificated by its attorney.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) Grant agreement, Form FAA-1632:

(i) Part I-Offer by the United States to pay a specified percentage of the allowable costs of the project, as described therein, on specified terms relating to the undertaking and carrying out of the project, determination of allowability of costs, payment of the United States share, and operation and maintenance of the airport in accordance with assurances in the proj- ect application.

(ii) Part II-Acceptance of the offer by the sponsor, execution of the acceptance by the sponsor, and certification by its attorney.

(5) Periodic cost estimate, Form FAA-1629: a certification to be executed by the contractor, with space for information regarding the progress of construction work as of a specific date, and the value of the completed work.

(6) Application for grant payment, FAA Form 5100-6: Application for payment under a grant agreement for work completed as of a specific date or to be completed by a specific date, with space for an appropriate breakdown of project costs among the categories shown therein, and certification provisions to be executed by the sponsor and the Area Manager.

(7) Summary of project costs, Form FAA-1630: For inserting the latest revised estimate of total project costs, the total costs incurred as of a specific date, an estimate of the aggregate of those total costs incurred to date and those to be incurred before a specific date in the future.

(b) Copies of the forms named in this section, and assistance in completing and executing them, are available from the Area Manager.
