
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 151 - FEDERAL AID TO AIRPORTS
##### Subpart C - Project Programming Standards
###### § 151.87 Lighting and electrical work: Standards.

(a)-(b) [Reserved]

(c) The number of runways that are eligible for lighting is the same as the number eligible for paving under § 151.77, § 151.79, or § 151.80.

(d) The installing of high intensity runway edge lighting is eligible on a designated instrument landing runway and any other runway with approved straight-in approach procedures. A runway that is eligible for lighting, but does not meet the requirements for 75 percent U.S. participation under § 151.43(d), is eligible for 50 percent U.S. participation in the costs of high intensity runway edge lighting (or the allowable percentage in § 151.43(c) for public land States), if the airport is served by a navigational aid that will allow using instrument approach procedures. If a runway is not eligible for 75 or 50 percent Federal participation in high intensity runway edge lighting but is otherwise eligible for runway lighting, the U.S. share of the cost of runway edge lighting is 50 percent of the cost of the lighting installed but not more than 50 percent of the cost of medium intensity lighting.

(e) In-runway lighting (touchdown zone lighting system, and centerline lighting system) is eligible on the designated instrument landing runway.

(f) Taxiways to eligible runways on airports served by transport aircraft are eligible for lighting. On airports serving only general aviation, the lighting of connecting taxiways is eligible if the runway served is lighted or is programed to be lighted. The lighting of a parallel taxiway is eligible if the taxiway is eligible for paving. Lighting of other taxiways is eligible or not, depending on the complexity of the taxiway system.

(g) Floodlighting of aprons is eligible if there is a proven need for it, including a showing of night operations where the runway is lighted.

(h) Any airport that is eligible to participate in the costs of runway lighting is eligible for the installing of an airport beacon, lighted wind indicator, obstruction lights, lighting control equipment, and other components of basic airport lighting, including separate transformer vaults and connection to the nearest available power source.

(i) The interconnection of two or more power sources on an airport property, the providing of second sources of power, and the installing of standby engine generators of reasonable capacity, are eligible under the program.

(j) Economy approach lighting aids are eligible for inclusion in a project at an airport that will not qualify within the next three years for approach lighting aids installed by FAA under the Facilities and Equipment Program if the economy approach lighting aids-

(1) Will correct a visual deficiency on one of the lighted runways of the airport; or

(2) Will permit operations at an airport at lower minimums.

(k) Appendix F of this part sets forth typical eligible and ineligible items of airport lighting covered by § 151.86 and this section.
