
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 152 - AIRPORT AID PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Requirements and Application Procedures
###### § 152.111 Application requirements: Airport development.
####### Preapplication for Federal assistance.

(b)A preapplication for Federal assistance must be submitted unless-

(1) The Federal fund request is for $100,000 or less; or,

(2) The project does not include construction, land acquisition, or land improvement.

(c) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, the preapplication required by paragraph (b) of this section must be accompanied by the following:

(1) A list of the items of airport development requested for programming, together with an itemized estimated cost of the work involved.

(2) A sketch or sketches of the airport layout indicating the location for each item of work proposed, using the same item numbers used in the list required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) If the proposed project involves the displacement of persons or the acquisition of real property, the assurances required by §§ 25.57 and 25.59, as applicable, of the Regulations of the Office of the Secretary of Transportation (49 CFR 25.57 and 25.59), whether or not reimbursement is being requested for the costs of displacement or real property acquisition.

(4) Any comments or statements required by appendix E, Procedures Implementing Office of Management and Budget Circular A-95, to this part, with a showing that they have been considered by the sponsor.
