
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 152 - AIRPORT AID PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Requirements and Application Procedures
###### ยง 152.111 Application requirements: Airport development.
####### et seq.

(6) If the proposed development is in an area of special flood hazard, a statement whether the community is participating in the National Flood Insurance Program (42 U.S.C. 4011).

(7) The sponsor's environmental assessment prepared in conformance with appendix 6 of FAA Order 1050.1C, "Policies and Procedures for Considering Environmental Impacts" (45 FR 2244; Jan. 10, 1980), and FAA Order 5050.4, "Airport Environmental Handbook" (45 FR 56624; Aug. 24, 1980), if an assessment is required by Order 5050.4. Copies of these orders may be examined in the Rules Docket, Office of the Chief Counsel, FAA, Washington, D.C., and may be obtained on request at any FAA regional office headquarters or any airports district office.

(8) A showing that the sponsor has complied with the public hearing requirements in ยง 152.117.

(9) In the case of a proposed new airport serving any area that does not include a metropolitan area, a showing that each community in which the proposed airport is to be located has approved the proposed airport site through the body having general legislative jurisdiction over it.

(10) In the case of a proposed project at an air carrier airport, a statement that the sponsor, in making the decision to undertake the project, has consulted with air carriers using the airport.

(11) In the case of a proposed project at a general aviation airport, a statement that the sponsor, in making the decision to undertake the project, has consulted with fixed-base operators using the airport.

(12) In the case of terminal development, a certification that the airport has, or will have, all safety and security equipment required for certification of the airport under part 139 and has provided, or will provide, for access to the passenger enplaning and deplaning area to passengers enplaning or deplaning from aircraft other than air carrier aircraft.
