
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 152 - AIRPORT AID PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Requirements and Application Procedures
###### ยง 152.111 Application requirements: Airport development.
####### Application for Federal assistance.

(e)As soon as practicable after receiving notice of a tentative allocation or, if a preapplication is not required (as provided in paragraph (b) of this section), an application for Federal assistance must be submitted.

(f) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, the application required by paragraph (e) of this section must be accompanied by the following:

(1) When a preapplication has not been previously submitted, the information required by paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) A property map of the airport showing-

(i) The property interests of each sponsor in all the lands to be developed or used as part of, or in connection with, the airport as it will be when the project is completed; and

(ii) All property interests acquired or to be acquired, for which U.S. aid is requested under the project.

(3) With respect to all lands to be developed or used as a part of, or in connection with, the airport (as it will be when the project is completed) in which a satisfactory property interest is not held by a sponsor, a covenant by the sponsor that it will obtain a satisfactory property interest before construction is begun or within a reasonable time if not needed for construction.

(4) If the proposed project involves the displacement of persons, the relocation plan required by ยง 25.55 of the Regulations of the Office of the Secretary of Transportation.

(5) When the project involves an airport location, a runway location, or a major runway extension, a written certification from the Governor of the state in which the project may be located (or a delegatee), providing reasonable assurance that the project will be located, designed, constructed, and operated so as to comply with applicable air and water quality standards.

(6) A statement whether any building, installation, structure, location, or site of operations to be utilized in the performance of the grant or any contract made pursuant to the grant appears on the list of violating facilities distributed by the Environmental Protection Agency under the provisions of the Clean Air Act and Federal Water Pollution Control Act (40 CFR part 15).

(7) The assurances on Civil Rights required by ยง 21.7 of the Regulations of the Office of the Secretary of Transportation (49 CFR 21.7) and ยง 152.405.

(8) Plans and specifications for the proposed development in accordance with the design and construction standards listed in appendix B to this part.

(9) The applicable assurances required by appendix D to this part.

(10) If cosponsors are not willing to assume, jointly and severally, the obligations imposed on them by this part and the grant agreement, a statement satisfactory to the Administrator indicating-

(i) The responsibilities of each sponsor with respect to the accomplishment of the proposed project and the operation and maintenance of the airport;

(ii) The obligations each will assume to the United States; and

(iii) The name of the sponsor or sponsors who will accept, receipt for, and disburse grant payments.
