
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 152 - AIRPORT AID PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Requirements and Application Procedures
###### ยง 152.117 Public hearings.

(a) Before submitting a preapplication for Federal assistance for an airport development project involving the location of an airport, an airport runway, or a runway extension, the sponsor must give notice of opportunity for a public hearing, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, for the purpose of-

(1) Considering the economic, social, and environmental effects of the location of the airport, the airport runway, or the runway extension; and

(2) Determining the consistency of the location with the goals and objectives of any urban planning that has been carried out by the community.

(b) The notice of opportunity for public hearing must-

(1) Include a concise statement of the proposed development;

(2) Be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the communities in or near which the project may be located;

(3) Provide a minimum of 30 days from the date of the notice for submission of requests for a hearing by persons having an interest in the economic, social, or environmental effects of the project; and

(4) State that a copy is available of the sponsor's environmental assessment, if one is required by appendix 6 of FAA Order 1050.1C, "Policies and Procedures for Considering Environmental Impacts" (45 FR 2244; Jan. 10, 1980), and FAA Order 5050.4, "Airport Environmental Handbook" (45 FR 56624; Aug. 25, 1980), and will remain available, at the sponsor's place of business for examination by the public for a minimum of 30 days, beginning with the date of the notice, before any hearing held under the notice.

(c) A public hearing must be provided if requested. If a public hearing is to be held, the sponsor must publish a notice of that fact, in the same newspaper in which the notice of opportunity for a hearing was published.

(d) The notice required by paragraph (c) of this section must-

(1) Be published not less than 15 days before the date set for the hearing;

(2) Specify the date, time, and place of the hearings;

(3) Contain a concise description of the proposed project; and

(4) Indicate where and at what time more detailed information may be obtained.

(e) If a public hearing is held, the sponsor must-

(1) Provide the Administrator a summary of the issues raised, the alternatives considered, the conclusion reached, and the reasons for that conclusion; and

(2) If requested by the Administrator before the hearing, prepare a verbatim transcript of the hearing for submission to the Administrator.

(f) If a hearing is not held the sponsor must submit with its preapplication a certification that notice of opportunity for a hearing has been provided in accordance with this section and that no request for a public hearing has been received.
