
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 152 - AIRPORT AID PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Nondiscrimination in Airport Aid Program
###### § 152.407 Affirmative action plan: General.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each of the following shall have an affirmative action plan that meets the requirements of § 152.409 and is kept on file for review by the FAA Office of Civil Rights:

(1) Each sponsor who employs 50 or more employees in its aviation workforce.

(2) Each planning Agency which employs 50 or more employees in its agency for aviation purposes.

(3) Each state political division, administering a grant under the AADA to develop standards for airport development at general aviation airports, which employs 50 or more employees in its aviation workforce.

(b) A grantee is in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section, if it is subject to, and keeps on file for review by the FAA Office of Civil Rights, one of the following:

(1) An affirmative action plan acceptable to another Federal agency.

(2) An affirmative action plan for a State or local agency that the covered organization certifies meets the standards in § 152.409.

(3) A conciliation agreement, consent decree, or court order which provides short and long-range goals for equal employment opportunity similar to those which would be established in an affirmative action plan meeting the standards in § 152.409.

(c) Each sponsor shall require each aviation related activity (other than construction contractors) which employs 50 or more employees on the airport to prepare, and keep on file for review by the FAA Office of Civil Rights, an affirmative action plan developed in accordance with the standards in § 152.409, unless the activity is subject to one of the mechanisms described in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section.

(d) Each sponsor shall require each aviation related activity described in paragraph (c) of this section to similarly require each of its covered suborganizations (other than construction contractors) which employs 50 or more employees on the airport to prepare, and to keep on file for review by the FAA Office of Civil Rights, an affirmative action plan developed in accordance with the standards in § 152.409, unless the suborganization is subject to one of the mechanisms described in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section.
