
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 152 - AIRPORT AID PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Nondiscrimination in Airport Aid Program
###### ยง 152.409 Affirmative action plan standards.

(a) Each affirmative action plan required by this subpart shall be developed in accordance with the following:

(1) An analysis of the employer's aviation workforce which groups employees into the following job categories:

(i) Officials and managers.

(ii) Professionals.

(iii) Technicians.

(iv) Sales workers.

(v) Office and clerical workers.

(vi) Craft workers (skilled).

(vii) Operatives (semi-skilled).

(viii) Laborers (unskilled).

(ix) Service workers.

(2) A comparison separately made of the percent of minorities and women in the employer's present aviation workforce (in each of the job categories listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section) with the percent of minorities and women in each of those categories in the total workforce located in the SMSA, or, in the absence of an SMSA, in the counties contiguous to the employer's location or the location where the work is to be performed and in the areas from which persons may reasonably be expected to commute. This data on the total workforce of the applicable area will be supplied to grantees by the FAA. Grantees shall make this data available to the other organizations covered by this subpart. The comparison for minorities must be made only when minorities constitute at least 2 percent of the total workforce in the geographical area used for the comparison.

(3) A comparison, for the aviation workforce, of the total number of applicants and persons hired with the total number of minority and female applicants, and minorities and females hired, for the past year. Where this data is unavailable, the employer shall establish and maintain a system to provide the data, and shall make the comparison 120 days after establishing the data system.

(4) Where the percentage of minorities and women in the employer's aviation workforce, in each job category, is less than the minority and female percentage in any job category in the workforce of the geographical area used, an analysis, based on the comparison required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section, determining whether any of the following exists:

(i) Insufficient flow of minority and female applicants.

(ii) Disparate rejection of minority and female applicants. The FAA generally considers disparate rejection to exist whenever a selection rate for any race, sex, or ethnic group is less than 80 percent of the rate for the race, sex, or ethnic group with the highest selection rate.

(b) Each affirmative action plan required by this part shall be implemented through an action-oriented program with goals and timetables designed to eliminate obstacles to equal opportunity for women and minorities in recruitment and hiring, which shall include, but not be limited to:

(1) Where disparate rejection of minority and female applicants is indicated by the analysis required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section, validation of those portions of the testing or selection procedures which cause the disparity in accordance with the "Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection" (43 FR 38290; August 25, 1978), within 120 days of the analysis.

(2) Where testing or selection procedures cannot be validated, discontinuation of their use.

(3) Where an insufficient flow of minority and female applicants (less than the percentage available) is indicated by the analysis required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section, good faith efforts to increase the flow of minority and female applicants through the following steps, as appropriate:

(i) Development or reaffirmation of an equal opportunity policy and dissemination of that policy internally and externally.

(ii) Contact with minority and women's organizations, schools with predominant minority or female enrollments, and other recruitment sources for minorities and women.

(iii) Encouragement of State and local employment agencies, unions, and other recruiting sources to ensure that minorities and women have ample information on, and opportunity to apply for, vacancies and to participate in examinations.

(iv) Participation in special employment programs such as Co-operative Education Programs with predominantly minority and women's colleges, "After School" or Work Study programs, and Summer Employment.

(v) Participation in "Job Fairs."

(vi) Participation of minority and female employees in Career Days, Youth Motivation Programs, and counseling and related activities in the community.

(vii) Encouragement of minority and female employees to refer applicants.

(viii) Motivation, training, and employment programs for minority and female hard-core unemployed.
