
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 152 - AIRPORT AID PROGRAM
##### Appendix C to Part 152 - Procurement Procedures and Requirements
###### Awarding contracts.

13.(a) A sponsor may not award a construction contract without the written concurrence of the Administrator (through the appropriate FAA office) that the contract prices are reasonable. A sponsor that awards contracts on the basis of public advertising and open competitive bidding, shall, after the bids are opened, send a tabulation of the bids and its recommendations for award to the appropriate FAA office. The sponsor may not accept a bid by a contractor whose name appears on the current list of ineligible contractors published by the Comptroller General of the United States under ยง 5.6(b) of the regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR part 5), or a bid by any firm, corporation, partnership, or association in which an ineligible contractor has a substantial interest.

(b) A sponsor's proposed contract must have pre-award review and approval by the FAA in any of the following circumstances:

(1) The sponsor's procurement system is not in compliance with one or more significant aspects of Attachment O of OMB Circular A-102 or with the standards of this appendix.

(2) The procurement is expected to exceed $10,000 and is to be awarded without competition or only one bid or offer is received in response to solicitation.

(3) The procurement is expected to exceed $10,000 and specifies a "brand name" product.

(c) The FAA may require pre-award review and approval of a sponsor's proposed contract under any of the following circumstances:

(1) The sponsor's procurement system has not yet been reviewed by the FAA for compliance with OMB Circular A-102 and this appendix.

(2) The sponsor has requested pre-award assistance.

(3) The proposal is for automatic data processing in accordance with paragraph C1 of Attachment B to Federal Management Circular 74-4 (39 FR 27133; 43 FR 50977).

(4) The proposal is one of a series with the same firm.

(5) The proposal is to be performed outside the recipient's established procurement system or office.

(6) The proposal is for construction and is to be awarded through the negotiation procurement method or without competition.
