
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 155 - RELEASE OF AIRPORT PROPERTY FROM SURPLUS PROPERTY DISPOSAL RESTRICTIONS
##### ยง 155.3 Applicable law.

(a) Section 4 of the Act of October 1, 1949 (63 Stat. 700) authorizes the Administrator to grant the releases described in ยง 155.1, if he determines that-

(1) The property to which the release relates no longer serves the purpose for which it was made subject to the terms, conditions, reservations, or restrictions concerned; or

(2) The release will not prevent accomplishing the purpose for which the property was made subject to the terms, conditions, reservations, or restrictions, and is necessary to protect or advance the interests of the United States in civil aviation.

(b) Section 2 of the Act of October 1, 1949 (63 Stat. 700) provides that the restrictions against using structures for industrial purposes in any instrument of disposal issued under section 13(g)(2)(A) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended (61 Stat. 678) are considered to be extinguished. In addition, section 2 authorizes the Administrator to issue any instruments of release or conveyance necessary to remove, of record, such a restriction, without monetary consideration to the United States.

(c) Section 68 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2098) releases, remises, and quitclaims, to persons entitled thereto, all reserved rights of the United States in radioactive minerals in instruments of disposal of public or acquired lands. In addition, section 3 of the Act of October 1, 1949 (50 U.S.C. App. 1622b) authorizes the Administrator to issue instruments that he considers necessary to correct any instrument of disposal by which surplus property was transferred to a non-Federal public agency for airport purposes or to conform the transfer to the requirements of applicable law. Based on the laws cited in this paragraph, the Administrator issues appropriate instruments of correction upon the written request of persons entitled to ownership, occupancy, or use of the lands concerned.
