
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 155 - RELEASE OF AIRPORT PROPERTY FROM SURPLUS PROPERTY DISPOSAL RESTRICTIONS
##### ยง 155.11 Form and content of requests for release.

(a) A request for the release of surplus airport property from a term, condition, reservation, or restriction in an instrument of disposal need not be in any special form, but must be in writing and signed by an authorized official of the public agency that owns the airport.

(b) A request for a release under this part must be submitted in triplicate to the District Airport Engineer in whose district the airport is located.

(c) Each request for a release must include the following information, if applicable and available:

(1) Identification of the instruments of disposal to which the property concerned is subject.

(2) A description of the property concerned.

(3) The condition of the property concerned.

(4) The purpose for which the property was transferred, such as for use as a part of, or in connection with, operating the airport or for producing revenues from nonaviation business.

(5) The kind of release requested.

(6) The purpose of the release.

(7) A statement of the circumstances justifying the release on the basis set forth in ยง 155.3(a) (1) or (2) with supporting documents.

(8) Maps, photographs, plans, or similar material of the airport and the property concerned that are appropriate to determining whether the release is justified under ยง 155.9.

(9) The proposed use or disposition of the property, including the terms and conditions of any proposed sale or lease and the status of negotiations therefor.

(10) If the release would allow sale of any part of the property, a certified copy of a resolution or ordinance of the governing body of the public agency that owns the airport obligating itself to use the proceeds of the sale exclusively for developing, improving, operating, or maintaining a public airport.

(11) A suggested letter or other instrument of release that would meet the requirements of State and local law for the release requested.

(12) The sponsor's environmental assessment prepared in conformance with Appendix 6 of FAA Order 1050.1C, "Policies and Procedures for Considering Environmental Impacts" (45 FR 2244; Jan. 10, 1980), and FAA Order 5050.4, "Airport Environmental Handbook" (45 FR 56624; Aug. 25, 1980), if an assessment is required by Order 5050.4. Copies of these orders may be examined in the Rules Docket, Office of the Chief Counsel, FAA, Washington, D.C., and may be obtained on request at any FAA regional office headquarters or any airports district office.
