
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 158 - PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGES (PFC'S)
##### Subpart B - Application and Approval
###### § 158.23 Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.
####### Notice by public agency.

(a)A public agency must provide written notice to air carriers and foreign air carriers having a significant business interest at the airport where the PFC is proposed. A public agency must provide this notice before the public agency files an application with the FAA for authority to impose a PFC under § 158.25(b). In addition, public agencies must provide this notice before filing an application with the FAA for authority to use PFC revenue under § 158.25(c). Public agencies must also provide this notice before filing a notice of intent to impose and/or use a PFC under § 158.30. Finally, a public agency must provide this notice before filing a request to amend the FAA's decision with respect to an approved PFC as discussed in § 158.37(b)(1). The notice shall include:

(1) Descriptions of projects being considered for funding by PFC's;

(2) The PFC level for each project, the proposed charge effective date, the estimated charge expiration date, and the estimated total PFC revenue;

(3) For a request by a public agency that any class or classes of carriers not be required to collect the PFC-

(i) The designation of each such class,

(ii) The names of the carriers belonging to each such class, to the extent the names are known,

(iii) The estimated number of passengers enplaned annually by each such class, and

(iv) The public agency's reasons for requesting that carriers in each such class not be required to collect the PFC; and

(4) Except as provided in § 158.25(c)(2), the date and location of a meeting at which the public agency will present such projects to air carriers and foreign air carriers operating at the airport.
