
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 158 - PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGES (PFC'S)
##### Subpart B - Application and Approval
###### ยง 158.27 Review of applications.
####### Process for substantially complete application.

(c)If the Administrator determines the application is substantially complete, the following procedures apply:

(1) The Administrator advises the public agency by letter that its application is substantially complete.

(2) The Administrator may opt to publish a notice in theadvising that the Administrator intends to rule on the application and inviting public comment, as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. If the Administrator publishes a notice, the Administrator will provide a copy of the notice to the public agency.

(3) If the Administrator publishes a notice, the public agency-

(i) Shall make available for inspection, upon request, a copy of the application, notice, and other documents germane to the application, and

(ii) May publish the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the airport covered by the application is located.

(4) After reviewing the application and any public comments received from anotice, the Administrator issues a final decision approving or disapproving the application, in whole or in part, before 120 days after the FAA Airports office received the application.
