
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 158 - PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGES (PFC'S)
##### Subpart B - Application and Approval
###### ยง 158.27 Review of applications.
####### Process for applications not substantially complete.

(d)If the Administrator determines an application is not substantially complete, the following procedures apply:

(1) The Administrator notifies the public agency in writing that its application is not substantially complete. The notification will list the information required to complete the application.

(2) Within 15 days after the Administrator sends such notification, the public agency shall advise the Administrator in writing whether it intends to supplement its application.

(3) If the public agency declines to supplement the application, the Administrator follows the procedures for review of an application set forth in paragraph (c) of this section and issues a final decision approving or disapproving the application, in whole or in part, no later than 120 days after the application was received by the FAA Airports office.

(4) If the public agency supplements its application, the original application is deemed to be withdrawn for purposes of applying the statutory deadline for the Administrator's decision. Upon receipt of the supplement, the Administrator issues a final decision approving or disapproving the supplemented application, in whole or in part, no later than 120 days after the supplement was received by the FAA Airports office.
