
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 158 - PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGES (PFC'S)
##### Subpart B - Application and Approval
###### § 158.29 The Administrator's decision.
####### Authority to use PFC revenue on an approved project.

(b)(1) An application for authority to use PFC revenue will be approved in whole or in part only after a determination that-

(i) The amount and duration of the PFC will not result in revenue that exceeds amounts necessary to finance the project;

(ii) The project will achieve the objectives and criteria set forth in § 158.15 except for those projects approved under § 158.18.

(iii) If a PFC level above $3 is being approved, the project meets the criteria set forth in § 158.17; and

(iv) All applicable requirements pertaining to the ALP for the airport, airspace studies for the project, and the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), have been satisfied.

(2) The Administrator notifies the public agency in writing of the decision on the application. The notification will list the approved projects, PFC level, total approved PFC revenue, total approved for collection, including the amounts approved at $3 and less, $4, and/or $4.50, and any limit on the duration of authority to impose a PFC as prescribed under § 158.33.

(3) Approval to use PFC revenue to finance a project shall be construed as approval of that project.
