
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 158 - PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGES (PFC'S)
##### Subpart B - Application and Approval
###### § 158.30 PFC Authorization at Non-Hub Airports.
####### Notice of intent to impose a PFC.

(b)This paragraph sets forth the information a public agency must file to notify the FAA of its intent to impose a PFC under this section. The public agency must file a separate notice of intent for each airport at which the public agency plans on imposing a PFC. An authorized official of the public agency must sign the notice of intent and, unless authorized by the Administrator, must include:

(1) A completed FAA Form 5500-1, PFC Application (latest edition) without attachments except as required below;

(2) Project information (in the form and manner prescribed by the FAA) including the project title, PFC funds sought, PFC level sought, and, if an existing Airport Improvement Program (AIP) grant already covers this project, the grant agreement number.

(3) If an existing AIP grant does not cover this project, the notice of intent must include the information in paragraph (b)(2) of this section as well as the following:

(i) Additional information describing the proposed schedule for the project,

(ii) A description of how this project meets one of the PFC objectives in § 158.15(a), and

(iii) A description of how this project meets the adequate justification requirement in § 158.15(c).

(4) A copy of any comments received by the public agency during the air carrier consultation and public comment processes (§§ 158.23 and 158.24) and the public agency's response to any disagreements.

(5) If applicable, a request to exclude a class of carriers from the requirement to collect the PFC (§ 158.11).

(6) A signed statement certifying that the public agency will comply with the assurances set forth in Appendix A to this part.

(7) Any additional information the Administrator may require.
