
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 158 - PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGES (PFC'S)
##### Subpart B - Application and Approval
###### § 158.30 PFC Authorization at Non-Hub Airports.
####### Notice of intent to use PFC revenue.

(c)A public agency may use PFC revenue only for projects included in notices filed under this paragraph or approved under § 158.29. This paragraph sets forth the information that a public agency must file, unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, in its notice of intent to use PFC revenue to finance specific projects under this section.

(1) A notice of intent to use PFC revenue filed concurrently with a notice of intent to impose a PFC must include:

(i) The information required under paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section;

(ii) A completed FAA Form 5500-1, Attachment G, Airport Layout Plan, Airspace, and Environmental Findings (latest edition) for all projects not included in an existing Federal airport program grant.

(2) A notice of intent to use PFC revenue where the FAA has previously acknowledged a notice of intent to impose a PFC must:

(i) Be preceded by further consultation with air carriers and the opportunity for public comment under §§ 158.23 and 158.24 of this part. However, a meeting with the air carriers is optional if all information is the same as that provided with the impose authority notice;

(ii) Include a copy of any comments received by the public agency during the air carrier consultation and public comment processes (§§ 158.23 and 158.24) and the public agency's response to any disagreements or negative comments; and

(iii) Include any updated and changed information:

(A) Required by paragraphs (b)(1), (2), (5), (6), and (7) of this section; and

(B) Required by paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
