
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 158 - PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGES (PFC'S)
##### Subpart B - Application and Approval
###### ยง 158.33 Duration of authority to impose a PFC before project implementation.

(a) A public agency shall not impose a PFC beyond the lesser of the following-

(1) 2 years after approval to use PFC revenue on an approved project if the project has not been implemented, or

(2) 5 years after the charge effective date; or

(3) 5 years after the FAA's decision on the application (if the charge effective date is more than 60 days after the decision date) if an approved project is not implemented.

(b) If, in the Administrator's judgment, the public agency has not made sufficient progress toward implementation of an approved project within the times specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator begins termination proceedings under subpart E of this part.

(c) The authority to impose a PFC following approval shall automatically expire without further action by the Administrator on the following dates:

(1) 3 years after the charge effective date; or 3 years after the FAA's decision on the application if the charge effective date is more than 60 days after the decision date unless-

(i) The public agency has filed an application for approval to use PFC revenue for an eligible project that is pending before the FAA;

(ii) An application to use PFC revenue has been approved; or

(iii) A request for extension (not to exceed 2 years) to submit an application for project approval, under ยง 158.35, has been granted; or

(2) 5 years after the charge effective date; or 5 years after the FAA's decision on the application (if the charge effective date is more than 60 days after the decision date) unless the public agency has obtained project approval.

(d) If the authority to impose a PFC expires under paragraph (c) of this section, the public agency must provide the FAA with a list of the air carriers and foreign air carriers operating at the airport and all other collecting carriers that have remitted PFC revenue to the public agency in the preceding 12 months. The FAA notifies each of the listed carriers to terminate PFC collection no later than 30 days after the date of notification by the FAA.

(e) Restriction on reauthorization to impose a PFC. Whenever the authority to impose a PFC has expired or been terminated under this section, the Administrator will not grant new approval to impose a PFC in advance of implementation of an approved project.
