
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 158 - PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGES (PFC'S)
##### Subpart C - Collection, Handling, and Remittance of PFC's
###### ยง 158.43 Public agency notification to collect PFC's.

(a) Following approval of an application to impose a PFC under subpart B of this part, the public agency shall notify the air carriers and foreign air carriers required to collect PFC's at its airport of the Administrator's approval. Each notified carrier shall notify its agents, including other issuing carriers, of the collection requirement.

(b) The notification shall be in writing and contain at a minimum the following information:

(1) The level of PFC to be imposed.

(2) The total revenue to be collected.

(3) The charge effective date will always be the first day of the month; however, it must be at least 30 days after the date the public agency notified the air carriers of the FAA's approval to impose the PFC.

(4) The proposed charge expiration date.

(5) A copy of the Administrator's notice of approval.

(6) The address where remittances and reports are to be filed by carriers.

(c) The public agency must notify air carriers required to collect PFCs at its airport and the FAA of changes in the charge expiration date at least 30 days before the existing charge expiration date or new charge expiration date, whichever comes first. Each notified air carrier must notify its agents, including other issuing carriers, of such changes.

(d) The public agency shall provide a copy of the notification to the appropriate FAA Airports office.
