
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 158 - PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGES (PFC'S)
##### Subpart C - Collection, Handling, and Remittance of PFC's
###### ยง 158.45 Collection of PFC's on tickets issued in the U.S.

(a) On and after the charge effective date, tickets issued in the U.S. shall include the required PFC except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(1) Issuing carriers shall be responsible for all funds from time of collection to remittance.

(2) The appropriate charge is the PFC in effect at the time the ticket is issued.

(3) Issuing carriers and their agents shall collect PFCs based on the itinerary at the time of issuance.

(i) Any change in itinerary initiated by a passenger that requires an adjustment to the amount paid by the passenger is subject to collection or refund of the PFC as appropriate.

(ii) Failure to travel on a nonrefundable or expired ticket is not a change in itinerary. If the ticket purchaser is not permitted any fare refund on the unused ticket, the ticket purchaser is not permitted a refund of any PFC associated with that ticket.

(b) Issuing carriers and their agents shall note as a separate item on each air travel ticket upon which a PFC is shown, the total amount of PFC's paid by the passenger and the airports for which the PFC's are collected.

(c) For each one-way trip shown on the complete itinerary of an air travel ticket, issuing air carriers and their agents shall collect a PFC from a passenger only for the first two airports where PFC's are imposed. For each round trip, a PFC shall be collected only for enplanements at the first two enplaning airports and the last two enplaning airports where PFC's are imposed.

(d) In addition to the restriction in paragraph (c) of this section, issuing carriers and their agents shall not collect PFC's from a passenger covered by any of the other limitations described in ยง 158.9(a).

(e) Collected PFC's shall be distributed as noted on the air travel ticket.

(f) Issuing carriers and their agents shall stop collecting the PFC's on the charge expiration date stated in a notice from the public agency, or as required by the Administrator.
