
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 158 - PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGES (PFC'S)
##### Subpart C - Collection, Handling, and Remittance of PFC's
###### ยง 158.53 Collection compensation.

(a) As compensation for collecting, handling, and remitting the PFC revenue, the collecting air carrier is entitled to:

(1) $0.11 of each PFC collected.

(2) Any interest or other investment return earned on PFC revenue between the time of collection and remittance to the public agency.

(b) A covered air carrier that fails to designate a separate PFC account is prohibited from collecting interest on the PFC revenue. Where a covered air carrier maintains a separate PFC account in compliance with ยง 158.49(c), it will receive the interest on PFC accounts as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(c)(1) Collecting air carriers may provide collection cost data periodically to the FAA after the agency issues a notice in thethat specifies the information and deadline for filing the information. Submission of the information is voluntary. The requested information must include data on interest earned by the air carriers on PFC revenue and air carrier collection, handling, and remittance costs in the following categories:

(i) Credit card fees;

(ii) Audit fees;

(iii) PFC disclosure fees;

(iv) Reservations costs;

(v) Passenger service costs;

(vi) Revenue accounting, data entry, accounts payable, tax, and legal fees;

(vii) Corporate property department costs;

(viii) Training for reservations agents, ticket agents, and other departments;

(ix) Ongoing carrier information systems costs;

(x) Ongoing computer reservations systems costs; and

(xi) Airline Reporting Corporation fees.

(2) The FAA may determine a new compensation level based on an analysis of the data provided under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if the data is submitted by carriers representing at least 75 percent of PFCs collected nationwide.

(3) Any new compensation level determined by the FAA under paragraph (c)(2) of this section will replace the level identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
