
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 158 - PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGES (PFC'S)
##### Subpart D - Reporting, Recordkeeping and Audits
###### ยง 158.67 Recordkeeping and auditing: Public agency.

(a) Each public agency shall keep any unliquidated PFC revenue remitted to it by collecting carriers on deposit in an interest bearing account or in other interest bearing instruments used by the public agency's airport capital fund. Interest earned on such PFC revenue shall be used, in addition to the principal, to pay the allowable costs of PFC-funded projects. PFC revenue may only be commingled with other public agency airport capital funds in deposits or interest bearing instruments.

(b) Each public agency shall establish and maintain for each approved application a separate accounting record. The accounting record shall identify the PFC revenue received from the collecting carriers, interest earned on such revenue, the amounts used on each project, and the amount reserved for currently approved projects.

(c) At least annually during the period the PFC is collected, held or used, each public agency shall provide for an audit of its PFC account. The audit shall be performed by an accredited independent public accountant and may be of limited scope. The accountant shall express an opinion of the fairness and reasonableness of the public agency's procedures for receiving, holding, and using PFC revenue. The accountant shall also express an opinion on whether the quarterly report required under ยง 158.63 fairly represents the net transactions within the PFC account. The audit may be-

(1) Performed specifically for the PFC account; or

(2) Conducted as part of an audit under Office of Management and Budget Circular A-133 (the Single Audit Act of 1984, Pub. L. 98-502, and the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, Pub. L. 104-156) provided the auditor specifically addresses the PFC.

(3) Upon request, a copy of the audit shall be provided to each collecting carrier that remitted PFC revenue to the public agency in the period covered by the audit and to the Administrator.
