
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 158 - PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGES (PFC'S)
##### Appendix A to Part 158 - Assurances
###### Public agency certification.

B.The public agency hereby assures and certifies, with respect to this project that:

1. Responsibility and authority of the public agency. It has legal authority to impose a PFC and to finance and carry out the proposed project; that a resolution, motion or similar action has been duly adopted or passed as an official act of the public agency's governing body authorizing the filing of the application, including all understandings and assurances contained therein, and directing and authorizing the person identified as the official representative of the public agency to act in connection with the application.

2. Compliance with regulation. It will comply with all provisions of 14 CFR part 158.

3. Compliance with state and local laws and regulations. It has complied, or will comply, with all applicable State and local laws and regulations.

4. Environmental, airspace and airport layout plan requirements. It will not use PFC revenue on a project until the FAA has notified the public agency that-

(a) Any actions required under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 have been completed;

(b) The appropriate airspace finding has been made; and

(c) The FAA Airport Layout Plan with respect to the project has been approved.

5. Nonexclusivity of contractual agreements. It will not enter into an exclusive long-term lease or use agreement with an air carrier or foreign air carrier for projects funded by PFC revenue. Such leases or use agreements will not preclude the public agency from funding, developing, or assigning new capacity at the airport with PFC revenue.

6. Carryover provisions. It will not enter into any lease or use agreement with any air carrier or foreign air carrier for any facility financed in whole or in part with revenue derived from a passenger facility charge if such agreement for such facility contains a carryover provision regarding a renewal option which, upon expiration of the original lease, would operate to automatically extend the term of such agreement with such carrier in preference to any potentially competing air carrier or foreign air carrier seeking to negotiate a lease or use agreement for such facilities.

7. Competitive access. It agrees that any lease or use agreements between the public agency and any air carrier or foreign air carrier for any facility financed in whole or in part with revenue derived from a passenger facility charge will contain a provision that permits the public agency to terminate the lease or use agreement if-

(a) The air carrier or foreign air carrier has an exclusive lease or use agreement for existing facilities at such airport; and

(b) Any portion of its existing exclusive use facilities is not fully utilized and is not made available for use by potentially competing air carriers or foreign air carriers.

8. Rates, fees and charges.

(a) It will not treat PFC revenue as airport revenue for the purpose of establishing a rate, fee or charge pursuant to a contract with an air carrier or foreign air carrier.

(b) It will not include in its rate base by means of depreciation, amortization, or any other method, that portion of the capital costs of a project paid for by PFC revenue for the purpose of establishing a rate, fee or charge pursuant to a contract with an air carrier or foreign air carrier.

(c) Notwithstanding the limitation provided in subparagraph (b), with respect to a project for terminal development, gates and related areas, or a facility occupied or used by one or more air carriers or foreign air carriers on an exclusive or preferential basis, the rates, fees, and charges payable by such carriers that use such facilities will be no less than the rates, fees, and charges paid by such carriers using similar facilities at the airport that were not financed by PFC revenue.

9. Standards and specifications. It will carry out the project in accordance with FAA airport design, construction and equipment standards and specifications contained in advisory circulars current on the date of project approval.

10. Recordkeeping and Audit. It will maintain an accounting record for audit purposes for 3 years after physical and financial completion of the project. All records must satisfy the requirements of 14 CFR part 158 and contain documentary evidence for all items of project costs.

11. Reports. It will submit reports in accordance with the requirements of 14 CFR part 158, subpart D, and as the Administrator may reasonably request.

12. Compliance with 49 U.S.C. 47523 through 47528. It understands 49 U.S.C. 47524 and 47526 require that the authority to impose a PFC be terminated if the Administrator determines the public agency has failed to comply with those sections of the United States Code or with the implementing regulations published under the Code.
