
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 161 - NOTICE AND APPROVAL OF AIRPORT NOISE AND ACCESS RESTRICTIONS
##### Subpart E - Reevaluation of Stage 3 Restrictions
###### ยง 161.405 Request for reevaluation.

(a) A request for reevaluation submitted to the FAA by an aircraft operator must include the following information:

(1) The name of the airport and associated cities and states;

(2) A clear, concise description of the restriction and any sanctions for noncompliance, whether the restriction was approved by the FAA or agreed to by the airport operator and aircraft operators, the date of the approval or agreement, and a copy of the restriction as incorporated in a local ordinance, airport rule, lease, or other document;

(3) The quantified change in the noise environment using methodology specified in this part;

(4) Evidence of the relationship between this change and the likelihood that the restriction does not meet one or more of the conditions in ยง 161.305;

(5) The aircraft operator's status under the restriction (e.g., currently affected operator, potential new entrant) and an explanation of the aircraft operator's specific objection; and

(6) A description and evidence of the aircraft operator's attempt to resolve the dispute locally with the affected parties, including the airport operator.

(b) The FAA will evaluate the aircraft operator's submission and determine whether or not a reevaluation is justified. The FAA may request additional information from the airport operator or any other party and may convene an informal meeting to gather facts relevant to its determination.

(c) The FAA will notify the aircraft operator in writing, with a copy to the affected airport operator, of its determination.

(1) If the FAA determines that a reevaluation is not justified, it will indicate the reasons for this decision.

(2) If the FAA determines that a reevaluation is justified, the aircraft operator will be notified to complete its analysis and to begin the public notice procedure, as set forth in this subpart.
