
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 161 - NOTICE AND APPROVAL OF AIRPORT NOISE AND ACCESS RESTRICTIONS
##### Subpart F - Failure To Comply With This Part
###### ยง 161.501 Scope.
####### et seq.

(a) This subpart describes the procedures to terminate eligibility for airport grant funds and authority to impose or collect passenger facility charges for an airport operator's failure to comply with the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (49 U.S.C. App. 2151) or this part. These procedures may be used with or in addition to any judicial proceedings initiated by the FAA to protect the national aviation system and related Federal interests.

(b) Under no conditions shall any airport operator receive revenues under the provisions of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 or impose or collect a passenger facility charge under section 1113(e) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 if the FAA determines that the airport is imposing any noise or access restriction not in compliance with the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 or this part. Recision of, or a commitment in writing signed by an authorized official of the airport operator to rescind or permanently not enforce, a noncomplying restriction will be treated by the FAA as action restoring compliance with the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 or this part with respect to that restriction.
