
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter I - Airports
#### PART 161 - NOTICE AND APPROVAL OF AIRPORT NOISE AND ACCESS RESTRICTIONS
##### Subpart F - Failure To Comply With This Part
###### § 161.505 Notice of proposed termination of airport grant funds and passenger facility charges.

(a) The FAA begins proceedings under this section to terminate an airport operator's eligibility for airport grant funds and authority to impose or collect passenger facility charges only if the FAA determines that informal resolution is not successful.

(b) The following procedures shall apply if an airport operator agrees in writing, within 20 days of receipt of the FAA's notice of apparent violation under § 161.503, to defer implementation or enforcement of a noise or access restriction until completion of the process under this subpart to determine compliance.

(1) The FAA will issue a notice of proposed termination to the airport operator and publish notice of the proposed action in theThis notice will state the scope of the proposed termination, the basis for the proposed action, and the date for filing written comments or objections by all interested parties. This notice will also identify any corrective action the airport operator can take to avoid further proceedings. The due date for comments and corrective action by the airport operator shall be specified in the notice of proposed termination and shall not be less than 60 days after publication of the notice.

(2) The FAA will review the comments, statements, and data supplied by the airport operator, and any other available information, to determine if the airport operator has provided satisfactory evidence of compliance or has taken satisfactory corrective action. The FAA will consult with the airport operator to attempt resolution and may request additional information from other parties to determine compliance. The review and consultation process shall take not less than 30 days. If the FAA finds satisfactory evidence of compliance, the FAA will notify the airport operator in writing and publish notice of compliance in the

(3) If the FAA determines that the airport operator has taken action to impose a noise or access restriction in violation of the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 or this part, the FAA will notify the airport operator in writing of such determination. Where appropriate, the FAA may prescribe corrective action, including corrective action the airport operator may still need to take. Within 10 days of receipt of the FAA's determination, the airport operator shall-

(i) Advise the FAA in writing that it will complete any corrective action prescribed by the FAA within 30 days; or

(ii) Provide the FAA with a list of the domestic air carriers and foreign air carriers operating at the airport and all other issuing carriers, as defined in § 158.3 of this chapter, that have remitted passenger facility charge revenue to the airport in the preceding 12 months.

(4) If the FAA finds that the airport operator has taken satisfactory corrective action, the FAA will notify the airport operator in writing and publish notice of compliance in theIf the FAA has determined that the airport operator has imposed a noise or access restriction in violation of the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 or this part and satisfactory corrective action has not been taken, the FAA will issue an order that-

(i) Terminates eligibility for new airport grant agreements and discontinues payments of airport grant funds, including payments of costs incurred prior to the notice; and

(ii) Terminates authority to impose or collect a passenger facility charge or, if the airport operator has not received approval to impose a passenger facility charge, advises the airport operator that future applications for such approval will be denied in accordance with § 158.29(a)(1)(v) of this chapter.

(5) The FAA will publish notice of the order in theand notify air carriers of the FAA's order and actions to be taken to terminate or modify collection of passenger facility charges in accordance with § 158.85(f) of this chapter.

(c) The following procedures shall apply if an airport operator does not agree in writing, within 20 days of receipt of the FAA's notice of apparent violation under § 161.503, to defer implementation or enforcement of its noise or access restriction until completion of the process under this subpart to determine compliance.

(1) The FAA will issue a notice of proposed termination to the airport operator and publish notice of the proposed action in theThis notice will state the scope of the proposed termination, the basis for the proposed action, and the date for filing written comments or objections by all interested parties. This notice will also identify any corrective action the airport operator can take to avoid further proceedings. The due date for comments and corrective action by the airport operator shall be specified in the notice of proposed termination and shall not be less than 30 days after publication of the notice.

(2) The FAA will review the comments, statements, and data supplied by the airport operator, and any other available information, to determine if the airport operator has provided satisfactory evidence of compliance or has taken satisfactory corrective action. If the FAA finds satisfactory evidence of compliance, the FAA will notify the airport operator in writing and publish notice of compliance in the

(3) If the FAA determines that the airport operator has taken action to impose a noise or access restriction in violation of the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 or this part, the procedures in paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(5) of this section will be followed.
