
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter J - Navigational Facilities
#### PART 171 - NON-FEDERAL NAVIGATION FACILITIES
##### Subpart A - VOR Facilities
###### ยง 171.7 Performance requirements.

(a) The VOR must perform in accordance with the "International Standards and Recommended Practices, Aeronautical Telecommunications," Part I, paragraph 3.3 (Annex 10 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation), except that part of paragraph 3.3.2.1 specifying a radio frequency tolerance of 0.005 percent, and that part of paragraph 3.3.7 requiring removal of only the bearing information. In place thereof, the frequency tolerance of the radio frequency carrier must not exceed plus or minus 0.002 percent, and all radiation must be removed during the specified deviations from established conditions and during periods of monitor failure.

(b) Ground inspection consists of an examination of the design features of the equipment to determine that there will not be conditions that will allow unsafe operations because of component failure or deterioration.

(c) The monitor is checked periodi- cally, during the in-service test evaluation period, for calibration and stability The tests are made with a standard "Reference and variable phase signal generator" and associated test equipment, including an oscilloscope and portable field detector. In general, the ground check is conducted in accord- ance with section 8.4 of FAA Handbook AF P 6790.9 "Maintenance Instruction for VHF Omniranges", adapted for the facility concerned.

(d) Flight tests to determine the facility's adequacy for operational requirements and compliance with applicable "Standards and Recommended Practices" are conducted in accordance with the "U.S. Standard Flight Inspection Manual", particularly section 201.

(e) After January 1, 1975, the owner of the VOR shall modify the facility to perform in accordance with paragraph 3.3.5.7 of Annex 10 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation within 180 days after receipt of notice from the Administrator that 50 kHz channel spacing is to be implemented in the area and that a requirement exists for suppression of 9960 Hz subcarrier harmonics.
