
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter J - Navigational Facilities
#### PART 171 - NON-FEDERAL NAVIGATION FACILITIES
##### Subpart F - Simplified Directional Facility (SDF)
###### § 171.103 Requests for IFR procedure.

(a) Each person who requests an IFR procedure based on an SDF that he owns must submit the following information with that request:

(1) A description of the facility and evidence that the equipment meets the performance requirements of § 171.109 and the standards and tolerances of § 171.111, and is installed in accordance with § 171.113.

(2) A proposed procedure for operating the facility.

(3) A proposed maintenance organization and a maintenance manual that meets the requirements of § 171.115.

(4) A statement of intent to meet the requirements of this subpart.

(5) A showing that the facility has an acceptable level of operational reliability as prescribed in § 171.111(k), and an acceptable standard of performance. Previous equivalent operational experience with a facility with identical design and operational characteristics will be considered in showing compliance with this paragraph.

(b) After the Federal Aviation Administration inspects and evaluates the facility, it advises the owner of the results and of any required changes in the facility or the maintenance manual or maintenance organization. The owner must then correct the deficiencies, if any, and operate the facility for an in-service evaluation by the Federal Aviation Administration.
