
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter J - Navigational Facilities
#### PART 171 - NON-FEDERAL NAVIGATION FACILITIES
##### Subpart G - Distance Measuring Equipment (DME)
###### § 171.155 Minimum requirements for approval.

(a) The following are the minimum requirements that must be met before the Federal Aviation Administration will approve an IFR procedure for a non-Federal DME:

(1) A suitable frequency channel must be available.

(2) The facility's performance, as determined by air and ground inspection, must meet the requirements of § 171.157.

(3) The installation of the equipment must meet the requirements of § 171.159.

(4) The owner must agree to operate and maintain the facility in accordance with § 171.161.

(5) The owner must agree to furnish periodic reports, as set forth in § 171.163, and must agree to allow the Federal Aviation Administration to inspect the facility and its operation whenever necessary.

(6) The owner must assure the Federal Aviation Administration that he will not withdraw the facility from service without the permission of the Federal Aviation Administration.

(7) The owner must bear all costs of meeting the requirements of this section and of any flight or ground inspections made before the facility is commissioned, except that the Federal Aviation Administration may bear certain of these costs subject to budgetary limitations and policy established by the Administrator.

(b) If the applicant for approval meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Aviation Administration commissions the facility as a prerequisite to its approval for use in an IFR procedure. The approval is withdrawn at any time the facility does not continue to meet those requirements.
