
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter J - Navigational Facilities
#### PART 171 - NON-FEDERAL NAVIGATION FACILITIES
##### Subpart G - Distance Measuring Equipment (DME)
###### ยง 171.159 Installation requirements.

(a) The facility must be installed according to accepted good engineering practices, applicable electric and safety codes, and Federal Communications Commission requirements.

(b) The facility must have a reliable source of suitable primary power, either from a power distribution system or locally generated, with a supplemental standby system, if needed.

(c) Dual transmitting equipment with automatic changeover is preferred and may be required to support certain IFR procedures.

(d) There must be a means for determining from the ground, the performance of the equipment, initially and periodically.

(e) A facility intended for use as an instrument approach aid for an airport must have or be supplemented by the following ground air or landline communications services:

(1) At facilities outside of and not immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, there must be ground-air communications from the airport served by the facility. Separate communications channels are acceptable.

(2) At facilities within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, there must be the ground-air communications required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section and reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control or communications facility. Separate communications channels are acceptable.
