
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter J - Navigational Facilities
#### PART 171 - NON-FEDERAL NAVIGATION FACILITIES
##### Subpart G - Distance Measuring Equipment (DME)
###### ยง 171.161 Maintenance and operations requirements.

(a) The owner of the facility shall establish an adequate maintenance system and provide qualified maintenance personnel to maintain the facility at the level attained at the time it was commissioned. Each person who maintains a facility shall meet at a minimum the Federal Communications Commission's licensing requirements and show that he has the special knowledge and skills needed to maintain the facility, including proficiency in maintenance procedures and the use of specialized test equipment.

(b) The owner must prepare and obtain Federal Aviation Administration approval of, and each person operating or maintaining the facility shall comply with, an operations and maintenance manual that sets forth procedures for operations, preventive maintenance, and emergency maintenance, including instructions on each of the following:

(1) Physical security of the facility.

(2) Maintenance and operations by authorized persons only.

(3) Federal Communications Commission's requirements and maintenance personnel.

(4) Posting of licenses and signs.

(5) Relations between the facility and Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control facilities, with a description of the boundaries of controlled airspace over or near the facility, instructions for relaying air traffic control instructions and information (if applicable), and instructions for the operation of an air traffic advisory service if the DME is located outside of controlled airspace.

(6) Notice to the Administrator of any suspension of service.

(7) Detailed and specific maintenance procedures and servicing guides stating the frequency of servicing.

(8) Air-ground communications, if provided, expressly written or incorporating appropriate sections of Federal Aviation Administration manuals by reference.

(9) Keeping of station logs and other technical reports, and the submission of reports required by ยง 171.163.

(10) Monitoring of the facility.

(11) Inspections by U.S. personnel.

(12) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in an emergency.

(13) Shutdowns for routine maintenance and issue of "Notices to Airmen" for routine or emergency shutdowns, except that private use facilities may omit the "Notices to Airmen."

(14) An explanation of the kinds of activity (such as construction or grading) in the vicinity of the facility that may require shutdown or reapproval of the facility by Federal Aviation Administration flight check.

(15) Commissioning of the facility.

(16) An acceptable procedure for amending or revising the manual.

(17) The following information concerning the facility:

(i) Location by latitude and longitude to the nearest second, and its position with respect to airport layouts.

(ii) The type, make, and model of the basic radio equipment that will provide the service.

(iii) The station power emission and frequency.

(iv) The hours of operation.

(v) Station identification call letters and methods of station identification, whether by Morse code or recorded voice announcement, and the time spacing of the identification.

(vi) A description of the critical parts that may not be changed, adjusted, or repaired without an FAA flight check to confirm published operations.

(c) The owner shall make a monthly ground operational check in accordance with procedures approved by the FAA at the time of commissioning, and shall report the results of the checks as provided in ยง 171.163.

(d) If the owner desires to modify the facility, he shall submit the proposal to the FAA and may not allow any modifications to be made without specific approval.

(e) The owner's maintenance personnel shall participate in initial inspections made by the FAA. In the case of subsequent inspections, the owner or his representative shall participate.

(f) Whenever it is required by the FAA, the owner shall incorporate improvements in DME maintenance.

(g) The owner shall provide a stock of spare parts of such a quantity to make possible the prompt replacement of components that fail or deteriorate in service.

(h) The owner shall provide FAA-approved test instruments needed for maintenance of the facility.
