
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter J - Navigational Facilities
#### PART 171 - NON-FEDERAL NAVIGATION FACILITIES
##### Subpart H - VHF Marker Beacons
###### ยง 171.211 Maintenance and operations requirements.

(a) The owner of the facility shall establish an adequate maintenance system and provide qualified maintenance personnel to maintain the facility at the level attained at the time it was commissioned. Each person who maintains a facility shall meet at a minimum the Federal Communications Commission's licensing requirements and show that he has the special knowledge and skills needed to maintain the facility, including proficiency in maintenance procedures and the use of specialized test equipment.

(b) The owner must prepare, and obtain approval of, and each person who operates or maintains the facility shall comply with, an operations and maintenance manual that sets forth procedures for operations, preventive maintenance, and emergency maintenance, including instructions on each of the following:

(1) Physical security of the facility.

(2) Maintenance and operations by authorized persons only.

(3) Federal Communications Commission's requirements for operating and maintenance personnel.

(4) Posting of licenses and signs.

(5) Relations between the facility and Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control facilities, with a description of the boundaries of controlled airspace over or near the facility, instructions for relaying air traffic control instructions and information (if applicable).

(6) Notice to the Administrator of any suspension of service.

(7) Detailed arrangements for maintenance, flight inspection, and servicing, stating the frequency of servicing.

(8) Keeping of station logs and other technical reports, and the submission of reports required by ยง 171.213.

(9) Monitoring of the facility, at least once each half hour, to assure continuous operation.

(10) Inspections by U.S. personnel.

(11) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in an emergency.

(12) Shutdowns for routine maintenance and issue of "Notices to Airmen" for routine or emergency shutdowns (private use facilities may omit the "Notice to Airmen").

(13) Commissioning of the facility.

(14) An acceptable procedure for amending or revising the manual.

(15) The following information concerning the facility:

(i) Location by latitude and longitude to the nearest second, and its position with respect to airport layouts.

(ii) The type, make, and model of the basic radio equipment that will provide the service.

(iii) The station power emission and frequency.

(iv) The hours of operation.

(v) Station identification call letters and methods of station identification, whether by Morse Code or recorded voice announcement, and the time spacing of the identification.

(c) If the owner desires to modify the facility, he shall submit the proposal to the Federal Aviation Administration and meet applicable requirements of the Federal Communications Commission, and must not allow any modification to be made without specific approval by the Federal Aviation Administration.

(d) The owner's maintenance personnel shall participate in initial inspections made by the Federal Aviation Administration. In the case of subsequent inspections, the owner or his representative shall participate.

(e) The owner shall provide a stock of spare parts, of such a quantity to make possible the prompt replacement of components that fail or deteriorate in service.

(f) The owner shall shut down the facility by ceasing radiation, and shall issue a "Notice to Airmen" that the facility is out of service (except that private use facilities may omit "Notices to Airmen") upon receiving two successive pilot reports of its malfunctioning.
