
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter J - Navigational Facilities
#### PART 171 - NON-FEDERAL NAVIGATION FACILITIES
##### Subpart I - Interim Standard Microwave Landing System (ISMLS)
###### § 171.255 Requests for IFR procedures.

(a) Each person who requests an IFR procedure based on an ISMLS facility that he owns must submit the following information with that request:

(1) A description of the facility and evidence that the equipment meets the performance requirements of §§ 171.259, 171.261, 171.263, 171.265, 171.267, and 171.269, and is installed in accordance with § 171.271.

(2) A proposed procedure for operating the facility.

(3) A proposed maintenance organization and a maintenance manual that meets the requirements of § 171.273.

(4) A statement of intent to meet the requirements of this subpart.

(5) A showing that the ISMLS facility has an acceptable level of operational reliability, maintainability and acceptable standard of performance. Previous equivalent operational experience with a facility with identical design and operational characteristics will be considered in showing compliance with this paragraph.

(b) After the FAA inspects and evaluates the ISMLS facility, it advises the owner of the results and of any required changes in the ISMLS facility or in the maintenance manual or maintenance organization. The owner must then correct the deficiencies, if any, and operate the ISMLS facility for an inservice evaluation by the FAA.
