
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter J - Navigational Facilities
#### PART 171 - NON-FEDERAL NAVIGATION FACILITIES
##### Subpart I - Interim Standard Microwave Landing System (ISMLS)
###### § 171.257 Minimum requirements for approval.

(a) The following are the minimum requirements that must be met before the FAA approves an IFR procedure for a non-Federal ISMLS facility:

(1) The performance of the ISMLS facility, as determined by flight and ground inspection conducted by the FAA, must meet the requirements of §§ 171.259, 171.261, 171.263, 171.265, 171.267, and 171.269.

(2) The installation of the equipment must meet the requirements of § 171.271.

(3) The owner must agree to operate and maintain the ISMLS facility in accordance with § 171.273.

(4) The owner must agree to furnish periodic reports as set forth in § 171.275 and agree to allow the FAA to inspect the facility and its operation whenever necessary.

(5) The owner must assure the FAA that he will not withdraw the ISMLS facility from service without the permission of the FAA.

(6) The owner must bear all costs of meeting the requirements of this section and of any flight or ground inspection made before the ISMLS facility is commissioned, except that the FAA may bear certain costs subject to budgetary limitations and policy established by the Administrator.

(b) If the applicant for approval meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the FAA approves the ISMLS facility for use in an IFR procedure. The approval is withdrawn at any time that the ISMLS facility does not continue to meet those requirements. In addition, the ISMLS facility may be de-commissioned whenever the frequency channel is needed for higher priority common system service.
