
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter J - Navigational Facilities
#### PART 171 - NON-FEDERAL NAVIGATION FACILITIES
##### Subpart J - Microwave Landing System (MLS)
###### ยง 171.313 Azimuth performance requirements.
####### Approach azimuth accuracy.

(e)(1) The system and subsystem errors shall not exceed those listed in Table 10 at the approach reference datum.

At the approach reference datum, temporal sinusoidal noise components shall not exceed 0.025 degree peak in the frequency band 0.01 Hz to 1.6 Hz, and the CMN shall not exceed 0.10 degree. From the approach reference datum to the coverage limit, the PFE, PFN and CMN limits, expressed in angular terms, shall be allowed to linearly increase as follows:

(i) With distance along the runway centerline extended, by a factor of 1.2 for the PFE and PFN limits and to +/-0.10 degree for the CMN limits.

(ii) With azimuth angle, by a factor of 1.5 at the +/-40 degree and a factor of 2.0 at the +/-60 degree azimuth angles for the PFE, PFN and CMN limits.

(iii) With elevation angle from + 9 degrees to + 15 degrees, by a factor of 1.5 for the PFE and PFN limits.

(iv) Maximum angular limits. The PFE limits shall not exceed +/-0.25 degree in any coverage region below an elevation angle of + 9 degrees nor exceed +/-0.50 degree in any coverage region above that elevation angle. The CMN limits shall not exceed +/-0.10 degree in any coverage region within +/-10 degrees of runway centerline extended nor exceed +/-0.20 degree in any other region within coverage.

(f) Approach azimuth antenna characteristics are as follows:
