
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter J - Navigational Facilities
#### PART 171 - NON-FEDERAL NAVIGATION FACILITIES
##### Subpart J - Microwave Landing System (MLS)
###### ยง 171.313 Azimuth performance requirements.
####### Back azimuth coverage requirements.

(g)The back azimuth equipment where used must provide guidance information in at least the following volume of space (see Figure 11):

(1) Horizontally within a sector +/-40 degrees about the runway centerline originating at the back azimuth ground equipment antenna and extending in the direction of the missed approach at least to 20 nautical miles from the runway stop end. The minimum proportional guidance sector must be +/-10 degrees about the runway centerline. Clearance signals must be used to provide the balance of the required coverage where the proportional sector is less than +/-40 degrees.

(2) Vertically in the runway region between:

(i) A horizontal surface 2.5 meters (8 feet) above the farthest point of runway centerline which is in line of sight of the azimuth antenna, and,

(ii) A conical surface originating at the azimuth ground equipment antenna inclined at 20 degrees above the horizontal up to a height of 600 meters (2000 feet).

(3) Vertically in the back azimuth region between:

(i) A conical surface originating 2.5 meters (8 feet) above the runway stop end, included at 0.9 degree above the horizontal, and,

(ii) A conical surface orginating at the missed approach azimuth ground equipment antenna, inclined at 15 degrees above the horizontal up to a height of 1500 meters (5000 feet).

(iii) Where obstacles penetrate the lower coverage limits, coverage need be provided only to minimum line of sight.

(4) Within the back azimuth coverage sector defined in paragraph (q) (1), (2), and (3) of this section the power densities must not be less than those shown in Table 9, but the equipment design must also allow for:

(i) Transmitter power degradation from normal -1.5 dB.

(ii) Rain loss of -2.2 dB at the longitudinal coverage extremes.
