
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter J - Navigational Facilities
#### PART 171 - NON-FEDERAL NAVIGATION FACILITIES
##### Subpart J - Microwave Landing System (MLS)
###### ยง 171.317 Approach elevation performance requirements.
####### Elevation coverage requirements.

(a)The approach elevation facility must provide proportional guidance information in at least the following volume of space (see Figure 13):

(1) Laterally within a sector originating at the datum point which is at least equal to the proportional guidance sector provided by the approach azimuth ground equipment.

(2) Longitudinally from 75 meters (250 feet) from the datum point to 20 nautical miles from threshold in the direction of the approach.

(3) Vertically within the sector bounded by:

(i) A surface which is the locus of points 2.5 meters (8 feet) above the runway surface;

(ii) A conical surface originating at the datum point and inclined 0.9 degree above the horizontal and,

(iii) A conical surface originating at the datum point and inclined at 15.0 degrees above the horizontal up to a height of 6000 meters (20,000 feet).

(4) Within the elevation coverage sector defined in paragraphs (a) (1), (2) and (3) of this section, the power densities must not be less than those shown in Table 9, but the equipment design must also allow for:

(i) Transmitter power degradation from normal by -1.5 dB.

(ii) Rain loss of -2.2 dB at the coverage extremes.
