
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter K - Administrative Regulations
#### PART 183 - REPRESENTATIVES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR
##### Subpart C - Kinds of Designations: Privileges
###### ยง 183.29 Designated engineering representatives.

(a) A structural engineering representative may approve structural engineering information and other structural considerations within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator, whenever the representative determines that information and other structural considerations comply with the applicable regulations of this chapter.

(b) A power plant engineering representative may approve information relating to power plant installations within limitations prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator whenever the representative determines that information complies with the applicable regulations of this chapter.

(c) A systems and equipment engineering representative may approve engineering information relating to equipment and systems, other than those of a structural, powerplant, or radio nature, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator, whenever the representative determines that information complies with the applicable regulations of this chapter.

(d) A radio engineering representative may approve engineering information relating to the design and operating characteristics of radio equipment, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator whenever the representative determines that information complies with the applicable regulations of this chapter.

(e) An engine engineering representative may approve engineering information relating to engine design, operation and service, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator, whenever the representative determines that information complies with the applicable regulations of this chapter.

(f) A propeller engineering representative may approve engineering information relating to propeller design, operation, and maintenance, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator whenever the representative determines that information complies with the applicable regulations of this chapter.

(g) A flight analyst representative may approve flight test information, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator, whenever the representative determines that information complies with the applicable regulations of this chapter.

(h) A flight test pilot representative may make flight tests, and prepare and approve flight test information relating to compliance with the regulations of this chapter, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator.

(i) An acoustical engineering representative may witness and approve aircraft noise certification tests and approve measured noise data and evaluated noise data analyses, within the limits prescribed by, and under the general supervision of, the Administrator, whenever the representative determines that the noise test, test data, and associated analyses are in conformity with the applicable regulations of this chapter. Those regulations include, where appropriate, the methodologies and any equivalencies previously approved by the Director of Environment and Energy, for that noise test series. No designated acoustical engineering representative may determine that a type design change is not an acoustical change, or approve equivalencies to prescribed noise procedures or standards.
