
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter K - Administrative Regulations
#### PART 187 - FEES
##### Appendix A to Part 187 - Methodology for Computation of Fees for Certification Services Performed Outside the United States
###### b = leave usage (total leave hours divided by total hours available for work).

(ii)This is computed by using OMB guidelines of 280 average annual leave hours and 1,800 average annual hours available for work for computer manpower requirements.

(g) The hourly inspector cost, when multiplied by the indirect work factor, yields the hourly inspector billing rate and ensures full cost recovery by incorporating the total amount of FAA paid hours needed to produce one hour of direct billable inspector time.

(h) Certifications and approvals for which there are fixed times, such as airman tests, are determined by multiplying the time used in the Flight Standards Staffing Standard or airman test guidelines by the inspector hourly billing rate.

(i) Certifications and approvals for which there are no fixed work rates, such as airman and repair station facilities (air agencies), are billed at the hourly inspector billing rate.

(j) Actual transportation and subsistence expenses incurred in certification or approval actions will be billed in addition to the hourly inspector billing rate, where such expenses are incurred.

(k) In no event will the fees exceed the actual costs of providing certification or approval services.

(l) The methodology for computing user fees is published in this Appendix. The User fee schedule is published in an FAA Advisory Circular entitled "Flight Standards Service Schedule of Charges Outside the United States." A copy of this publication may be obtained from: New Orders, Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954.

(m) Fees will be reviewed every year, at the beginning of the fiscal year, and adjusted either upward or downward in order to reflect the current costs of performing tests, authorizations, certifications, permits, or ratings.

(n) Notice of each change to a fee for a service described in the user fee schedule will be published in the "Notices" section of the
