
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter K - Administrative Regulations
#### PART 187 - FEES
##### Appendix C to Part 187 - Fees for Production Certification-Related Services Performed Outside the United States
###### Fee determination.

(e)(1) Fees for FAA production certification-related services will consist of: personnel compensation and benefit (PC&B) for each participating FAA employee, actual travel and transportation expenses incurred in providing the service, other agency costs and an overhead percentage.

(2) Fees will be determined on a case-by-case basis according to the following general formula:

(3) In no event will the applicant be charged more than the actual FAA costs of providing production certification-related services.

(4) If the actual FAA costs vary from the estimated fees by more than 10 percent, written notice by the FAA will be given to the applicant as soon as possible.

(5) If FAA costs exceed the estimated fees, the applicant will be required to pay the difference prior to receiving further services. If the estimated fees exceed the FAA costs, the applicant may elect to apply the balance to future agreements or to receive a refund.

(f) Fees will be reviewed by the FAA periodically and adjusted either upward or downward in order to reflect the current costs of performing production certification-related services outside the United States.

(1) Notice of any change to the elements of the fee formula in this Appendix will be published in the

(2) Notice of any change to the methodology in this Appendix and other changes for the fees will be published in the
