
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
### Subchapter K - Administrative Regulations
#### PART 193 - PROTECTION OF VOLUNTARILY SUBMITTED INFORMATION
##### ยง 193.11 What is the notice procedure?
###### Designation.

(c)The FAA designates information as protected under this part if, after review of the comments, the FAA makes the findings in ยง 193.7. The FAA publishes in thean order designating the information provided under the program as protected under this part. The designation includes the following:

(1) A summary of why the FAA finds that you and others, if applicable, will provide the information voluntarily.

(2) A description of the type of information that you and others, if applicable, may voluntarily provide under the program and a summary of why the FAA finds that the information is safety or security related.

(3) A summary of why the FAA finds that the disclosure of the information would inhibit you and others, if applicable, from voluntarily providing of that type of information.

(4) A summary of why the receipt of that type of information aids in fulfilling the FAA's safety and security responsibilities.

(5) A summary of why withholding such information from disclosure would be consistent with the FAA's safety and security responsibilities, including a statement as to the circumstances under which, and a summary of why, withholding such information from disclosure would not be consistent with the FAA's safety and security responsibilities, as described in ยง 193.9.

(6) A summary of how the FAA will distinguish information protected under this part from information the FAA receives from other sources.

(7) A summary of the significant comments received and the FAA's responses.
