
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 201 - AIR CARRIER AUTHORITY UNDER SUBTITLE VII OF TITLE 49 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE
##### Subpart A - Application Procedures
###### ยง 201.4 General provisions concerning contents.

(a) All pages of an application shall be consecutively numbered, and the application shall clearly describe and identify each exhibit by a separate number or symbol. All exhibits shall be deemed to constitute a part of the application to which they are attached.

(b) All amendments to applications shall be consecutively numbered and shall comply with the requirements of this part.

(c) Requests for authority to engage in interstate air transportation shall not be included in the same application with requests for authority to engage in foreign air transportation. Similarly, requests for authority to engage in scheduled air transportation under section 41102 of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII shall not be included in the same application with requests for authority to engage in charter air transportation under section 41102 of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII or with requests for authority to engage in interstate all-cargo air transportation under section 41103 of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII.

(d) Each application shall specify the type or types of service (passengers, property or mail) to be rendered and whether such services are to be rendered on scheduled or charter operations.

(e) Each application for foreign scheduled air transportation shall include an adequate identification of each route for which a certificate is desired, including the terminal and intermediate points to be included in the certificate for which application is made.

(f) Each application shall give full and adequate information with respect to each of the relevant filing requirements set forth in part 204 of this chapter. In addition, the application may contain such other information and data as the applicant shall deem necessary or appropriate in order to acquaint the Department fully with the particular circumstances of its case; however, the statements contained in an application shall be restricted to significant and relevant facts.
