
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 201 - AIR CARRIER AUTHORITY UNDER SUBTITLE VII OF TITLE 49 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE
##### Subpart B - Certificate Terms, Conditions, and Limitations
###### ยง 201.7 General certificate conditions.

(a) It shall be a condition upon the holding of a certificate that any intentional failure by the holder to comply with any provision of Statute or any order, rule, or regulation issued thereunder or any term, condition, or limitation of such certificate shall be a failure to comply with the terms, conditions, and limitations of the certificate within the meaning of section 41110 of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII even though the failure to comply occurred outside the territorial limits of the United States, except to the extent that such failure shall be necessitated by an obligation, duty, or liability imposed by a foreign country.

(b) Failure to file the reports required by part 241, 291, or 298 of this chapter shall be sufficient grounds to revoke a certificate.

(c) The authority to transport U.S. mail under a certificate is permissive, unless the Department, by order or rule, directs a carrier or class of carriers to transport mail on demand of the U.S. Postal Service; such certificate confers no right to receive subsidy, for the carriage of mail or otherwise.

(d) An all-cargo air transportation certificate shall confer no right to carry passengers, other than cargo attendants accompanying a shipment, or to engage in any air transportation outside the geographical scope of interstate cargo transportation. Such certificate shall not, however, restrict the right of the holder to provide scheduled, charter, contract, or other transportation of cargo, by air, within that geographical scope.

(e) It shall be a condition upon the holding of a certificate that the holder have and maintain in effect and on file with the Department a signed counterpart of Agreement 18900 (OST Form 4523), and a tariff (for those carriers otherwise generally required to file tariffs) that includes its terms, and that the holder comply with all other requirements of part 203. OST Form 4523 may be obtained from the Office of International Aviation, Special Authorities Division.
