
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 205 - AIRCRAFT ACCIDENT LIABILITY INSURANCE
##### ยง 205.4 Filing of evidence of insurance.
###### https://www.transportation.gov/policy/aviation-policy/licensing/US-carriers.

(a) A U.S. or foreign air carrier shall file a certificate of insurance or a complete plan for self-insurance with the Department. Each carrier shall ensure that the evidence of aircraft accident liability coverage filed with the Department is correct at all times. The Department will normally notify the carrier within 20 days of receipt if the certificate or plan does not meet the requirements of this part. Certificates of Insurance shall be filed on OST Form 6410 for U.S. air carriers, including commuter air carriers and air taxi operators, and OST Form 6411 for foreign air carriers, including Canadian air taxi operators. The Department may return the certificate or self-insurance plan to the carrier if it finds for good cause that such certificate or plan does not show adequate evidence of insurance coverage under this part. Forms may be obtained from and should be filed with the Department at the addresses specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Forms may also be obtained on the Internet at

(b) If the coverage is by type or class of aircraft or by specific aircraft, endorsements that add previously unlisted aircraft or aircraft types or classes to coverage, or that delete listed aircraft, types, or classes from coverage, shall be filed with the Department at the addresses specified in paragraph (c) of this section not more than 30 days after the effective date of the endorsements. Aircraft shall not be listed in the carrier's operations specifications with the FAA and shall not be operated unless liability insurance coverage is in force.

(c) Certificates of insurance and endorsements required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be submitted to the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Program Management Branch, AFS-260, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591. For those air carriers that have a mailing address in the State of Alaska, the forms shall be submitted to the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Alaskan Region Headquarters, AAL-230, 222 West 7th Avenue, Box 14, Anchorage, Alaska 99513. For Canadian air taxis, the forms shall be submitted to the Department of Transportation, Special Authorities Division, X-46, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590.
