
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 211 - APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS TO FOREIGN AIR CARRIERS
##### Subpart B - General Requirements
###### ยง 211.10 Filing specifications.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, applicants shall follow the requirements in ยง 302.3 of this chapter as to execution, number of copies, and formal specifications of papers.

(b) Mexican air taxi operators filing applications for foreign air carrier permits authorizing charter flights across the Mexico-United States border with small aircraft (a maximum passenger capacity of 60 seats or less, or a maximum payload capacity of 18,000 pounds or less) shall file an original and two copies of the application. The application shall conform to the instruction document available from the Foreign Air Carrier Licensing Division, Office of International Aviation, Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590.

(c) An application shall have consecutively numbered pages, and shall clearly describe and identify each exhibit by a separate number or symbol. All exhibits are part of the application to which they are attached.

(d) Applications shall state all weights, measures and monetary units in U.S. terms, and all text in English.
