
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 211 - APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS TO FOREIGN AIR CARRIERS
##### Subpart C - Information Requirements
###### ยง 211.20 Initial foreign air carrier permit or transfer of a permit.

A person applying for an initial foreign air carrier permit or the transfer of a permit shall submit the information listed below. The applicant must fully comply with this requirement. If the applicant is unable to respond to an item, the application shall contain an explanation, and include substitute information most closely approximating the information requested. The Department may require an applicant to provide additional information as necessary.

(a) State the name and address of the applicant, the nature of its organization (individual, partnership, corporation, etc.), and, if other than an individual, the name of the country under the laws of which it is organized and the statutory citation of such laws, if any.

(b) State the name and official address of the government air transport authority of applicant's country of citizenship having regulatory jurisdiction over applicant.

(c) Supply the following information regarding the services proposed:

(1) A complete statement of the authority sought; and

(2) A description of the services proposed, specifying:

(i) The point or points in the United States proposed to be served;

(ii) The frequency of service planned at the start of operations, indicating any seasonal variations; whether the service proposed is to be scheduled, nonscheduled or charter; whether the service would be passenger, or property and mail, or a combination; and the type of equipment (and configuration) to be used; and

(iii) A service schedule stating the manner in which the service will be operated (e.g., nonstop or multi-stop, and the identity of proposed intermediate traffic and nontraffic points).

(d) Provide the names, addresses (both residence and business), and citizenship of all Directors, Officers and key management personnel, including the President, Vice Presidents, the Directors or Supervisors of Operations, Maintenance, and Finance, and the chief pilot and chief inspector. Indicate whether any of these persons are related by blood or marriage.

(e) Provide the names and citizenship of all persons holding five percent (5%) or more of the capital stock or capital of the applicant. Also indicate the number and percentage of shares of stock or percentage of capital held by each. If five percent or more of the applicant's stock is held by a corporation or partnership, set forth the name and citizenship of each person holding five percent or more of the entire capital stock or capital of that corporation or partnership and the respective interest of each. If any shares are held for the benefit of another person, give the name and citizenship of that person.

(f) If the applicant is not wholly owned by its homeland government, state whether the applicant (each officer, director, manager, or holder of five percent or more of the capital stock) holds any interest directly or indirectly (through brokers or holding companies) in any of the entities listed below. If no interest is held, so state.

(1) Any U.S. carrier;

(2) Any other foreign air carrier;

(3) Any persons engaged in the business of aeronautics; and

(4) Any common carrier, or any person whose principal business is the holding of stock in, or control of, any air carrier.

(g) Indicate the relationship between the applicant and its homeland government. If the applicant is wholly owned or substantially owned by the government, indicate which governmental department has responsibility for managerial decisions.

(h) State whether the applicant's insurance coverage meets or exceeds the liability limits of 14 CFR part 205. State the name(s) of its insurance carrier(s).

(i) Supply certified evidence, in English, of the applicant's operating authority issued by its government that relates to the operations proposed. This evidence must include a description of the applicant's present authority, the expiration date of this authority, and the manner in which it is expected to be renewed.
