
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 211 - APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS TO FOREIGN AIR CARRIERS
##### Subpart C - Information Requirements
###### ยง 211.20 Initial foreign air carrier permit or transfer of a permit.
####### i.e.

(j) Summarize the operating history of the applicant. Include the types of transportation services rendered, points served, etc., from the beginning of operations to the present. Also, if the applicant is a new airline (, an airline that began direct air services within the past 12 months), briefly summarize the business experience of each officer, director and key management personnel, emphasizing any air transportation experience.

(k) Provide a list of the aircraft owned, leased and operated by the applicant. State each aircraft registration number and the country of registration. If leased, state the address and citizenship of each lessor. Describe any plans for the acquisition or lease of additional aircraft if the present permit application is granted as proposed. If any of the listed aircraft will not be used exclusively by the applicant, explain its proposed use. State whether any aircraft are or will be wet-leased.

(l) State where and by whom the maintenance of the aircraft is or will be performed. State whether the applicant's maintenance program complies with the provisions of ICAO Pilots and Airmen Annexes 1, 6 (Part 1) and 7. Also state whether the applicant's home country is a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation.

(m) Briefly describe any agreements or cooperative working arrangements (e.g., block-space, wet-lease), both oral and written, entered with and between the applicant, or on behalf of the applicant, and any U.S. or foreign air carrier, affecting the proposed services to the United States that are not on file with the Department. If there are no such agreements, so state.

(n) Supply financial data summaries, setting forth in U.S. dollars the applicant's profit and loss statements and balance sheets for the 2 most recent available years (calendar or fiscal). These summaries must be accompanied by a statement from the applicant's official responsible for preparation of the summaries that the submissions are complete and accurate. These summaries must include the following data, but need not be more detailed than the financial data summaries published by ICAO:

(1) The profit and loss summary shall identify:

(i) Total air transport operating revenues (separated into three categories: passenger, cargo, and other transport revenues);

(ii) Total air transport operating expenses;

(iii) Operating result (difference between (i) and (ii));

(iv) Non-operating items; and

(v) Profit or loss after income taxes.

(2) The balance sheet summary shall state and identify:

(i) Current assets;

(ii) Flight equipment (after depreciation);

(iii) Other assets;

(iv) Total assets (sum of (i) through (iii));

(v) Current liabilities;

(vi) Other liabilities;

(vii) Long-term debt;

(viii) Capital stock;

(ix) Retained earnings (balance including capital surplus); and

(x) Total liabilities and equity (sum of (v) through (ix)).

(o) Describe the amount, type and reason for financial assistance received or expected from the applicant's home government, if any.

(p) Submit an estimate showing the total traffic and the financial results of the proposed services for the first full year of normal operations and the supporting data employed to calculate the financial forecast.

(q) If the air transportation proposed is not covered by an air transport agreement, state in narrative form each of the elements of reciprocity or comity relied upon for the requested authority. If the authority requested is governed by an agreement, state whether the applicant has been formally designated by its homeland government, and, if so, cite the diplomatic note.

(r) To the extent not described in paragraph (q), state the policy of the applicant's homeland government with respect to U.S. carriers' applications for scheduled and charter authority. Specifically state whether the homeland government grants Fifth Freedom traffic rights to U.S. carriers.

(s) For the preceding 5 years, state whether the applicant has been involved in any safety or tariff violations or any fatal accidents. If so, furnish details.

(t) Submit 3 completed copies of OST Form 4523 (Waiver of liability limits under the Warsaw Convention).
