
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 212 - CHARTER RULES FOR U.S. AND FOREIGN DIRECT AIR CARRIERS
##### ยง 212.9 Prior authorization requirements.

(a) Certificated air carriers shall obtain a statement of authorization for each long-term wet lease to a foreign air carrier.

(b) Foreign air carriers shall obtain a statement of authorization for each:

(1) Fifth-, sixth- and/or seventh-freedom charter flights to or from the United States;

(2) Long-term wet lease;

(3) Charter flight for which the Department specifically requires prior authorization under paragraph (e) or (f) of this section; or

(4) Part charter.

(c) The Department may issue blanket statements of authorization to foreign air carriers to conduct fifth freedom charters. The standards for issuing such blanket authorizations shall be those stated in ยง 212.11. The Department may revoke any authority granted under this paragraph at any time without hearing.

(d) The Department may at any time, with or without hearing, but with at least 30 days' notice, require a foreign air carrier to obtain a statement of authorization before operating any charter flight. In deciding whether to impose such a requirement, the Department will consider (but not be limited to considering) whether the country of the carrier's nationality:

(1) Requires prior approval for third or fourth freedom charter flights by U.S. air carriers;

(2) Has, over the objection of the U.S. Government, denied rights of a U.S. air carrier guaranteed by a bilateral agreement; or

(3) Has otherwise impaired, limited, or denied the operating rights of U.S. air carriers, or engaged in unfair, discriminatory, or restrictive practices with respect to air transportation services to, from, through, or over its territory.

(e) The Department, in the interest of national security, may require a foreign air carrier to provide prior notification or to obtain a statement of authorization before operating any charter flight over U.S. territory.
