
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 212 - CHARTER RULES FOR U.S. AND FOREIGN DIRECT AIR CARRIERS
##### ยง 212.10 Application for statement of authorization.

(a) Application for a statement of authorization shall be submitted on OST Form 4540 except that for part charters or long-term wet leases the application may be in letter form. An application for a long-term wet lease shall describe the purpose and terms of the wet lease agreement. Except for an application for a long-term wet lease involving a codeshare agreement, an original and two copies of an application shall be submitted to the Department of Transportation, Office of International Aviation, U.S. Air Carrier Licensing Division, X-44 (for an application by a certificated air carrier), or Foreign Air Carrier Licensing Division, X-45 (for an application by a foreign air carrier), 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590; an original and two copies of an application for a long-term wet lease involving a codeshare agreement shall be submitted to DOT Dockets, PL-401, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590, or by electronic submission to DOT Dockets according to procedures at the DOT Dockets website. Upon a showing of good cause, the application may be transmitted by facsimile (fax) or telegram, or may be made by telephone, provided, that in the case of a fax or telephone application, the applicant must confirm its request (by filing an original and two copies of its application as described above) within three business days.

(b) A copy of each application for a long-term wet lease shall also be served on the Director of Flight Standards Service (AFS-1), Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, and on each certificated air carrier that is authorized to serve the general area in which the proposed transportation is to be performed.

(c)(1) Applicants for statements of authorization filed by foreign air carriers shall include documentation to establish the extent to which the country of the applicant's nationality deals with U.S. air carriers on the basis of reciprocity for similar flights, if such flights are not subject to a bilateral agreement, and

(i) The Department has not established that the country accords reciprocity;

(ii) The Department has found reciprocity defective in the most recent prior approval application involving the country; or

(iii) Changes in reciprocity have occurred since the most recent Department finding for the country in question.

(2) Applications filed by certificated or foreign air carriers to conduct long-term wet leases shall include, for the country of the lessee's nationality, the documentation specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(d)(1) Applications shall be filed at least 5 business days before commencement of the proposed flight or flights, except as specified in paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3), and (d)(4) of this section. Late applications may be considered upon a showing of good cause for the lateness.

(2) Applications for a part charter or for a long-term wet lease shall be filed at least 45 calendar days before the date of the first proposed flight.

(3) Applications specifically required under ยง 212.9(d) shall be filed at least 30 calendar days before the proposed flight or flights (10 calendar days for cargo charters), unless otherwise specified by the Department.

(4) Applications required by a Department order under ยง 212.9(e) shall be filed at least 14 calendar days before the proposed flight or flights, unless otherwise specified by the Department.

(5) Where an application is required by more than one provision of this part and/or order of the Department, only one application need be filed, but it must conform to the earliest applicable filing deadline.

(6) The Department may require service of applications as it deems necessary.

(e)(1) Any person may file a memorandum supporting or opposing an application. Three copies of each memorandum shall be filed within 7 business days after service of the application or before the date of the proposed flight or flights, whichever is earlier. Memorandums will be considered to the extent practicable; the Department may act on an application without waiting for supporting or opposing memorandums to be filed.

(2) Each memorandum shall set forth the reasons why the application should be granted or denied, accompanied by whatever data, including affidavits, the Department is requested to consider.

(3) A copy of each memorandum shall be served on the certified or foreign air carrier applying for approval.

(f)(1) Unless otherwise ordered by the Department, each application and memorandum filed in response will be available for public inspection at the Office of International Aviation immediately upon filing. Such information with respect to codeshare applications and responsive pleadings will be available for public inspection at DOT Dockets or at the DOT Dockets website. Notice of the filing of all applications shall be published in the Department's Weekly List of Applications Filed.

(2) Any person objecting to public disclosure of any information in an application or memorandum must state the grounds for the objection in writing. If the Department finds that disclosure of all or part of the information would adversely affect the objecting person, and that the public interest does not require disclosure, it will order that the injurious information be withheld.
