
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 216 - COMMINGLING OF BLIND SECTOR TRAFFIC BY FOREIGN AIR CARRIERS
##### § 216.4 Special authorizations.
###### Applications.

(a)Any foreign air carrier may apply to the Department for a Special Authorization, as required by this part, for the carriage of blind sector traffic on a particular flight, series of flights, or for a specified or indefinite period of time between specified points. Applications shall be submitted directly to the Department, addressed to the attention of the Director, Office of International Aviation. One original and two copies in conformity with the requirements of §§ 302.3(b) and 302.4 (a) and (b) of this chapter shall be filed. The applications shall contain a proper identification of the applicant; the flight or flights upon which it is proposed to carry such blind sector traffic, including routing, nontraffic stops, and dates or duration of the authority sought; a full description of such traffic, and points between which such traffic will be carried; information or documentation as to whether the country of which the applicant is a national grants reciprocal privileges to U.S. carriers; and the reasons for requesting such authorization together with such additional information as will establish that the grant of such authority will otherwise be in the public interest. Such additional information as may be specifically requested by the Department shall also be furnished.
