
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 217 - REPORTING TRAFFIC STATISTICS BY FOREIGN AIR CARRIERS IN CIVILIAN SCHEDULED, CHARTER, AND NONSCHEDULED SERVICES
##### Appendix A to Part 217 - Instructions to Foreign Air Carriers for Reporting Traffic Data on Form 41 Schedule T-100(f)

(a) General instructions.

(1) Description. Form 41 Schedule T-100(f) provides flight stage data covering both passenger/cargo and all cargo operations in scheduled and nonscheduled services. The schedule is used to report all flights which serve points in the United States or its territories as defined in this part.

(2) Applicability. Each foreign air carrier holding a section 41302 permit or exemption authority shall file Schedule T-100(f).

(3) Reports required by this section shall be submitted to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics in a format specified in accounting and reporting directives issued by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics' Director of Airline Information.

(4) Filing period. Form 41 Schedule T-100(f) shall be filed monthly and is due at the Department thirty (30) days following the end of the reporting month to which the data are applicable.

(b) Preparation of Form 41 Schedule T-100(f):

(1) Explanation of nonstop segments and on-flight markets. There are two basic categories of data, one pertaining to nonstop segments and the other pertaining to on-flight markets. For example, the routing (A-B-C-D) consists of three nonstop segment records A-B, B-C, and C-D, and six on-flight market records A-B, A-C, A-D, B-C, B-D, and C-D.

(2) Guidelines for reporting a nonstop segment. A nonstop segment is reported when one or both points are in the United States or its territories. These data shall be merged with that for all of the other reportable nonstop operations over the same segment. Nonstop segment data must be summarized by aircraft type, under paragraph (h)(1) of this appendix, and class of service, paragraph (g)(1)(v) of this appendix.

(3) Rules for determining a reportable on-flight market. On-flight markets are reportable when one or both points are within the U.S., with the following exceptions: (i) Do not report third country to U.S. markets resulting from flight itineraries which serve a third country prior to a homeland point in flights passing through the homeland bound for the U.S.; and (ii) do not report U.S. to third country markets resulting from itineraries serving third country points subsequent to a homeland point in flights outbound from the U.S. and passing through the homeland. In reporting data pertaining to these two exceptions, the traffic moving to or from the U.S. relating to the applicable prior or subsequent third countries (referred to as "behind" or "beyond" traffic) is to be combined with the applicable foreign homeland gateway point, just as though the traffic were actually enplaned or deplaned at the homeland gateway, without disclosure of the actual prior or subsequent points. Applicable flights are illustrated in examples (6) and (7) under paragraph (c) of this appendix.

(c) Examples of flights. Following are some typical flight itineraries that show the reportable nonstop segment and on-flight market entries. The carrier's homeland is the key factor in determining which on-flight markets are reportable.

(1) SQ flight # 11 LAX-NRT-SIN. This is an example of a flight with an intermediate foreign country. It is not necessary to report anything on the NRT-SIN leg.

(2) SQ flight #15 LAX-HNL-TPE-SIN. This is an example of two U.S. points, an intermediate third country, and a homeland point. Information is reportable on only the on-flight markets and nonstop segments that consist of one or both U.S. points.

(3) LB flight # 902 LPB-VVI-MAO-CCS-MIA. This flight serves two homeland points and two different foreign countries before terminating in the U.S. Nonstop segment information is required only for the nonstop segment involving a U.S. point. On-flight market information is required in 4 of the 10 markets, LPB-MIA and VVI-MIA, since these involve homeland and U.S. points; MAO-MIA is necessary to show traffic carried into the U.S., and CCS-MIA for the same reason, and also because in all cases where a nonstop segment entry is required, a corresponding on-flight market entry must also be reported.

(4) LY flight #005 TLV-AMS-ORD-LAX. This flight serves a single foreign intermediate point and two U.S. points after its homeland origination. The information on the TLV-AMS leg is not reportable.

(5) QF flight #25 SYD-BNE-CNS-HNL-YVR. This flight serves three homeland points, a U.S. point, and a subsequent third country. Nonstop segment information is required on the respective legs into and out of the United States. All on-flight market entries involving the U.S. point HNL are also required. Data are not required on the homeland to homeland markets, or the homeland-third country markets.

(6) JL flight #002 HKG-NRT-SFO. This flight originates in a third country prior to the homeland. No data is required on the HKG-NRT leg, but the HKG-SFO passengers and cargo shall be shown as enplanements in the NRT-SFO on-flight market entry. These volumes are included by definition in the passenger and cargo transported volumes of the NRT-SFO nonstop segment entry.

(7) JL flight #001 SFO-NRT-HKG. This flight is the reverse sequence of flight #002 above; it requires a nonstop segment entry covering SFO-NRT, and a single on-flight market entry also for SFO-NRT. In this case, the on flight traffic enplaned at SFO and destined for HKG, a beyond homeland point, shall be included in the SFO-NRT entry; a separate SFO-HKG entry is not required.

(8) BA flight #5 LHR-ANC-NRT-OSA. This example contains a single homeland point and a single U.S. point followed by two third country points. It is necessary to report the nonstop segments into and out of the U.S., and all three of the on-flight markets which have the U.S. point ANC as either an origin or destination.

(d) Provisions to reduce paperwork:

(1) Nonstop Segment Entries. The flight stage data applicable to nonstop segment entries must be summarized to create totals by aircraft equipment type, within service class, within pairs-of-points.

(2) On-flight Market Entries. The applicable on-flight market entries shall be summarized to create totals by service class within pair-of-points.

(e) Preparation of Schedule T-100 (f):

(1) Section A-Indicative and flight pattern information. A copy of Schedule T-100(f) is shown at the end of this appendix. Section A defines the origin and destination points and the service class code to which the nonstop segment data in Section B and the on-flight market data in Section C are applicable. Section A information, along with the carrier code and report date, must be included on each schedule.

(2) Section B-Nonstop segment information. Section B of the schedule is used for reporting nonstop segment information by aircraft type. To reduce the number of schedules reported, space is provided for including data on multiple different aircraft types. Similarly, the on-flight market section has been included on a single Schedule T-100(f), along with the nonstop segment data, rather than on a separate schedule.

(3) Section C-On-flight market information. Section C of the schedule is used for reporting on-flight market data. There will always be an on-flight market that corresponds to the nonstop segment. Because the on-flight market data are reported at the service class level rather than by aircraft type, a specific flight may produce more on-flight markets than nonstop segments, (see examples in paragraph (c) of this appendix), resulting in data reported in sections A and C only.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) Data element definitions:

(1) Service pattern information.

(i) Line A-1 Carrier code. Use the carrier code established by the Department. This code is provided to each carrier in the initial reporting letter from the Office of Airline Information (OAI). If there are any questions about these codes, contact the OAI Data Administration Division at the address in paragraph (a)(3) of this appendix.

(ii) Line A-2 Report date. This is the year and month to which the data are applicable. For example, 200009 indicates the year 2000, and the month of September.

(iii) Line A-3 Origin airport code. This is the departure airport, where an aircraft begins a flight segment, and where the passengers originate in an on-flight market. Use the 3-letter code from the City/Airport Codes section of the Official Airline Guide Worldwide Edition. If no 3-letter code is available, OAI will assign one; the address is in paragraph (a)(3) of this appendix.

(iv) Line A-4 Destination airport code. This is the arrival airport, where an aircraft stops on a flight segment, and where passengers deplane (get off the flight) after reaching their destination in a market. Use the 3-letter code from the source described in paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this appendix.

(v) Line A-5 Service class code. Select one of the following single letter codes which describes the type of service being reported on a given flight operation.

(2) Nonstop segment information:

(i) Line B-1 Aircraft type code. Use the four digit numeric code prescribed in paragraph (h)(1) of this appendix. If no aircraft type code is available, OAI will assign one. The address is in paragraph (a)(3) of this appendix.

(ii) Line B-2 Aircraft departures performed. This is the total number of physical departures performed with a given aircraft type, within service class and pair-of-points.

(iii) Line B-3 Revenue passengers transported. This is the total number of revenue passengers transported on a given nonstop segment. It represents the total number of revenue passengers on board over the segment without regard to their actual point of enplanement.

(iv) Line B-4 Revenue freight transported. This item is the total weight in kilograms (kg) of the revenue freight transported on a given nonstop segment without regard to its actual point of enplanement.

(3) On-flight market information:

(i) Line C-1 Total revenue passengers in market. This item represents the total number of revenue passengers, within service class, that were enplaned at the origin airport and deplaned at the destination airport.

(ii) Line C-2 Total revenue freight in market. This item represents the total weight in kilograms (kg) of revenue freight enplaned at the origin and deplaned at the destination airport.

(i) Joint Service.

(1) The Department may authorize joint service operations between two direct air carriers. Examples of these joint service operations are:

Blocked-space agreements;

Part-charter agreements;

Code-sharing agreements;

Wet-lease agreements, and similar arrangements.
