
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 218 - LEASE BY FOREIGN AIR CARRIER OR OTHER FOREIGN PERSON OF AIRCRAFT WITH CREW
##### ยง 218.5 Application for disclaimer of jurisdiction.

The parties to a lease with crew as described in ยง 218.3(b) may apply to the Department for an order disclaiming jurisdiction over the matter. The application shall be filed jointly by both parties to the lease, and shall generally conform to the procedural requirements of part 302, subpart A, of this chapter. It shall be served upon any air carrier providing services over all or any part of the route upon which air transportation services will be provided pursuant to the agreement. The application should set forth in detail all evidence and other factors relied upon to demonstrate that true operational control and safety responsibility for the air transportation services to be provided are in the hands of the lessee rather than the lessor. A copy of the agreement and all amendments thereof, as well as a summary interpretation of its pertinent provisions, shall be included with the applications. Any interested person may file an answer to the application within 7 days after service hereof. Until the Department has acted upon the application, no operations in foreign transportation shall be performed pursuant to the agreement.
