
# Title 14 - Aeronautics and Space
## Chapter I - Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Aircraft
#### PART 21 - CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES FOR PRODUCTS AND ARTICLES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 21.4 ETOPS reporting requirements.
####### Early ETOPS: reporting, tracking, and resolving problems.

(a)The holder of a type certificate for an airplane-engine combination approved using the Early ETOPS method specified in part 25, Appendix K, of this chapter must use a system for reporting, tracking, and resolving each problem resulting in one of the occurrences specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.

(1) The system must identify how the type certificate holder will promptly identify problems, report them to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office, and propose a solution to the FAA to resolve each problem. A proposed solution must consist of-

(i) A change in the airplane or engine type design;

(ii) A change in a manufacturing process;

(iii) A change in an operating or maintenance procedure; or

(iv) Any other solution acceptable to the FAA.

(2) For an airplane with more than two engines, the system must be in place for the first 250,000 world fleet engine-hours for the approved airplane-engine combination.

(3) For two-engine airplanes, the system must be in place for the first 250,000 world fleet engine-hours for the approved airplane-engine combination and after that until-

(i) The world fleet 12-month rolling average IFSD rate is at or below the rate required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and

(ii) The FAA determines that the rate is stable.

(4) For an airplane-engine combination that is a derivative of an airplane-engine combination previously approved for ETOPS, the system need only address those problems specified in the following table, provided the type certificate holder obtains prior authorization from the FAA:

(5) The type certificate holder must identify the sources and content of data that it will use for its system. The data must be adequate to evaluate the specific cause of any in-service problem reportable under this section or ยง 21.3(c) that could affect the safety of ETOPS.

(6) In implementing this system, the type certificate holder must report the following occurrences:

(i) IFSDs, except planned IFSDs performed for flight training.

(ii) For two-engine airplanes, IFSD rates.

(iii) Inability to control an engine or obtain desired thrust or power.

(iv) Precautionary thrust or power reductions.

(v) Degraded ability to start an engine in flight.

(vi) Inadvertent fuel loss or unavailability, or uncorrectable fuel imbalance in flight.

(vii) Turn backs or diversions for failures, malfunctions, or defects associated with an ETOPS group 1 significant system.

(viii) Loss of any power source for an ETOPS group 1 significant system, including any power source designed to provide backup power for that system.

(ix) Any event that would jeopardize the safe flight and landing of the airplane on an ETOPS flight.

(x) Any unscheduled engine removal for a condition that could result in one of the reportable occurrences listed in this paragraph.
