
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 221 - TARIFFS
##### Subpart K - Availability of Tariff Publications for Public Inspection
###### ยง 221.107 Notice of contract terms.
####### Notice of incorporated terms.

(b)Each carrier and ticket agent shall include on or with a ticket or other written instrument given to the passenger, that embodies the contract of carriage, a conspicuous notice that:

(1) The contract of carriage may incorporate terms and conditions by reference; passengers may inspect the full text of each applicable incorporated term at any of the carrier's airport locations or other ticket sales offices of the carrier; and passengers, shippers and consignees have the right to receive, upon request at any airport or other ticket sales office of the carrier, a free copy of the full text of any/all such terms by mail or other delivery service;

(2) The incorporated terms may include, among others, the terms shown in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section. Passengers may obtain a concise and immediate explanation of the terms shown in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section from any location where the carrier's tickets are sold.

(i) Limits on the carrier's liability for personal injury or death of passengers (subject to ยง 221.105), and for loss, damage, or delay of goods and baggage, including fragile or perishable goods.

(ii) Claim restrictions, including time periods within which passengers must file a claim or bring an action against the carrier for its acts or omissions or those of its agents.

(iii) Rules about re-confirmations or reservations, check-in times, and refusal to carry.

(iv) Rights of the carrier and limitations concerning delay or failure to perform service, including schedule changes, substitution of alternate carrier or aircraft, and rerouting.
