
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 221 - TARIFFS
##### Subpart Q - Adoption Publications Required To Show Change in Carrier's Name or Transfer of Operating Control
###### § 221.164 Concurrences or powers of attorney to be reissued.

(a) Adopting carrier shall reissue adopted concurrences and powers of attorney. Within a period of 120 days after the date on which the change in name or transfer of operating control occurs, the adopting carrier shall reissue all effective powers of attorney and concurrences of the former carrier by issuing and filing new powers of attorney and concurrences, in the adopting carrier's name, which shall direct the cancellation of the respective powers of attorney and concurrences of the former carrier. The adopting carrier shall consecutively number its powers of attorney and concurrences in its own series of power of attorney numbers and concurrence numbers (commencing with No. 1 in each series if it had not previously filed any such instruments with the Department), except that a receiver or other fiduciary shall consecutively number its powers of attorney or concurrences in the series of the former carrier. The cancellation reference shall show that the canceled power of attorney or concurrence was issued by the former carrier.

(b) If such new powers of attorney or concurrences confer less authority than the powers of attorney or concurrences which they are to supersede, the new issues shall not direct the cancellation of the former issues; in such instances, the provisions of §§ 221.142 and 221.152 shall be observed. Concurrences and powers of attorney which will not be replaced by new issues shall be revoked in the form and manner and upon the notice required by §§ 221.141 and 221.151.
