
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 221 - TARIFFS
##### Subpart R - Electronically Filed Tariffs
###### ยง 221.212 Special tariff permission.

(a) When a filer submits an electronic tariff or an amendment to an electronic tariff for which authority is sought to effect changes on less than bilateral/statutory notice, and no related tariff material is involved, the submission shall bear a sequential filing advice number. The submission shall appear in the Government Filing File and the Filing Advice Status File, and shall be referenced in such a manner to clearly indicate that such changes are sought to be made on less than bilateral/statutory notice.

(b) When a filer submits an electronic tariff or an amendment to the electronic tariff for which authority is sought to effect changes on less than bilateral/statutory notice, and it contains related paper under ยง 221.195, the paper submission must bear the same filing advice number as that used for the electronic submission. Such paper submission shall be in the form of a revised tariff page rather than as a separate request for Special Tariff Permission. All material being submitted on a paper tariff page as part of an electronic submission will clearly indicate the portion(s) of such tariff page that is being filed pursuant to, and in conjunction with, the electronic submission on less than bilateral/statutory notice.

(c) Departmental action on the Special Tariff Permission request shall be noted by the Department in the Government Filing File and the Filing Advice Status File.

(d) When the paper portion of a Special Tariff Permission that has been filed with the Department pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section is disapproved or other action is taken by the Department, such disapproval or other action will be reflected on the next consecutive revision of the affected tariff page(s) in the following manner:

(1) Example of disapproval statement:

(2) Example of other action:

(e) When the Department disapproves in whole or in part or otherwise takes an action against any submission filed under this part, the filer must take corrective action within two business days following the disapproval or notice of other action.

(f) All submissions under this section shall comply with the requirements of ยง 221.202.
