
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 241 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS FOR LARGE CERTIFICATED AIR CARRIERS
##### Profit and Loss Classification
###### Section 10 Functional Classification - Operating Expenses of Group I Air Carriers

(a) This function shall include expenses incurred directly in the in-flight operation of aircraft and expenses attaching to the holding of aircraft and aircraft operational personnel in readiness for assignment to an in-flight status.

(b) This function shall not include expenses incurred in repairing, servicing or storing aircraft, expenses incurred on the ground in protecting and controlling the inflight movement of aircraft, or the compensation of ground personnel and other expenses incurred in scheduling or preparing aircraft or aircraft operational personnel for flight assignment. Such expenses shall be included in function 5400 Maintenance or function 6900 General Services and Administration.

(a) This function shall include all expenses, both direct and indirect, specifically identifiable with the repair and upkeep of property and equipment as may be required to meet operating and safety standards; in inspecting or checking property and equipment in accordance with prescribed operational standards; and in polishing or cleaning property and equipment when such polishing or cleaning is not an incidental routine in connection with the normal productive use of property and equipment.

(b) This function shall include the cost of direct labor, materials, and outside services and maintenances overhead or other costs specifically associated with maintenance operations regardless of the location at which incurred.

(c) This function shall not include costs incurred in the construction, improvement, or modification of property and equipment even when necessitated to meet new or changed operating or safety standards. Such costs shall be charged to appropriate property and equipment accounts.

(d) Costs incurred by aircraft handling personnel in visual inspection, minor check and servicing of aircraft, while in line service, shall not be included in this function when performed as an incidental routine during the normal productive use of aircraft but shall be included in function 6900 General Services and Administration.

(e) Each Group I air carrier shall maintain the following subfunctions:

This function shall include expenses incurred on the ground in controlling and protecting the in-flight movement of aircraft; landing, handling, or servicing aircraft on the ground; selling transportation; servicing and handling traffic of all classes; promoting the development of traffic; administering operations generally; and all other expenses not otherwise provided for in functions 5100 Flying Operations, 5400 Maintenance and 7000 Depreciation and Amortization.

This function shall include all charges to expense to record losses suffered through current exhaustion of the serviceability of property and equipment due to wear and tear from use and the action of time and the elements, which are not replaced by current repairs, as well as losses in serviceability caused by obsolescence, supersession, discoveries, change in demand or actions by public authority. It shall also include charges for the amortization of capitalized developmental and preoperating costs, leased property under capital leases and other intangible assets applicable to the performance of air transportation. (See sections 6-1696, 1830 and 1890.)

(a) This function shall include all expense items applicable to the generation of transport-related revenues included in section 9, Function 4800.

(b) Such expense related to services of a magnitude or scope beyond an incidental adjunct to air transportation services shall not be included in this function (see section 1-6(b)). Expenses applicable to the generation of such revenues shall be included in profit and loss classification 8100, Nonoperating Income and Expense-Net, and the accounting modified to conform with that of a nontransport division whether or not the service is organized as a nontransport division.

(c) This function shall also include expenses representing increases in costs incurred in common with the air transport service, to the extent such increases result from the added transport-related services, as well as a pro rata share of the costs incurred by the air carrier in operating facilities which are used jointly with others. As a general rule, this function shall not include those expenses, other than joint facilities costs, which would remain as an essential part of the air transport services if the transport-related services were terminated.
