
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 241 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS FOR LARGE CERTIFICATED AIR CARRIERS
##### Operating Statistics Classifications
###### 19-8.2 Definitions.
####### Total Amount

means:

(1) Gross total of funds collected on a ticket by the Issuing Carrier for the transportation of a passenger, inclusive of taxes and fees imposed by non-carrier entities or air carriers, and exclusive of ancillary fees not required to board the plane charged by the air carrier. Factors considered in determining what should be included in the Total Amount are as follows:

(i) Total Amount includes charges required to board the aircraft (domestic and international) that are recognized as revenue at the time of purchase of the ticket and at the time of first lift of the ticket.

(ii) Where a charge assessed at the time of purchase of the ticket is associated with a choice, such as seat assignment, where the consumer must pay the fee or charge regardless of the choice made, the charge is considered part of the Total Amount.

(iii) The Total Amount does not include charges for optional services (services offered which the consumer may choose not to utilize and thus not incur the fee or charge) such as baggage fees, seat upgrade fees, or ticket change fees. When a fee is assessed and there is a no cost option, that fee is considered an ancillary fee. When a fee is assessed for a service that provides something distinct from the air travel product then that fee is considered an ancillary fee.

(iv) The term Total Amount should align with standard passenger ticket documents; however, for air carriers that do not follow such standards or have, or may have, created new fees that may not be included in the standard passenger ticket document and yet are required to be paid to board the aircraft, these must also be included in Total Amount.

(2) Based on the criteria, the following is a non-exhaustive list of carrier-imposed fees and charges that must be reported as part of the Total Amount of the ticket: fuel surcharges, carrier usage charges, carrier interface fees, check-in fees, electronic usage charges, peak/holiday travel fees, transaction processing charges, and credit card surcharge fees. When a customer is assessed a fee based on how the customer acquires a ticket to board the aircraft, a booking fee, the fee is included in the Total Amount. Being required to pay a fee or charge for electronic or phone booking where there is no fee for purchase at the counter must be reported in the Total Amount. Being charged a call center fee for booking by phone when the customer could have booked online at no charge is not an example of a booking fee that must be reported. Carriers must also include all taxes and fees imposed by the U.S. or a foreign government, such as, but not limited to, Federal excise taxes, flight segment taxes, U.S. passenger facility surcharges, September 11 security fees, U.S. or international departure and arrival charges, and immigration charges. Carriers must also include taxes and mandatory fees charged by other foreign authorities, such as passenger service charges and airport taxes.
