
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 241 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS FOR LARGE CERTIFICATED AIR CARRIERS
##### Operating Statistics Classifications
###### ยง 19-8.4 Reporting of O&D data.
####### i.e.

(e) A Reporting Event evaluation occurs when a Reporting Carrier's revenue accounting system recognizes that any portion of a ticket has been flown,, first known lift usage. This evaluation will inform the Reporting Carrier if a ticket in their system has been recognized that meets criteria that may require the ticket be reported. Situations may occur where the Reporting Carrier's revenue accounting system identifies a ticket from a flight that occurs after the first flight in the ticket sequence. This may occur when the first flight in the ticket sequence is not used for travel, or the Reporting Carrier's revenue accounting system does not recognize the first flight in the ticket for some other reason. When this occurs, the second (or subsequent) flight is the first known lift usage and becomes the Reporting Event. The Reporting Carrier is responsible for reporting the complete ticket information as it appears at the time of the Reporting Event which should correspond with the information at the time the ticket was sold. Reporting carriers should not report ticket information as flown if the ticket information changes after first known lift usage.
