
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 241 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS FOR LARGE CERTIFICATED AIR CARRIERS
##### Operating Statistics Classifications
###### ยง 19-8.4 Reporting of O&D data.
####### Additional provisions for Category Two tickets.

(iii)Reporting Carriers should use all reasonable efforts to determine the required information from Category Two tickets. If the information for Operating Carrier, Via Airports, Dwell Time, Tax Amount, and Purchase Window Group is unavailable to the Reporting Carrier, however, then leave the fields for which information is unavailable blank. In cases where a carrier is unable to determine Dwell Time between coupons insert a "B" (for Break) in the appropriate dwell time slot where the reporting carrier provides an estimate of where in the itinerary the trip break occurs. Record a surface segment indicator (--, dash dash) where two consecutive stops within the itinerary have no air carrier operator. Record surface segments at the beginning and end of itineraries when the segments are designated with an airline flight number, appear on the ticket, and have a designator code that appears in an airline schedule source.

(g) The primary ticket's right-most digit of the standard ticket document number forms the basis for the random sample size. All required information associated with a primary ticket must be reported, which may include information from a related conjunction ticket. A conjunction ticket is a ticket that is a continuation of a primary ticket itinerary. Conjunction tickets should not be included in the sample process on their own. Any Reporting Carrier that does not assign ticket numbers to passenger journeys, does not assign ticket numbers such that the final, right-most digit is not randomly assigned, or otherwise seeks to use an alternative method must develop an alternative method of creating a valid 40 percent sample. Those Reporting Carriers would need to submit their alternative sample methods to DOT for approval within 90 days of the date that the Reporting Carrier recognizes that it must make use of the alternative sample selection method to comply with the proposed reporting regulation for determining a Reportable Ticket.
