
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 241 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS FOR LARGE CERTIFICATED AIR CARRIERS
##### General Reporting Provisions - Large Certificated Air Carriers
###### Section 22 General Reporting Instructions

(a) One copy of each schedule in the BTS Form 41 report shall be filed with the BTS and shall be received on or before the due date indicated for each such schedule in the list titled "Due Dates of Schedules in BTS Form 41 Report."

(b) Each large certificated air carrier shall file the applicable schedules of the BTS Form 41 Report with the BTS in accordance with the above instructions with the following exceptions:

(1) The time for filing B and P report schedules for the final quarter or semiannual period of each calendar year may be extended to the following March 30 if the preliminary Schedules B-1 or B-1.1 and P-1.1 or P-1.2 are submitted, as applicable, and are received on or before their respective due dates.

(2) For the third month of any calendar quarter, Schedule P-1(a) need not be filed if Schedule P-1.1 or P-1.2 for the quarter or semiannual period, as applicable, is received on the due date prescribed for Schedule P-1(a).

(3) Income and expense data on Schedule P-1(a) for each month will be withheld by the BTS from public disclosure, until such time as (i) the semiannual or quarterly financial reports are due, (ii) the semiannual or quarterly financial reports are filed, or (iii) information covered by monthly reports is publicly released by the carrier concerned, whichever occurs first. Before that time, income and expense data reported on Schedule P-1(a) will be disclosed to parties to any proceeding before the DOT to the extent that such data are relevant and material to the issues in the proceeding upon a determination to this effect by the administrative law judge assigned to the case or by the DOT. Any data to which access is granted may be introduced into evidence, subject to the normal rules of admissibility of evidence. The DOT will make other disclosure of these data upon its own motion or upon application of any interested person, when the DOT finds the public interest so requires. The BTS may, from time to time, publish summary information compiled from Schedule P-1(a) in a form which will not identify the individual carrier. At the request of an air carrier, and upon a showing by such air carriers that public disclosure of its preliminary year-end report would adversely affect its interests and would not be in the public interest, the BTS will withhold such preliminary year-end report from public disclosure until such time as (i) the final report is filed, (ii) the final report is due, or (iii) information covered by the preliminary report is publicly released by the carrier concerned, whichever occurs first.

(c) If circumstances prevent the filing of a report on or before the prescribed due date, consideration will be given to the granting of an extension upon receipt of a written request therefor. To provide ample time for consideration and communication to the air carrier of the action taken, such a request must be delivered to the BTS in writing at least three (3) days in advance of the due date, setting forth good and sufficient reason to justify the granting of the extension and the date when the report can be filed. Except in cases of emergency, no such request will be entertained which is not in writing and received by the BTS at least three (3) days before the prescribed due date. If a request is denied, the air carrier remains subject to the filing requirements to the same extent as if no request for extension of time had been made.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) All financial data reported on B, P and G schedules shall reflect the status of the air carrier's books of account for the period for which the report is being made and shall conform to the instructions contained in this Uniform System of Accounts and Reports. At the option of the air carrier, Group III air carriers may round reported financial data to the nearest thousands of dollars by typing "($000)" at the top of each amount column. All Group I and Group II air carriers may, at their option, round reported financial data to the nearest whole dollars by dropping the cents. All rounded amounts must be balanced within and between schedules. This option applies only to the submission of hardcopy reports. Instructions for the submission of data in ADP format are contained in the Accounting and Reporting Directives, which are available from OAI.

(f) Traffic and other operational statistics included in schedules of the BTS Form 41 reports shall reflect data pertaining to the month, quarter or 12-months-to-date period for which the report is being made.

(g) Adjustments correcting errors in previously reported traffic and other operational statistics shall not be included in data reported in schedules for the current period but shall be effected by submission of corrected schedules for the period to which applicable or, if only a few items are involved, by written notice and authorization to the BTS to correct previously filed reports except that any correction which amounts to less than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the corrected amount for the month to which related may be included in the report for the current month provided the amount of the correction is clearly noted on the Form 41 Report.

(h) All letters and statements of correction or revision of reported data shall be a part of the BTS Form 41 reports.

(i) All changes in accounting methods having a material impact upon the particular financial elements involved, and all changes in methods of computing and reporting traffic and capacity statistics having a material impact upon the particular statistic involved shall be adequately explained and identified in the report first reflecting such changes. Such explanations related to financial position or financial results shall be made on BTS Form 41 Schedule P-2. Changes in methods for computing or reporting traffic and capacity statistics shall be identified and explained on a separate sheet attached to the first report affected. (See sec. 2-16.) The reporting requirements shall not be construed, in any sense, as relieving the air carrier of the responsibility for conforming its procedures to those otherwise prescribed in this system of accounts and reports.

(j) All financial statements released by carriers to the public reflecting a financial position or operating results for dates or reporting periods not covered by reports on file with the BTS shall be filed with the Board simultaneously with their public release.
