
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 249 - PRESERVATION OF AIR CARRIER RECORDS
##### Subpart B - Preservation of Records by Carrier
###### ยง 249.21 Preservation of records by public charter operators and overseas military personnel charter operators.

Each operator authorized under parts 372 and 380 of this chapter shall retain the following records for 6 months after completion or cancellation of the flight or series of flights. The records shall be made available upon request of an authorized representative of the DOT.

(a) All receipts and statements of travel agents and all other documents which show deposits made by each charter participant or which show refunds to charter participants.

(b) All receipts and statements of travel agents and all other documents which show or reflect commissions received, paid to, or deducted by travel agents in connection with the flight or series of flights.

(c) All statements, invoices, bills, and receipts from suppliers for furnishing of goods or services in connection with the tour or series of tours.

(d) All customer reservations records for each flight.

(e) All contracts with individual tour participants.

(f) All bank statements and reconciliations for escrow bank accounts opened and maintained in accordance with DOT regulations.
