
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 250 - OVERSALES
##### ยง 250.10 Report of passengers denied confirmed space.

(a) Each reporting carrier as defined in ยง 234.2 of this chapter and any carrier that voluntarily submits data pursuant to ยง 234.7 of this chapter shall file, on a quarterly basis, the information specified in BTS Form 250. The reporting basis shall be flight segments originating in the United States operated by the reporting carrier. The reports must be submitted within 30 days after the end of the quarter covered by the report. The calendar quarters end March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31. "Total Boardings" on Line 6 of Form 250 shall include only passengers on flights for which confirmed reservations are offered. Data shall not be included for inbound international flights.

(b) For air transportation taking place on or after January 1, 2018, each reporting carrier and voluntary reporting carrier shall file a separate BTS Form 250 for all flight segments originating in the United States marketed under only the reporting carrier's code, and operated by a code-share partner that is a certificated air carrier or commuter air carrier using aircraft that have a designed passenger capacity of 30 or more seats.
