
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 291 - CARGO OPERATIONS IN INTERSTATE AIR TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart E - Reporting Rules
###### ยง 291.42 Section 41103 financial and traffic reporting.
####### General instructions.

(a)Carriers operating under section 41103 certificates that are not subject to part 241 of this chapter shall file Form 291-A, "Statement of Operations for Section 41103 Operations", Schedule T-100, "U.S. Air Carrier Traffic and Capacity Data by Nonstop Segment and On-Flight Market", and Schedule P-12(a), "Fuel Consumption by Type of Service and Entity" with the Department's Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS).

(1) A single copy of the BTS Form 291-A report shall be filed annually with the Office of Airline Information (OAI) for the year ended December 31, to be received on or before February 10 of the immediately following year. A single copy of the monthly BTS Schedule P-12(a) is due at OAI within 20 days after the end of each month. An electronic filing of the monthly Schedule T-100 is due at OAI within 30 days after the end of each month. Due dates falling on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday will become effective on the next work day.

(2) Reports required by this section shall be submitted to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics in a format specified in accounting and reporting directives issued by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics' Director of Airline Information.
