
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 291 - CARGO OPERATIONS IN INTERSTATE AIR TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart E - Reporting Rules
###### ยง 291.44 BTS Schedule P-12(a), Fuel Consumption by Type of Service and Entity.

(a) For the purposes of BTS schedule P-12(a), type of service shall be either scheduled service or nonscheduled service as those terms are defined in ยง 291.45(c)(2) and (3).

(b) For the purpose of this schedule, scheduled service shall be reported separately for:

(1) Intra-Alaskan operations;

(2) Domestic operations, which shall include all operations within and between the 50 States of the United States (except Intra-Alaska), the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands, or a U.S. territory or possession to a place in any State of the United States the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands, or a U.S. territory or possession;

(3) International operations are flight stages with one or both terminals outside the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands, or a U.S. territory or possession.

(c) For the purpose of this schedule, nonscheduled service shall be reported separately for domestic operations and international operations as defined in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, except that domestic and international Military Airlift Command (MAC) operations shall be reported on separate lines.

(d) The cost data reported on each line shall represent the average cost of fuel, as determined at the station level, consumed in that geographic entity.

(e)(1) The cost of fuel shall include shrinkage, but excludes:

(i) "Throughput" and "in to plane" fees, i.e., service charges or gallonage levies assessed by or against the fuel vendor or concessionaire and passed on to the carrier in a separately identifiable form; and

(ii) Nonrefundable Federal and State excise taxes.

(2) However, "through-put" and "in to plane" charges that cannot be identified or segregated from the cost of fuel shall remain a part of the cost of fuel as reported on this schedule.

(f) Each air carrier shall maintain records for each station showing the computation of fuel inventories and consumption for each fuel type. The periodic average cost method shall be used in computing fuel inventories and consumption. Under this method, an average unit cost for each fuel type shall be computed by dividing the total cost of fuel available (Beginning Inventory plus Purchases) by the total gallons available. The resulting unit cost shall then be used to determine the ending inventory and the total consumption costs to be reported on this schedule.

(g) Where amounts reported for a specific entity include other than Jet A fuel, a footnote shall be added indicating the number of gallons and applicable costs of such other fuel included in amounts reported for that entity.

(h) Where any adjustment(s) recorded on the books of the carrier results in a material distortion of the current month's schedule, carriers shall file a revised Schedule P-12(a) for the month(s) affected.
