
# = When a maneuver is preceded by this symbol it indicates the maneuver may be required in the airplane at the discretion of the person conducting the check.
## Chapter II - Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings)
### Subchapter A - Economic Regulations
#### PART 293 - INTERNATIONAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart B - Exemption From Filing Tariffs
###### ยง 293.10 Exemption.

(a) Air carriers and foreign air carriers are exempted from the duty to file passenger tariffs with the Department of Transportation, as required by 49 U.S.C. 41504 and 14 CFR part 221, as follows:

(1) The Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs will, by notice, issue and periodically update a list establishing the following categories of markets:

(i) In Category A markets, carriers are exempted from the duty to file all passenger tariffs unless they are nationals of countries listed in Category C, or are subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.

(ii) In Category B markets, carriers are exempted from the duty to file all passenger tariffs except those setting forth one-way economy-class fares and governing provisions thereto, unless they are nationals of countries listed in Category C, or are subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.

(iii) In Category C markets, carriers shall continue to file all passenger tariffs, except as provided in ยง 293.10(b);

(2) The Assistant Secretary will list country-pair markets falling in Categories A and C, taking into consideration the factors in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section. All country-pair markets not listed in Categories A or C shall be considered to be in Category B and need not be specifically listed.

(i) Whether the U.S. has an aviation agreement in force with that country providing double-disapproval treatment of prices filed by the carriers of the Parties;

(ii) Whether the country's Government has disapproved or deterred U.S. carrier price leadership or matching tariff filings in any market;

(iii) Whether the country's Government has placed significant restrictions on carrier entry or capacity in any market; and

(iv) Whether the country's government is honoring the provisions of the bilateral aviation agreement and there are no significant bilateral problems.

(b) By notice of the Assistant Secretary, new country-pair markets will be listed in the appropriate category, and existing country-pair markets may be transferred between categories.

(c) Notwithstanding a determination that a country is in Category A or B, if the Assistant Secretary finds that effective price leadership opportunities for U.S. carriers are not available between that country and any third country, carriers that are nationals of such country may be required to file tariffs, as provided under part 221 or as otherwise directed in the notice, for some or all of their services between the U.S. and third countries.

(d) Air carriers and foreign air carriers are exempted from the duty to file governing rules tariffs containing general conditions of carriage with the Department of Transportation, as required by 49 U.S.C. 41504 and 14 CFR part 221. A description of the general conditions of carriage will be included in the Assistant Secretary's initial notice.

(e) Notwithstanding paragraph (d) of this section, air carriers and foreign air carriers shall file and maintain a tariff with the Department to the extent required by 14 CFR 203.4 and other implementing regulations.

(f) Authority for determining what rules are covered by paragraph (d) of this section and for determining the filing format for the tariffs required by paragraph (e) of this section is delegated to the Director of the Office of International Aviation.
