
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1037.104 Exhaust emission standards for chassis-certified heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR.
############# § 1037.105 COemission standards for vocational vehicles.

(a) The standards of this section apply for the following vehicles:

(1) Heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR that are excluded from the standards in 40 CFR 86.1819 or that use engines certified under § 1037.150(m).

(2) Vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR and at or below 26,000 pounds GVWR, but not certified to the vehicle standards in 40 CFR 86.1819.

(3) Vehicles above 26,000 pounds GVWR that are not tractors.

(4) Vocational tractors.

(b) COstandards in this paragraph (b) apply based on modeling and testing as specified in subpart F of this part. The provisions of § 1037.241 specify how to comply with these standards. Standards differ based on engine cycle, vehicle size, and intended vehicle duty cycle. See § 1037.510(c) to determine which duty cycle applies.

(1) Model year 2027 and later vehicles are subject to COstandards corresponding to the selected subcategories as shown in the following table:

(2) Model year 2024 through 2026 vehicles are subject to COstandards corresponding to the selected subcategories as shown in the following table:

(3) Model year 2021 Through 2023 vehicles are subject to COstandards corresponding to the selected subcategories as shown in the following table:

(4) Model year 2014 through 2020 vehicles are subject to Phase 1 COstandards as shown in the following table:

(c) No CHor NO standards apply under this section. See 40 CFR part 1036 for CHor NO standards that apply to engines used in these vehicles.

(d) You may generate or use emission credits for averaging, banking, and trading to demonstrate compliance with the standards in paragraph (b) of this section as described in subpart H of this part. This requires that you specify a Family Emission Limit (FEL) for COfor each vehicle subfamily. The FEL may not be less than the result of emission modeling from § 1037.520. These FELs serve as the emission standards for the vehicle subfamily instead of the standards specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(e) The exhaust emission standards of this section apply for the full useful life, expressed in service miles or calendar years, whichever comes first. The following useful life values apply for the standards of this section:

(1) 150,000 miles or 15 years, whichever comes first, for Light HDV.

(2) 185,000 miles or 10 years, whichever comes first, for Medium HDV.

(3) 435,000 miles or 10 years, whichever comes first, for Heavy HDV.

(f) See § 1037.631 for provisions that exempt certain vehicles used in off-road operation from the standards of this section.

(g) You may optionally certify a vocational vehicle to the standards and useful life applicable to a heavier vehicle service class (such as Medium HDV instead of Light HDV). Provisions related to generating emission credits apply as follows:

(1) If you certify all your vehicles from a given vehicle service class in a given model year to the standards and useful life that applies for a heavier vehicle service class, you may generate credits as appropriate for the heavier service class.

(2) Class 8 hybrid vehicles with Light HDE or Medium HDE may be certified to compression-ignition standards for the Heavy HDV service class. You may generate and use credits as allowed for the Heavy HDV service class.

(3) Except as specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, you may not generate credits with the vehicle. If you include lighter vehicles in a subfamily of heavier vehicles with an FEL below the standard, exclude the production volume of lighter vehicles from the credit calculation. Conversely, if you include lighter vehicles in a subfamily with an FEL above the standard, you must include the production volume of lighter vehicles in the credit calculation.
