
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Vehicle Families
###### § 1037.205 What must I include in my application?

This section specifies the information that must be in your application, unless we ask you to include less information under § 1037.201(c). We may require you to provide additional information to evaluate your application. References to testing and emission-data vehicles refer to testing vehicles or components to measure any quantity that serves as an input value for modeling emission rates under § 1037.515 or 1037.520.

(a) Describe the vehicle family's specifications and other basic parameters of the vehicle's design and emission controls. List the fuel type on which your vocational vehicles and tractors are designed to operate (for example, ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel).

(b) Explain how the emission control system operates. As applicable, describe in detail all system components for controlling greenhouse gas emissions, including all auxiliary emission control devices (AECDs) and all fuel-system components you will install on any production vehicle. Identify the part number of each component you describe. For this paragraph (b), treat as separate AECDs any devices that modulate or activate differently from each other. Also describe your modeling inputs as described in §§ 1037.515 and 1037.520, with the following additional information if it applies for your vehicles:

(1) Describe your design for vehicle speed limiters, consistent with § 1037.640.

(2) Describe your design for predictive cruise control.

(3) Describe your design for automatic engine shutdown systems, consistent with § 1037.660.

(4) Describe your engineering analysis demonstrating that your air conditioning compressor qualifies as a high-efficiency model as described in 40 CFR 86.1868-12(h)(5).

(5) Describe your design for idle-reduction technology, including the logic for engine shutdown and the maximum duration of engine operation after the onset of any vehicle conditions described in § 1037.660.

(6) If you perform powertrain testing under § 1037.550, report both COand NOemission levels corresponding to each test run.

(7) Describe the configuration and basic design of hybrid systems. Include measurements for vehicles with hybrid power take-off systems.

(8) If you install auxiliary power units in tractors under § 1037.106(g), identify the family name associated with the engine's certification under 40 CFR part 1039. Starting in model year 2024, also identify the family name associated with the auxiliary power unit's certification to the standards of 40 CFR 1039.699.

(9) Describe how you meet any applicable criteria in § 1037.631(a)(1) and (2).

(c) For vehicles subject to air conditioning standards, include:

(1) The refrigerant leakage rates (leak scores).

(2) The type of refrigerant and the refrigerant capacity of the air conditioning systems.

(3) The corporate name of the final installer of the air conditioning system.

(d) Describe any vehicles or components you selected for testing and the reasons for selecting them.
