
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### ยง 1037.10 How is this part organized?

This part 1037 is divided into the following subparts:

(a) Subpart A of this part defines the applicability of part 1037 and gives an overview of regulatory requirements.

(b) Subpart B of this part describes the emission standards and other requirements that must be met to certify vehicles under this part. Note that ยง 1037.150 discusses certain interim requirements and compliance provisions that apply only for a limited time.

(c) Subpart C of this part describes how to apply for a certificate of conformity.

(d) Subpart D of this part addresses testing of production vehicles.

(e) Subpart E of this part addresses testing of in-use vehicles.

(f) Subpart F of this part describes how to test your vehicles and perform emission modeling (including references to other parts of the Code of Federal Regulations) for vehicles subject to the standards of ยง 1037.105 or ยง 1037.106.

(g) Subpart G of this part and 40 CFR part 1068 describe requirements, prohibitions, and other provisions that apply to manufacturers, owners, operators, rebuilders, and all others. Section 1037.601 describes how 40 CFR part 1068 applies for heavy-duty vehicles.

(h) Subpart H of this part describes how you may generate and use emission credits to certify vehicles.

(i) Subpart I of this part contains definitions and other reference information.
