
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1037.150 Interim provisions.
####### Constraints for vocational regulatory subcategories

(z). The following provisions apply to determinations of vocational regulatory subcategories as described in ยง 1037.140:

(1) Select the Regional regulatory subcategory if you certify the engine based on testing only with the Supplemental Emission Test.

(2) Select the Regional regulatory subcategory for coach buses and motor homes you certify under ยง 1037.105(b).

(3) You may not select the Urban regulatory subcategory for any vehicle with a manual or single-clutch automated manual transmission.

(4) Starting in model year 2024, you must select the Regional regulatory subcategory for any vehicle with a manual transmission.

(5) You may select the Multi-purpose regulatory subcategory for any vocational vehicle, except as specified in paragraphs (z)(1) through (3) of this section.

(6) You may not select the Urban regulatory subcategory for any vehicle with a manual or single-clutch automated manual transmission.

(7) You may select the Urban regulatory subcategory for a hybrid vehicle equipped with regenerative braking, unless it is equipped with a manual transmission.

(8) You may select the Urban regulatory subcategory for any vehicle with a hydrokinetic torque converter paired with an automatic transmission, or a continuously variable automatic transmission, or a dual-clutch transmission with no more than two consecutive forward gears between which it is normal for both clutches to be momentarily disengaged.
