
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1037.104 Exhaust emission standards for chassis-certified heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR.
######## identify vehicle type as identified in Table 5 of this section

(h) You may optionally certify certain vocational vehicles to alternative Phase 2 standards as specified in this paragraph (h) instead of the standards specified in paragraph (b) of this section. You may apply these provisions to any qualifying vehicles even though these standards were established for custom chassis. For example, large diversified vehicle manufacturers may certify vehicles to the refuse hauler standards of this section as long as the manufacturer ensures that those vehicles qualify as refuse haulers when placed into service. GEM simulates vehicle operation for each type of vehicle based on an assigned vehicle service class, independent of the vehicle's actual characteristics, as shown in Table 5 of this section; however, standards apply for the vehicle's useful life based on its actual characteristics as specified in paragraph (e) of this section. Vehicles certified to these standards must include the following statement on the emission control label: "THIS VEHICLE WAS CERTIFIED AS A [] UNDER 40 CFR 1037.105(h)]." These custom-chassis standards apply as follows:

(1) The following alternative emission standards apply by vehicle type and model year as follows:

(2) You may generate or use emission credits for averaging to demonstrate compliance with the alternative standards as described in subpart H of this part. This requires that you specify a Family Emission Limit (FEL) for COfor each vehicle subfamily. The FEL may not be less than the result of emission modeling as described in § 1037.520. These FELs serve as the emission standards for the vehicle subfamily instead of the standards specified in this paragraph (h). Calculate credits using the equation in § 1037.705(b) with the standard payload for the assigned vehicle service class and the useful life identified in paragraph (e) of this section. Each separate vehicle type identified in Table 5 of this section (or group of vehicle types identified in a single row) represents a separate averaging set. You may not use averaging for vehicles meeting standards under paragraph (h)(5) through (7) of this section, and you may not bank or trade emission credits from any vehicles certified under this paragraph (h).

(3) [Reserved]

(4) For purposes of emission modeling under § 1037.520, consider motor homes and coach buses to be subject to the Regional duty cycle, and consider all other vehicles to be subject to the Urban duty cycle.

(5) Emergency vehicles are deemed to comply with the standards of this paragraph (h) if they use tires with TRRL at or below 8.4 N/kN (8.7 N/kN for model years 2021 through 2026).

(6) Concrete mixers and mixed-use vehicles are deemed to comply with the standards of this paragraph (h) if they use tires with TRRL at or below 7.1 N/kN (7.6 N/kN for model years 2021 through 2026).

(7) Motor homes are deemed to comply with the standards of this paragraph (h) if they have tires with TRRL at or below 6.0 N/kN (6.7 N/kN for model years 2021 through 2026) and automatic tire inflation systems or tire pressure monitoring systems with wheels on all axles.

(8) Vehicles certified to standards under this paragraph (h) must use engines certified under 40 CFR part 1036 for the appropriate model year, except that motor homes and emergency vehicles may use engines certified with the loose-engine provisions of § 1037.150(m). This also applies for vehicles meeting standards under paragraphs (h)(5) through (7) of this section.
