
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### § 1037.5 Excluded vehicles.

Except for the definitions specified in § 1037.801, this part does not apply to the following vehicles:

(a) Vehicles not meeting the definition of "motor vehicle" in § 1037.801.

(b) Vehicles excluded from the definition of "heavy-duty vehicle" in § 1037.801 because of vehicle weight, weight rating, and frontal area (such as light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks).

(c) Vehicles produced in model years before 2014, unless they were certified under § 1037.150.

(d) Medium-duty passenger vehicles and other vehicles subject to the light-duty greenhouse gas standards of 40 CFR part 86. See 40 CFR 86.1818 for greenhouse gas standards that apply for these vehicles. An example of such a vehicle would be a vehicle meeting the definition of "heavy-duty vehicle" in § 1037.801 and 40 CFR 86.1803, but also meeting the definition of "light truck" in 40 CFR 86.1818-12(b)(2).

(e) Vehicles subject to the heavy-duty emission standards of 40 CFR part 86. See 40 CFR 86.1816 and 86.1819 for emission standards that apply for these vehicles. This exclusion generally applies for complete heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR.

(f) Aircraft meeting the definition of "motor vehicle". For example, this would include certain convertible aircraft that can be adjusted to operate on public roads. Standards apply separately to certain aircraft engines, as described in 40 CFR part 87.

(g) Non-box trailers other than flatbed trailers, tank trailers, and container chassis.

(h) Trailers meeting one or more of the following characteristics:
