
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1037.101 Overview of emission standards.
####### Fuel evaporative and refueling emissions.

(3)Requirements related to fuel evaporative and refueling emissions are described in ยง 1037.103.

(b) The regulated heavy-duty vehicles are addressed in different groups as follows:

(1) For criteria pollutants, vocational vehicles and tractors are regulated based on gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR), whether they are considered "spark-ignition" or "compression-ignition," and whether they are first sold as complete or incomplete vehicles.

(2) For greenhouse gas pollutants, vehicles are regulated in the following groups:

(i) Tractors above 26,000 pounds GVWR.

(ii) Trailers.

(iii) Vocational vehicles.

(3) The greenhouse gas emission standards apply differently depending on the vehicle service class as described in ยง 1037.140. In addition, standards apply differently for vehicles with spark-ignition and compression-ignition engines. References in this part 1037 to "spark-ignition" or "compression-ignition" generally relate to the application of standards under 40 CFR 1036.140. For example, a vehicle with an engine certified to spark-ignition standards under 40 CFR part 1036 is generally subject to requirements under this part 1037 that apply for spark-ignition vehicles. However, note that emission standards for Heavy HDE are considered to be compression-ignition standards for purposes of applying vehicle emission standards under this part. Also, for spark-ignition engines voluntarily certified as compression-ignition engines under 40 CFR part 1036, you must choose at certification whether your vehicles are subject to spark-ignition standards or compression-ignition standards.

(4) For evaporative and refueling emissions, vehicles are regulated based on the type of fuel they use. Vehicles fueled with volatile liquid fuels or gaseous fuels are subject to evaporative and refueling emission standards.
