
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1037.150 Interim provisions.
####### Transitional allowances for trailers.

(v)Through model year 2026, trailer manufacturers may calculate a number of trailers that are exempt from the standards and certification requirements of this part. Calculate the number of exempt box vans in a given model year by multiplying your total U.S.-directed production volume of certified box vans by 0.20 and rounding to the nearest whole number; however, in no case may the number of exempted box vans be greater than 350 units in any given model year. Repeat this calculation to determine the number of non-box trailers, up to 250 annual units, that are exempt from standards and certification requirements. Perform the calculation based on your projected production volumes in the first year that standards apply; in later years, use actual production volumes from the preceding model year. Include these calculated values and your production volumes of exempt trailers in your annual production report under ยง 1037.250. You must apply a label meeting the requirements of 40 CFR 1068.45(a) that identifies your corporate name and states that the trailer is exempt under the provisions of ยง 1037.150. Unlabeled trailers will be considered in violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).
