
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1037.106 Exhaust emission standards for tractors above 26,000 pounds GVWR.

(a) The COstandards of this section apply for tractors above 26,000 pounds GVWR. Note that the standards of this section do not apply for vehicles classified as "vocational tractors" under § 1037.630.

(b) The COstandards for tractors above 26,000 pounds GVWR in Table 1 of this section apply based on modeling and testing as described in subpart F of this part. The provisions of § 1037.241 specify how to comply with the standards in this paragraph (b).

(c) No CHor NO standards apply under this section. See 40 CFR part 1036 for CHor NO standards that apply to engines used in these vehicles.

(d) You may generate or use emission credits for averaging, banking, and trading as described in subpart H of this part. This requires that you calculate a credit quantity if you specify a Family Emission Limit (FEL) that is different than the standard specified in this section for a given pollutant. The FEL may not be less than the result of emission modeling from § 1037.520. These FELs serve as the emission standards for the specific vehicle subfamily instead of the standards specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) The exhaust emission standards of this section apply for the full useful life, expressed in service miles or calendar years, whichever comes first. The following useful life values apply for the standards of this section:

(1) 185,000 miles or 10 years, whichever comes first, for vehicles at or below 33,000 pounds GVWR.

(2) 435,000 miles or 10 years, whichever comes first, for vehicles above 33,000 pounds GVWR.

(f) You may optionally certify Class 7 tractors to Class 8 standards as follows:

(1) You may optionally certify 4x2 tractors with Heavy HDE to the standards and useful life for Class 8 tractors, with no restriction on generating or using emission credits within the Class 8 averaging set.

(2) You may optionally certify Class 7 tractors not covered by paragraph (f)(1) of this section to the standards and useful life for Class 8 tractors. Credit provisions apply as follows:

(i) If you certify all your Class 7 tractors to Class 8 standards, you may use these Heavy HDV credits without restriction. This paragraph (f)(2)(i) applies equally for hybrid and electric vehicles.

(ii) This paragraph (f)(2)(ii) applies if you certify some Class 7 tractors to Class 8 standards under this paragraph (f)(2) but not all of them. If you include Class 7 tractors in a subfamily of Class 8 tractors with an FEL below the standard, exclude the production volume of Class 7 tractors from the credit calculation. Conversely, if you include Class 7 tractors in a subfamily of Class 8 tractors with an FEL above the standard, you must include the production volume of Class 7 tractors in the credit calculation.

(g) Diesel auxiliary power units installed on tractors subject to standards under this section must meet PM standards as follows:

(1) For model years 2021 through 2023, the APU engine must be certified under 40 CFR part 1039 with a deteriorated emission level for PM at or below 0.15 g/kW-hr.

(2) Starting in model year 2024, auxiliary power units installed on tractors subject to standards under this section must be certified to the PM emission standard specified in 40 CFR 1039.699. Selling, offering for sale, or introducing or delivering into commerce in the United States or importing into the United States a new tractor subject to this standard is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) unless the auxiliary power unit has a valid certificate of conformity and the required label showing that it meets the PM standard of this paragraph (g)(2).

(3) See § 1037.660(e) for requirements that apply for diesel APUs in model year 2020 and earlier tractors.
