
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Vehicle Families
###### § 1037.205 What must I include in my application?
####### C

(e) Describe any test equipment and procedures that you used, including any special or alternate test procedures you used (see § 1037.501). Include information describing the procedures you used to determinevalues as specified in §§ 1037.525 through 1037.527. Describe which type of data you are using for engine fuel maps (see 40 CFR 1036.505). If your trailer certification relies on approved data from device manufacturers, identify the device and device manufacturer.

(f) Describe how you operated any emission-data vehicle before testing, including the duty cycle and the number of vehicle operating miles used to stabilize emission-related performance. Explain why you selected the method of service accumulation. Describe any scheduled maintenance you did, and any practices or specifications that should apply for our testing.

(g) Where applicable, list the specifications of any test fuel to show that it falls within the required ranges we specify in 40 CFR part 1065.

(h) Identify the vehicle family's useful life.

(i) Include the maintenance instructions and warranty statement you will give to the ultimate purchaser of each new vehicle (see §§ 1037.120 and 1037.125).

(j) Describe your emission control information label (see § 1037.135).

(k) Identify the emission standards or FELs to which you are certifying vehicles in the vehicle family. For families containing multiple subfamilies, this means that you must identify the highest and lowest FELs to which any of your subfamilies will be certified.

(l) Where applicable, identify the vehicle family's deterioration factors and describe how you developed them. Present any emission test data you used for this (see § 1037.241(c)).

(m) Where applicable, state that you operated your emission-data vehicles as described in the application (including the test procedures, test parameters, and test fuels) to show you meet the requirements of this part.

(n) [Reserved]

(o) Report calculated and modeled emission results as follows:

(1) For vocational vehicles and tractors, report modeling results for ten configurations. Include modeling inputs and detailed descriptions of how they were derived. Unless we specify otherwise, include the configuration with the highest modeling result, the lowest modeling result, and the configurations with the highest projected sales.

(2) For trailers that demonstrate compliance with g/ton-mile emission standards as described in § 1037.515, report the COemission result for the configuration with the highest calculated value. If your trailer family generates or uses emission credits, also report the COemission results for the configuration with the lowest calculated value, and for the configuration with the highest projected sales.

(p) Where applicable, describe all adjustable operating parameters (see § 1037.115), including production tolerances. For any operating parameters that do not qualify as adjustable parameters, include a description supporting your conclusion (see 40 CFR 1068.50(c)). Include the following in your description of each adjustable parameter:

(1) The nominal or recommended setting.

(2) The intended practically adjustable range.

(3) The limits or stops used to establish adjustable ranges.

(4) Information showing why the limits, stops, or other means of inhibiting adjustment are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use engines to settings outside your intended practically adjustable ranges.

(q) Include the following information for electric vehicles and fuel cell vehicles to show they meet the standards of this part:

(1) You may attest that vehicles comply with the standards of § 1037.102 instead of submitting test data.

(2) For vehicles generating credits under § 1037.616, you may attest that the vehicle meets the durability requirements described in § 1037.102(b)(3) based on an engineering analysis of measured values and other information, consistent with good engineering judgment, instead of testing at the end of the useful life. Send us your test results for work produced over the FTP and initial useable battery energy or initial fuel cell voltage. Also send us your engineering analysis describing how you meet the durability requirements if we ask for it.

(r) Unconditionally certify that all the vehicles in the vehicle family comply with the requirements of this part, other referenced parts of the CFR, and the Clean Air Act.

(s) Include good-faith estimates of U.S.-directed production volumes by subfamily. We may require you to describe the basis of your estimates.

(t) Include the information required by other subparts of this part. For example, include the information required by § 1037.725 if you plan to generate or use emission credits.

(u) Include other applicable information, such as information specified in this part or 40 CFR part 1068 related to requests for exemptions.

(v) Name an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.
