
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1037.103 Evaporative and refueling emission standards.
####### Emission standards.

(b)The evaporative and refueling emission standards and measurement procedures specified in 40 CFR 86.1813 apply for vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR, except as described in this section. The evaporative emission standards phase in over model years 2018 through 2022, with provisions allowing for voluntary compliance with the standards as early as model year 2015. Count vehicles subject to standards under this section the same as heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR to comply with the phase-in requirements specified in 40 CFR 86.1813. These vehicles may generate and use emission credits as described in 40 CFR part 86, subpart S, but only for vehicles that are tested for certification instead of relying on the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section. The following provisions apply instead of what is specified in 40 CFR 86.1813:

(1) The refueling standards in 40 CFR 86.1813-17(b) and the related provisions in 40 CFR part 86, subpart S, apply to complete vehicles starting in model year 2022. Those standards and related provisions apply for incomplete vehicles starting in model year 2027, or as described in the alternate phase-in schedule described in 40 CFR 86.1813-17(b). If you do not certify all your incomplete heavy-duty vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR to the refueling standards in model year 2027, you must use the alternate phase-in schedule described in 40 CFR 86.1813-17(b).

(2) The leak standard in 40 CFR 86.1813-17(a)(4) does not apply.

(3) The FEL cap relative to the diurnal plus hot soak standard for low-altitude testing is 1.9 grams per test.

(4) The diurnal plus hot soak standard for high-altitude testing is 2.3 grams per test.

(5) Testing does not require measurement of exhaust emissions. Disregard references in subpart B of this part to procedures, equipment specifications, and recordkeeping related to measuring exhaust emissions. All references to the exhaust test under 40 CFR part 86, subpart B, are considered the "dynamometer run" as part of the evaporative testing sequence under this subpart.
