
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Vehicle Families
###### ยง 1037.230 Vehicle families, sub-families, and configurations.
####### C,A,C,A

(iii) Determine the appropriate aerodynamic bin number based on the actual roof height if you measure avalue. However, use the GEM input for the bin based on the standards to which you certify. For example, of you certify as mid-roof tractors some low-roof tractors with a measuredvalue of 4.2 m, they qualify as Bin IV; and you must input into GEM the mid-roof Bin IV value of 5.85 m.

(3) You may include refrigerated box vans in a vehicle family with dry box vans by treating them all as dry box vans for demonstrating compliance with emission standards. You may include certain other types of trailers in a vehicle family with a different type of trailer, such that the combined set of trailers are all subject to the more stringent standards, as follows:

(i) Standards for long trailers are more stringent than standards for short trailers.

(ii) Standards for long dry box vans are more stringent than standards for short refrigerated box vans.

(iii) Standards for non-aero box vans are more stringent than standards for non-box trailers.

(e) You may divide your families into more families than specified in this section.

(f) You may ask us to allow you to group into the same configuration vehicles that have very small body hardware differences that do not significantly affect drag areas.
