
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### § 1037.510 Duty-cycle exhaust testing.
####### Highway cruise cycle.
######## Drag area,C,A,C,A,C,A,C,A,C,A,C,A,C,A,C,A

(c). You may use Δvalues approved under § 1037.211 for device manufacturers if your trailers are properly equipped with those devices. Determine Δvalues for other trailers based on testing. Measureand determine Δvalues as described in § 1037.526(a). You may use Δvalues from one trailer configuration to represent any number of additional trailers based on worst-case testing. This means that you may apply Δvalues from your measurements to any trailer models of the same category with drag area at or below that of the tested configuration. For trailers in the short dry box vans and short refrigerated box vans that are not 28 feet long, apply the Δvalue established for a comparable 28-foot trailer model; you may use the same devices designed for 28-foot trailers or you may adapt those devices as appropriate for the different trailer length, consistent with good engineering judgment. For example, 48-foot trailers may use longer side skirts than the skirts that were tested with a 28-foot trailer. Trailer and device manufacturers may seek preliminary approval for these adaptations. Determine bin levels based on Δtest results as described in the following table:
