
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.510 Duty-cycle exhaust testing.
####### Highway cruise cycle.
######## Vehicle weight reduction.

(e)Develop a weight-reduction as a GEM input as described in this paragraph (e). Enter the sum of weight reductions as described in this paragraph (e), or enter zero if there is no weight reduction. For purposes of this paragraph (e), high-strength steel is steel with tensile strength at or above 350 MPa.

(1) Vehicle weight reduction inputs for wheels are specified relative to dual-wide tires with conventional steel wheels. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(1), an aluminum alloy qualifies as light-weight if a dual-wide drive wheel made from this material weighs at least 21 pounds less than a comparable conventional steel wheel. The inputs are listed in Table 6 of this section. For example, a tractor or vocational vehicle with aluminum steer wheels and eight (4x2) dual-wide aluminum drive wheels would have an input of 210 pounds (2x21 + 8x21).

(2) Weight reduction inputs for tractor components other than wheels are specified in the following table:

(3) Weight-reduction inputs for vocational-vehicle components other than wheels are specified in the following table:

(4) Apply vehicle weight inputs for changing technology configurations as follows:

(i) For Class 8 tractors or for Class 8 vocational vehicles with a permanent 6x2 axle configuration, apply a weight reduction input of 300 pounds. However, apply no weight reduction for coach buses certified to custom-chassis standards under ยง 1037.105(h).

(ii) For Class 8 tractors with 4x2 axle configuration, apply a weight reduction input of 400 pounds.

(iii) For tractors with installed engines with displacement below 14.0 liters, apply a weight reduction of 300 pounds.

(iv) For tractors with single-piece driveshafts with a total length greater than 86 inches, apply a weight reduction of 43 pounds for steel driveshafts and 63 pounds for aluminum driveshafts.

(5) You may ask to apply the off-cycle technology provisions of ยง 1037.610 for weight reductions not covered by this paragraph (e).
