
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### § 1037.510 Duty-cycle exhaust testing.
####### Highway cruise cycle.
######## General modeling provisions.

(a)To run GEM, enter all applicable inputs as specified by the model.

(1) GEM inputs apply for Phase 1 standards as follows:

(i) Model year and regulatory subcategory (see § 1037.230).

(ii) Coefficient of aerodynamic drag or drag area, as described in paragraph (b) of this section (tractors only).

(iii) Steer and drive tire rolling resistance, as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(iv) Vehicle speed limit, as described in paragraph (d) of this section (tractors only).

(v) Vehicle weight reduction, as described in paragraph (e) of this section (tractors only for Phase 1).

(vi) Automatic engine shutdown systems, as described in § 1037.660 (only for Class 8 sleeper cabs). Enter a GEM input value of 5.0 g/ton-mile, or an adjusted value as specified in § 1037.660.

(2) For Phase 2 vehicles, the GEM inputs described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section continue to apply. Note that the provisions in this part related to vehicle speed limiters and automatic engine shutdown systems are available for vocational vehicles in Phase 2. The rest of this section describes additional GEM inputs for demonstrating compliance with Phase 2 standards. Simplified versions of GEM apply for limited circumstances as follows:

(i) You may use default engine fuel maps for glider kits as described in § 1037.635.

(ii) If you certify vehicles to the custom-chassis standards specified in § 1037.105(h), run GEM by identifying the vehicle type and entering "NA" instead of what would otherwise apply for, tire revolutions per mile, engine information, transmission information, drive axle ratio, axle efficiency, and aerodynamic improvement as specified in paragraphs (c)(1), (f), (g)(1) and (3), (i), and (m) of this section, respectively. Incorporate other GEM inputs as specified in this section.
