
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Testing Production Vehicles and Engines
###### § 1037.320 Audit procedures for axles and transmissions.

Selective enforcement audit provisions apply for axles and transmissions relative to the efficiency demonstrations of §§ 1037.560 and 1037.565 as specified in this section. The following provisions apply instead of 40 CFR 1068.415 through 1068.445 for the selective enforcement audit.

(a) A selective enforcement audit for axles or transmissions would consist of performing measurements with a production axle or transmission to determine mean power loss values as declared for GEM simulations, and running GEM over one or more applicable duty cycles based on those measured values. The axle or transmission is considered passing for a given configuration if the new modeled emission result for every applicable duty cycle is at or below the modeled emission result corresponding to the declared GEM inputs.

(b) Run GEM with the define vehicles to determine whether the transmission or axle family passes the audit.

(1) For transmission audits, run GEM for each applicable vehicle configuration and GEM regulatory subcategory identified in 40 CFR 1036.540 and for each vehicle class as defined in § 1037.140(g) using the applicable default engine map in appendix C of 40 CFR part 1036, the cycle-average fuel map in Table 1 of this section, the torque curve in Table 2 of this section for both the engine full-load torque curve and parent engine full-load torque curve, the motoring torque curve in Table 3 of this section, the idle fuel map in Table 4 of this section. For transmission testing, use the test transmission's gear ratios in place of the gear ratios defined in 40 CFR 1036.540. Table 1 through Table 4 follow:

(2) Follow the procedure in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for axle audits, but cover the range of tire sizes by using good engineering judgment to select three representative tire sizes for each axle ratio for each vehicle configuration instead of using the tire size determined in 40 CFR 1036.540.

(3) The GEM "Default FEL COEmissions" result for each vehicle configuration counts as a separate test for determining whether the family passes the audit. For vocational vehicles, use the GEM "Default FEL COEmissions" result for the Regional subcategory.

(c) If the initial axle or transmission passes, the family passes and no further testing is required. If the initial axle or transmission does not pass, select two additional production axles or transmissions, as applicable, to perform additional tests. Note that these could be different axle and transmission configurations within the family. These become official test results for the family. Use good engineering judgment to use the results of these tests to update the declared maps for the axle or transmission family. For example, if you fail the audit test for any of the axles or transmissions tested, the audit result becomes the declared map. This may also require revising any analytically derived maps.
