
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.510 Duty-cycle exhaust testing.
####### Highway cruise cycle.
######## Vehicle characteristics.

(g)Enter the following information to describe the vehicle and its operating parameters:

(1) Transmission make, model, and type. Also identify the gear ratio for every available forward gear to two decimal places, the input torque limit for each of the forward gears, and, if applicable, the lowest gear involving a locked torque converter. Count forward gears as being available only if the vehicle has the hardware and software to allow operation in those gears. For vehicles with a manual transmission, GEM applies a 2% emission increase relative to automated manual transmissions. If your vehicle has a dual-clutch transmission, use good engineering judgment to determine if it can be accurately represented in GEM as an automated manual transmission. We may require you to perform a powertrain test with dual-clutch transmissions to show that they can be properly simulated as an automated manual transmission.

(2) Drive axle make, model, and configuration. Select a drive axle configuration to represent your vehicle for modeling.

(i) 4x2: One drive axle and one non-drive axle. This includes vehicles with two drive axles where one of the drive axles is disconnectable and that disconnectable drive axle is designed to be connected only when the vehicle is driven off-road or in slippery conditions if at least one of the following is true:

(A) The input and output of the disconnectable axle is mechanically disconnected from the drive shaft and the wheels when the axle is in 4x2 configuration.

(B) You provide power loss data generated according to ยง 1037.560 for the combination of both drive axles, where the disconnectable drive axle is in the disconnected configuration.

(ii) 6x2: One drive axle and two non-drive axles.

(iii) 6x4: Two or more drive axles, or more than three total axles. Note that this includes, for example, a vehicle with two drive axles out of four total axles (otherwise known as an 8x4 configuration).

(iv) 6x4D: One non-drive axle and two drive axles where one of the two drive axles is automatically disconnectable such that the axle can switch between 6x2 and 6x4 configurations. You may select this configuration only if at least one of the following is true:

(A) The input and output of the disconnectable axle is mechanically disconnected from the drive shaft and the wheels when the axle is in the 6x2 configuration.

(B) You provide power loss data generated according to ยง 1037.560 for the combination of both drive axles, where the disconnectable drive axle is in the disconnected configuration.
