
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Testing Production Vehicles and Engines
###### ยง 1037.305 Audit procedures for tractors - aerodynamic testing.
####### C,A,A

(iii) The vehicle passes if you perform 100 coastdown runs andis greater than and Cis lower than the upper limit of the bin to which you certified the vehicle.

(iv) The vehicle fails if you choose to stop testing before reaching a final determination under this paragraph (a)(7).

(v) You may continue testing beyond the stopping point specified in this paragraph (a)(7). We may consider the additional data in making pass/fail determinations.

(b) If you reach a pass decision on the first test vehicle, the emission family passes the SEA and you may stop testing. If you reach a fail decision on the first test vehicle, repeat the testing described in paragraph (a) of this section for two additional vehicles of the same configuration, or of a different configuration that we specify. Continue testing two additional vehicles for each failing vehicle until you reach a pass or fail decision for the family based on one of the following criteria:

(1) The emission family passes if at any point more than 50 percent of the vehicles have reached a pass decision.

(2) The emission family fails if six vehicles reach a fail decision.

(3) The emission family passes if you test 11 vehicles with five or fewer vehicles reaching a fail decision.

(4) The emission family fails if you choose to stop testing before reaching a final determination under this paragraph (b).

(c) We may suspend a certificate of conformity as described in 40 CFR 1068.430 if your emission family fails an SEA, subject to the following provisions:
