
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.550 Powertrain testing.
####### Driveline model with a simulated transmission.,f

(2)For testing with the torque measurement at the engine's crankshaft,is the dynamometer target speed from the GEM HIL model's transmission submodel. You may request our approval to change the transmission submodel, as long as the changes do not affect the gear selection logic. Before testing, initialize the transmission model with the engine's measured torque curve and the applicable steady-state fuel map from the GEM HIL model. You may request our approval to input your own steady-state fuel map. For example, this request for approval could include using a fuel map that represents the combined performance of the engine and hybrid components. Configure the torque converter to simulate neutral idle when using this procedure to generate engine fuel maps in 40 CFR 1036.505 or to perform the Supplemental Emission Test (SET) testing under 40 CFR 1036.510. You may change engine commanded torque at idle to better represent CITT for transient testing under 40 CFR 1036.512. You may change the simulated engine inertia to match the inertia of the engine under test. We will evaluate your requests under this paragraph (f)(2) based on your demonstration that that the adjusted testing better represents in-use operation.

(i) The transmission submodel needs the following model inputs:

(A) Torque measured at the engine's crankshaft.

(B) Engine estimated torque determined from the electronic control module or by converting the instantaneous operator demand to an instantaneous torque in N&#xB7;m.

(C) Dynamometer mode when idling (speed-control or torque-control).

(D) Measured engine speed when idling.
