
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### § 1037.525 Aerodynamic measurements for tractors.
####### Approval of alternate methods.,F

(d)You must obtain preliminary approval before using any method other than coastdown testing to quantify aerodynamic drag. We will approve your request if you show that your procedures produce data that are the same as or better than coastdown testing with respect to repeatability and unbiased correlation. Note that the correlation is not considered to be biased if there is a bias before correction, but you remove the bias using. Send your request for approval to the Designated Compliance Officer. Keep records of the information specified in this paragraph (d). Unless we specify otherwise, include this information with your request. You must provide any information we require to evaluate whether you may apply the provisions of this section. Include additional information related to your alternate method as described in §§ 1037.530 through 1037.534. If you use a method other than those specified in this subpart, include all the following information, as applicable:

(1) Official name/title of the procedure.

(2) Description of the procedure.

(3) Cited sources for any standardized procedures that the method is based on.

(4) Description and rationale for any modifications/deviations from the standardized procedures.

(5) Data comparing the procedure to the coastdown reference procedure.
