
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.540 Special procedures for testing vehicles with hybrid power take-off.
####### t

(d) Calculate the equivalent distance driven based on operating time for each section of the PTO portion of the test as applicable by determining the time of the test and applying the conversion factor in paragraph (d)(4) of this section. For testing where fractions of a cycle were run (for example, where three cycles are completed and the halfway point of a fourth PTO cycle is reached before the engine starts and shuts down again), calculate the time of the test,, as follows:

(1) Add up the time run for all complete tests.

(2) For fractions of a test, use the following equation to calculate the time:

(3) Sum the time from the complete cycles and from the partial cycle.

(4) Divide the total PTO operating time from paragraph (d)(3) of this section by a conversion factor of 0.0144 hr/mi for Phase 1 and 0.0217 hr/mi for Phase 2 to determine the equivalent distance driven. The conversion factors are based on estimates of average vehicle speed and PTO operating time as a percentage of total engine operating time; the Phase 2 conversion factor is calculated from an average speed of 27.1 mi/hr and PTO operation 37% of engine operating time, as follows:

(e) For Phase 1, calculate combined cycle-weighted emissions of the four duty cycles for vocational vehicles, for both the conventional and hybrid PTO vehicle tests, as follows:

(1) Calculate the COemission rates in grams per test without rounding for both the conventional vehicle and the charge-sustaining and charge-depleting portions of the test for the hybrid vehicle as applicable.

(2) Divide the COmass from the PTO cycle by the distance determined in paragraph (d)(4) of this section and the standard payload as defined in ยง 1037.801 to get the COemission rate in g/ton-mile. For plug-in hybrid electric vehicles follow paragraph (f)(3) of this section to calculate utility factor weighted COemissions in g/ton-mile.

(3) Calculate the g/ton-mile emission rate for the driving portion of the test specified in ยง 1037.510 and add this to the COg/ton-mile emission rate for the PTO portion of the test.

(4) Follow the provisions of ยง 1037.615 to calculate improvement factors and benefits for advanced technologies.

(f) For Phase 2, calculate the delta PTO fuel results for input into GEM during vehicle certification as follows:
