
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### § 1037.527 Aerodynamic measurements for vocational vehicles.
####### ΔC,A
######## M,M,

(1) Calculate the vehicle's effective mass,, to account for rotational inertia by adding 56.7 kg to the measured vehicle mass,(in kg) for each tire making road contact.

(2) Operate the vehicle and collect data over the high-speed range and low-speed range as specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section. If the vehicle has a speed limiter that prevents it from exceeding 72 mi/hr, you must disable the speed limiter for testing.

(3) Calculate mean vehicle speed at each speed start point (70 and 20 mi/hr) and end point (60 and 10 mi/hr) as follows:

(i) Calculate the mean vehicle speed to represent the start point of each speed range as the arithmetic average of measured speeds throughout the continuous time interval that begins when measured vehicle speed is less than 2.00 mi/hr above the nominal starting speed point and ends when measured vehicle speed reaches 2.00 mi/hr below the nominal starting speed point, expressed to at least two decimal places. Calculate the timestamp corresponding to the starting point of each speed range as the average timestamp of the interval.

(ii) Repeat the calculations described in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section corresponding to the end point speed (60 or 10 mi/hr) to determine the time at which the vehicle reaches the end speed, and the mean vehicle speed representing the end point of each speed range.

(iii) If you incorporate grade into your calculations, use the average values for the elevation and distance traveled over each interval.
