
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### § 1037.527 Aerodynamic measurements for vocational vehicles.
####### ΔC,A
######## Vehicle preparation.

(c)Perform testing with a tractor-trailer combination using the manufacturer's tractor and a standard trailer. Prepare tractors and trailers for testing as described in § 1037.528(b). Install measurement instruments meeting the requirements of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart C, that have been calibrated as described in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart D, as follows:

(1) Measure torque at each of the drive wheels using a hub torque meter or a rim torque meter. If testing a tractor with two drive axles, you may disconnect one of the drive axles from receiving torque from the driveshaft, in which case you would measure torque at only the wheels that receive torque from the driveshaft. Set up instruments to read engine speed for calculating angular speed at the point of the torque measurements, or install instruments for measuring the angular speed of the wheels directly.

(2) Install instrumentation to measure vehicle speed at 10 Hz, with an accuracy and resolution of 0.1 mi/hr. Also install instrumentation for reading engine speed from the engine's onboard computer.

(3) Mount an anemometer on the trailer as described in § 1037.528(f).

(4) Fill the vehicle's fuel tanks so they are at maximum capacity at the start of the measurement procedure.

(5) Measure the weight over each axle to the nearest 20 kg, with a full fuel tank, including the driver and any passengers that will be in the vehicle during the test.
