
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### § 1037.527 Aerodynamic measurements for vocational vehicles.
####### ΔC,A
######## Measurement procedure.

(d)The measurement sequence consists of vehicle preconditioning followed by stabilization and measurement over five consecutive constant-speed test segments with three different speed setpoints (10, 50, and 70 mi/hr). Each test segment is divided into smaller increments for data analysis.

(1) Precondition the vehicle and zero the torque meters as follows:

(i) If you are using rim torque meters, zero the torque meters by lifting each instrumented axle and recording torque signals for at least 30 seconds, and then drive the vehicle at 50 mi/hr for at least 30 minutes.

(ii) If you are using any other kind of torque meter, drive the vehicle at 50 mi/hr for at least 30 minutes, and then allow the vehicle to coast down from full speed to a complete standstill while the clutch is disengaged or the transmission is in neutral, without braking. Zero the torque meters within 60 seconds after the vehicle stops moving by recording the torque signals for at least 30 seconds, and directly resume vehicle preconditioning at 50 mi/hr for at least 1.25 mi.

(iii) You may calibrate instruments during the preconditioning drive.

(2) Perform testing as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section over a sequence of test segments at constant vehicle speed as follows:

(i) (300 +/-30) seconds in each direction at 10 mi/hr.

(ii) (450 +/-30) seconds in each direction at 70 mi/hr.

(iii) (450 +/-30) seconds in each direction at 50 mi/hr.

(iv) (450 +/-30) seconds in each direction at 70 mi/hr.

(v) (450 +/-30) seconds in each direction at 50 mi/hr.

(vi) (300 +/-30) seconds in each direction at 10 mi/hr.

(3) When the vehicle preconditioning described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is complete, stabilize the vehicle at the specified speed for at least 200 meters and start taking measurements. The test segment starts when you start taking measurements for all parameters.

(4) During the test segment, continue to operate the vehicle at the speed setpoint, maintaining constant speed and torque within the ranges specified in paragraph (e) of this section. Drive the vehicle straight with minimal steering; do not change gears. Perform measurements as follows during the test segment:

(i) Measure the angular speed of the driveshaft, axle, or wheel where the torque is measured, or calculate it from engine speed in conjunction with gear and axle ratios, as applicable.

(ii) Measure vehicle speed in conjunction with time-of-day data.

(iii) Measure ambient conditions, air speed, and air direction as described in § 1037.528(e) and (f). Correct air speed and air direction as described in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.

(5) You may divide a test segment into multiple passes by suspending and resuming measurements. Stabilize vehicle speed before resuming measurements for each pass as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. Analyze the data from multiple passes by combining them into a single sequence of measurements for each test segment.

(6) Divide measured values into even 10 second increments. If the last increment for each test segment is less than 10 seconds, disregard measured values from that increment for all calculations under this section.
