
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.540 Special procedures for testing vehicles with hybrid power take-off.
####### [object Object],[object Object]

(2) Operate the PTO system with no load for at least 15 seconds. Measure gauge pressure and record the average value over the last 10 seconds (). For hybrid PTO systems the measured pressure with no load is typically zero. Apply maximum operator demand to the PTO system until the pressure relief valve opens and pressure stabilizes; measure gauge pressure and record the average value over the last 10 seconds ().

(3) Denormalize the PTO duty cycle in appendix B of this part using the following equation:

(4) If the PTO system has two circuits, repeat paragraph (b)(2) and (3) of this section for the second PTO circuit.

(5) Install a system to control pressures in the PTO system during the cycle.

(6) Start the engine.

(7) Depending on the number of circuits the PTO system has, operate the vehicle over one or concurrently over both of the denormalized PTO duty cycles in appendix B of this part. Measure emissions during operation over each duty cycle using the provisions of 40 CFR part 1066.

(8) Measured pressures must meet the cycle-validation specifications in the following table for each test run over the duty cycle:

(c) Measure PTO emissions from the fully warmed-up hybrid vehicle as follows:

(1) Perform the steps in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(2) Prepare the vehicle for testing by operating it as needed to stabilize the RESS at a full state of charge (or equivalent for non-electric RESS).

(i) For plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, we recommend charging the battery with an external electrical source.

(ii) For other vehicles, we recommend running back-to-back PTO tests until engine operation is initiated to charge the RESS. The RESS should be fully charged once engine operation stops. The ignition should remain in the "on" position.

(3) Turn the vehicle and PTO system off while the sampling system is being prepared.

(4) Turn the vehicle and PTO system on such that the PTO system is functional, whether it draws power from the engine or a battery.

(5) Operate the vehicle over one or both of the denormalized PTO duty cycles without turning the vehicle off, until the engine starts and then shuts down. This may require running multiple repeats of the PTO duty cycles. For non-PHEV systems the test cycle is completed once the engine shuts down. For plug-in hybrid systems, continue running until the PTO hybrid is running in a charge-sustaining mode such that the "End of Test" requirements defined in 40 CFR 1066.501 are met. Measure emissions as described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section. Use good engineering judgment to minimize the variability in testing between the two types of vehicles.

(6) For plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, follow 40 CFR 1066.501 to divide the test into charge-depleting and charge-sustaining operation.

(7) Apply cycle-validation criteria as described in paragraph (b)(8) of this section to both charge-sustaining and charge-depleting operation.
