
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### § 1037.527 Aerodynamic measurements for vocational vehicles.
####### ΔC,A
######## C,A,C,A

(c) To determinevalues for certifying tractors, perform wind-tunnel testing with a tractor-trailer combination using the manufacturer's tractor and a standard trailer. To determinevalues for certifying trailers, perform wind-tunnel testing with a tractor-trailer combination using a standard tractor. Use a moving/rolling floor if the facility has one. For Phase 1 tractors, conduct the wind tunnel tests at a zero yaw angle. For Phase 2 vehicles, conduct the wind tunnel tests by measuring the drag area at yaw angles of +4.5&#xB0; and -4.5&#xB0; and calculating the average of those two values.

(d) In your request to use wind-tunnel testing for tractors, or in your application for certification for trailers, describe how you meet all the specifications that apply under this section, using terminology consistent with SAE J1594 (incorporated by reference in § 1037.810). If you request our approval to use wind-tunnel testing even though you do not meet all the specifications of this section, describe how your method nevertheless qualifies as an alternate method under § 1037.525(d) or 1037.526(d) and include all the following information:

(1) Identify the name and location of the test facility for your wind-tunnel method.

(2) Background and history of the wind tunnel.

(3) The wind tunnel's layout (with diagram), type, and construction (structural and material).

(4) The wind tunnel's design details: The type and material for corner turning vanes, air settling specification, mesh screen specification, air straightening method, tunnel volume, surface area, average duct area, and circuit length.

(5) Specifications related to the wind tunnel's flow quality: Temperature control and uniformity, airflow quality, minimum airflow velocity, flow uniformity, angularity and stability, static pressure variation, turbulence intensity, airflow acceleration and deceleration times, test duration flow quality, and overall airflow quality achievement.
