
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.550 Powertrain testing.
####### Driver model.

(g)Use the GEM HIL model's driver submodel or design a driver model to simulate a human driver modulating the throttle and brake pedals. In either case, tune the model to follow the test cycle as closely as possible meeting the following specifications:

(1) The driver model must meet the following speed requirements:

(i) For operation over the highway cruise cycles, the speed requirements described in 40 CFR 1066.425(b) and (c).

(ii) For operation over the transient cycle specified in appendix A of this part, the SET as defined 40 CFR 1036.510, the Federal Test Procedure (FTP) as defined in 40 CFR 1036.512, and the Low Load Cycle (LLC) as defined in 40 CFR 1036.514, the speed requirements described in 40 CFR 1066.425(b) and (c).

(iii) The exceptions in 40 CFR 1066.425(b)(4) apply to the highway cruise cycles, the transient cycle specified in appendix A of this part, SET, FTP, and LLC.

(iv) If the speeds do not conform to these criteria, the test is not valid and must be repeated.

(2) Send a brake signal when operator demand is zero and vehicle speed is greater than the reference vehicle speed from the test cycle. Include a delay before changing the brake signal to prevent dithering, consistent with good engineering judgment.

(3) Allow braking only if operator demand is zero.

(4) Compensate for the distance driven over the duty cycle over the course of the test. Use the following equation to perform the compensation in real time to determine your time in the cycle:
