
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### § 1037.527 Aerodynamic measurements for vocational vehicles.
####### ΔC,A
######## C,A,C,A

(b) To determinevalues for a tractor, perform coastdown testing with a tractor-trailer combination using the manufacturer's tractor and a standard trailer. To determinevalues for a trailer, perform coastdown testing with a tractor-trailer combination using a standard tractor. Prepare tractors and trailers for testing as follows:

(1) Install instrumentation for performing the specified measurements.

(2) After adding vehicle instrumentation, verify that there is no brake drag or other condition that prevents the wheels from rotating freely. Do not apply the parking brake at any point between this inspection and the end of the measurement procedure.

(3) Install tires mounted on steel rims in a dual configuration (except for steer tires). The tires must-

(i) Be SmartWay-Verified or have a coefficient of rolling resistance at or below 5.1 kg/metric ton.

(ii) Have accumulated at least 2,000 miles but have no less than 50 percent of their original tread depth, as specified for truck cabs in SAE J1263.

(iii) Not be retreads or have any apparent signs of chunking or uneven wear.

(iv) Be size 295/75R22.5 or 275/80R22.5.

(v) Be inflated to the proper tire pressure as specified in Sections 6.6 and 8.1 of SAE J2263.

(vi) Be of the same tire model for a given axle.

(4) Perform an inspection or wheel alignment for both the tractor and the trailer to ensure that wheel position is within the manufacturer's specifications.

(c) The test condition specifications described in Sections 7.1 through 7.4 of SAE J1263 apply, with certain exceptions and additional provisions as described in this paragraph (c). These conditions apply to each run separately.

(1) We recommend that you not perform coastdown testing if winds are expected to exceed 6.0 mi/hr.

(2) The average of the component of the wind speed parallel to the road must not exceed 6.0 mi/hr. This constraint is in addition to those in Section 7.3 of SAE J1263.

(3) If road grade is greater than 0.02% over the length of the test surface, you must determine elevation as a function of distance along the length of the test surface and incorporate this into the analysis.

(4) Road grade may exceed 0.5% for limited portions of the test surface as long as it does not affect coastdown results, consistent with good engineering judgment.

(5) The road surface temperature must be at or below 50 &#xB0;C. Use good engineering judgment to measure road surface temperature.
