
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
###### ยง 1037.740 Restrictions for using emission credits.
####### Credits from hybrid vehicles and other advanced technologies.

(b)The following provisions apply for credits you generate under ยง 1037.615.

(1) Credits generated from Phase 1 vehicles may be used for any of the averaging sets identified in paragraph (a) of this section; you may also use those credits to demonstrate compliance with the COemission standards in 40 CFR 86.1819 and 40 CFR part 1036. Similarly, you may use Phase 1 advanced-technology credits generated under 40 CFR 86.1819-14(k)(7) or 40 CFR 1036.615 to demonstrate compliance with the COstandards in this part. The maximum amount of advanced-technology credits generated from Phase 1 vehicles that you may bring into each of the following service class groups is 60,000 Mg per model year:

(i) Spark-ignition HDE, Light HDE, and Light HDV. This group comprises the averaging set listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the averaging set listed in 40 CFR 1036.740(a)(1) and (2).

(ii) Medium HDE and Medium HDV. This group comprises the averaging sets listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and 40 CFR 1036.740(a)(3).

(iii) Heavy HDE and Heavy HDV. This group comprises the averaging sets listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and 40 CFR 1036.740(a)(4).

(iv) This paragraph (b)(1) does not limit the advanced-technology credits that can be used within a service class group if they were generated in that same service class group.

(2) Credits generated from Phase 2 vehicles are subject to all the averaging-set restrictions that apply to other emission credits.
