
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.570 Procedures to characterize torque converters.

GEM includes input values related to torque converters. This section describes a procedure for mapping a torque converter's capacity factors and torque ratios over a range of operating conditions. You may ask us to approve analytically derived input values based on this testing for additional untested configurations as described in ยง 1037.235(h).

(a) Prepare a torque converter for testing as follows:

(1) Select a torque converter with less than 500 hours of operation before the start of testing.

(2) If the torque converter has a locking feature, unlock it for all testing performed under this section. If the torque converter has a slipping lockup clutch, you may ask us to approve a different strategy based on data showing that it represents better in-use operation.

(3) Mount the torque converter with a transmission to the dynamometer in series or parallel arrangement or mount the torque converter without a transmission to represent a series configuration.

(4) Add transmission oil according to the torque converter manufacturer's instructions, with the following additional specifications:

(i) If the torque converter manufacturer specifies multiple transmission oils, select the one with the highest viscosity at operating temperature. You may use a lower-viscosity transmission oil if we approve that as critical emission-related maintenance under ยง 1037.125.

(ii) Fill the transmission oil to a level that represents in-use operation. If you are testing the torque converter without the transmission, keep output pressure and the flow rate of transmission oil into the torque converter within the torque converter manufacturer's limits.

(iii) You may use an external transmission oil conditioning system, as long as it does not affect measured values.

(5) Install equipment for measuring the bulk temperature of the transmission oil in the oil sump or a similar location and at the torque converter inlet. If the torque converter is tested without a transmission, measure the oil temperature at the torque converter inlet.

(6) Break in the torque converter and transmission (if applicable) using good engineering judgment. Maintain transmission oil temperature at (87 to 93) &#xB0;C. You may ask us to approve a different range of transmission oil temperatures if you have data showing that it better represents in-use operation.

(b) Measure pump and turbine shaft speed and torque as described in 40 CFR 1065.210(b). You must use a speed measurement system that meets an accuracy of +/-0.1% of point or +/-1 r/min, whichever is greater. Use torque transducers that meet an accuracy of +/-1.0% of the torque converter's maximum rated input and output torque, respectively. Calibrate and verify measurement instruments according to 40 CFR part 1065, subpart D. Command speed and torque at a minimum of 10 Hz. Record all speed and torque data at a minimum of 1 Hz mean values. Note that this section relies on the convention of describing the input shaft as the pump and the output shaft as the turbine shaft.

(c) Determine torque converter characteristics based on a test matrix using either constant input speed or constant input torque as follows:
