
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.555 Special procedures for testing Phase 1 hybrid systems.
####### f

(1) Calculate the transmission output shaft's angular speed target for the dynamometer,, from the measured linear speed at the dynamometer rolls using the following equation:

(2) For each test, validate the measured transmission output shaft's speed with the corresponding reference values according to 40 CFR 1065.514(e). You may delete points when the vehicle is stopped. Perform the validation based on speed values at the transmission output shaft. For steady-state tests (55 mi/hr and 65 mi/hr cruise), apply cycle-validation criteria by treating the sampling periods from the two tests as a continuous sampling period. Perform this validation based on the following parameters:

(f) Send a brake signal when operator demand is equal to zero and vehicle speed is greater than the reference vehicle speed from the test cycle. Set a delay before changing the brake state to prevent the brake signal from dithering, consistent with good engineering judgment.

(g) The driver model should be designed to follow the cycle as closely as possible and must meet the requirements of ยง 1037.510 for steady-state testing and 40 CFR 1066.425 for transient testing. The driver model should be designed so that the brake and throttle are not applied at the same time.

(h) Correct for the net energy change of the energy storage device as described in 40 CFR 1066.501.

(i) Follow the provisions of ยง 1037.510 to weight the cycle results and ยง 1037.615 to calculate improvement factors and benefits for advanced technologies for Phase 1 vehicles.
