
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1037.660 Idle-reduction technologies.
####### Override conditions

(b). The system may limit activation of the idle-reduction technology while any of the conditions of this paragraph (b) apply. These conditions allow the system to delay engine shutdown, adjust engine restarting, or delay disengaging transmissions, but do not allow for resetting timers. Engines may restart and transmissions may re-engage during override conditions if the vehicle is set up to do this automatically. We may approve additional override criteria as needed to protect the engine and vehicle from damage and to ensure safe vehicle operation.

(1) For AES systems on tractors, the system may delay shutdown-

(i) When an exhaust emission control device is regenerating. The period considered to be regeneration for purposes of this allowance must be consistent with good engineering judgment and may differ in length from the period considered to be regeneration for other purposes. For example, in some cases it may be appropriate to include a cool down period for this purpose but not for infrequent regeneration adjustment factors.

(ii) When the vehicle's main battery state-of-charge is not sufficient to allow the main engine to be restarted.

(iii) When the vehicle's transmission, fuel, oil, or engine coolant temperature is too low or too high according to the manufacturer's specifications for protecting against system damage. This allows the engine to continue operating until it is in a predefined temperature range, within which the shutdown sequence of paragraph (a) of this section would resume.

(iv) When the vehicle's main engine is operating in power take-off (PTO) mode. For purposes of this paragraph (b), an engine is considered to be in PTO mode when a switch or setting designating PTO mode is enabled.

(v) When external ambient conditions prevent managing cabin temperatures for the driver's safety.

(vi) When necessary while servicing the vehicle, provided the deactivation of the AES system is accomplished using a diagnostic scan tool. The system must be automatically reactivated when the engine is shut down for more than 60 minutes.

(2) For AES systems on vocational vehicles, the system may limit activation-

(i) When any condition specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section applies.

(ii) When the engine compartment is open.

(3) For neutral idle, the system may delay shifting the transmission to neutral-

(i) When the system meets the PTO conditions specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section.

(ii) When the transmission is in reverse gear.

(iii) When the vehicle is ascending or descending a road with grade at or above 6.0%.

(4) For stop-start, the system may limit activation-

(i) When any condition specified in paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section applies.

(ii) When air brake pressure is too low according to the manufacturer's specifications for maintaining vehicle-braking capability.

(iii) When an automatic transmission is in "park" or "neutral" and the parking brake is engaged.

(iv) When recent vehicle speeds indicate an abnormally high shutdown and restart frequency, such as with congested driving. For example, a vehicle not exceeding 10 mi/hr for the previous 300 seconds or since the most recent engine start would be a proper basis for overriding engine shutdown. You may also design this override to protect against system damage or malfunction of safety systems.

(v) When the vehicle detects that a system or component is worn or malfunctioning in a way that could reasonably prevent the engine from restarting, such as low battery voltage.

(vi) When the steering angle is at or near the limit of travel.

(vii) When flow of diesel exhaust fluid is limited due to freezing.

(viii) When a sensor failure could prevent the anti-lock braking system from properly detecting vehicle speed.

(ix) When a protection mode designed to prevent component failure is active.

(x) When a fault on a system component needed for starting the engine is active.
