
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.560 Axle efficiency test.

This section describes a procedure for mapping axle efficiency through a determination of axle power loss.

(a) You may establish axle power loss maps based on testing any number of axle configurations within an axle family as specified in ยง 1037.232. You may share data across a family of axle configurations, as long as you test the axle configuration with the lowest efficiency from the axle family; this will generally involve testing the axle with the highest axle ratio. For vehicles with tandem drive axles, always test each drive axle separately. For tandem axles that can be disconnected, test both single-drive and tandem axle configurations. This includes 4x4 axles where one of the axles is disconnectable. Alternatively, you may analytically derive power loss maps for untested configurations within the same axle family as described in paragraph (h) of this section.

(b) Prepare an axle assembly for testing as follows:

(1) Select an axle assembly with less than 500 hours of operation before testing. Assemble the axle in its housing, along with wheel ends and bearings.

(2) If you have a family of axle assemblies with different axle ratios, you may test multiple configurations using a common axle housing, wheel ends, and bearings.

(3) Install the axle assembly on the dynamometer with an input shaft angle perpendicular to the axle.

(i) For axle assemblies with or without a locking main differential, test the axle assembly using one of the following methods:

(A) Lock the main differential and test it with one electric motor on the input shaft and a second electric motor on the output side of the output shaft that has the speed-reduction gear attached to it.

(B) Test with the main differential unlocked and with one electric motor on the input shaft and electric motors on the output sides of each of the output shafts.

(ii) For drive-through tandem-axle setups, lock the longitudinal and inter-wheel differentials.

(4) Add gear oil according to the axle manufacturer's instructions. If the axle manufacturer specifies multiple gear oils, select the one with the highest viscosity at operating temperature. You may use a lower-viscosity gear oil if we approve that as critical emission-related maintenance under ยง 1037.125. Fill the gear oil to a level that represents in-use operation. You may use an external gear oil conditioning system, as long as it does not affect measured values.

(5) Install equipment for measuring the bulk temperature of the gear oil in the oil sump or a similar location. Report temperature to the nearest 0.1 &#xB0;C.

(6) Break in the axle assembly using good engineering judgment. Maintain gear oil temperature at or below 100 &#xB0;C throughout the break-in period.

(7) You may drain the gear oil following the break-in procedure and repeat the filling procedure described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. We will follow your practice for our testing.

(c) Measure input and output speed and torque as described in 40 CFR 1065.210(b). You must use a speed-measurement system that meets an accuracy of +/-0.05% of point. Use torque transducers that meet an accuracy requirement of +/-1.0 N&#xB7;m for unloaded test points and +/-0.2% of the maximum tested axle input torque or output torque, respectively, for loaded test points. Calibrate and verify measurement instruments according to 40 CFR part 1065, subpart D. Command speed and torque at a minimum of 10 Hz, and record all data, including bulk oil temperature, at a minimum of 1 Hz mean values.

(d) The test matrix consists of test points representing output torque and wheel speed values meeting the following specifications:

(1) Output torque includes both loaded and unloaded operation. For measurement involving unloaded output torque, also called spin loss testing, the wheel end is not connected to the dynamometer and is left to rotate freely; in this condition the input torque (to maintain constant wheel speed) equals the power loss. Test axles at a range of output torque values, as follows:

(i) 0, 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, and 4000 N&#xB7;m for single drive axle applications for tractors and for vocational Heavy HDV with a single drive axle.

(ii) 0, 250, 500, 1000, 1500, and 2000 N&#xB7;m for tractors, for vocational Heavy HDV with tandem drive axles, and for all vocational Light HDV or vocational Medium HDV.

(iii) You may exclude values that exceed your axle's maximum torque rating.

(2) Determine maximum wheel speed corresponding to a vehicle speed of 65 mi/hr based on the smallest tire (as determined using ยง 1037.520(c)(1)) that will be used with the axle. If you do not know the smallest tire size, you may use a default size of 650 r/mi. Use wheel angular speeds for testing that include 50 r/min and speeds in 100 r/min increments that encompass the maximum wheel speed (150, 250, etc.).

(3) You may test the axle assembly at additional speed and torque setpoints.

(e) Determine axle efficiency using the following procedure:

(1) Maintain ambient temperature between (15 and 35) &#xB0;C throughout testing. Measure ambient temperature within 1.0 m of the axle assembly. Verify that critical axle settings (such as bearing preload, backlash, and oil sump level) are within specifications before and after testing.

(2) Maintain gear oil temperature at (81 to 83) &#xB0;C. You may alternatively specify a lower range by shifting both temperatures down by the same amount. We will test your axle assembly using the same temperature range you specify for your testing. You may use an external gear oil conditioning system, as long as it does not affect measured values.

(3) Use good engineering judgment to warm up the axle assembly by operating it until the gear oil is within the specified temperature range.
