
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.565 Transmission efficiency test.
####### [object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object]

(6) For a selected gear, operate the transmission at one of the test points from paragraph (d) of this section for at least 10 seconds. Measure the speed and torque of the input and output shafts for at least 10 seconds. You may omit measurement of output shaft speeds if your transmission is configured to not allow slip. Calculate arithmetic mean values for mean input shaft torque,, mean output shaft torque,, mean input shaft speed,, and mean output shaft speed,, for each point in the test matrix for each test. Repeat this stabilization, measurement, and calculation for the other speed and torque setpoints from the test matrix for the selected gear in any sequence. Calculate power loss as described in paragraph (f) of this section based on mean speed and torque values at each test point.

(7) Repeat the procedure described in paragraph (e)(6) of this section for all gears, or for all gears down to a selected gear. This section refers to an "operating condition" to represent operation at a test point in a specific gear.

(8) Perform the test sequence described in paragraphs (e)(6) and (7) of this section three times. You may do this repeat testing at any given test point before you perform measurements for the whole test matrix. Remove torque from the transmission input shaft and bring the transmission to a complete stop before each repeat measurement.

(9) You may need to perform additional testing at a given operating condition based on a calculation of a confidence interval to represent repeatability at a 95% confidence level at that operating condition. If the confidence interval is greater than 0.10% for loaded tests or greater than 0.05% for unloaded tests, perform another measurement at that operating condition and recalculate the repeatability for the whole set of test results. Continue testing until the confidence interval is at or below the specified values for all operating conditions. As an alternative, for any operating condition that does not meet this repeatability criterion, you may determine a maximum power loss instead of calculating a mean power loss as described in paragraph (g) of this section. Calculate a confidence interval representing the repeatability in establishing a 95% confidence level using the following equation:

(f) Calculate the mean power loss,, at each operating condition as follows:
