
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.570 Procedures to characterize torque converters.
####### v,[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object]

(4) Test the torque converter at constant input speed or constant input torque as described in paragraph (c) of this section. Operate the torque converter at= 0.00 for (5 to 60) seconds, then measure pump torque, turbine shaft torque, angular pump speed, angular turbine shaft speed, and the transmission oil temperature at the torque converter inlet for (5 to 15) seconds. Calculate arithmetic mean values for pump torque,, turbine shaft torque,, angular pump speed,, and angular turbine shaft speed,, over the measurement period. Repeat this stabilization, measurement, and calculation for the other speed ratios from the test matrix in order of increasing speed ratio. Adjust the speed ratio by increasing the angular turbine shaft speed.

(5) Complete a test run by performing the test sequence described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section two times.

(6) Invalidate the test run if the difference between the pair of mean torque values for the repeat tests at any test point differ by more than +/-1 N&#xB7;m or by more than +/-5% of the average of those two values. This paragraph (d)(6) applies separately for mean pump torque and mean turbine shaft torque at each test point.

(7) Invalidate the test run if any calculated value for mean angular pump speed does not stay within +/-5 r/min of the speed setpoint or if any calculated value for mean pump torque does not stay within +/-5 N&#xB7;m of the torque setpoint.
