
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.560 Axle efficiency test.
####### [object Object],[object Object],[object Object]

(4) Stabilize operation at each point in the test matrix for at least 10 seconds, then measure the input torque, output torque, and wheel angular speed for at least 10 seconds. Record arithmetic mean values for all three parameters over the measurement period. Calculate power loss as described in paragraph (f) of this section based on these values for mean input torque,, mean output torque,, and mean wheel angular speed,, at each test point.

(5) Perform the map sequence described in paragraph (e)(4) of this section three times. Remove torque from the input shaft and allow the axle to come to a full stop before each repeat measurement.

(6) You may need to perform additional testing at a given test point based on a calculation of a confidence interval to represent repeatability at a 95% confidence level for that test point. If the confidence limit is greater than 0.10% for loaded tests or greater than 0.05% for unloaded tests, perform another repeat of measurements at that test point and recalculate the repeatability for the whole set of test results. Continue testing until the confidence interval is at or below the specified values for all test points. Calculate a confidence interval representing the repeatability in establishing a 95% confidence level using the following equation:

Example:

(f) Calculate the mean power loss,, at each test point as follows:
