
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test and Modeling Procedures
###### ยง 1037.560 Axle efficiency test.
####### [object Object]

(1) Calculatefor each measurement at each test point as follows:

(2) Calculateas the mean power loss from all measurements at a given test point.

(3) The following example illustrates a calculation of:

(g) Create a table with the mean power loss,, corresponding to each test point for input into GEM. Express wheel angular speed in r/min to one decimal place; express output torque in N&#xB7;m to two decimal places; express power loss in kW to four decimal places.

(2) Record declared mean power loss values at or above the corresponding value calculated in paragraph (f) of this section. Use good engineering judgment to select values that will be at or above the mean power loss values for your production axles. Vehicle manufacturers will use these declared mean power loss values for certification. For vehicles with tandem drive axles, the GEM input is the sum of the power loss and output torque from the individual axles. For vehicles with a disconnectable axle, GEM uses separate inputs for single and tandem drive axle configurations.

(h) You may analytically derive axle power loss maps for untested configurations within an axle family as follows:

(1) Test at least three axle assemblies within the same family representing at least the smallest axle ratio, the largest axle ratio, and an axle ratio closest to the arithmetic mean from the two other tested axle assemblies. Test each axle assembly as described in this section at the same speed and torque setpoints.

(2) Perform a second-order least-squares regression between declared power loss and axle ratio using each speed and torque setpoint described in paragraph (d) of this section for your tested axle assemblies. Use the declared power loss values from paragraph (g) of this section; however, for purposes of analytically deriving power loss maps under this paragraph (h), you must select declared values for the largest and smallest axle ratios in the axle family that are adjusted relative to the calculated values for mean power loss by the same multiplier. If the coefficent of the second-order term is negative, include testing from additional axle ratios, or increase your declared power loss for the largest and smallest axle ratios by the same multiplier as needed for the second-order term to become positive.

(3) Determineof untested axles for each speed and torque setpoint based on a linear relationship between your declared power loss and axle ratio as follows:

(i) Determine the slope of the correlation line by connecting the declared power loss values for the smallest and largest axle ratios.

(ii) Fix the intercept for the correlation line by shifting it upward as needed so all the declared power loss values are on the correlation line or below it. Note that for cases involving three tested axle assemblies, the correlation line will always include the declared power loss for the smallest and largest axle ratio.

(4) Select declared values offor untested configurations that are at or above the values you determined in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
