
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### § 1039.1 Does this part apply for my engines?

(a) The regulations in this part 1039 apply for all new, compression-ignition nonroad engines (defined in § 1039.801), except as provided in § 1039.5.

(b) This part 1039 applies as follows:

(1) This part 1039 applies for all engines subject to the emission standards specified in subpart B of this part starting with the model years noted in the following table:

(2) If you use the provisions of § 1039.104(a) to certify an engine to the emission standards of this part before the model years shown in Table 1 of this section, all the requirements of this part apply for those engines.

(3) Engines originally meeting Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3 standards as specified in appendix I of this part remain subject to the standards in subpart B of this part. This includes uncertified engines that meet standards under 40 CFR 1068.265. Affected engines remain subject to recall provisions as specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart F, throughout the useful life corresponding to the original certification. Also, tampering and defeat-device prohibitions continue to apply for those engines as specified in 40 CFR 1068.101.

(4) This part 1039 applies for other compression-ignition engines as follows:

(i) The provisions of paragraph (c) of this section and § 1039.801 apply for stationary engines beginning January 1, 2006.

(ii) The provisions of § 1039.620 and § 1039.801 apply for engines used solely for competition beginning January 1, 2006.

(c) The definition of nonroad engine in 40 CFR 1068.30 excludes certain engines used in stationary applications. These engines may be required by 40 CFR part 60, subpart IIII, to comply with some of the provisions of this part; otherwise, these engines are only required to comply with the requirements in § 1039.20. In addition, the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101 restrict the use of stationary engines for nonstationary purposes unless they are certified to the same standards that would apply to certain nonroad engines for the same model year.

(d) In certain cases, the regulations in this part 1039 apply to engines at or above 250 kW that would otherwise be covered by 40 CFR part 1048. See 40 CFR 1048.620 for provisions related to this allowance.
