
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1037 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW HEAVY-DUTY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart I - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### ยง 1037.801 Definitions.
####### Trailer

means a piece of equipment designed for carrying cargo and for being drawn by a tractor when coupled to the tractor's fifth wheel. These trailers may be known commercially as semi-trailers or truck trailers. This definition excludes equipment that serve similar purposes but are not intended to be pulled by a tractor, whether or not they are known commercially as trailers. Trailers may be divided into different types and categories as described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition. The types of equipment identified in paragraph (5) of this definition are not trailers for purposes of this part.

(1) Box vans are trailers with enclosed cargo space that is permanently attached to the chassis, with fixed sides, nose, and roof. Tank trailers are not box vans.

(2) Box vans with self-contained HVAC systems are refrigerated vans. Note that this includes systems that provide cooling, heating, or both. All other box vans are dry vans.

(3) Trailers that are not box vans are non-box trailers. Note that the standards for non-box trailers in this part 1037 apply only to flatbed trailers, tank trailers, and container chassis.

(4) Box vans with length at or below 50.0 feet are short box vans. Other box vans are long box vans.

(5) The following types of equipment are not trailers for purposes of this part 1037:

(i) Containers that are not permanently mounted on chassis.

(ii) Dollies used to connect tandem trailers.
