
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1039.505 How do I test engines using steady-state duty cycles, including ramped-modal testing?

This section describes how to test engines under steady-state conditions. In some cases, we allow you to choose the appropriate steady-state duty cycle for an engine; you may also choose between discrete-mode and ramped-modal testing. In all cases, you must use the duty cycle you select in your application for certification for all testing you perform for that engine family. If we test your engines to confirm that they meet emission standards, we will use the duty cycle you select for your own testing. If you submit certification test data using more than one duty cycle, any of the selected duty cycles may be used for any subsequent testing. We may also perform other testing as allowed by the Clean Air Act.

(a) You may perform steady-state testing with either discrete-mode or ramped-modal cycles as described in 40 CFR part 1065.

(b) Measure emissions by testing the engine on a dynamometer with one of the following duty cycles to determine whether it meets the steady-state emission standards in ยง 1039.101(b):

(1) Use the 5-mode duty cycle or the corresponding ramped-modal cycle described in paragraph (a) of Appendix II of this part for constant-speed engines. Note that these cycles do not apply to all engines used in constant-speed applications, as described in ยง 1039.801.

(2) Use the 6-mode duty cycle or the corresponding ramped-modal cycle described in paragraph (b) of Appendix II of this part for variable-speed engines below 19 kW. You may instead use the 8-mode duty cycle or the corresponding ramped-modal cycle described in paragraph (c) of Appendix II of this part if some engines from your engine family will be used in applications that do not involve governing to maintain engine operation around rated speed.

(3) Use the 8-mode duty cycle or the corresponding ramped-modal cycle described in paragraph (c) of Appendix II of this part for variable-speed engines at or above 19 kW.

(c) For constant-speed engines whose design prevents full-load operation for extended periods, you may ask for approval under 40 CFR 1065.10(c) to replace full-load operation with the maximum load for which the engine is designed to operate for extended periods.

(d) To allow non-motoring dynamometers on cycles with idle, you may omit additional points from the duty-cycle regression as follows:

(1) For variable-speed engines with low-speed governors, you may omit speed, torque, and power points from the duty-cycle regression statistics if the following are met:

(i) The engine operator demand is at its minimum.

(ii) The dynamometer demand is at its minimum.

(iii) It is an idle point f= 0% (idle) and T= 0% (idle).

(iv) T< T &#x2264;5% &#xB7; T.

(2) For variable-speed engines without low-speed governors, you may omit torque and power points from the duty-cycle regression statistics if the following are met:

(i) The dynamometer demand is at its minimum.

(ii) It is an idle point f= 0% (idle) and T= 0% (idle).

(iii) f- (2% &#xB7; f) < f< f+ (2% &#xB7; f).

(iv) T< T &#x2264;5% &#xB7; T.
