
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1039.104 Are there interim provisions that apply only for a limited time?
####### Incentives for early introduction.

(a)This paragraph (a) allows you to reduce the number of engines subject to the applicable standards in § 1039.101 or § 1039.102, when some of your engines are certified to the specified levels earlier than otherwise required. The engines that are certified early are considered offset-generating engines. The provisions of this paragraph (a), which describe the requirements applicable to offset-generating engines, apply beginning in model year 2007. These offset generating engines may generate additional allowances for equipment manufacturers under the incentive program described in § 1039.627; you may instead use these offsets under paragraph (a)(2) of this section in some cases.

(1) For early-compliant engines to generate offsets for use either under this paragraph (a) or under § 1039.627, you must meet the following general provisions:

(i) You may not generate offsets from engines below 19 kW.

(ii) You must begin actual production of engines covered by the corresponding certificate by the following dates:

(A) For engines at or above 19 kW and below 37 kW: September 1, 2012.

(B) For engines at or above 37 kW and below 56 kW: September 1, 2012 if you choose Option #1 in Table 3 of § 1039.102, or September 1, 2011 if you do not choose Option #1 in Table 3 of § 1039.102.

(C) For engines in the 56-130 kW power category: September 1, 2011.

(D) For engines in the 130-560 kW power category: September 1, 2010.

(E) For engines above 560 kW: September 1, 2014.

(iii) Engines you produce after December 31 of the year shown in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may not generate offsets.

(iv) You may not use ABT credits to certify offset-generating engines.

(v) Offset-generating engines must be certified to the Tier 4 standards and requirements under this part 1039.

(2) If equipment manufacturers decline offsets for your offset-generating engines under § 1039.627, you may not generate ABT credits with these engines, but you may reduce the number of engines that are required to meet the standards in § 1039.101 or § 1039.102 as follows:

(3) Example: If you produce 100 engines in the 56-130 kW power category in model year 2008 that are certified to the 56-130 kW standards listed in § 1039.101, and you produced 10,000 engines in this power category in model year 2015, then only 9,850 of these model year 2015 engines would need to comply with the standards listed in § 1039.101. The 100 offset-generating engines in model year 2008 could not use or generate ABT credits.

(4) Offset-using engines (that is, those not required to certify to the standards of § 1039.101 or § 1039.102 under paragraph (a)(2) of this section) are subject to the following provisions:

(i) If the offset is being used under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for an engine that would otherwise be certified to the model year 2013 or 2014 standards in Table 2 of § 1039.102 or the standards in Table 1 of § 1039.101, this engine must be certified to the standards and requirements of this part 1039, except that the only PM standard that applies is the steady-state PM standard that applies for model year 2012. Such an engine may not generate ABT credits.

(ii) If the offset is being used under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section for an engine that would otherwise be certified to the phase-out standards in Tables 4 through 6 of § 1039.102, this engine must be certified to the standards and requirements of this part 1039, except that the PM standard is the Tier 3 PM standard that applies for this engine's maximum power. Such an engine will be treated as a phase-out engine for purposes of determining compliance with percentage phase-in requirements. Such an engine may not generate ABT credits.

(iii) All other offset-using engines must meet the standards and other provisions that apply in model year 2011 for engines in the 19-130 kW power categories, in model year 2010 for engines in the 130-560 kW power category, or in model year 2014 for engines above 560 kW. Show that engines meet these emission standards by meeting all the requirements of § 1068.265. You must meet the labeling requirements in § 1039.135, but add the following statement instead of the compliance statement in § 1039.135(c)(12): "THIS ENGINE MEETS U.S. EPA EMISSION STANDARDS UNDER 40 CFR 1039.104(a)." For power categories with a percentage phase-in, these engines should be treated as phase-in engines for purposes of determining compliance with phase-in requirements.

(5) If an equipment manufacturer claims offsets from your engine for use under § 1039.627, the engine generating the offset must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. You may not generate offsets for use under paragraphs (a)(2) and (5) of this section for these engines. You may generate ABT credits from these engines as follows:

(i) To generate emission credits for NO, NO+ NMHC, and PM, the engine must be certified to FELs at or below the standards in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(ii) Calculate credits according to § 1039.705 but use as the applicable standard the numerical value of the standard to which the engine would have otherwise been subject if it had not been certified under this paragraph (a).

(iii) For the production volume, use the number of engines certified under this paragraph (a) for which you do not claim offsets under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(6) You may include engines used to generate offsets under this paragraph (a) and engines used to generate offsets under § 1039.627 in the same engine family, subject to the provisions of § 1039.230. The engine must be certified to FELs, as specified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section. The FELs must be below the standard levels specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and those specified in § 1039.627. In the reports required in § 1039.730, include the following information for each model year:

(i) The total number of engines that generate offsets under this paragraph (a).

(ii) The number of engines used to generate offsets under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(iii) The names of equipment manufacturers that intend to use your offsets under § 1039.627 and the number of offsets involved for each equipment manufacturer.
