
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1039.104 Are there interim provisions that apply only for a limited time?
####### Alternate FEL caps.

(g)You may certify engines to the FEL caps in Table 1 of this section instead of the otherwise applicable FEL caps in § 1039.101(d)(1), § 1039.102(e), or § 1039.102(g)(2) for the indicated model years, subject to the following provisions:

(1) The provisions of this paragraph (g) apply for limited numbers of engines as specified in this paragraph (g)(1). If you certify an engine under an alternate FEL cap in this paragraph (g) for any pollutant, count it toward the allowed percentage of engines certified to the alternate FEL caps.

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section, the number of engines certified to the FEL caps in Table 1 of this section must not exceed 20 percent in any single model year in each power category, and the sum of percentages over the 4-year period must not exceed a total of 40 percent in each power category.

(ii) For the 19-56 kW power category, the number of engines certified to the FEL caps in Table 1 of this section must not exceed 40 percent in any single model year, and the sum of percentages over the 4-year period must not exceed a total of 80 percent.

(2) If your engine is not certified to transient emission standards under the provisions of § 1039.102(a)(1)(iii), you must adjust your FEL upward by a temporary compliance adjustment factor (TCAF) before calculating your negative emission credits under § 1039.705, as follows:

(i) The temporary compliance adjustment factor for NOand for NO+ NMHC is 1.1.

(ii) The temporary compliance adjustment factor for PM is 1.5.

(iii) The adjusted FEL (FEL) for calculating emission credits is determined from the steady-state FEL (FEL) using the following equation:

(iv) The unadjusted FEL (FEL) applies for all purposes other than credit calculation.

(3) These alternate FEL caps may not be used for phase-in engines.

(4) Do not apply TCAFs to gaseous emissions for phase-out engines that you certify to the same numerical standards (and FELs if the engines are certified using ABT) for gaseous pollutants as you certified under the Tier 3 requirements identified in appendix I of this part.

(5) You may certify engines under this paragraph (g) in any model year provided for in Table 1 of this section without regard to whether or not the engine family's FEL is at or below the otherwise applicable FEL cap. For example, a 200 kW engine certified to the NO+ NMHC standard of § 1039.102(e)(3) with an FEL equal to the FEL cap of 4.0 g/kW-hr may nevertheless be certified under this paragraph (g).

(6) For engines you produce under this paragraph (g) after the Tier 4 final standards take effect, you may certify based on a NO+ NMHC FEL as described in Table 1 of this section. Calculate emission credits for these engines relative to the applicable NOstandard in § 1039.101 or § 1039.102, plus 0.1 g/kW-hr.
