
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1039.102 What exhaust emission standards and phase-in allowances apply for my engines in model year 2014 and earlier?
####### i.e.,i.e.

(3) At the time of certification, show how you intend to meet the phase-in requirements of this paragraph (c) based on projected U.S.-directed production volumes. If your actual U.S.-directed production volume fails to meet the phase-in requirements for a given model year, you must make up the shortfall (in terms of number of engines) by the end of the model year representing the final year of the phase-in period. For example, if you plan in good faith to produce 50 percent of a projected 10,000 engines in the 56-130 kW power category (, 5,000 engines) in 2012 in compliance with the Tier 4 phase-in standards for NOand NMHC in Table 4 of this section, but produce 4,500 such engines of an actual 10,000 engines, you must produce 500 engines in model year 2013 (, the final year of the phase-in for this power category) that meet the Tier 4 phase-in standards above and beyond the production otherwise needed to meet the 50-percent phase-in requirement for model year 2013. If any shortfall exceeds the applicable limit of paragraph (c)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, that number of phase-out engines will be considered not covered by a certificate of conformity and in violation of ยง 1068.101(a)(1). The shortfall allowed by this paragraph (c)(3) may not exceed a certain number of engines, as follows:

(i) For engine families certified according to the alternate phase-in schedule described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, for model years prior to the final year of the phase-in, 5 percent of your actual U.S.-directed production volume for that power category in that model year.

(ii) For all other engine families, for model years prior to the final year of the phase-in, 25 percent of your actual U.S.-directed production volume for that power category in that model year.

(iii) No shortfall is allowed in the final year of the phase-in.

(4) Engines you introduce into commerce beyond the limits described in paragraphs (c)(3) of this section will be considered not covered by a certificate of conformity and in violation of ยง 1068.101(a)(1).

(5) For the purposes of this part, the term "phase-in" means relating to a standard that is identified in this section as a phase-in standard and the term "phase-out" means relating to a standard that is identified in this section as a phase-out standard. For example, a 200-kW engine from the 2012 model year that is certified to the 4.0 g/kW-hr NO+ NMHC standard in Table 6 of ยง 1039.102 is a phase-out engine.
