
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1039.135 How must I label and identify the engines I produce?

(a) Assign each engine a unique identification number and permanently affix, engrave, or stamp it on the engine in a legible way.

(b) At the time of manufacture, affix a permanent and legible label identifying each engine. The label must meet the requirements of 40 CFR 1068.45.

(c) The label must-

(1) Include the heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(2) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may identify another company and use its trademark instead of yours if you comply with the branding provisions of 40 CFR 1068.45.

(3) Include EPA's standardized designation for the engine family (and subfamily, where applicable).

(4) State the power category or subcategory from § 1039.101 or § 1039.102 that determines the applicable emission standards for the engine family. For engines at or above 37 kW and below 56 kW from model years 2008 through 2012, and for engines less than 8 kW utilizing the provision at § 1039.101(c), you must state the applicable PM standard for the engine family.

(5) State the engine's displacement (in liters); however, you may omit this from the label if all the engines in the engine family have the same per-cylinder displacement and total displacement.

(6) State the date of manufacture [DAY (optional), MONTH, and YEAR]; however, you may omit this from the label if you stamp, engrave, or otherwise permanently identify it elsewhere on the engine, in which case you must also describe in your application for certification where you will identify the date on the engine.

(7) State the FELs to which the engines are certified if certification depends on the ABT provisions of subpart H of this part.

(8) Identify the emission-control system. Use terms and abbreviations as described in 40 CFR 1068.45. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.

(9) For diesel-fueled engines, unless otherwise specified in § 1039.104(e)(2), state: "ULTRA LOW SULFUR FUEL ONLY'.

(10) Identify any additional requirements for fuel and lubricants that do not involve fuel-sulfur levels. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.

(11) State the useful life for your engine family if we approve a shortened useful life under § 1039.101(g)(2).

(12) State: "THIS ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR [MODEL YEAR] NONROAD DIESEL ENGINES.".

(13) For engines above 560 kW, include the following things:

(i) For engines certified to the emission standards for generator-set engines, add the phrase "FOR GENERATOR SETS AND OTHER APPLICATIONS".

(ii) For all other engines, add the phrase "NOT FOR USE IN A GENERATOR SET".

(14) If your engines are certified only for constant-speed operation, state "USE IN CONSTANT-SPEED APPLICATIONS ONLY".

(15) For engines with one or more approved auxiliary emission control devices for emergency equipment applications under § 1039.115(g)(4), the statement: "THIS ENGINE IS FOR INSTALLATION IN EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT ONLY." Note that this label requirement does not apply for engines that include emergency AECDs under § 1039.665 rather than § 1039.115(g)(4).

(d) You may add information to the emission control information label as follows:

(1) You may identify other emission standards that the engine meets or does not meet (such as international standards), as long as this does not cause you to omit any of the information described in paragraphs (c)(5) through (10) of this section. You may add the information about the other emission standards to the statement we specify, or you may include it in a separate statement.

(2) You may add other information to ensure that the engine will be properly maintained and used.

(3) You may add appropriate features to prevent counterfeit labels. For example, you may include the engine's unique identification number on the label.

(e) For model year 2019 and earlier, create a separate label with the statement: "ULTRA LOW SULFUR FUEL ONLY". Permanently attach this label to the equipment near the fuel inlet or, if you do not manufacture the equipment, take one of the following steps to ensure that the equipment will be properly labeled:

(1) Provide the label to the equipment manufacturer and include the appropriate information in the emission-related installation instructions.

(2) Confirm that the equipment manufacturers install their own complying labels.

(f) You may ask us to approve modified labeling requirements in this part 1039 if you show that it is necessary or appropriate. We will approve your request if your alternate label is consistent with the requirements of this part.

(g) If you obscure the engine label while installing the engine in the equipment such that the label cannot be read during normal maintenance, you must place a duplicate label on the equipment. If others install your engine in their equipment in a way that obscures the engine label, we require them to add a duplicate label on the equipment (see 40 CFR 1068.105); in that case, give them the number of duplicate labels they request and keep the following records for at least five years:

(1) Written documentation of the request from the equipment manufacturer.

(2) The number of duplicate labels you send for each engine family and the date you sent them.
