
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1039.102 What exhaust emission standards and phase-in allowances apply for my engines in model year 2014 and earlier?
####### NTE standards.

(1)Use the provisions of § 1039.101(e)(3) to calculate and apply the NTE standards, but base these calculated values on the applicable standards in this section or the applicable FEL, instead of the standards in Table 1 of § 1039.101. All other provisions of § 1039.101(e) apply under this paragraph (g)(1). The NTE standards do not apply for certain engines and certain pollutants, as follows:

(i) All engines below 37 kW for model years before 2013.

(ii) All engines certified under Option #1 of Table 3 of this section. These are small-volume manufacturer engines certified to the Option #1 standards for model years 2008 through 2015 under § 1039.104(c), and other engines certified to the Option #1 standards for model years 2008 through 2012.

(iii) All engines less than or equal to 560 kW that are certified to an FEL under the alternate FEL program during the first four years of the Tier 4 standards for the applicable power category, as described in § 1039.104(g). However, if you apply to meet transient emission standards for these engines under § 1039.102(a)(1)(iii), you must also meet the NTE standards in this paragraph (g)(1).

(iv) Gaseous pollutants for phase-out engines that you certify to the same numerical standards and FELs for gaseous pollutants to which you certified under the Tier 3 requirements identified in appendix I of this part. However, the NTE standards for PM apply to these engines.

(2) Interim FEL caps. As described in § 1039.101(d), you may participate in the ABT program in subpart H of this part by certifying engines to FELs for PM, NO, or NO+ NMHC instead of the standards in Tables 1 through 7 of this section for the model years shown. The FEL caps listed in the following table apply instead of the FEL caps in § 1039.101(d)(1), except as allowed by § 1039.104(g):
