
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1039.102 What exhaust emission standards and phase-in allowances apply for my engines in model year 2014 and earlier?
####### i.e.

(1) Identify any split engine families in your application for certification. Your engines must comply with all the standards and requirements applicable to Tier 4 engines, except as noted in this paragraph (f). You may calculate emission credits relative to different emission standards (, phase-in and phase-out standards) for different sets of engines within the engine family, but the engine family must be certified to a single set of standards and FELs. To calculate NO+ NMHC emission credits, add the NOFEL to the NMHC phase-in standard for comparison with the applicable NO+ NMHC phase-out standard. Any engine family certified under this paragraph (f) must meet the applicable phase-in standard for NMHC. You may assign the number and configurations of engines within the respective subfamilies any time before the due date for the final report required in ยง 1039.730. Apply the same label to each engine in the family, including the NOFEL to which it is certified.

(2) For example, a 10,000-unit engine family in the 75-130 kW power category may be certified to meet the standards for PM, NMHC, and CO that apply to phase-in engines, with a 0.8 g/kW-hr FEL for NO. When compared to the phase-out NO+ NMHC standard, this engine family would generate positive NO+ NMHC emission credits. When compared to the phase-in NOstandard, this engine family would generate negative NOemission credits. You could create a subfamily with 2,500 engines (one-quarter of the 10,000 engines) and identify them as phase-in engines. You would count these 2,500, with their negative NOcredits, in determining compliance with the 50-percent phase-in requirement in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. You would calculate negative credits relative to the 0.40 g/kW-hr NOstandard for these 2,500 engines. You would identify the other 7,500 engines in the family as phase-out engines and calculate positive credits relative to the 4.0 g/kW-hr NO+ NMHC standard.
