
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1039.102 What exhaust emission standards and phase-in allowances apply for my engines in model year 2014 and earlier?
####### Emission standards for transient testing.

(a)Transient exhaust emissions from your engines may not exceed the applicable emission standards in Tables 1 through 6 of this section. Measure emissions using the applicable transient test procedures described in subpart F of this part. See paragraph (c) of this section for a description of provisions related to the phase-in and phase-out standards shown in Tables 4 through 6 of this section. The emission standards for transient testing are limited for certain engines, as follows:

(1) The transient standards in this section do not apply for the following engines:

(i) Engines below 37 kW for model years before 2013.

(ii) Engines certified under Option #1 of Table 3 of this section. These are the small-volume manufacturer engines certified to the Option #1 standards for model years 2008 through 2015 under § 1039.104(c), and other engines certified to the Option #1 standards for model years 2008 through 2012.

(iii) Engines certified to an alternate FEL during the first four years of the Tier 4 standards for the applicable power category, as allowed in § 1039.104(g). However, you may certify these engines to the transient standards in this section to avoid using temporary compliance adjustment factors, as described in § 1039.104(g)(2). Note that in some cases this four-year period extends into the time covered by the standards in § 1039.101.

(iv) Constant-speed engines.

(v) Engines above 560 kW.

(2) The transient standards in this section for gaseous pollutants do not apply to phase-out engines that you certify to the same numerical standards (and FELs if the engines are certified using ABT) for gaseous pollutants as you certified under the Tier 3 requirements identified in appendix I of this part. However, except as specified by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the transient PM emission standards apply to these engines.

(b) Emission standards for steady-state testing. Steady-state exhaust emissions from your engines may not exceed the applicable emission standards in Tables 1 through 7 of this section. Measure emissions using the applicable steady-state test procedures described in subpart F of this part. See paragraph (c) of this section for a description of provisions related to the phase-in and phase-out standards shown in Tables 4 through 6 of this section.
