
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1039.104 Are there interim provisions that apply only for a limited time?
####### Diesel test fuels and corresponding labeling requirements.

(e)For diesel-fueled engines in 2011 and later model years, the diesel test fuel is ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel specified in 40 CFR part 1065. For diesel-fueled engines in 2010 and earlier model years, use test fuels and meet labeling requirements as follows:

(1) Use the following test fuels in 2010 and earlier model years:

(i) Unless otherwise specified, the diesel test fuel is low-sulfur diesel fuel specified in 40 CFR part 1065.

(ii) In model years 2007 through 2010, you may use ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel as the test fuel for any engine family that employs sulfur-sensitive technology if you can demonstrate that in-use engines in the family will use diesel fuel with a sulfur concentration no greater than 15 ppm.

(iii) You may use ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel as the test fuel for engine families in any power category below 56 kW, as long as none of the engines in your engine family employ sulfur-sensitive technologies, you ensure that ultimate purchasers of equipment using these engines are informed that ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel is recommended, and you recommend to equipment manufacturers that a label be applied at the fuel inlet recommending 15 ppm fuel.

(iv) For the engines described in § 1039.101(c) that are certified to the 0.60 g/kW-hr PM standard in Table 1 of § 1039.102 in the 2010 model year, you may test with the ultra low-sulfur fuel specified in 40 CFR part 1065.

(2) Meet the labeling requirements of this paragraph (e)(2) (or other labeling requirements we approve) to identify the applicable test fuels specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Provide instructions to equipment manufacturers to ensure that they are aware of these labeling requirements.

(i) For engines certified under the provisions of paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, include the following statement on the emission control information label and the fuel-inlet label specified in § 1039.135: "LOW SULFUR FUEL OR ULTRA LOW SULFUR FUEL ONLY".

(ii) For engines certified under the provisions of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, include the following statement on the emission control information label and the fuel-inlet label specified in § 1039.135: "ULTRA LOW SULFUR FUEL ONLY".

(iii) For engines certified under the provisions of paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, include the following statement on the emission control information label specified in § 1039.135: "ULTRA LOW SULFUR FUEL RECOMMENDED".

(3) For model years 2010 and earlier, we will use the test fuel that you use under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, subject to the conditions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
