
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1039.515 What are the test procedures related to not-to-exceed standards?
####### Special PM zone.

(b)For engines certified to a PM standard or FEL above 0.07 g/kW-hr, a modified NTE control area applies for PM emissions only. The speeds and loads to be excluded are determined based on speeds B and C, determined according to the provisions of 40 CFR 86.1360-2007(c). One of the following provisions applies:

(1) If the C speed is below 2400 rpm, exclude the speed and load points to the right of or below the line formed by connecting the following two points on a plot of speed-vs.-power:

(i) 30% of maximum power at the B speed; however, use the power value corresponding to the engine operation at 30% of maximum torque at the B speed if this is greater than 30% of maximum power at the B speed.

(ii) 70% of maximum power at 100% speed.

(2) If the C speed is at or above 2400 rpm, exclude the speed and load points to the right of the line formed by connecting the two points in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section (the 30% and 50% torque/power points) and below the line formed by connecting the two points in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section (the 50% and 70% torque/power points). The 30%, 50%, and 70% torque/power points are defined as follows:

(i) 30% of maximum power at the B speed; however, use the power value corresponding to the engine operation at 30% of maximum torque at the B speed if this is greater than 30% of maximum power at the B speed.

(ii) 50% of maximum power at 2400 rpm.

(iii) 70% of maximum power at 100% speed.
