
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1039.102 What exhaust emission standards and phase-in allowances apply for my engines in model year 2014 and earlier?
####### Alternate NO,standards.

(e)For engines in 56-560 kW power categories during the phase-in of Tier 4 standards, you may certify engine families to the alternate NOor NO+ NMHC standards in this paragraph (e) instead of the phase-in and phase-out NOand NO+ NMHC standards described in Tables 4 through 6 of this section. Engines certified to an alternate NOstandard under this section must be certified to an NMHC standard of 0.19 g/kW-hr. Do not include engine families certified under this paragraph (e) in determining whether you comply with the percentage phase-in requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d)(2) of this section. Except for the provisions for alternate FEL caps in ยง 1039.104(g), the NOand NO+ NMHC standards and FEL caps under this paragraph (e) are as follows:

(1) For engines in the 56-130 kW power category, apply the following alternate NOstandards and FEL caps:

(i) If you use the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, your alternate NOstandard for any engine family in the 56-130 kW power category is 2.3 g/kW-hr for model years 2012 and 2013. Engines certified to this standard may not exceed a NOFEL cap of 3.0 g/kW-hr.

(ii) If you use the provisions of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, your alternate NOstandard for any engine family in the 56-130 kW power category is 3.4 g/kW-hr for model years 2012 through 2014. Engines below 75 kW certified to this standard may not exceed a NOFEL cap of 4.4 g/kW-hr; engines at or above 75 kW certified to this standard may not exceed a NOFEL cap of 3.8 g/kW-hr.

(iii) If you do not use the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, you may apply the alternate NOstandard and the appropriate FEL cap from either paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(2) For engines in the 130-560 kW power category, the alternate NOstandard is 2.0 g/kW-hr for model years 2011 through 2013. Engines certified to this standard may not exceed a NOFEL cap of 2.7 g/kW-hr.

(3) You use NO+ NMHC emission credits to certify an engine family to the alternate NO+ NMHC standards in this paragraph (e)(3) instead of the otherwise applicable alternate NOand NMHC standards. Calculate the alternate NO+ NMHC standard by adding 0.1 g/kW-hr to the numerical value of the applicable alternate NOstandard of paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section. Engines certified to the NO+ NMHC standards of this paragraph (e)(3) may not generate emission credits. The FEL caps for engine families certified under this paragraph (e)(3) are the previously applicable NO+ NMHC standards identified in appendix I of this part (generally the Tier 3 standards).
