
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### ยง 1039.20 What requirements from this part apply to excluded stationary engines?

The provisions of this section apply for engines built on or after January 1, 2006.

(a) You must add a permanent label or tag to each new engine you produce or import that is excluded under ยง 1039.1(c) as a stationary engine and is not required by 40 CFR part 60, subpart IIII, to meet the requirements described in this part, or the requirements described in 40 CFR part 1042, that are equivalent to the requirements applicable to marine or land-based nonroad engines for the same model year. To meet labeling requirements, you must do the following things:

(1) Attach the label or tag in one piece so no one can remove it without destroying or defacing it.

(2) Secure it to a part of the engine needed for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement.

(3) Make sure it is durable and readable for the engine's entire life.

(4) Write it in English.

(5) Follow the requirements in ยง 1039.135(g) regarding duplicate labels if the engine label is obscured in the final installation.

(b) Engine labels or tags required under this section must have the following information:

(1) Include the heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION."

(2) Include your full corporate name and trademark.

(3) State the engine displacement (in liters) and maximum engine power (or in the case of fire pumps, NFPA nameplate engine power).

(4) State: "THIS ENGINE IS EXEMPTED FROM NONROAD CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS AS A "STATIONARY ENGINE." INSTALLING OR USING THIS ENGINE IN ANY OTHER APPLICATION MAY BE A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW SUBJECT TO CIVIL PENALTY."

(c) Stationary engines required by 40 CFR part 60, subpart IIII, to meet the requirements described in this part or 40 CFR part 1042, must meet the labeling requirements of 40 CFR 60.4210.
