
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1039.104 Are there interim provisions that apply only for a limited time?
####### Provisions for small-volume manufacturers.

(c)Special provisions apply if you are a small-volume engine manufacturer subject to the requirements of this part. You must notify us in writing before January 1, 2008 if you intend to use these provisions.

(1) You may delay complying with certain otherwise applicable Tier 4 emission standards and requirements as described in the following table:

(2) To use the provisions of this paragraph (c) for engines at or above 37 kW and below 56 kW, choose one of the following:

(i) If you comply with the 0.30 g/kW-hr PM standard in § 1039.102 in all model years from 2008 through 2012 without using PM credits, you may continue meeting that standard through 2015.

(ii) If you do not choose to comply with paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, you may continue to comply with the standards and requirements described in appendix I of this part for model years through 2012, but you must begin complying in 2013 with Tier 4 standards and requirements specified in Table 3 of § 1039.102 for model years 2013 and later.

(3) After the delays indicated in paragraph (c)(1) and (2) of this section, you must comply with the same Tier 4 standards and requirements as all other manufacturers.

(4) For engines not in the 19-56 kW power category, if you delay compliance with any standards under this paragraph (c), you must do all the following things for the model years when you are delaying compliance with the otherwise applicable standards:

(i) Produce engines that meet all the emission standards identified in appendix I of this part and other requirements in this part applicable for that model year, except as noted in this paragraph (c).

(ii) Meet the labeling requirements in this part that apply for certified engines but use the following alternative compliance statement: "THIS ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR [CURRENT MODEL YEAR] NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES UNDER 40 CFR 1039.104(c).".

(5) For engines in the 19-56 kW power category, if you delay compliance with any standards under this paragraph (c), you must do all the following things for the model years when you are delaying compliance with the otherwise applicable standards:

(i) Produce engines in those model years that meet all the emission standards and other requirements that applied for your model year 2008 engines in the same power category.

(ii) Meet the labeling requirements in § 1039.135, but use the following compliance statement instead of the compliance statement in § 1039.135: "THIS ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR [CURRENT MODEL YEAR] NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES UNDER 40 CFR 1039.104(c).".

(iii) Notify the equipment manufacturer that the engines you produce under this section are excluded from the production volumes associated with the equipment-manufacturer allowance program in § 1039.625.

(6) The provisions of this paragraph (c) may not be used to circumvent the requirements of this part.
