
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1039.101 What exhaust emission standards must my engines meet after the 2014 model year?
####### Not-to-exceed standards.

(e)Exhaust emissions from your engines may not exceed the applicable not-to-exceed (NTE) standards in this paragraph (e).

(1) Measure emissions using the procedures described in subpart F of this part.

(2) Except as noted in paragraph (e)(7) of this section, the NTE standard, rounded to the same number of decimal places as the applicable standard in Table 1 of this section, is determined from the following equation:

(3) The NTE multiplier for each pollutant is 1.25, except in the following cases:

(4) There are two sets of specifications of ambient operating regions that will apply for all NTE testing of engines in an engine family. You must choose one set for each engine family and must identify your choice of ambient operating regions in each application for certification for an engine family. You may choose separately for each engine family. Choose one of the following ambient operating regions:

(i) All altitudes less than or equal to 5,500 feet above sea level during all ambient temperature and humidity conditions.

(ii) All altitudes less than or equal to 5,500 feet above sea level, for temperatures less than or equal to the temperature determined by the following equation at the specified altitude:

(5) Temperature and humidity ranges for which correction factors are allowed are specified in 40 CFR 86.1370-2007(e).

(i) If you choose the ambient operating region specified in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, the temperature and humidity ranges for which correction factors are allowed are defined in 40 CFR 86.1370-2007(e)(1).

(ii) If you choose the ambient operating region specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, the temperature and humidity ranges for which correction factors are allowed are defined in 40 CFR 86.1370-2007(e)(2).

(6) For engines equipped with exhaust-gas recirculation, the NTE standards of this section do not apply during the cold operating conditions specified in 40 CFR 86.1370-2007(f).

(7) For engines certified to a PM FEL less than or equal to 0.01 g/kW-hr, the PM NTE standard is 0.02 g/kW-hr.
