
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1039.620 What are the provisions for exempting engines used solely for competition?

The provisions of this section apply for new engines built on or after January 1, 2006.

(a) Equipment manufacturers may use uncertified engines if the vehicles or equipment in which they are installed will be used solely for competition.

(b) The definition of nonroad engine in 40 CFR 1068.30 excludes engines used solely for competition. These engines are not required to comply with this part, but 40 CFR 1068.101 prohibits the use of competition engines for noncompetition purposes.

(c) We consider a vehicle or piece of equipment to be one that will be used solely for competition if it has features that are not easily removed that would make its use other than in competition unsafe, impractical, or highly unlikely.

(d) As an engine manufacturer, your engine is exempt without our prior approval if you have a written request for an exempted engine from the equipment manufacturer showing the basis for believing that the equipment will be used solely for competition. You must permanently label engines exempted under this section to clearly indicate that they are to be used solely for competition. Failure to properly label an engine will void the exemption.

(e) We may discontinue an exemption under this section if we find that engines are not used solely for competition.
