
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1039.610 What provisions apply to vehicles certified under the motor-vehicle program?
####### Specific requirements.

(d)If you are a motor-vehicle manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new nonroad equipment and its engine, the engine is eligible for an exemption under this section:

(1) Your equipment must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity as a motor vehicle issued under 40 CFR part 86.

(2) You must not make any changes to the certified vehicle that we could reasonably expect to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions if it is subject to evaporative-emission standards. For example, if you make any of the following changes, you do not qualify for this exemption:

(i) Change any fuel system parameters from the certified configuration.

(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the vehicle manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.

(iii) Modify or design the engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original vehicle manufacturer's specified ranges.

(iv) Add more than 500 pounds to the curb weight of the originally certified motor vehicle.

(3) You must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in nonroad applications. This includes any type of vehicle, without regard to which company completes the manufacturing of the nonroad equipment. Show this as follows:

(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the vehicle, base this showing on your sales information.

(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the vehicle to confirm this based on their sales information.

(4) The equipment must have the vehicle emission control information and fuel labels we require under 40 CFR 86.007-35.

(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the equipment in a position where it will remain clearly visible. In the supplemental label, do the following:

(i) Include the heading: "NONROAD ENGINE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may identify another company and use its trademark instead of yours if you comply with the branding provisions of 40 CFR 1068.45.

(iii) State: "THIS VEHICLE WAS ADAPTED FOR NONROAD USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS. THE EMISSION-CONTROL SYSTEM DEPENDS ON THE USE OF FUEL MEETING SPECIFICATIONS THAT APPLY FOR MOTOR-VEHICLE APPLICATIONS. OPERATING THE ENGINE ON OTHER FUELS MAY BE A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW.".

(iv) State the date you finished modifying the vehicle (month and year), if applicable.

(6) The original and supplemental labels must be readily visible in the fully assembled equipment.

(7) Send the Designated Compliance Officer written notification describing your plans before using the provisions of this section. In addition, by February 28 of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you), send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter with all the following information:

(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.

(ii) List the equipment models for which you used this exemption in the previous year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(iii) State: "We prepared each listed engine or equipment model for nonroad application without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1039.610."
