
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart I - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### ยง 1039.801 What definitions apply to this part?
####### Emergency equipment

means any of the following types of equipment that is not a motor vehicle:

(1) Specialized vehicles used to perform aircraft rescue and/or fire-fighting functions at airports, with particular emphasis on saving lives and reducing injuries coincident with aircraft fires following impact, or aircraft ground fires.

(2) Wildland firefighting equipment designed primarily to support wildland fire suppression operations. For example, a bulldozer designed with special features for fighting wildfires would be a piece of emergency equipment.

(3) Any other equipment that we have determined will likely be used in emergency situations where emission control function or malfunction may cause a significant risk to human life. For example, we would consider nonroad equipment that is certain to be retrofitted with a slip-on firefighting module to be emergency equipment, irrespective of the equipment manufacturer's original design. In making this determination, we may consider any factor that has an effect on the totality of the actual risk to human life. For example, we may consider how frequently the equipment will be used in emergency situations or how likely it is that the emission controls will cause a significant risk to human life when the equipment is used in emergency situations. We will consider to what extent the flexibility provisions of ยง 1039.665 already address the risk. In the example above, we would not consider equipment to be emergency equipment if there is merely a possibility (rather than a certainty) that the equipment will be retrofitted with a slip-on firefighting module.
