
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1039.665 Special provisions for use of engines in emergency situations.
####### AECD approval criteria.

(b)We will approve an AECD where we determine that the following criteria have been met:

(1) The AECD's design must be consistent with good engineering judgment and the manufacturer must show that the AECD deactivates emission controls only to the extent necessary to address the expected emergency situation.

(2) Manufacturers must discourage improper activation of the AECD by displaying information where it is clearly visible to the equipment operator when the operator is in a position to activate the AECD. Unless we approve alternate language, state the following: "EMERGENCY USE ONLY. SEE OWNERS MANUAL. PENALTIES APPLY FOR MISUSE."

(3) Manufacturers may design and produce their engines with the AECD initially armed to allow operators to activate the AECD one time per engine without any further input or permission from the manufacturer. The AECD may be subsequently reset as specified in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.

(4) Except as allowed by paragraph (b)(3) of this section, AECD activation must require either input of a temporary code, reconfiguration of the engine's electronic control module by a qualified service technician, or an equivalent security feature that is unique to each engine.

(5) The engine controls must be configured to record the total number of AECD activations in that engine's nonvolatile electronic memory.

(6) The engine controls must include an operator-activated switch or other element of design to allow the operator to manually deactivate the AECD once a qualified emergency situation has ended. This manual control may include a "confirm-delete" function, as needed, to prevent unintentionally deactivating the AECD. This control may allow for manual reactivation of the AECD provided that the AECD's automatic deactivation limits in paragraph (b)(7) of this section have not yet been reached, but such reactivation by operators would be allowed only under emergency situations. This manual deactivation control must not deactivate operator inducements required by paragraph (b)(9) of this section.

(7) The AECD must automatically deactivate within a cumulative engine run time of 120 hours after the AECD was initially activated (excluding any time the AECD was deactivated). The AECD may be subsequently reset as specified in paragraph (b)(8) of this section. For emission controls that involve a sequence of increasingly severe engine performance limits to induce operators to perform emission-related maintenance, the emission controls may be reset to the initial point of that sequence when the AECD is deactivated.

(8) The manufacturer must ensure that resetting the AECD cannot occur without the manufacturer's specific permission, and that resetting the AECD requires either input of a temporary code, reconfiguration of the engine's electronic control module by a qualified service technician, or an equivalent security feature that is unique to each engine. AECD resets may not occur unless either the manufacturer has evidence that the emergency situation is continuing or the operator provides the information required in paragraph (e) of this section, in writing or by any other means.

(9) The manufacturer must take appropriate additional steps to induce operators to report AECD activation and request resetting the AECD. We recommend including one or more persistent visible and/or audible alarms that are active from the point when the AECD is activated to the point when it is reset.
