
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1039.625 What requirements apply under the program for equipment-manufacturer flexibility?
####### Small-volume allowances.

(2)You may determine an alternate allowance for a specific number of exempted engines under this section using one of the following approaches for your U.S.-directed production volumes:

(i) You may produce up to 700 units with exempted engines within a power category during the seven-year period specified in paragraph (a) of this section, with no more than 200 units in any single year within a power category, except as provided in paragraph (m) of this section. Engines within a power category that are exempted under this section must be from a single engine family within a given year.

(ii) For engines below 130 kW, you may produce up to 525 units with exempted engines within a power category during the seven-year period specified in paragraph (a) of this section, with no more than 150 units in any single year within a power category, except as provided in paragraph (m) of this section. For engines at or above 130 kW, you may produce up to 350 units with exempted engines within a power category during the seven-year period, with no more than 100 units in any single year within a power category. Exemptions under this paragraph (b)(2)(ii) may apply to engines from multiple engine families in a given year.

(iii) In each power category at or above 56 kW, you may apply the provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section in the first two model years for which Tier 4 standards apply, regardless of the number of engine families you use in your equipment, provided you exceed the single engine family restriction of that paragraph primarily due to production of equipment intended specifically to travel on snow and to commonly operate at more than 9,000 feet above sea level. After the first two Tier 4 model years in a power category, you may continue to apply the provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, subject to the single engine family restriction.
