
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1039.625 What requirements apply under the program for equipment-manufacturer flexibility?
####### Inclusion of engines not subject to Tier 4 standards.

(d)The following provisions apply to engines that are not subject to Tier 4 standards:

(1) If you use the provisions of 40 CFR 1068.105(a) to use up your inventories of engines not certified to new emission standards, do not include these units in your count of equipment with exempted engines under paragraph (b) of this section. However, you may include these units in your count of total equipment you produce for the given year for the percentage calculation in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(2) If you install engines that are exempted from the Tier 4 standards for any reason, other than for equipment-manufacturer allowances under this section, do not include these units in your count of exempted engines under paragraph (b) of this section. However, you may include these units in your count of total equipment you produce for the given year for the percentage calculation in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. For example, if we grant a hardship exemption for the engine manufacturer, you may count these as compliant engines under this section. This paragraph (d)(2) applies only if the engine has a permanent label describing why it is exempted from the Tier 4 standards.

(3) Do not include equipment using model year 2008 or 2009 engines certified under the provisions of ยง 1039.101(c) in your count of equipment using exempted engines. However, you may include these units in your count of total equipment you produce for the given year for the percentage calculation in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) You may start using the allowances under this section for engines that are not yet subject to Tier 4 standards, as long as the seven-year period for using allowances under the Tier 2 or Tier 3 program has expired. Table 3 of this section shows the years for which this paragraph (d)(4) applies. To use these early allowances, you must use engines that meet the emission standards described in paragraph (e) of this section. You must also count these units or calculate these percentages as described in paragraph (c) of this section and apply them toward the total number or percentage of equipment with exempted engines we allow for the Tier 4 standards as described in paragraph (b) of this section. The maximum number of cumulative early allowances under this paragraph (d)(4) is 10 percent under the percent-of-production allowance or 100 units under the small-volume allowance. For example, if you produce 5 percent of your equipment with engines between 130 and 560 kW that use allowances under this paragraph (d)(4) in 2009, you may use up to an additional 5 percent of your allowances in 2010. If you use allowances for 5 percent of your equipment in both 2009 and 2010, your 80 percent allowance for 2011-2017 in the 130-560 kW power category decreases to 70 percent. Manufacturers using allowances under this paragraph (d)(4) must comply with the notification and reporting requirements specified in paragraph (g) of this section.
