
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1039.625 What requirements apply under the program for equipment-manufacturer flexibility?
####### Additional exemptions for technical or engineering hardship.

(m)You may request additional engine allowances under paragraph (b) of this section; however, you may use these extra allowances only for those equipment models for which you, or an affiliated company, do not also produce the engine. Additional allowances under this paragraph (m) must be used within the specified seven-year period. After considering the circumstances, we may permit you to introduce into U.S. commerce equipment with such engines that do not comply with Tier 4 emission standards, as follows:

(1) We may approve additional exemptions if extreme and unusual circumstances that are clearly outside your control and that could not have been avoided with reasonable discretion have resulted in technical or engineering problems that prevent you from meeting the requirements of this part. You must show that you exercised prudent planning and have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the scope of your request for additional allowances.

(2) To apply for exemptions under this paragraph (m), send the Designated Compliance Officer a written request as soon as possible before you are in violation. In your request, include the following information:

(i) Describe your process for designing equipment.

(ii) Describe how you normally work cooperatively or concurrently with your engine supplier to design products.

(iii) Describe the engineering or technical problems causing you to request the exemption and explain why you have not been able to solve them. Describe the extreme and unusual circumstances that led to these problems and explain how they were unavoidable.

(iv) Describe any information or products you received from your engine supplier related to equipment design-such as written specifications, performance data, or prototype engines-and when you received it.

(v) Compare the design processes of the equipment model for which you need additional exemptions and that for other models for which you do not need additional exemptions. Explain the technical differences that justify your request.

(vi) Describe your efforts to find and use other compliant engines, or otherwise explain why none is available.

(vii) Describe the steps you have taken to minimize the scope of your request.

(viii) Include other relevant information. You must give us other relevant information if we ask for it.

(ix) Estimate the increased percent of production you need for each equipment model covered by your request, as described in paragraph (m)(3) of this section. Estimate the increased number of allowances you need for each equipment model covered by your request, as described in paragraph (m)(4) of this section.

(3) We may approve your request to increase the allowances under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, subject to the following limitations:

(i) You must use up the allowances under paragraph (b)(1) of this section before using any additional allowances under this paragraph (m).

(ii) The additional allowances under this paragraph (m)(3) may not exceed 200 percent for each power category.

(iii) You may use these additional allowances only for the specific equipment models covered by your request.

(4) We may approve your request to increase the small-volume allowances under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, subject to the following limitations:

(i) You are eligible for additional allowances under this paragraph (m)(4) only if you do not use the provisions of paragraph (m)(3) of this section to obtain additional allowances within a given power category.

(ii) You must use up the allowances under paragraph (b)(2) of this section before using any additional allowances under this paragraph (m).

(iii) The additional allowances under this paragraph (m)(4) may not exceed 2,000 units.

(iv) We may approve additional allowances in the form of waiving the annual limits specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section instead of or in addition to increasing the total number of allowances under this paragraph (m)(4).

(v) If we increase the total number of allowances, you may use these allowances only for the specific equipment models covered by your request.
