
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1039.625 What requirements apply under the program for equipment-manufacturer flexibility?
####### Notification and reporting.

(g)You must notify us of your intent to use the provisions of this section and send us an annual report to verify that you are not exceeding the allowances, as follows:

(1) Before you use the provisions of this section, send the Designated Compliance Officer a written notice of your intent, including:

(i) Your company's name and address, and your parent company's name and address, if applicable.

(ii) The name, phone number and e-mail address of a person to contact for more information.

(iii) The calendar years in which you expect to use the exemption provisions of this section.

(iv) The name and address of each company you expect to produce engines for the equipment you manufacture under this section.

(v) Your best estimate of the number of units in each power category you will produce under this section and whether you intend to comply under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.

(vi) The number of units in each power category you have sold in years for which the Tier 2 and Tier 3 standards apply.

(2) For each year that you use the provisions of this section, send the Designated Compliance Officer a written report by March 31 of the following year. Identify the following things in your report:

(i) The total count of units you sold in the preceding year for each power category, based on actual U.S.-directed production information.

(ii) The percentages of U.S.-directed production that correspond to the number of units in each power category and the cumulative numbers and percentages of units for all the units you have sold under this section for each power category. You may omit the percentage figures if you include in the report a statement that you will not be using the percent-of-production allowances in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(iii) The manufacturer of the engine installed in the equipment you produce under this section if this is different than you specified under paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section.
