
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1039.627 What are the incentives for equipment manufacturers to use cleaner engines?
####### Using engine offsets.

(b)(1) You may use engine offsets generated under paragraph (a) of this section to generate additional allowances under ยง 1039.625, as follows:

(i) For each engine offset, you may increase the number of available allowances under ยง 1039.625(b) for that power category by one engine for the years indicated.

(ii) For engines in 56-560 kW power categories, you may transfer engine offsets across power categories within this power range. Calculate the number of additional allowances by scaling the number of generated engine offsets according to the ratio of engine power for offset and allowance engines. Make this calculation for all your offset engines for which you will transfer offsets under this paragraph (b)(1)(ii), then round the result to determine the total number of available power-weighted allowances. For example, if you generate engine offsets for 75 500-kW engines, you may generate up to 37,500 kW-engines of power-weighted allowances. You may apply this to 375 100-kW engines or any other combination that totals 37,500 kW-engines.

(2) You may decline to use the offsets. If you decline, the engine manufacturer may use the provisions of ยง 1039.104(a)(1).
