
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### § 1039.615 What special provisions apply to engines using noncommercial fuels?

In § 1039.115(e), we generally require that engines meet emission standards for any adjustment within the full range of any adjustable parameters. For engines that use noncommercial fuels significantly different than the specified test fuel of the same type, you may ask to use the parameter-adjustment provisions of this section instead of those in § 1039.115(e). Engines certified under this section must be in a separate engine family.

(a) If we approve your request, the following provisions apply:

(1) You must certify the engine using the test fuel specified in § 1039.501.

(2) You may produce the engine without limits or stops that keep the engine adjusted within the certified range.

(3) You must specify in-use adjustments different than the adjustable settings appropriate for the specified test fuel, consistent with the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(b) To produce engines under this section, you must do the following:

(1) Specify in-use adjustments needed so the engine's level of emission control for each regulated pollutant is equivalent to that from the certified configuration.

(2) Add the following information to the emission control information label specified in § 1039.135:

(i) Include instructions describing how to adjust the engine to operate in a way that maintains the effectiveness of the emission-control system.

(ii) State: "THIS ENGINE IS CERTIFIED TO OPERATE IN APPLICATIONS USING NONCOMMERCIAL FUEL. MALADJUSTMENT OF THE ENGINE IS A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW SUBJECT TO CIVIL PENALTY.".

(3) Keep records to document the destinations and quantities of engines produced under this section.
