
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### § 1042.1 Applicability.
####### See

Except as provided in this section and § 1042.5, the regulations in this part 1042 apply for all new compression-ignition marine engines (including new engines deemed to be compression-ignition engines under this section) and vessels containing such engines.§ 1042.901 for the definitions of engines and vessels considered to be new.

(a) The emission standards of this part 1042 for freshly manufactured engines apply for new marine engines starting with the model years noted in the following table:

(b) New engines with maximum engine power below 37 kW and originally manufactured and certified before the model years identified in Table 1 to this section are subject to emission standards as specified in appendix I of this part. The provisions of this part do not apply for such engines, except as follows beginning June 29, 2010:

(1) The allowances of this part apply.

(2) The definitions of "new marine engine" and "model year" apply.

(c) Marine engines originally meeting Tier 1 or Tier 2 standards as specified in appendix I of this part remain subject to those standards. This includes uncertified engines that meet standards under 40 CFR 1068.265. Those engines remain subject to recall provisions as specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart F, throughout the useful life corresponding to the original certification. Also, tampering and defeat-device prohibitions continue to apply for those engines as specified in 40 CFR 1068.101. The remanufacturing provisions in subpart I of this part may apply for remanufactured engines originally manufactured in model years before the model years identified in Table 1 to this section.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) The requirements of subpart I of this part apply to remanufactured Category 1 and Category 2 engines beginning July 7, 2008.

(f) The marine engines listed in this paragraph (f) are subject to all the requirements of this part even if they do not meet the definition of "compression-ignition" in § 1042.901. The following engines are deemed to be compression-ignition engines for purposes of this part:

(1) Marine engines powered by natural gas or other gaseous fuels with maximum engine power at or above 250 kW. Note that gaseous-fueled engines with maximum engine power below 250 kW may or may not meet the definition of "compression-ignition" in § 1042.901.

(2) Marine gas turbine engines.

(3) Other marine internal combustion engines that do not meet the definition of "spark-ignition" in § 1042.901.

(g) Some of the provisions of this part may apply for other engines as specified in 40 CFR part 1043.

(h) Starting with the model years noted in Table 1 of this section, all of the subparts of this part, except subpart I, apply as specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart IIII, to freshly manufactured stationary compression-ignition engines subject to the standards of 40 CFR part 60, subpart IIII, that have a per-cylinder displacement at or above 10 liters and below 30 liters per cylinder. Such engines are considered Category 2 engines for purposes of this part 1042.
