
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1039 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart I - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### § 1039.825 What reporting and recordkeeping requirements apply under this part?

(a) This part includes various requirements to submit and record data or other information. Unless we specify otherwise, store required records in any format and on any media and keep them readily available for eight years after you send an associated application for certification, or eight years after you generate the data if they do not support an application for certification. You are expected to keep your own copy of required records rather than relying on someone else to keep records on your behalf. We may review these records at any time. You must promptly send us organized, written records in English if we ask for them. We may require you to submit written records in an electronic format.

(b) The regulations in § 1039.255, 40 CFR 1068.25, and 40 CFR 1068.101 describe your obligation to report truthful and complete information. This includes information not related to certification. Failing to properly report information and keep the records we specify violates 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2), which may involve civil or criminal penalties.

(c) Send all reports and requests for approval to the Designated Compliance Officer (see § 1039.801).

(d) Any written information we require you to send to or receive from another company is deemed to be a required record under this section. Such records are also deemed to be submissions to EPA. We may require you to send us these records whether or not you are a certificate holder.

(e) Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq), the Office of Management and Budget approves the reporting and recordkeeping specified in the applicable regulations. The following items illustrate the kind of reporting and recordkeeping we require for engines and equipment regulated under this part:

(1) We specify the following requirements related to engine certification in this part 1039:

(i) In § 1039.20 we require engine manufacturers to label stationary engines that do not meet the standards in this part.

(ii) In § 1039.135 we require engine manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels sent to equipment manufacturers.

(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) In subpart C of this part we identify a wide range of information required to certify engines.

(v) [Reserved]

(vi) In subpart G of this part we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various special compliance provisions. For example, equipment manufacturers must submit reports and keep records related to the flexibility provisions in § 1039.625.

(vii) In § 1039.725, 1039.730, and 1039.735 we specify certain records related to averaging, banking, and trading.

(2) We specify the following requirements related to testing in 40 CFR part 1065:

(i) In 40 CFR 1065.2 we give an overview of principles for reporting information.

(ii) In 40 CFR 1065.10 and 1065.12 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published test procedures.

(iii) In 40 CFR 1065.25 we establish basic guidelines for storing test information.

(iv) In 40 CFR 1065.695 we identify the specific information and data items to record when measuring emissions.

(3) We specify the following requirements related to the general compliance provisions in 40 CFR part 1068:

(i) In 40 CFR 1068.5 we establish a process for evaluating good engineering judgment related to testing and certification.

(ii) In 40 CFR 1068.25 we describe general provisions related to sending and keeping information.

(iii) In 40 CFR 1068.27 we require manufacturers to make engines available for our testing or inspection if we make such a request.

(iv) In 40 CFR 1068.105 we require equipment manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels from engine manufacturers.

(v) In 40 CFR 1068.120 we specify recordkeeping related to rebuilding engines.

(vi) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various exemptions.

(vii) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart D, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to importing engines.

(viii) In 40 CFR 1068.450 and 1068.455 we specify certain records related to testing production-line engines in a selective enforcement audit.

(ix) In 40 CFR 1068.501 we specify certain records related to investigating and reporting emission-related defects.

(x) In 40 CFR 1068.525 and 1068.530 we specify certain records related to recalling nonconforming engines.

(xi) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart G, we specify certain records for requesting a hearing.
