
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1042.115 Other requirements.
####### Adjustable parameters.

(d)General provisions for adjustable parameters apply as specified in 40 CFR 1068.50. The following additional category-specific provisions apply:

(1) Category 1 engines that have adjustable parameters must meet all the requirements of this part for any adjustment in the physically adjustable range. We may require that you set adjustable parameters to any specification within the adjustable range during any testing, including certification testing, selective enforcement auditing, or in-use testing.

(2) Category 2 and Category 3 engines that have adjustable parameters must meet all the requirements of this part for any adjustment in the specified adjustable range. You must specify in your application for certification the adjustable range of each adjustable parameter on a new engine to-

(i) Ensure that safe engine operating characteristics are available within that range, as required by section 202(a)(4) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7521(a)(4)), taking into consideration the production tolerances.

(ii) Limit the physical range of adjustability to the maximum extent practicable to the range that is necessary for proper operation of the engine.
