
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1042.101 Exhaust emission standards for Category 1 and Category 2 engines.
####### Averaging, banking, and trading.

(b)You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program as described in subpart H of this part for demonstrating compliance with NO, NO+HC, and PM emission standards for Category 1 and Category 2 engines. You may also use NOor NO+HC emission credits to comply with the alternate NO+HC standard in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section. Generating or using emission credits requires that you specify a family emission limit (FEL) for each pollutant you include in the ABT program for each engine family. These FELs serve as the emission standards for the engine family with respect to all required testing instead of the standards specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The FELs determine the not-to-exceed standards for your engine family, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Unless otherwise specified, the following FEL caps apply:

(1) FELs for Tier 3 engines may not be higher than the applicable Tier 2 standards specified in Appendix I of this part.

(2) FELs for Tier 4 engines may not be higher than the applicable Tier 3 standards specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(3) The following FEL caps apply for engines at or above 3700 kW that are not subject to Tier 3 standards under paragraph (a)(3) of this section:

(i) FELs may not be higher than the applicable Tier 1 NOstandards specified in Appendix I of this part before the Tier 4 standards start to apply.

(ii) FELs may not be higher than the applicable Tier 2 NO+THC standards specified in Appendix I of this part after the Tier 4 standards start to apply.
