
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1042.205 Application requirements.
####### see

(12) Include any other information required by this part with respect to AECDs. For example,ยง 1042.115 for requirements related to on-off technologies.

(c) If your engines are equipped with an engine diagnostic system as required under ยง 1042.110, explain how it works, describing especially the engine conditions (with the corresponding diagnostic trouble codes) that cause the warning lamp to go on. Also identify the communication protocol (SAE J1939, SAE J1979, etc.).

(d) Describe the engines you selected for testing and the reasons for selecting them.

(e) Describe the test equipment and procedures that you used, including the duty cycle(s) and the corresponding engine applications. Also describe any special or alternate test procedures you used.

(f) Describe how you operated the emission-data engine before testing, including the duty cycle and the number of engine operating hours used to stabilize emission levels. Explain why you selected the method of service accumulation. Describe any scheduled maintenance you did.

(g) List the specifications of the test fuel (or mixture of test fuels) to show that they fall within the required ranges we specify in 40 CFR part 1065.

(h) Identify the engine family's useful life.
