
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Testing Production-line Engines
###### ยง 1042.345 Reporting.

(a) Send us a test report within 45 days after you complete production-line testing for a Category 1 or Category 2 engine family, and within 45 days after you finish testing each Category 3 engine. We may approve a later submission for Category 3 engines if it allows you to combine test reports for multiple engines.

(b) Include the following information in the report:

(1) Describe any facility used to test production-line engines and state its location.

(2) For Category 1 and Category 2 engines, describe how you randomly selected engines.

(3) Describe each test engine, including the engine family's identification and the engine's model year, build date, model number, identification number, and number of hours of operation before testing. Also describe how you developed and applied the Green Engine Factor, if applicable.

(4) Identify how you accumulated hours of operation on the engines and describe the procedure and schedule you used.

(5) Provide the test number; the date, time and duration of testing; test procedure; all initial test results; final test results; and final deteriorated test results for all tests. Provide the emission results for all measured pollutants. Include information for both valid and invalid tests and the reason for any invalidation.

(6) Describe completely and justify any nonroutine adjustment, modification, repair, preparation, maintenance, or test for the test engine if you did not report it separately under this subpart. Include the results of any emission measurements, regardless of the procedure or type of engine.

(c) We may ask you to add information to your written report so we can determine whether your new engines conform with the requirements of this subpart. We may also ask you to send less information.

(d) An authorized representative of your company must sign the following statement:

(e) Send electronic reports of production-line testing to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver. You may combine reports from multiple engines and engine families into a single report.

(f) We will send copies of your reports to anyone from the public who asks for them. See ยง 1042.915 for information on how we treat information you consider confidential.
