
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### ยง 1042.15 Do any other regulation parts apply to me?

(a) Part 1043 of this chapter describes requirements related to international pollution prevention that apply for some of the engines subject to this part.

(b) The evaporative emission requirements of part 1060 of this chapter apply to vessels that include installed engines fueled with a volatile liquid fuel as specified in ยง 1042.107. (Note: Conventional diesel fuel is not considered to be a volatile liquid fuel.)

(c) Part 1065 of this chapter describes procedures and equipment specifications for testing engines to measure exhaust emissions. Subpart F of this part 1042 describes how to apply the provisions of part 1065 of this chapter to determine whether engines meet the exhaust emission standards in this part.

(d) The requirements and prohibitions of part 1068 of this chapter apply to everyone, including anyone who manufactures, imports, installs, owns, operates, or rebuilds any of the engines subject to this part 1042, or vessels containing these engines. Part 1068 of this chapter describes general provisions, including these seven areas:

(1) Prohibited acts and penalties for engine manufacturers, vessel manufacturers, and others.

(2) Rebuilding and other aftermarket changes.

(3) Exclusions and exemptions for certain engines.

(4) Importing engines.

(5) Selective enforcement audits of your production.

(6) Defect reporting and recall.

(7) Procedures for hearings.

(e) Other parts of this chapter apply if referenced in this part.
