
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### § 1042.235 Emission testing related to certification.
####### See,See,See

This section describes the emission testing you must perform to show compliance with the emission standards in § 1042.101(a) or § 1042.104.§ 1042.205(p) regarding emission testing related to the NTE standards.§§ 1042.240 and 1042.245 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E, regarding service accumulation before emission testing.§ 1042.655 for special testing provisions available for Category 3 engines subject to Tier 3 standards.

(a) Select an emission-data engine from each engine family for testing. For engines at or above 560 kW, you may use a development engine that is equivalent in design to the engine being certified. For Category 3 engines, you may use a single-cylinder version of the engine. Using good engineering judgment, select the engine configuration most likely to exceed an applicable emission standard over the useful life, considering all exhaust emission constituents and the range of installation options available to vessel manufacturers.

(b) Test your emission-data engines using the procedures and equipment specified in subpart F of this part. In the case of dual-fuel engines, measure emissions when operating with each type of fuel for which you intend to certify the engine. In the case of flexible-fuel engines, measure emissions when operating with the fuel mixture that best represents in-use operation or is most likely to have the highest NOemissions (or NO+HC emissions for engines subject to NO+HC standards), though you may ask us to instead to perform tests with both fuels separately if you can show that intermediate mixtures are not likely to occur in use.

(c) We may perform confirmatory testing by measuring emissions from any of your emission-data engines or other engines from the engine family, as follows:

(1) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. If we do this, you must deliver the engine to a test facility we designate. The engine you provide must include appropriate manifolds, aftertreatment devices, electronic control units, and other emission-related components not normally attached directly to the engine block. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.

(2) If we measure emissions from one of your engines, the results of that testing become the official emission results for the engine. Unless we later invalidate these data, we may decide not to consider your data in determining if your engine family meets applicable requirements.
