
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### § 1042.245 Deterioration factors.

This section describes how to determine deterioration factors for Category 1 and Category 2 engines, either with an engineering analysis, with pre-existing test data, or with new emission measurements. Apply these deterioration factors to determine whether your engines will meet the duty-cycle emission standards throughout the useful life as described in § 1042.240. This section does not apply for Category 3 engines.

(a) You may ask us to approve deterioration factors for an engine family with established technology based on engineering analysis instead of testing. Engines certified to a NO+ HC standard or FEL greater than the Tier 3 NO+ HC standard are considered to rely on established technology for control of gaseous emissions, except that this does not include any engines that use exhaust-gas recirculation or aftertreatment. In most cases, technologies used to meet the Tier 1 and Tier 2 emission standards would qualify as established technology. We must approve your plan to establish a deterioration factor under this paragraph (a) before you submit your application for certification.

(b) You may ask us to approve deterioration factors for an engine family based on emission measurements from similar highway, stationary, or nonroad engines (including locomotive engines or other marine engines) if you have already given us these data for certifying the other engines in the same or earlier model years. Use good engineering judgment to decide whether the two engines are similar. We must approve your plan to establish a deterioration factor under this paragraph (b) before you submit your application for certification. We will approve your request if you show us that the emission measurements from other engines reasonably represent in-use deterioration for the engine family for which you have not yet determined deterioration factors.

(c) If you are unable to determine deterioration factors for an engine family under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, first get us to approve a plan for determining deterioration factors based on service accumulation and related testing. We will respond to your proposed plan within 45 days of receiving your request. Your plan must involve measuring emissions from an emission-data engine at least three times, which are evenly spaced over the service-accumulation period unless we specify otherwise, such that the resulting measurements and calculations will represent the deterioration expected from in-use engines over the full useful life. You may use extrapolation to determine deterioration factors once you have established a trend of changing emissions with age for each pollutant. You may use an engine installed in a vessel to accumulate service hours instead of running the engine only in the laboratory. You may perform maintenance on emission-data engines as described in § 1042.125 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E.

(d) Include the following information in your application for certification:

(1) If you determine your deterioration factors based on test data from a different engine family, explain why this is appropriate and include all the emission measurements on which you base the deterioration factor.

(2) If you determine your deterioration factors based on engineering analysis, explain why this is appropriate and include a statement that all data, analyses, evaluations, and other information you used are available for our review upon request.

(3) If you do testing to determine deterioration factors, describe the form and extent of service accumulation, including a rationale for selecting the service-accumulation period and the method you use to accumulate hours.

(e) You may alternatively determine and verify deterioration factors based on bench-aged aftertreatment as described in 40 CFR 1036.245 and 1036.246, with the following exceptions:

(1) The minimum required aging as specified in 40 CFR 1036.245(c)(2) is 1,500 hours for Category 1 engines and 3,000 hours for Category 2 engines. Operate the engine for service accumulation using the same sequence of duty cycles that would apply for determining a deterioration factor under paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Use good engineering judgment to perform verification testing using the procedures of § 1042.515 rather than 40 CFR 1036.555. For PEMS testing, measure emissions as the vessel goes through its normal operation over the course of the day (or shift-day).

(3) Apply infrequent regeneration adjustment factors as specified in § 1042.525 rather than 40 CFR 1036.580.
