
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### § 1042.205 Application requirements.
####### see

(i) Include the maintenance and warranty instructions you will give to the ultimate purchaser of each new engine (§§ 1042.120 and 1042.125). Describe your plan for meeting warranty obligations under § 1042.120.

(j) Include the emission-related installation instructions you will provide if someone else installs your engines in a vessel (see § 1042.130).

(k) Describe your emission control information label (see § 1042.135).

(l) Identify the emission standards and/or FELs to which you are certifying engines in the engine family.

(m) Identify the engine family's deterioration factors and describe how you developed them (see § 1042.245). Present any emission test data you used for this.

(n) State that you operated your emission-data engines as described in the application (including the test procedures, test parameters, and test fuels) to show you meet the requirements of this part.

(o) Present emission data for HC, NO, PM, and CO on an emission-data engine to show your engines meet emission standards as specified in §§ 1042.101 or 1042.104. Note that you must submit PM data for all engines, whether or not a PM standard applies. Show emission figures before and after applying adjustment factors for regeneration and deterioration factors for each pollutant and for each engine. If we specify more than one grade of any fuel type (for example, high-sulfur and low-sulfur diesel fuel), you need to submit test data only for one grade, unless the regulations of this part specify otherwise for your engine. Include emission results for each mode for Category 3 engines or for other engines if you do discrete-mode testing under § 1042.505. For engines using on-off controls as described in § 1042.115(g), include emission data demonstrating compliance with the Tier 2 standards when the engines Tier 3 NOemission controls are disabled. Note that §§ 1042.235 and 1042.245 allows you to submit an application in certain cases without new emission data.

(p) For Category 1 and Category 2 engines, state that all the engines in the engine family comply with the applicable not-to-exceed emission standards in § 1042.101 for all normal operation and use when tested as specified in § 1042.515. Describe any relevant testing, engineering analysis, or other information in sufficient detail to support your statement.

(q) [Reserved]

(r) Report test results as follows:

(1) Report all valid test results involving measurement of pollutants for which emission standards apply. Also indicate whether there are test results from invalid tests or from any other tests of the emission-data engine, whether or not they were conducted according to the test procedures of subpart F of this part. We may require you to report these additional test results. We may ask you to send other information to confirm that your tests were valid under the requirements of this part and 40 CFR part 1065.

(2) Report measured CO, NO, and CHas described in § 1042.235. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit reporting NO and CH.

(s) Describe all adjustable operating parameters (see § 1042.115(d)), including production tolerances. For any operating parameters that do not qualify as adjustable parameters, include a description supporting your conclusion (see 40 CFR 1068.50(c)). Include the following in your description of each adjustable parameter:

(1) For practically adjustable parameters, include the nominal or recommended setting, the intended practically adjustable range, and the limits or stops used to establish adjustable ranges.

(i) For Category 1 engines, state that the limits, stops, or other means of inhibiting mechanical adjustment are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use engines to settings outside your intended practically adjustable ranges and provide information to support this statement.

(ii) For Category 2 and Category 3 engines, propose a range of mechanical adjustment for each adjustable parameter, as described in § 1042.115(d). State that the limits, stops, or other means of inhibiting mechanical adjustment are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use engines to settings outside your proposed adjustable ranges and provide information to support this statement.

(2) For programmable operating parameters, state that you have restricted access to electronic controls to prevent parameter adjustments on in-use engines that would allow operation outside the practically adjustable range. Describe how your engines are designed to prevent unauthorized adjustments.

(t) Provide the information to read, record, and interpret all the information broadcast by an engine's onboard computers and electronic control units. State that, upon request, you will give us any hardware, software, or tools we would need to do this. If you broadcast a surrogate parameter for torque values, you must provide us what we need to convert these into torque units. You may reference any appropriate publicly released standards that define conventions for these messages and parameters. Format your information consistent with publicly released standards.

(u) Confirm that your emission-related installation instructions specify how to ensure that sampling of exhaust emissions will be possible after engines are installed in vessels and placed in service. Show how to sample exhaust emissions in a way that prevents diluting the exhaust sample with ambient air.

(v) State whether your certification is limited for certain engines. If this is the case, describe how you will prevent use of these engines in applications for which they are not certified. This applies for engines such as the following:

(1) Constant-speed engines.

(2) Engines used with controllable-pitch propellers.

(3) Recreational engines.

(w) Unconditionally certify that all the engines in the engine family comply with the requirements of this part, other referenced parts of the CFR, and the Clean Air Act.

(x) Include good-faith estimates of U.S.-directed production volumes. Include a justification for the estimated production volumes if they are substantially different than actual production volumes in earlier years for similar models.

(y) Include the information required by other subparts of this part. For example, include the information required by § 1042.725 if you participate in the ABT program.

(z) Include other applicable information, such as information specified in this part or 40 CFR part 1068 related to requests for exemptions.

(aa) Name an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.

(bb) The following provisions apply for imported engines:

(1) Describe your normal practice for importing engines. For example, this may include identifying the names and addresses of any agents you have authorized to import your engines.

(2) For engines below 560 kW, identify a test facility in the United States where you can test your engines if we select them for testing under a selective enforcement audit, as specified in 40 CFR part 1068.
