
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1042.115 Other requirements.
####### On-off controls for engines on Category 3 vessels.

(g)Manufacturers may equip Category 3 propulsion engines with features that disable Tier 3 NOemission controls subject to the provisions of this paragraph (g). For auxiliary engines allowed to use on-off controls as specified in ยง 1042.650(d), read "Tier 2" to mean "IMO Tier II" and read "Tier 3" to mean "IMO Tier III".

(1) Features that disable Tier 3 NOemission controls are considered to be AECDs whether or not they meet the definition of an AECD. For example, manually operated on-off features are AECDs under this paragraph (g). The features must be identified in your application for certification as AECDs. For purposes of this paragraph (g), the term "features that disable Tier 3 emission controls" includes (but is not limited to) any combination of the following that cause the engine's emissions to exceed any Tier 3 emission standard:

(i) Bypassing of exhaust aftertreatment.

(ii) Reducing or eliminating flow of reductant to an SCR system.

(iii) Modulating engine calibration in a manner that increases engine-out emissions of a regulated pollutant.

(2) You must demonstrate that the AECD will not disable NOemission controls while operating shoreward of the boundaries of the North American ECA and the U.S. Caribbean Sea ECA. You must demonstrate that the AECD will not disable emission control while operating in these waters. (Note: See the regulations in 40 CFR part 1043 for requirements related to operation in ECAs, including foreign ECAs.) Compliance with this paragraph (g)(2) will generally require that the AECD operation be based on Global Positioning System (GPS) inputs. We may consider any relevant information to determine whether your AECD conforms to this paragraph (g).

(3) The onboard computer log must record in nonvolatile computer memory all incidents of engine operation with the Tier 3 NOemission controls disabled.

(4) The engine must comply with the Tier 2 NOstandard when the Tier 3 NOemission controls are disabled.
