
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1042.145 Interim provisions.
####### Tier 4 waiver.

(m)Starting with model year 2024, vessel manufacturers may request an exemption from the Tier 4 standards as follows:

(1) The subject vessels and engines must meet the qualifications of paragraph (k)(2) of this section.

(2) Vessel manufacturers must send a written request for the exemption to the Designated Compliance Officer. The request must describe efforts taken to identify available engines certified to the Tier 4 standards, describe design efforts for installing engines in the subject vessels, identify the number of vessels needing exempt engines, demonstrate that the vessel cannot meet essential performance specifications using available Tier 4 engines, and state that engine and vessel manufacturers will meet all the terms and conditions that apply. We may approve an exemption from the Tier 4 standards based on the submitted information.

(3) Engine manufacturers may ship exempt engines under this paragraph (m) only after receiving a written request from a vessel manufacturer who has received our written approval to build a specific number of vessels. The prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) do not apply to a new engine that is subject to Tier 4 standards, subject to the following conditions:

(i) The engine meets the appropriate Tier 3 emission standards in ยง 1042.101 consistent with the provisions specified in 40 CFR 1068.265.

(ii) The engine is installed on a vessel consistent with the conditions of this paragraph (m).

(iii) The engine meets the labeling requirements in ยง 1042.135, with the following statement instead of the compliance statement in ยง 1042.135(c)(10):
