
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1042.120 Emission-related warranty requirements.
####### Warranty period.

(b)Your emission-related warranty must be valid for at least as long as the minimum warranty periods listed in this paragraph (b) in hours of operation and years, whichever comes first. You may offer an emission-related warranty more generous than we require. The emission-related warranty for the engine may not be shorter than any basic mechanical warranty you provide without charge for the engine. Similarly, the emission-related warranty for any component may not be shorter than any warranty you provide without charge for that component. This means that your warranty may not treat emission-related and nonemission-related defects differently for any component. If an engine has no hour meter, we base the warranty periods in this paragraph (b) only on the engine's age (in years). The warranty period begins when the engine is placed into service. The following minimum warranty periods apply:

(1) For Category 1 and Category 2 engines, your emission-related warranty must be valid for at least 50 percent of the engine's useful life in hours of operation or a number of years equal to at least 50 percent of the useful life in years, whichever comes first.

(2) For Category 3 engines, your emission-related warranty must be valid throughout the engine's full useful life as specified in ยง 1042.104(d).
