
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1042.101 Exhaust emission standards for Category 1 and Category 2 engines.
####### Fuel types.

(d)The exhaust emission standards in this section apply for engines using the fuel type on which the engines in the engine family are designed to operate.

(1) You must meet the numerical emission standards for hydrocarbons in this section based on the following types of hydrocarbon emissions for engines powered by the following fuels:

(i) Alcohol-fueled engines must comply with Tier 3 HC standards based on THCE emissions and with Tier 4 standards based on NMHCE emissions.

(ii) Gaseous-fueled engines must comply with HC standards based on nonmethane-nonethane hydrocarbon emissions.

(iii) Diesel-fueled and all other engines not described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section must comply with Tier 3 HC standards based on THC emissions and with Tier 4 standards based on NMHC emissions.

(2) Tier 3 and later engines must comply with the exhaust emission standards when tested using test fuels containing 15 ppm or less sulfur (ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel). Manufacturers may use low-sulfur diesel fuel (without request) to certify an engine otherwise requiring an ultra low-sulfur test fuel; however, emissions may not be corrected to account for the effects of using higher sulfur fuel.

(3) Engines designed to operate using residual fuel must comply with the standards and requirements of this part when operated using residual fuel in addition to complying with the requirements of this part when operated using diesel fuel.
