
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1042.235 Emission testing related to certification.
####### see

(3) Before we test one of your engines, we may set its adjustable parameters to any point within the specified adjustable ranges (ยง 1042.115(d)).

(4) Before we test one of your engines, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter. For example, this would apply for an engine parameter that is subject to production variability because it is adjustable during production, but is not considered an adjustable parameter (as defined in ยง 1042.901) because it is permanently sealed. For parameters that relate to a level of performance that is itself subject to a specified range (such as maximum power output), we will generally perform any calibration under this paragraph (c)(4) in a way that keeps performance within the specified range.

(d) You may ask to use carryover emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests, but only if all the following are true:

(1) The engine family from the previous model year differs from the current engine family only with respect to model year, items identified in ยง 1042.225(a), or other characteristics unrelated to emissions. We may waive this criterion for differences we determine not to be relevant.

(2) The emission-data engine from the previous model year remains the appropriate emission-data engine under paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) The data show that the emission-data engine would meet all the requirements of this part that apply to the engine family covered by the application for certification. For engines originally tested to demonstrate compliance with Tier 1 or Tier 2 standards, you may consider those test procedures to be equivalent to the procedures we specify in subpart F of this part.

(e) We may require you to test a second engine of the same or different configuration in addition to the engine tested under paragraph (b) of this section.

(f) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.

(g) Measure COwith each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2011 model year. Also measure CHfrom Category 1 and Category 2 engines with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2012 model year. Measure NO from Category 1 and Category 2 engines with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 for any engine family that depends on NOx aftertreatment to meet emission standards. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit measurement of NO and CH. These measurements are not required for NTE testing. Use the same units and modal calculations as for your other results to report a single weighted value for each constituent. Round the final values as follows:

(1) Round COto the nearest 1 g/kW-hr.

(2) Round NO to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.

(3) Round CHto the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.
