
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1042.140 Maximum engine power, displacement, power density, and maximum in-use engine speed.

This section describes how to determine the maximum engine power, displacement, and power density of an engine for the purposes of this part. Note that maximum engine power may differ from the definition of "maximum test power" in § 1042.901. This section also specifies how to determine maximum in-use engine speed for Category 3 engines.

(a) An engine configuration's maximum engine power is the maximum brake power point on the nominal power curve for the engine configuration, as defined in this section. Round the power value to the nearest whole kilowatt.

(b) The nominal power curve of an engine configuration is the relationship between maximum available engine brake power and engine speed for an engine, using the mapping procedures of 40 CFR part 1065, based on the manufacturer's design and production specifications for the engine. This information may also be expressed by a torque curve that relates maximum available engine torque with engine speed.

(c) An engine configuration's per-cylinder displacement is the intended swept volume of each cylinder. The swept volume of the engine is the product of the internal cross-section area of the cylinders, the stroke length, and the number of cylinders. Calculate the engine's intended swept volume from the design specifications for the cylinders using enough significant figures to allow determination of the displacement to the nearest 0.02 liters. Determine the final value by truncating digits to establish the per-cylinder displacement to the nearest 0.1 liters. For example, for an engine with circular cylinders having an internal diameter of 13.0 cm and a 15.5 cm stroke length, the rounded displacement would be: (13.0/2)x (π) x (15.5) &#xF7; 1000 = 2.0 liters.

(d) The nominal power curve and intended swept volume must be within the range of the actual power curves and swept volumes of production engines considering normal production variability. If after production begins, it is determined that either your nominal power curve or your intended swept volume does not represent production engines, we may require you to amend your application for certification under § 1042.225.

(e) Throughout this part, references to a specific power value for an engine are based on maximum engine power. For example, the group of engines with maximum engine power below 600 kW may be referred to as engines below 600 kW.

(f) Calculate an engine family's power density in kW/L by dividing the unrounded maximum engine power by the engine's unrounded per-cylinder displacement, then dividing by the number of cylinders. Round the calculated value to the nearest whole number.

(g) Calculate a maximum test speed for the nominal power curve as specified in 40 CFR 1065.610. This is the maximum in-use engine speed used for calculating the NOstandard in § 1042.104 for Category 3 engines. Alternatively, you may use a lower value if engine speed will be limited in actual use to that lower value.
