
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1042.101 Exhaust emission standards for Category 1 and Category 2 engines.
####### Useful life.

(e)Your engines must meet the exhaust emission standards of this section over their full useful life, expressed as a period in years or hours of engine operation, whichever comes first.

(1) The minimum useful life values are as follows, except as specified by paragraph (e)(2) or (3) of this section:

(i) 10 years or 1,000 hours of operation for recreational Category 1 engines

(ii) 5 years or 3,000 hours of operation for commercial engines below 19 kW.

(iii) 7 years or 5,000 hours of operation for commercial engines at or above 19 kW and below 37kW.

(iv) 10 years or 10,000 hours of operation for commercial Category 1 engines at or above 37 kW.

(v) 10 years or 20,000 hours of operation for Category 2 engines.

(2) Specify a longer useful life in hours for an engine family under either of two conditions:

(i) If you design your engine to operate longer than the minimum useful life. Indicators of design life include your recommended overhaul interval and may also include your advertising and marketing materials.

(ii) If your basic mechanical warranty is longer than the minimum useful life.

(3) You may request in your application for certification that we approve a shorter useful life for an engine family. We may approve a shorter useful life, in hours of engine operation but not in years, if we determine that these engines will rarely operate longer than the shorter useful life. If engines identical to those in the engine family have already been produced and are in use, your demonstration must include documentation from such in-use engines. In other cases, your demonstration must include an engineering analysis of information equivalent to such in-use data, such as data from research engines or similar engine models that are already in production. Your demonstration must also include any overhaul interval that you recommend, any mechanical warranty that you offer for the engine or its components, and any relevant customer design specifications. Your demonstration may include any other relevant information. The useful life value may not be shorter than any of the following:

(i) 1,000 hours of operation.

(ii) Your recommended overhaul interval.

(iii) Your mechanical warranty for the engine.
