
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1042.145 Interim provisions.
####### Adjusted implementation dates for Tier 4 standards.

(k)Engines and vessels may qualify for delaying the Tier 4 standards specified in § 1042.101 as follows:

(1) The delay is limited to model year 2021 and earlier engines and vessels that meet all the following characteristics:

(i) Category 1 propulsion engines with specific power density above 27.0 kW/liter, up to maximum engine power of 1,400 kW.

(ii) Vessels have total propulsion power at or below 2,800 kW.

(iii) Vessel waterline length is at or below 65 feet.

(iv) Vessels have a maximum speed (in knots) at or above 3.0 &#xB7; L, where L is the vessel's waterline length, in feet.

(2) The delay also applies through model year 2023 for engines and vessels that meet all the following characteristics:

(i) Category 1 propulsion engines with specific power density above 35.0 kW/liter, up to maximum engine power of 1,000 kW.

(ii) Vessels have total propulsion power at or below 1,000 kW.

(iii) Vessel waterline length is at or below 50 feet.

(iv) Vessels have a maximum speed (in knots) at or above 3.0 &#xB7; L, where L is the vessel's waterline length, in feet.

(v) Vessels have fiberglass or other nonmetal hulls.

(3) Vessel manufacturers must have a contract or purchase agreement signed before the end of the relief period for each vessel produced under this paragraph (k).

(4) Affected engines must instead be certified to the appropriate Tier 3 emission standards specified in § 1042.101. Engine manufacturers may include engine configurations with maximum engine power below 600 kW in the same engine family even if the power density is below the value specified in paragraph (k)(1) or (2) of this section.

(5) If you introduce an engine into U.S. commerce under this section, you must meet the labeling requirements in § 1042.135, but add the following statement instead of the compliance statement in § 1042.135(c)(10):

(l) [Reserved]
