
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1042.660 Requirements for vessel manufacturers, owners, and operators.
####### See

(4) Owners and operators of engines equipped with on-off emission controls must comply with the requirements of this paragraph (c)(4) whenever a malfunction of the emission controls is indicated as specified in ยง 1042.110(d). You must determine the cause of the malfunction and remedy it consistent with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.paragraph (b) of this section if the malfunction is due to either a lack of reductant or inadequate reductant quality. If the malfunction occurs during the useful life, report the malfunction to the certificate holder for investigation and compliance with defect reporting requirements of 40 CFR 1068.501 (unless the malfunction is due to operation without adequate urea or other malmaintenance).

(d) For each marine vessel containing a Category 3 engine, the owner must annually review the vessel's records and submit to EPA a signed statement certifying compliance during the preceding year with the requirements of this part that are applicable to owners and operators of such vessels. Alternately, if review of the vessel's records indicates that there has been one or more violations of the requirements of this part, the owner must submit to EPA a signed statement specifying the noncompliance, including the nature of the noncompliance, the time of the noncompliance, and any efforts made to remedy the noncompliance. The statement of compliance (or noncompliance) required by this paragraph must be signed by the executive with responsibility for marine activities of the owner. If the vessel is operated by a different business entity than the vessel owner, the reporting requirements of this paragraph (e) apply to both the owner and the operator. Compliance with these review and certification requirements by either the vessel owner or the vessel operator with respect to a compliance statement will be considered compliance with these requirements by both of these parties for that compliance statement. The executive(s) may authorize a captain or other primary operator to conduct this review and submit the certification, provided that the certification statement is accompanied by written authorization for that individual to submit such statements. The Administrator may waive the requirements of this paragraph when equivalent assurance of compliance is otherwise available.

(e) Manufacturers, owners and operators must allow emission tests and inspections required by this part to be conducted and must provide reasonable assistance to perform such tests or inspections.
