
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart I - Special Provisions for Remanufactured Marine Engines
###### § 1042.840 Application requirements for remanufactured engines.

This section specifies the information that must be in your application, unless we ask you to include less information under § 1042.201(c). We may require you to provide additional information to evaluate your application.

(a) Describe the engine family's specifications and other basic parameters of the engine's design and emission controls. List the fuel type on which your engines are designed to operate (for example, ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel). List each distinguishable engine configuration in the engine family. For each engine configuration, list the maximum engine power and the range of values for maximum engine power resulting from production tolerances, as described in § 1042.140.

(b) Explain how the emission control system operates. Describe in detail all system components for controlling exhaust emissions, including any auxiliary emission control devices (AECDs) you add to the engine. Identify the part number of each component you describe.

(c) Summarize the cost effectiveness analysis used to demonstrate your system will meet the availability criteria of § 1042.815. Identify the maximum allowable costs for vessel modifications to meet these criteria.

(d) Describe the engines you selected for testing and the reasons for selecting them.

(e) Describe the test equipment and procedures that you used, including the duty cycle(s) and the corresponding engine applications. Also describe any special or alternate test procedures you used.

(f) Describe how you operated the emission-data engine before testing, including the duty cycle and the number of engine operating hours used to stabilize emission levels. Explain why you selected the method of service accumulation. Describe any scheduled maintenance you did.

(g) List the specifications of the test fuel to show that it falls within the required ranges we specify in 40 CFR part 1065. See § 1042.801 if your certification is based on the use of special fuels or additives.

(h) Identify the engine family's useful life.

(i) Include the maintenance and warranty instructions you will give to the owner/operator (see §§ 1042.120 and 1042.125).

(j) Include the emission-related installation instructions you will provide if someone else installs your engines in a vessel (see § 1042.130).

(k) Describe your emission control information label (see § 1042.830).

(l) Identify the engine family's deterioration factors and describe how you developed them (see § 1042.245). Present any emission test data you used for this.

(m) State that you operated your emission-data engines as described in the application (including the test procedures, test parameters, and test fuels) to show you meet the requirements of this part.

(n) Present emission data for HC, NO, PM, and CO as required by § 1042.820. Show emission figures before and after applying adjustment factors for regeneration and deterioration factors for each pollutant and for each engine.

(o) Report all valid test results. Also indicate whether there are test results from invalid tests or from any other tests of the emission-data engine, whether or not they were conducted according to the test procedures of subpart F of this part. If you measure CO, report those emission levels. We may require you to report these additional test results. We may ask you to send other information to confirm that your tests were valid under the requirements of this part and 40 CFR part 1065.

(p) Describe all adjustable operating parameters (see § 1042.115(d)), including production tolerances. Include the following in your description of each parameter:

(1) The nominal or recommended setting.

(2) The intended physically adjustable range.

(3) The limits or stops used to establish adjustable ranges.

(4) For Category 1 engines, information showing why the limits, stops, or other means of inhibiting adjustment are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use engines to settings outside your intended physically adjustable ranges.

(5) For Category 2 engines, propose a range of adjustment for each adjustable parameter, as described in § 1042.115(d). Include information showing why the limits, stops, or other means of inhibiting adjustment are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use engines to settings outside your proposed adjustable ranges.

(q) Unconditionally certify that all the engines in the engine family comply with the requirements of this part, other referenced parts of the CFR, and the Clean Air Act.

(r) Include the information required by other subparts of this part.

(s) Include other applicable information, such as information specified in this part or 40 CFR part 1068 related to requests for exemptions.

(t) Name an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.

(u) If you are not the original manufacturer of the engine, include a summary of your contact with the original manufacturer of the engine and provide to us any documentation provided to you by the original manufacturer.
