
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
###### ยง 1042.701 General provisions.
####### Trade

(9)means to exchange emission credits, either as a buyer or seller.

(c) Emission credits may be exchanged only within an averaging set. Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the following criteria define the applicable averaging sets:

(1) Recreational engines.

(2) Commercial Category 1 engines.

(3) Category 2 engines.

(d) Emission credits generated by commercial Category 1 engine families may be used for compliance by Category 2 engine families. Such credits must be discounted by 25 percent.

(e) You may not use emission credits generated under this subpart to offset any emissions that exceed an FEL or standard. This applies for all testing, including certification testing, in-use testing, selective enforcement audits, and other production-line testing. However, if emissions from an engine exceed an FEL or standard (for example, during a selective enforcement audit), you may use emission credits to recertify the engine family with a higher FEL that applies only to future production.

(f) Engine families that use emission credits for one or more pollutants may not generate positive emission credits for another pollutant.

(g) Emission credits may be used in the model year they are generated or in future model years. Emission credits may not be used for past model years.

(h) You may increase or decrease an FEL during the model year by amending your application for certification under ยง 1042.225.

(i) You may use NO+ HC credits to show compliance with a NOemission standard or use NOcredits to show compliance with a NO+ HC emission standard.

(j) [Reserved]

(k) You may use either of the following approaches to retire or forego emission credits:

(1) You may retire emission credits generated from any number of your engines. This may be considered donating emission credits to the environment. Identify any such credits in the reports described in ยง 1042.730. Engines must comply with the applicable FELs even if you donate or sell the corresponding emission credits under this paragraph (k). Those credits may no longer be used by anyone to demonstrate compliance with any EPA emission standards.

(2) You may certify a family using an FEL below the emission standard as described in this part and choose not to generate emission credits for that family. If you do this, you do not need to calculate emission credits for those families and you do not need to submit or keep the associated records described in this subpart for that family.
