
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1042.660 Requirements for vessel manufacturers, owners, and operators.

(a) For vessels equipped with emission controls requiring the use of specific fuels, lubricants, or other fluids, owners and operators must comply with the manufacturer/remanufacturer's specifications for such fluids when operating the vessels. Failure to comply with the requirements of this paragraph is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1). For marine vessels that are excluded from the requirements of 40 CFR part 1043 because they operate only domestically, it is also a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1) to operate the vessel using residual fuel on or after January 1, 2015. Note that 40 CFR part 1090 also includes provisions that restrict the use of certain fuels by certain marine engines.

(b) For vessels equipped with SCR systems requiring the use of urea or other reductants, owners and operators must report to the Designated Compliance Officer within 30 days any operation of such vessels without the appropriate reductant. For each reportable incident, include the cause of the noncompliant operation, the remedy, and an estimate of the extent of operation without reductant. You must remedy the problem as soon as practicable to avoid violating the tampering prohibition in 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1). If the remedy is not complete within 30 days of the incident, notify the Designated Compliance Officer when the issue is resolved, along with any relevant additional information related to the repair. This reporting requirement applies for all engines on covered vessels even if the engines are certified to Annex VI standards instead of or in addition to EPA standards under this part. Failure to comply with the reporting requirements of this paragraph (b) is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2). Note that operating such engines without reductant is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1).

(c) The provisions of this paragraph (c) apply for marine vessels containing Category 3 engines.

(1) The requirements of this paragraph (c)(1) apply only for Category 3 engines. All maintenance, repair, adjustment, and alteration of Category 3 engines subject to the provisions of this part performed by any owner, operator or other maintenance provider must be performed using good engineering judgment, in such a manner that the engine continues (after the maintenance, repair, adjustment or alteration) to meet the emission standards it was certified as meeting prior to the need for service. This includes but is not limited to complying with the maintenance instructions described in ยง 1042.125. Adjustments are limited to the range specified by the engine manufacturer in the approved application for certification. Note that where a repair (or other maintenance) cannot be completed while at sea, it is not a violation to continue operating the engine to reach your destination.

(2) It is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1) to operate the vessel with the engine adjusted outside of the specified adjustable range. Each two-hour period of such operation constitutes a separate offense. A violation lasting less than two hours constitutes a single offense.

(3) The owner and operator of the engine must maintain on board the vessel records of all maintenance, repair, and adjustment that could reasonably affect the emission performance of any engine subject to the provision of this part. Owners and operators must also maintain, on board the vessel, records regarding certification, parameter adjustment, and fuels used. For engines that are automatically adjusted electronically, all adjustments must be logged automatically. Owners and operators must make these records available to EPA upon request. These records must include the following:

(i) The Technical File, Record Book of Engine Parameters, and bunker delivery notes as specified in 40 CFR 1043.70. The Technical File must be transferred to subsequent purchasers in the event of a sale of the engine or vessel. (ii) Specific descriptions of engine maintenance, repair, adjustment, and alteration (including rebuilding). The descriptions must include at least the date, time, and nature of the maintenance, repair, adjustment, or alteration and the position of the vessel when the maintenance, repair, adjustment, or alteration was made.

(iii) Emission-related maintenance instructions provided by the manufacturer. These instructions must be transferred to subsequent purchasers in the event of a sale of the engine or vessel.
