
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1042.650 Exemptions for migratory vessels and auxiliary engines on Category 3 vessels.
####### SOLAS exemption.

(b)We may approve a permanent exemption from the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) for an engine that is subject to Tier 4 standards as described in this paragraph (b).

(1) Vessel owners may ask for a permanent exemption from the Tier 4 standards for an engine that will be installed on vessels that will operate for extended periods outside the United States, provided they demonstrate all of the following are true:

(i) Prior to introduction into service, the vessel will comply with applicable certification requirements for international safety pursuant to the U.S. Coast Guard and the International Convention for the Protection of Life at Sea (SOLAS). The vessel owner must maintain compliance with these requirements for the life of the exempted engine.

(ii) The vessel will be used in areas outside of the United States where ULSD will not be available.

(iii) The mix of vessels with engines certified to Tier 3 or earlier standards in the owner's current fleet and the owner's current business operation of those vessels makes the exemption necessary. Note that because of the large fraction of pre-Tier 4 engines in the fleet prior to 2021, a request for a Tier 4 exemption prior to that year must clearly demonstrate that unusual circumstances apply.

(2) An engine exempted under this paragraph (b) must meet the Tier 3 emission standards described in ยง 1402.101, subject to the procedural requirements of 40 CFR 1068.265.

(3) If you introduce an engine into U.S. commerce under this section, you must meet the labeling requirements in ยง 1042.135, but add the following statement instead of the compliance statement in ยง 1042.135(c)(10):

(4) Operating a vessel containing an engine exempted under this paragraph (b) violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) if the vessel is not in full compliance with applicable requirements for international safety specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
