
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1042.605 Dressing engines already certified to other standards for nonroad or heavy-duty highway engines for marine use.
####### Specific criteria and requirements.

(d)If you are an engine manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new marine engine, the engine is eligible for an exemption under this section:

(1) You must produce it by marinizing an engine covered by a valid certificate of conformity from one of the following programs:

(i) Heavy-duty highway engines (40 CFR part 86).

(ii) Land-based compression-ignition nonroad engines (40 CFR part 1039).

(iii) Locomotives (40 CFR part 92 or 1033). To be eligible for dressing under this section, the engine must be from a locomotive certified to standards that are at least as stringent as either the standards applicable to new marine engines or freshly manufactured locomotives in the model year that the engine is being dressed.

(2) The engine must have the label required under 40 CFR part 86, 1033, or 1039.

(3) You must not make any changes to the certified engine that could reasonably be expected to increase its emissions. For example, if you make any of the following changes to one of these engines, you do not qualify for the engine dressing exemption:

(i) Change any fuel system parameters from the certified configuration, or change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the engine manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.

(ii) Replacing an original turbocharger, except that small-volume engine manufacturers may replace an original turbocharger on a recreational engine with one that matches the performance of the original turbocharger.

(iii) Modify or design the marine engine cooling or aftercooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original engine manufacturer's specified ranges.

(4) You must show that fewer than 10 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in marine applications. This includes engines used in any application, without regard to which company manufactures the vessel or equipment. Show this as follows:

(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the engine, base this showing on your sales information.

(ii) In all other cases, you must confirm this based on your best estimate of the original manufacturer's sales information.
