
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### § 1042.625 Special provisions for engines used in emergency applications.

This section describes an exemption that is available for certain Category 1 and Category 2 engines. This exemption is not available for Category 3 engines.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the prohibitions in § 1068.101(a)(1) do not apply to a new engine that is subject to Tier 4 standards if the following conditions are met:

(1) The engine is intended for installation in one of the following vessels or applications:

(i) A lifeboat approved by the U.S. Coast Guard under approval series 160.135 (see for example 46 CFR 199.201(a)(1)), as long as such a vessel is not also used as a launch or tender.

(ii) A rescue boat approved by the U.S. Coast Guard under approval series 160.156 (see for example 46 CFR 199.202(a)).

(iii) Generator sets or other auxiliary equipment that qualify as final emergency power sources under 46 CFR part 112.

(2) The engine meets the Tier 3 emission standards specified in § 1042.101 as specified in 40 CFR 1068.265.

(3) The engine is used only for its intended purpose, as specified on the emission control information label.

(b) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the prohibitions in § 1068.101(a)(1) do not apply to a new engine that is subject to Tier 3 standards according to the following provisions:

(1) The engine must be intended for installation in a lifeboat or a rescue boat as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(2) This exemption is available from the initial effective date for the Tier 3 standards until the engine model (or one of comparable size, weight, and performance) has been certified as complying with the Tier 3 standards and Coast Guard requirements.

(3) The engine must meet the Tier 2 emission standards specified in Appendix I of this part as specified in 40 CFR 1068.265.

(c) If you introduce an engine into U.S. commerce under this section, you must meet the labeling requirements in § 1042.135, but add one of the following statements instead of the compliance statement in § 1042.135(c)(10):

(1) For lifeboats and rescue boats, add the following statement:

(2) For engines serving as final emergency power sources, add the following statement:

(d) Introducing into commerce a vessel containing an engine exempted under this section violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) where the vessel is not covered by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, unless it is exempt under a different provision. Similarly, using such an engine or vessel as something other than a lifeboat, rescue boat, or emergency engine as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1), unless it is exempt under a different provision.
