
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart I - Special Provisions for Remanufactured Marine Engines
###### ยง 1042.835 Certification of remanufactured engines.
####### Test data.

(d)(1) Measure baseline emissions for the test configuration as specified in ยง 1042.825.

(2) Measure emissions from the test engine for your remanufacturing system according to the procedures of subpart F of this part.

(3) We may measure emissions from any of your test engines or other engines from the engine family, as follows:

(i) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. If we do this, you must deliver the test engine to a test facility we designate. The test engine you provide must include appropriate manifolds, aftertreatment devices, electronic control units, and other emission-related components not normally attached directly to the engine block. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.

(ii) If we measure emissions from one of your test engines, the results of that testing become the official emission results for the engine. Unless we later invalidate these data, we may decide not to consider your data in determining if your engine family meets applicable requirements.

(iii) Before we test one of your engines, we may set its adjustable parameters to any point within the specified adjustable ranges (see ยง 1042.115(d)).

(iv) Before we test one of your engines, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter.

(4) You may ask to use emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests, but only if all the following are true:

(i) The engine family from the previous model year differs from the current engine family only with respect to model year or other characteristics unrelated to emissions. You may also ask to add a configuration subject to ยง 1042.225.

(ii) The emission-data engine from the previous model year remains the appropriate emission-data engine.

(iii) The data show that the emission-data engine would meet all the requirements that apply to the engine family covered by the application for certification.

(5) We may require you to test a second engine of the same or different configuration in addition to the engine tested under this section.

(6) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.
