
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart I - Special Provisions for Remanufactured Marine Engines
###### ยง 1042.835 Certification of remanufactured engines.
####### Demonstrating compliance.

(e)(1) For purposes of certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the emission standards in ยง 1042.820 if all emission-data engines representing that family have test results showing compliance with the standards and percent reductions required by that section. To compare emission levels from the emission-data engine with the applicable emission standards, apply an additive deterioration factor of 0.015 g/kW-hr to the measured emission levels for PM. Alternatively, you may test your engine as specified in ยง 1042.245 to develop deterioration factors that represent the deterioration expected in emissions over your engines' full useful life.

(2) Collect emission data using measurements to one more decimal place than the applicable standard. Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data engine.

(3) Your applicable NOstandard for each configuration is the baseline NOemission rate for that configuration plus 5.0 percent (to account for test-to-test and engine-to-engine variability). Your applicable PM standard for each configuration is the baseline PM emission rate for that configuration multiplied by 0.750 plus the deterioration factor. If you choose to include configurations in your engine family for which you do not measure baseline emissions, you must demonstrate through engineering analysis that your remanufacturing system will reduce PM emissions by at least 25.0 percent for those configurations and not increase NOemissions.

(4) Your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family for certification has test results showing a deteriorated emission level above an applicable emission standard for any pollutant.
