
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart I - Special Provisions for Remanufactured Marine Engines
###### ยง 1042.810 Requirements for owner/operators and installers during remanufacture.

This section describes how the remanufacturing regulations affect owner/operators and installers for engines subject to this subpart.

(a) See the definition of "remanufacture" in ยง 1042.901 to determine if you are remanufacturing your engine. (Replacing cylinders one at a time may qualify as remanufacturing, depending on the interval between replacement.)

(b) See the definition of "new marine engine" in ยง 1042.901 to determine if remanufacturing your engine makes it subject to the requirements of this part. If the engine is considered to be new, it is subject to the certification requirements of this subpart, unless it is exempt under subpart G of this part.

(c) Your engine is not subject to the standards of this subpart if we determine that no certified remanufacturing system is available for your engine as described in ยง 1042.815. For engines that are remanufactured during multiple events within a five-year period, you are not required to use a certified system until all of your engine's cylinders have been replaced after the system became available. For example, if you remanufacture your 16-cylinder engine by replacing four cylinders each January and a system becomes available for your engine June 1, 2010, your engine must be in a certified configuration when you replace four cylinders in January of 2014. At that point, all 16 cylinders would have been replaced after June 1, 2010.

(d) You may comply with the certification requirements of this part for your remanufactured engine by either obtaining your own certificate of conformity as specified in subpart C of this part or by having a certifying remanufacturer include your engine under its certificate of conformity. In either case, your remanufactured engine must be covered by a certificate before it is reintroduced into service.

(e) Contact a certifying remanufacturer to have your engine included under its certificate of conformity. You must comply with the certificate holder's emission-related installation instructions.
