
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1042.515 Test procedures related to not-to-exceed standards.

(a) This section describes the procedures to determine whether your engines meet the not-to-exceed emission standards in ยง 1042.101(c). These procedures may include any normal engine operation and ambient conditions that the engines may experience in use. Paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section define the limits of what we will consider normal engine operation and ambient conditions.

(b) Measure emissions with one of the following procedures:

(1) Remove the selected engines for testing in a laboratory. You may use an engine dynamometer to simulate normal operation, as described in this section. Use the equipment and procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 to conduct laboratory testing.

(2) Test the selected engines while they remain installed in a vessel. Use the equipment and procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 subpart J, to conduct field testing. Use fuel meeting the specifications of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, or a fuel typical of what you would expect the engine to use in service.

(c) Engine testing may occur under the following ranges of ambient conditions without correcting measured emission levels:

(1) Atmospheric pressure must be between 96.000 and 103.325 kPa, except that manufacturers may test at lower atmospheric pressures if their test facility is located at an altitude that makes it impractical to stay within this range. This pressure range is intended to allow testing under most weather conditions at all altitudes up to 1,100 feet above sea level.

(2) Ambient air temperature must be between 13 and 35 &#xB0;C (or between 13 &#xB0;C and 30 &#xB0;C for engines not drawing intake air directly from a space that could be heated by the engine).

(3) Ambient water temperature must be between 5 and 27 &#xB0;C.

(4) Ambient humidity must be between 7.1 and 10.7 grams of moisture per kilogram of dry air.

(d) Engine testing may occur at any conditions expected during normal operation but that are outside the conditions described in paragraph (c) of this section, as long as measured values are corrected to be equivalent to the nearest end of the specified range, using good engineering judgment. Correct NOemissions for humidity as specified in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart G.

(e) The sampling period may not begin until the engine has reached stable operating temperatures. For example, this would include only engine operation after starting and after the engine thermostat starts modulating the engine's coolant temperature. The sampling period may not include engine starting.

(f) Apply the NTE standards specified in ยง 1042.101(c) to an engine family based on the zones and subzones corresponding to specific duty cycles and engine types as defined in Appendix III of this part. For an engine family certified to multiple duty cycles, the broadest applicable NTE zone applies for that family at the time of certification. Whenever an engine family is certified to multiple duty cycles and a specific engine from that family is tested for NTE compliance in use, determine the applicable NTE zone for that engine according to its in-use application. An engine family's NTE zone may be modified as follows:

(1) You may ask us to approve a narrower NTE zone for an engine family at the time of certification, based on information such as how that engine family is expected to normally operate in use. For example, if an engine family is always coupled to a pump or jet drive, the engine might be able to operate only within a narrow range of engine speed and power.

(2) You may ask us to approve a Limited Testing Region (LTR). An LTR is a region of engine operation, within the applicable NTE zone, where you have demonstrated that your engine family operates for no more than 5.0 percent of its normal in-use operation, on a time-weighted basis. You must specify an LTR using boundaries based on engine speed and power (or torque), where the LTR boundaries must coincide with some portion of the boundary defining the overall NTE zone. Any emission data collected within an LTR for a time duration that exceeds 5.0 percent of the duration of its respective NTE sampling period will be excluded when determining compliance with the applicable NTE standards. Any emission data collected within an LTR for a time duration of 5.0 percent or less of the duration of the respective NTE sampling period will be included when determining compliance with the NTE standards.

(3) You must notify us if you design your engines for normal in-use operation outside the applicable NTE zone. If we learn that normal in-use operation for your engines includes other speeds and loads, we may specify a broader NTE zone, as long as the modified zone is limited to normal in-use operation for speeds greater than 70 percent of maximum test speed and loads greater than 30 percent of maximum power at maximum test speed (or 30 percent of maximum test torque for constant-speed engines).

(4) You may exclude emission data based on catalytic aftertreatment temperatures as follows:

(i) For an engine equipped with a catalytic NOaftertreatment system, exclude NOemission data that is collected when the exhaust temperature at any time during the NTE event is less than 250 &#xB0;C.

(ii) For an engine equipped with an oxidizing catalytic aftertreatment system, exclude HC and CO emission data that is collected when the exhaust temperature at any time during the NTE event is less than 250 &#xB0;C. Similarly, exclude PM emission data during operation involving exhaust temperature below 250 &#xB0;C for an engine equipped with an oxidizing flow-through catalyst.

(iii) Measure exhaust temperature within 30 cm downstream of the last applicable catalytic aftertreatment device. Where there are parallel paths, use good engineering judgment to measure the temperature within 30 cm downstream of the last applicable catalytic aftertreatment device in the path with the greatest exhaust flow.

(g) Emission sampling is not valid for NTE testing if it includes any active regeneration, unless the emission averaging period includes the complete regeneration event(s) and the full period of engine operation until the start of the next regeneration event. This provision applies only for engines that send an electronic signal indicating the start of the regeneration event.
