
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart I - Special Provisions for Remanufactured Marine Engines
###### ยง 1042.836 Marine certification of locomotive remanufacturing systems.

If you certify a Tier 0, Tier 1, or Tier 2 remanufacturing system for locomotives under 40 CFR part 1033, you may also certify the system under this part, according to the provisions of this section.

(a) Include the following with your application for certification under 40 CFR part 1033 (or as an amendment to your application):

(1) A statement of your intent to use your remanufacturing system for marine engines. Include a list of marine engine models for which your system may be used.

(2) If there are significant differences in how your remanufacture system will be applied to marine engines relative to locomotives, in an engineering analysis demonstrating that your system will achieve emission reductions from marine engines similar to those from locomotives.

(3) A description of modifications needed for marine applications.

(4) A demonstration of availability as described in ยง 1042.815, except that the total marginal cost threshold does not apply.

(5) An unconditional statement that all the engines in the engine family comply with the requirements of this part, other referenced parts of the CFR, and the Clean Air Act.

(b) Sections 1042.835 and 1042.840 do not apply for engines certified under this section.

(c) Systems that were certified to the standards of 40 CFR part 92 are subject to the following restrictions:

(1) Tier 0 locomotive systems may not be used for any Category 1 engines or Tier 1 or later Category 2 engines.

(2) Where systems certified to the standards of 40 CFR part 1033 are also available for an engine, you may not use a system certified to the standards of 40 CFR part 92.
