
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### § 1042.650 Exemptions for migratory vessels and auxiliary engines on Category 3 vessels.
####### Auxiliary engines on Category 3 vessels.

(d)Auxiliary engines that will be installed on vessels with Category 3 propulsion engines qualify for an exemption from the standards of this part provided all the following conditions are met:

(1) To be eligible for this exemption, the engine must meet all the following criteria.

(i) The engine must have an EIAPP certificate demonstrating compliance with the applicable NOstandards of Annex VI and meet all other applicable requirements of 40 CFR part 1043. Engines installed on vessels constructed on or after January 1, 2016 must conform fully to the Annex VI Tier III NOstandards as described in 40 CFR part 1043 and meet all other applicable requirements in 40 CFR part 1043. Engines that would otherwise be subject to the Tier 4 standards of this part must also conform fully to the Annex VITier III NOstandards as described in 40 CFR part 1043.

(ii) The engine may not be used for propulsion (except for emergency engines).

(iii) Engines certified to the Annex VI Tier III standards may be equipped with on-off NOcontrols, as long as they conform to the requirements of §§ 1042.110(d) and 1042.115(g); however, the engines must comply fully with the Annex VI Tier II standards when the emission controls are disabled, and meet any other requirements that apply underAnnex VI.

(2) You must notify the Designated Compliance Officer of your intent to use this exemption before you introduce engines into U.S. commerce, not later than the time that you apply for an EIAPP certificate for the engine under 40 CFR part 1043.

(3) The remanufactured engine requirements of subpart I of this part do not apply.

(4) If you introduce an engine into U.S. commerce under this paragraph (d), you must meet the labeling requirements in § 1042.135, but add the following statement instead of the compliance statement in § 1042.135(c)(10):

(5) The reporting requirements of § 1042.660 apply for engines exempted under this paragraph (d).
