
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart I - Special Provisions for Remanufactured Marine Engines
###### ยง 1042.801 General provisions.

This subpart describes how the provisions of this part 1042 apply for certain remanufactured marine engines.

(a) The requirements of this subpart apply for remanufactured Tier 2 and earlier commercial Category 1 and Category 2 marine engines at or above 600 kW, excluding those engines originally manufactured before 1973. Note that the requirements of this subpart do not apply for engines below 600 kW, Category 3 engines, engines installed on recreational vessels, or Tier 3 and later engines.

(b) Any person meeting the definition of "remanufacturer" in ยง 1042.901 may apply for a certificate of conformity for a remanufactured engine family.

(c) The rebuilding requirements of 40 CFR 1068.120 do not apply to remanufacturing of engines using a certified remanufacturing system under this subpart. However, the requirements of 40 CFR 1068.120 do apply to all other remanufacturing of engines.

(d) Unless specified otherwise, engines certified under this subpart are also subject to the other requirements of this part.

(e) For remanufactured engines required to have a valid certificate of conformity, placing a new marine engine back into service following remanufacturing is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1), unless it has a valid certificate of conformity for its model year and the required label.

(f) Remanufacturing systems that require a fuel change or use of a fuel additive may be certified under this part. However, they are not considered to be "available" with respect to triggering the requirement for an engine to be covered by a certificate of conformity under ยง 1042.815. The following provisions apply:

(1) Only fuel additives registered under 40 CFR part 79 may be used under this paragraph (f).

(2) You must demonstrate in your application that the fuel or additive will actually be used by operators, including a description of how the vessels and dispensing tanks will be labeled. We may require you to provide the labels to the operators.

(3) You must also describe analytical methods that can be used by EPA or others to verify that fuel meets your specifications.

(4) You must provide clear instructions to the operators specifying that they may only use the specified fuel/additive, label their vessels and fuel dispensing tanks, and keep records of their use of the fuel/additive in order for their engine to be covered by your certificate. Use of the incorrect fuel (or fuel without the specified additive) or any other failure to comply with the requirements of this paragraph is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1).

(g) Vessels equipped with emission controls as part of a state or local retrofit program prior to January 1, 2017 are exempt from the requirements of this subpart, as specified in this paragraph (g).

(1) This exemption only applies for retrofit programs sponsored by a state government (or one of its political subdivisions) for the purpose of reducing emissions. The exemption does not apply where the sponsoring government specifies that inclusion in the retrofit program is not intended to provide an exemption from the requirements of this subpart.

(2) The prohibitions against tampering and defeat devices in 40 CFR 1068.101(b) and the rebuilding requirements in 40 CFR 1068.120 apply for the exempt engines in the same manner as if they were covered by a certificate.

(3) Vessel owners must request an exemption prior to remanufacturing the engine. Your request must include documentation that your vessel has been retrofitted consistent with the specifications of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and a signed statement declaring that to be true. Except for the initial request for a specific vessel and a specific retrofit, you may consider your request to be approved unless we notify you otherwise within 30 days of the date that we receive your request.
