
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart I - Special Provisions for Remanufactured Marine Engines
###### § 1042.820 Emission standards and required emission reductions for remanufactured engines.

(a) The requirements of this section apply with respect to emissions as measured according to subpart F of this part. See paragraph (g) of this section for special provisions related to remanufacturing systems certified for both locomotive and marine engines. Remanufactured Tier 2 and earlier engines may be certified under this subpart only if they have NOemissions equivalent to or less than baseline NOlevels and PM emissions at least 25.0 percent less than baseline PM emission levels. See § 1042.825 for provisions for determining baseline NOand PM emissions. See § 1042.835 for provisions related to demonstrating compliance with these requirements.

(b) The NTE and ABT provisions of this part do not apply for remanufactured engines.

(c) The exhaust emission standards in this section apply for engines using the fuel type on which the engines in the engine family are designed to operate. Engines designed to operate using residual fuel must comply with the standards and requirements of this part when operated using residual fuel.

(d) Your engines must meet the exhaust emission standards of this section over their full useful life, as defined in § 1042.101(e).

(e) The duty-cycle emission standards in this subpart apply to all testing performed according to the procedures in § 1042.505, including certification, production-line, and in-use testing.

(f) Sections 1042.120, 1042.125, 1042.130, 1042.140 apply for remanufactured engines as written. Section 1042.115 applies for remanufactured engines as written, except for the requirement that electronically controlled engines broadcast their speed and output shaft torque.

(g) A remanufacturing system certified for locomotive engines under 40 CFR part 1033 may be deemed to also meet the requirements of this section, as specified in § 1042.836.
