
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1042.610 Certifying auxiliary marine engines to land-based standards.
####### Specific requirements.

(e)If you are an engine manufacturer or vessel manufacturer using this exemption, you must do all of the following:

(1) Make sure the original engine label will remain clearly visible after installation in the vessel. This label or a supplemental label must identify that the original certification is valid for auxiliary marine applications.

(2) Send the Designated Compliance Officer written notification describing your plans before using the provisions of this section. In addition, by February 28 of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you), send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter with all the following information:

(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.

(ii) List the engine models for which you used this exemption in the previous year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(iii) State: "We prepared each listed engine model for marine application without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1042.610."

(3) If you are the certificate holder, you must describe in your application for certification how you plan to produce engines for both land-based and auxiliary marine applications, including projected sales of auxiliary marine engines to the extent this can be determined. If the projected marine sales are substantial, we may ask for the year-end report of production volumes to include actual auxiliary marine engine sales.
