
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1042.605 Dressing engines already certified to other standards for nonroad or heavy-duty highway engines for marine use.
####### Labeling and documentation.

(e)If you are an engine manufacturer or vessel manufacturer using this exemption, you must do all of the following:

(1) Make sure the original engine label will remain clearly visible after installation in the vessel.

(2) Add a permanent supplemental label to the engine in a position where it will remain clearly visible after installation in the vessel. In your engine label, do the following:

(i) Include the heading: "Marine Engine Emission Control Information".

(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark.

(iii) State: "This engine was marinized without affecting its emission controls.".

(iv) State the date you finished marinizing the engine (month and year).

(3) Send the Designated Compliance Officer written notification describing your plans before using the provisions of this section. In addition, by February 28 of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you), send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter with all the following information:

(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.

(ii) List the engine models for which you used this exemption in the previous year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(iii) State: "We prepared each listed engine model for marine application without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1042.605."
