
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1042.601 General compliance provisions for marine engines and vessels.

Engine and vessel manufacturers, as well as owners, operators, and rebuilders of engines and vessels subject to the requirements of this part, and all other persons, must observe the provisions of this part, the requirements and prohibitions in 40 CFR part 1068, and the provisions of the Clean Air Act. The provisions of 40 CFR part 1068 apply for compression-ignition marine engines as specified in that part, subject to the following provisions:

(a) The following prohibitions apply with respect to recreational marine engines and recreational vessels:

(1) Installing a recreational marine engine in a vessel that is not a recreational vessel is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).

(2) For a vessel with an engine that is certified and labeled as a recreational marine engine, using it in a manner inconsistent with its intended use as a recreational vessel violates 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1), except as allowed by this chapter.

(b) Subpart I of this part describes how the prohibitions of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) apply for certain remanufactured engines. The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.105 do not allow the installation of a new remanufactured engine in a vessel that is defined as a new vessel unless the remanufactured engine is subject to the same standards as the standards applicable to freshly manufactured engines of the required model year.

(c) The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.120 apply when rebuilding marine engines, except as specified in subpart I of this part. The following additional requirements also apply when rebuilding marine engines equipped with exhaust aftertreatment:

(1) Follow all instructions from the engine manufacturer and aftertreatment manufacturer for checking, repairing, and replacing aftertreatment components. For example, you must replace the catalyst if the catalyst assembly is stamped with a build date more than ten years ago and the manufacturer's instructions state that catalysts over ten years old must be replaced when the engine is rebuilt.

(2) Measure pressure drop across the catalyst assembly to ensure that it is neither higher nor lower than the manufacturer's specifications and repair or replace exhaust-system components as needed to bring the pressure drop within the manufacturer's specifications.

(3) For engines equipped with exhaust sensors, verify that sensor outputs are within the manufacturer's recommended range and repair or replace any malfunctioning components (sensors, catalysts, or other components).

(d) The provisions of ยง 1042.635 for the national security exemption apply in addition to the provisions of 40 CFR 1068.225.

(e) For replacement engines, apply the provisions of 40 CFR 1068.240 as described in ยง 1042.615.

(f) For the purpose of meeting the defect-reporting requirements in 40 CFR 1068.501, if you manufacture other nonroad engines that are substantially similar to your marine engines, you may consider defects using combined marine and non-marine families.

(g) The selective enforcement audit provisions of 40 CFR part 1068 do not apply for Category 3 engines.

(h) The defect reporting requirements of 40 CFR 1068.501 apply for Category 3 engines, except the threshold for filing a defect report is two engines.

(i) You may not circumvent the requirements of this part or the Clean Air Act by manufacturing a vessel outside the United States or initially flagging a vessel in another country. The definition of "new marine engine" in ยง 1042.901 includes provisions for U.S.-flagged vessels that are manufactured or reflagged outside of U.S. waters. These provisions have the effect of applying the prohibitions of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) to such vessels no later than when they first enter U.S. waters. The inclusion of these provisions does not affect requirements or prohibitions of the Clean Air Act or other statutes that may apply to the vessel before it first enters U.S. waters.
