
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart J - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### ยง 1042.901 Definitions.
####### Model year

means any of the following:

(1) For freshly manufactured marine engines (see definition of "new marine engine," paragraph (1)), model year means one of the following:

(i) Calendar year of production.

(ii) Your annual new model production period if it is different than the calendar year. This must include January 1 of the calendar year for which the model year is named. It may not begin before January 2 of the previous calendar year and it must end by December 31 of the named calendar year. For seasonal production periods not including January 1, model year means the calendar year in which the production occurs, unless you choose to certify the applicable engine family with the following model year. For example, if your production period is June 1, 2010 through November 30, 2010, your model year would be 2010 unless you choose to certify the engine family for model year 2011.

(2) For an engine that is converted to a marine engine after being certified and placed into service as a motor vehicle engine, a nonroad engine that is not a marine engine, or a stationary engine, model year means the calendar year in which the engine was originally produced. For an engine that is converted to a marine engine after being placed into service as a motor vehicle engine, a nonroad engine that is not a marine engine, or a stationary engine without having been certified, model year means the calendar year in which the engine becomes a new marine engine. (See definition of "new marine engine," paragraph (2)).

(3) For an uncertified marine engine excluded under ยง 1042.5 that is later subject to this part as a result of being installed in a different vessel, model year means the calendar year in which the engine was installed in the non-excluded vessel. For a marine engine excluded under ยง 1042.5 that is later subject to this part as a result of reflagging the vessel, model year means the calendar year in which the engine was originally manufactured. For a marine engine that becomes new under paragraph (7) of the definition of "new marine engine," model year means the calendar year in which the engine was originally manufactured. (See definition of "new marine engine," paragraphs (3) and (7).)

(4) For engines that do not meet the definition of "freshly manufactured" but are installed in new vessels, model year means the calendar year in which the engine is installed in the new vessel (see definition of "new marine engine," paragraph (4)).

(5) For remanufactured engines, model year means the calendar year in which the remanufacture takes place.

(6) For imported engines:
