
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1042 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE MARINE COMPRESSION-IGNITION ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart J - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### ยง 1042.901 Definitions.
####### New marine engine

means any of the following:

(1) A freshly manufactured marine engine for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title. This kind of engine might commonly be thought of as "brand new." In the case of this paragraph (1), the engine is new from the time it is produced until the ultimate purchaser receives the title or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.

(2) An engine originally manufactured as a motor vehicle engine, a nonroad engine that is not a marine engine, or a stationary engine that is later used or intended to be used as a marine engine. In this case, the engine is no longer a motor vehicle, nonmarine, or stationary engine and becomes a "new marine engine." The engine is no longer new when it is placed into marine service as a marine engine. This paragraph (2) applies for engines we exclude under ยง 1042.5, where that engine is later installed as a marine engine in a vessel that is covered by this part 1042. For example, this would apply to an engine that is no longer used in a foreign vessel. An engine converted to a marine engine without having been certified is treated as a freshly manufactured engine under this part 1042.

(3) A marine engine that has been previously placed into service in an application we exclude under ยง 1042.5, where that engine is installed in a vessel that is covered by this part 1042. The engine is new when it first enters U.S. waters on a vessel covered by this part 1042. For example, this would apply to an engine that is no longer used in a foreign vessel and for engines on a vessel that is reflagged as a U.S. vessel. Note paragraph (7) of this definition may also apply.

(4) An engine not covered by paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition that is intended to be installed in a new vessel. This generally includes installation of used engines in new vessels. The engine is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the vessel or it is placed into service, whichever comes first. Such an engine is treated as a freshly manufactured engine under this part 1042, whether or not it meets the definition of "freshly manufactured marine engine."

(5) A remanufactured marine engine. An engine becomes new when it is remanufactured (as defined in this section) and ceases to be new when placed back into service.

(6) An imported marine engine, subject to the following provisions:

(i) An imported marine engine covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part that meets the criteria of one or more of paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, where the original engine manufacturer holds the certificate, is new as defined by those applicable paragraphs.

(ii) An imported remanufactured engine that would have been required to be certified if it had been remanufactured in the United States.

(iii) An imported engine that will be covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part, where someone other than the original engine manufacturer holds the certificate (such as when the engine is modified after its initial assembly), is a new marine engine when it is imported. It is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the engine or it is placed into service, whichever comes first.

(iv) An imported marine engine that is not covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part at the time of importation is new, but only if it was produced on or after the dates shown in the following table. This addresses uncertified engines and vessels initially placed into service that someone seeks to import into the United States. Importation of this kind of engine (or vessel containing such an engine) is generally prohibited by 40 CFR part 1068.

(7) A marine engine that is not covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part on a U.S.-flag vessel entering U.S. waters is new, but only if it was produced on or after the dates identified in paragraph (6)(iv) of this definition. Such entrance is deemed to be introduction into U.S. commerce.
