
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1043 - CONTROL OF NOX, SOX, AND PM EMISSIONS FROM MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS SUBJECT TO THE MARPOL PROTOCOL
##### ยง 1043.41 EIAPP certification process.
###### see

(iii) Before we test one of your engines, we may set its adjustable parameters to any point within the specified adjustable ranges (40 CFR 1042.115(d)).

(iv) Before we test one of your engines, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter.

(4) We may require you to test a second engine of the same or different configuration in addition to the engine tested under paragraph (b) of this section.

(5) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures otherwise required by this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.

(i) Collect emission data using measurements to one more decimal place than the applicable standard, then round the value to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data engine.

(j) Your engine family is considered in compliance with the emission standards in Regulation 13 of Annex VI if all emission-data engines representing that family have test results showing emission levels at or below these standards. Your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing an emission level above an applicable emission standard for any pollutant.

(k) If we determine your application is complete and shows that the engines meet all the requirements of this part, we will issue an EIAPP certificate for your engines. We may make the approval subject to additional conditions.
