
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1043 - CONTROL OF NOX, SOX, AND PM EMISSIONS FROM MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS SUBJECT TO THE MARPOL PROTOCOL
##### ยง 1043.1 Overview.

The Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships (APPS) requires engine manufacturers, owners and operators of vessels, and other persons to comply with Annex VI of the MARPOL Protocol. This part implements portions of APPS as it relates to Regulations 13, 14 and 18 of Annex VI. These regulations clarify the application of some Annex VI provisions; provide procedures and criteria for the issuance of EIAPP certificates; and specify requirements applicable to ships that are not registered by Parties to Annex VI. This part includes provisions to apply the equivalency provisions of Regulation 4 of Annex VI with respect to Regulations 14 and 18 of Annex VI. Additional regulations may also apply with respect to the Annex VI, such as those issued separately by the U.S. Coast Guard. Note that references in this part to a specific subsection of an Annex VI regulation (such as Regulation 13.5.1) reflect the regulation numbering of the 2008 Annex VI (incorporated by reference in ยง 1043.100).

(a) The general requirements for non-public U.S.-flagged and other Party vessels are specified in Annex VI, as implemented by 33 U.S.C. 1901-1915. These requirements apply to engine manufacturers, owners and operators of vessels, and other persons.

(b) The provisions of this part specify how Regulations 13, 14 and 18 of Annex VI, as implemented by APPS, will be applied to U.S.-flagged vessels that operate only domestically.

(c) This part implements section 33 U.S.C. 1902(e) by specifying that non-public vessels flagged by a country that is not a party to Annex VI are subject to certain provisions under this part that are equivalent to the substantive requirements of Regulations 13, 14 and 18 of Annex VI as implemented by APPS.

(d) This part also describes where the requirements of Regulation 13.5.1 of Annex VI and Regulation 14.4 of Annex VI will apply.

(e) This part 1043 does not limit the requirements specified in Annex VI, as implemented by APPS, except as specified in ยง 1043.10(a)(2) and (b)(3).

(f) Nothing in this part limits the operating requirements and restrictions applicable for engines and vessels subject to 40 CFR part 1042 or the requirements and restrictions applicable for fuels subject to 40 CFR part 1090.

(g) The provisions of this part specify how to obtain EIAPP certificates and certificates for Approved Methods.
