
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1043 - CONTROL OF NOX, SOX, AND PM EMISSIONS FROM MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS SUBJECT TO THE MARPOL PROTOCOL
##### § 1043.30 General obligations.
###### See

(1) The requirements specified in Annex VI apply for vessels subject to this part for operation in U.S. navigable waters or the U.S. EEZ. (§ 1043.60 for a summary of the standards included in these requirements.)

(2) Vessels operating in an ECA must also comply with the requirements of Annex VI applicable to operation in an ECA.

(3) Vessels operating in waters of an ECA associated area must also comply with the requirements in § 1043.60.

(f) The following requirements apply to non-Party vessels:

(1) Non-Party vessels operating in U.S. navigable waters or the U.S. EEZ must comply with the operating and recordkeeping requirements of the 2008 Annex VI (incorporated by reference in § 1043.100) related to Regulations 13, 14 and 18 of the 2008 Annex VI. This paragraph (f)(1) does not address requirements of other portions of Annex VI.

(2) Non-Party vessels operating in an ECA or ECA associated area must also comply with the requirements in § 1043.60.

(g) A replacement engine may be exempted by EPA from Regulation 13 of Annex VI and the NO-related requirements of this part if it is identical to the engine being replaced and the old engine was not subject to Regulation 13 of Annex VI. Send requests for such exemptions to the Designated Certification Officer.

(h) Compliance with the provisions of this part 1043 does not affect your responsibilities under 40 CFR part 1042 for engines subject to that part 1042.
