
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1043 - CONTROL OF NOX, SOX, AND PM EMISSIONS FROM MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS SUBJECT TO THE MARPOL PROTOCOL
##### ยง 1043.30 General obligations.

(a) 33 U.S.C. 1907 prohibits any person from violating any provisions of the MARPOL Protocol, whether or not they are a manufacturer, owner or operator. For manufacturers, owners and operators of vessels subject to this part, it is the responsibility of such manufacturers, owners and operators to ensure that all employees and other agents operating on their behalf comply with these requirements.

(b) Manufacturers of engines to be installed on U.S. vessels subject to this part must obtain an EIAPP certificate for an engine prior to it being installed in a vessel.

(c) Engines with power output of more than 130 kW that are listed in this paragraph (c) must be covered by a valid EIAPP certificate, certifying the engine meets the applicable emission standards of Annex VI, unless the engine is excluded under ยง 1043.10 or paragraph (d) of this section. An EIAPP certificate is valid for a given engine only if it certifies compliance with the tier of standards applicable to that engine and the vessel into which it is being installed (or a later tier). Note that none of the requirements of this paragraph (c) are limited to new engines.

(1) Engines meeting any of the following criteria must be covered by a valid EIAPP certificate:

(i) Engines installed (or intended to be installed) on vessels that were constructed on or after January 1, 2000. This includes engines that met the definition of "new marine engine" in 40 CFR 1042.901 at any time on or after January 1, 2000, unless such engines are installed on vessels that were constructed before January 1, 2000.

(ii) Engines that undergo a major conversion on or after January 1, 2000, unless the engines have been exempt from this requirement under paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) For such engines intended to be installed on U.S.-flagged vessels, the engine may not be introduced into U.S. commerce before it is covered by a valid EIAPP certificate, except as allowed by this paragraph (c)(2).

(i) This paragraph (c)(2) does not apply for engines installed on vessels excluded under this part 1043.

(ii) Engines without a valid EIAPP certificate (because they are intended for domestic use only) may be introduced into U.S. commerce, but may not be installed on vessels that do not meet the requirements of ยง 1043.10(a)(2).

(iii) Engines that have been temporarily exempted by EPA under 40 CFR part 1042 or part 1068 may be introduced into U.S. commerce without a valid EIAPP certificate to the same extent they are allowed to be introduced into U.S. commerce without a valid part 1042 certificate of conformity, however, this allowance does not affect whether the engine must ultimately be covered by an EIAPP certificate. Unless otherwise excluded or exempted under this part 1043, the engine must be covered by an EIAPP certificate before being placed into service. For example, engines allowed to be temporarily distributed in an uncertified configuration under 40 CFR 1068.260 would not be required to be covered by an EIAPP certificate while it is covered by the temporary exemption under 40 CFR 1068.260; however, it would be required to be covered by an EIAPP certificate before being placed into service.

(iv) All uninstalled marine engines within the United States are presumed to be intended to be installed on a U.S.-flagged vessel, unless there is clear and convincing evidence to the contrary.

(3) For engines installed on Party vessels, the engine may not operate in the U.S. navigable waters or the U.S. exclusive economic zone, or other areas designated under 33 U.S.C. 1902(a)(5)(B)(iii), (C)(iii), or (D)(iv) unless it is covered by a valid EIAPP certificate.

(4) Engines installed on non-Party vessels are not required to have EIAPP certificates, but the operator must have evidence of conformity with Regulation 13 of Annex VI issued by either the government of a country that is party to Annex VI or a recognized classification society. For the purposes of this paragraph, "recognized classification society" means a classification society that is a participating member of the International Association of Classification Societies (IACS).

(d) In addition to the engines excluded under ยง 1043.10, the following engines are excluded from the requirement to have an EIAPP certificate (or equivalent demonstration of compliance in the case of non-Party vessels) or otherwise meet the requirements of Regulation 13 of Annex VI.

(1) Spark-ignition engines.

(2) Non-reciprocating engines.

(3) Engines that do not use liquid fuel.

(4) Engines intended to be used solely for emergencies. This includes engines that power equipment such as pumps that are intended to be used solely for emergencies and engines installed in lifeboats intended to be used solely for emergencies. It does not include engines to be used for both emergency and non-emergency purposes.

(e) The following requirements apply to Party vessels, including U.S.-flagged vessels:
