
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1043 - CONTROL OF NOX, SOX, AND PM EMISSIONS FROM MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS SUBJECT TO THE MARPOL PROTOCOL
##### § 1043.10 Applicability.
###### U.S.-flagged vessels.

(a)The provisions of this part apply for all U.S.-flagged vessels wherever they are located (including engines installed or intended to be installed on such vessels), except as specified in this paragraph (a) or in § 1043.95.

(1) Public vessels are excluded from this part.

(2) Vessels that operate only domestically and conform to the requirements of this paragraph (a)(2) are excluded from Regulation 13 of Annex VI and the NO-related requirements of this part (including the requirement to obtain an EIAPP certificate and to keep a Technical File and an Engine Book of Record Parameters). For the purpose of this exclusion, the phrase "operate only domestically" means the vessels do not enter waters subject to the jurisdiction or control of any foreign country, except for Canadian portions of the Great Lakes. (See §§ 1043.60 and 1043.70 for provisions related to fuel use by such vessels). To be excluded, the vessel must conform to each of the following provisions:

(i) All compression-ignition engines on the vessel must conform fully to all applicable provisions of 40 CFR parts 94 and 1042.

(ii) The vessel may not contain any engines with a specific engine displacement at or above 30.0 liters per cylinder.

(iii) Any engine installed in the vessel that is not covered by an EIAPP certificate must be labeled as specified in 40 CFR 1042.135 with respect to whether it meets the requirements of Regulation 13 of Annex VI.
