
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1043 - CONTROL OF NOX, SOX, AND PM EMISSIONS FROM MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS SUBJECT TO THE MARPOL PROTOCOL
##### ยง 1043.41 EIAPP certification process.
###### See

(f)40 CFR 1042.255 for provisions describing how we will process your application.

(g) Your application, including the Technical File and onboard NOverification procedures, is subject to amendment as described in 40 CFR 1042.225.

(h) Perform emission tests as follows:

(1) Select an emission-data engine from each engine family for testing. For engines at or above 560 kW, you may use a development engine that is equivalent in design to the engine being certified. For Category 3 engines, you may use a single-cylinder version of the engine. Using good engineering judgment, select the engine configuration most likely to exceed an applicable emission standard, considering all exhaust emission constituents and the range of installation options available to vessel manufacturers.

(2) Test your emission-data engines using the procedures and equipment specified in 40 CFR part 1042, subpart F, or in the NOTechnical Code (incorporated by reference in ยง 1043.100). We may require that your test be witnessed by an EPA official.

(3) We may measure emissions from any of your test engines or other engines from the engine family, as follows:

(i) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. You must deliver the test engine to any test facility we designate. The test engine you provide must include appropriate manifolds, aftertreatment devices, electronic control units, and other emission-related components not normally attached directly to the engine block. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.

(ii) If we measure emissions from one of your test engines, the results of that testing become the official emission results for the engine. Unless we later invalidate these data, we may decide not to consider your data in determining if your engine family meets applicable requirements.
