
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1045.105 What exhaust emission standards must my sterndrive/inboard engines meet?
####### Useful life.

(e)Your engines must meet the exhaust emission standards in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section over their full useful life, as follows:

(1) For high-performance engines with maximum engine power above 485 kW, the useful life is 50 hours of operation or 1 year, whichever comes first. For high-performance engines with maximum engine power at or below 485 kW, the useful life is 150 hours of operation or 3 years, whichever comes first.

(2) For conventional sterndrive/inboard engines, the minimum useful life is 480 hours of operation or ten years, whichever comes first. However, you may request in your application for certification that we approve a shorter useful life for an engine family. We may approve a shorter useful life, in hours of engine operation but not in years, if we determine that these engines will rarely operate longer than the shorter useful life. If engines identical to those in the engine family have already been produced and are in use, your demonstration must include documentation from such in-use engines. In other cases, your demonstration must include an engineering analysis of information equivalent to such in-use data, such as data from research engines or similar engine models that are already in production. Your demonstration must also include any overhaul interval that you recommend, any mechanical warranty that you offer for the engine or its components, and any relevant customer design specifications. Your demonstration may include any other relevant information. The useful life value may not be shorter than any of the following:

(i) 150 hours of operation.

(ii) Your recommended overhaul interval.

(iii) Your mechanical warranty for the engine.

(3) You must specify a longer useful life for conventional sterndrive/inboard engines in terms of hours if the average service life of engines from the engine family is longer than the minimum useful life value, as follows:

(i) Except as allowed by paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, your useful life (in hours) may not be less than either of the following:

(A) Your projected operating life from advertisements or other marketing materials for any engines in the engine family.

(B) Your basic mechanical warranty for any engines in the engine family.

(ii) Your useful life may be based on the average service life of engines in the engine family if you show that the average service life is less than the useful life required by paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, but more than the minimum useful life (480 hours of engine operation). In determining the actual average service life of engines in an engine family, we will consider all available information and analyses. Survey data is allowed but not required to make this showing.
