
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1045.245 How do I determine deterioration factors from exhaust durability testing?

This section describes how to determine deterioration factors, either with pre-existing test data or with new emission measurements.

(a) You may ask us to approve deterioration factors for an engine family based on emission measurements from similar engines if you have already given us these data for certifying the other engines in the same or earlier model years. Use good engineering judgment to decide whether the two engines are similar.

(b) If you are unable to determine deterioration factors for an engine family under paragraph (a) of this section, select engines, subsystems, or components for testing. Determine deterioration factors based on service accumulation and related testing. Include consideration of wear and other causes of deterioration expected under typical consumer use, including exposure to saltwater if applicable. Determine deterioration factors as follows:

(1) You must measure emissions from the emission-data engine at a low-hour test point and the end of the useful life. You may also test at evenly spaced intermediate points. Collect emission data using measurements to one more decimal place than the emission standard.

(2) Operate the engine over a representative duty cycle for a period at least as long as the useful life (in hours). You may operate the engine continuously. You may also use an engine installed in a vessel to accumulate service hours instead of running the engine only in the laboratory.

(3) In the case of dual-fuel or flexible-fuel engines, you may accumulate service hours on a single emission-data engine using the type or mixture of fuel expected to have the highest combustion and exhaust temperatures. For dual-fuel engines, you must measure emissions on each fuel type at each test point.

(4) You may perform maintenance on emission-data engines as described in ยง 1045.125 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E.

(5) If you measure emissions at only two points to calculate your deterioration factor, base your calculations on a linear relationship connecting these two data points for each pollutant. If you measure emissions at three or more points, use a linear least-squares fit of your test data for each pollutant to calculate your deterioration factor.

(6) If you test more than one engine to establish deterioration factors, calculate the deterioration factor for each engine and average the deterioration factors from all the engines before rounding.

(7) Use good engineering judgment for all aspects of the effort to establish deterioration factors under this paragraph (b).

(8) You may use other testing methods to determine deterioration factors, consistent with good engineering judgment, as long as we approve those methods in advance.

(c) Include the following information in your application for certification:

(1) If you determine your deterioration factors based on test data from a different engine family, explain why this is appropriate and include all the emission measurements on which you base the deterioration factor.

(2) If you do testing to determine deterioration factors, describe the form and extent of service accumulation, including the method you use to accumulate hours.
