
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### § 1045.1 Does this part apply for my products?

(a) Except as provided in § 1045.5, the regulations in this part 1045 apply as follows:

(1) The requirements of this part related to exhaust emissions apply to new, spark-ignition propulsion marine engines beginning with the 2010 model year.

(2) The requirements of this part related to evaporative emissions apply to fuel lines and fuel tanks used with marine engines that use a volatile liquid fuel (such as gasoline) as specified in 40 CFR part 1045.112. This includes fuel lines and fuel tanks used with auxiliary marine engines. This also includes portable marine fuel tanks and associated fuel lines.

(b) We specify optional standards for certifying sterndrive/inboard engines before the 2010 model year in § 1045.145(a). Engines certified to these standards are subject to all the requirements of this part as if these optional standards were mandatory.

(c) Outboard and personal watercraft engines originally meeting the standards specified in appendix I of this part remain subject to those standards. Those engines remain subject to recall provisions as specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart F, throughout the useful life corresponding to the original certification. Also, tampering and defeat-device prohibitions continue to apply for those engines as specified in 40 CFR 1068.101.

(d) The provisions of §§ 1045.620 and 1045.801 apply for new engines used solely for competition beginning January 1, 2010.
