
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### § 1045.240 How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with exhaust emission standards?
####### See

(a) For purposes of certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the duty-cycle emission standards in § 1045.103 or § 1045.105 if all emission-data engines representing that family have test results showing official emission results and deteriorated emission levels at or below these standards. This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors. Note that your FELs are considered to be the applicable emission standards with which you must comply if you participate in the ABT program in subpart H of this part.paragraph (e) of this section for provisions related to demonstrating compliance with NTE standards.

(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply with the duty-cycle emission standards in § 1045.103 or § 1045.105 if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing an official emission result or a deteriorated emission level for any pollutant that is above an applicable emission standard. Similarly, your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing any emission level above the applicable not-to-exceed emission standard for any pollutant. This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors.

(c) Determine a deterioration factor to compare emission levels from the emission-data engine with the applicable emission standards. Section 1045.245 specifies how to test engines to develop deterioration factors that represent the expected deterioration in emissions over your engines' full useful life. Your deterioration factors must take into account any available data from in-use testing with similar engines. You may ask us to give you an assigned deterioration factor for your high-performance engines. Small-volume engine manufacturers may use assigned deterioration factors that we establish for any engine families certified under this part. Apply deterioration factors as follows:
