
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1045.140 What is my engine's maximum engine power?

(a) An engine configuration's maximum engine power is the maximum brake power point on the nominal power curve for the engine configuration, as defined in this section. Round the power value to the nearest whole kilowatt for engines above 30 kW and to the nearest 0.1 kilowatt for engines at or below 30 kW.

(b) The nominal power curve of an engine configuration is the relationship between maximum available engine brake power and engine speed for an engine, using the mapping procedures of 40 CFR part 1065, based on the manufacturer's design and production specifications for the engine. This information may also be expressed by a torque curve that relates maximum available engine torque with engine speed.

(c) The nominal power curve must be within the range of the actual power curves of production engines considering normal production variability. If after production begins it is determined that your nominal power curve does not represent production engines, we may require you to amend your application for certification under ยง 1045.225.

(d) Maximum engine power for an engine family is generally the weighted average value of maximum engine power of each engine configuration within the engine family based on your total U.S.-directed production volume of engines you produce from the engine family. However, alternative approaches for defining an engine family's maximum engine power apply in the following circumstances:

(1) For outboard or personal watercraft engines for which you neither generate nor use emission credits, you may identify the greatest value for maximum engine power from all the different configurations within the engine family to determine the appropriate emission standard under ยง 1045.103.

(2) For high-performance engines, you must use the smallest value for maximum engine power from all the different configurations within the engine family to determine the standards and other requirements that apply under this subpart B.
