
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### § 1045.205 What must I include in my application?

This section specifies the information that must be in your application, unless we ask you to include less information under § 1045.201(c). We may require you to provide additional information to evaluate your application.

(a) Describe the engine family's specifications and other basic parameters of the engine's design and emission controls. List the fuel type on which your engines are designed to operate (for example, all-season gasoline). List each distinguishable engine configuration in the engine family. For each engine configuration, list the maximum engine power and the range of values for maximum engine power resulting from production tolerances, as described in § 1045.140. Describe why your engines qualify as high-performance engines, if applicable.

(b) Explain how the emission control systems operate. Describe in detail all system components for controlling exhaust emissions, including all auxiliary emission control devices (AECDs) and all fuel-system components you will install on any production or test engine. Identify the part number of each component you describe. For this paragraph (b), treat as separate AECDs any devices that modulate or activate differently from each other. Include sufficient detail to allow us to evaluate whether the AECDs are consistent with the defeat device prohibition of § 1045.115.

(c) Explain how the engine diagnostic system works, if applicable, describing especially the engine conditions (with the corresponding diagnostic trouble codes) that cause the malfunction indicator to go on. Propose the conditions under which the diagnostic system should disregard trouble codes, as described in § 1045.110(f).

(d) Describe the engines you selected for testing and the reasons for selecting them.

(e) Describe the test equipment and procedures that you used, including any special or alternate test procedures you used.

(f) Describe how you operated the emission-data engine before testing, including the duty cycle and the number of engine operating hours used to stabilize emission levels. Explain why you selected the method of service accumulation. Describe any scheduled maintenance you did.

(g) List the specifications of the test fuel to show that it falls within the required ranges we specify in 40 CFR part 1065.

(h) Identify the engine family's useful life.

(i) Include the maintenance and warranty instructions you will give to the ultimate purchaser of each new engine (see §§ 1045.120 and 1045.125).

(j) Include the emission-related installation instructions you will provide if someone else installs your engines in a vessel (see § 1045.130).

(k) Describe your emission control information label (see § 1045.135).

(l) Identify the emission standards or FELs to which you are certifying engines in the engine family.

(m) Identify the engine family's deterioration factors and describe how you developed them (see § 1045.245). Present any emission test data you used for this.

(n) State that you operated your emission-data engines as described in the application (including the test procedures, test parameters, and test fuels) to show you meet the requirements of this part.

(o) Present emission data to show that you meet emission standards, as follows:

(1) Present emission data by mode for hydrocarbons (such as THC or THCE, as applicable), NO, and CO on an emission-data engine to show your engines meet the duty-cycle emission standards we specify in §§ 1045.103(a) and 1045.105(a). Show weighted emission figures before and after applying deterioration factors for each engine. If we specify more than one grade of any fuel type (for example, low-temperature and all-season gasoline), you need to submit test data only for one grade, unless the regulations of this part specify otherwise for your engine.

(2) Note that §§ 1045.235 and 1045.245 allow you to submit an application in certain cases without new emission data.

(p) State that all the engines in the engine family comply with the not-to-exceed emission standards we specify in subpart B of this part for all normal operation and use when tested as specified in § 1045.515, if applicable. Describe any relevant testing, engineering analysis, or other information in sufficient detail to support your statement.

(q) Report test results as follows:

(1) Report all test results involving measurement of pollutants for which emission standards apply. Include test results from invalid tests or from any other tests, whether or not they were conducted according to the test procedures of subpart F of this part. We may ask you to send other information to confirm that your tests were valid under the requirements of this part and 40 CFR parts 1060 and 1065.

(2) Report measured CO, NO, and CHas described in § 1045.235. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit reporting NO and CH.

(r) Describe all adjustable operating parameters (see § 1045.115(e)), including production tolerances. For any operating parameters that do not qualify as adjustable parameters, include a description supporting your conclusion (see 40 CFR 1068.50(c)). Include the following in your description of each adjustable parameter:

(1) For practically adjustable parameters, include the nominal or recommended setting, the intended practically adjustable range, and the limits or stops used to establish adjustable ranges. State that the limits, stops, or other means of inhibiting adjustment are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use engines to settings outside your intended practically adjustable ranges and provide information to support this statement.

(2) For programmable operating parameters, state that you have restricted access to electronic controls to prevent parameter adjustments on in-use engines that would allow operation outside the practically adjustable range. Describe how your engines are designed to prevent unauthorized adjustments.

(s) Describe how your engines comply with emission standards at varying atmospheric pressures. Include a description of altitude kits you design to comply with the requirements of § 1045.115(d). Identify the part number of each component you describe. Identify the altitude range for which you expect proper engine performance and emission control with and without the altitude kit. State that your engines will comply with applicable emission standards throughout the useful life with the altitude kit installed according to your instructions. Describe any relevant testing, engineering analysis, or other information in sufficient detail to support your statement. In addition, describe your plan for making information and parts available such that you would reasonably expect that altitude kits would be widely used in the high-altitude counties specified in 40 CFR part 1068, Appendix III. For example, engine owners should have ready access to information describing when an altitude kit is needed and how to obtain this service. Similarly, parts and service information should be available to qualified service facilities in addition to authorized service centers if that is needed for owners to have such altitude kits installed locally.

(t) Provide the information needed to read, record, and interpret all the information broadcast by an engine's onboard computers and electronic control units. State that, upon request, you will give us any hardware, software, or tools we would need to do this. If you broadcast a surrogate parameter for torque values, you must provide us what we need to convert these into torque units. You may reference any appropriate publicly released standards that define conventions for these messages and parameters. Format your information consistent with publicly released standards.

(u) Confirm that your emission-related installation instructions specify how to ensure that sampling of exhaust emissions will be possible after engines are installed in vessels and placed in service. Show how to sample exhaust emissions in a way that prevents diluting the exhaust sample with ambient air.

(v) Unconditionally certify that all the engines in the engine family comply with the requirements of this part, other referenced parts of the CFR, and the Clean Air Act.

(w) Include good-faith estimates of U.S.-directed production volumes. Include a justification for the estimated production volumes if they are substantially different than actual production volumes in earlier years for similar models.

(x) Include the information required by other subparts of this part. For example, include the information required by § 1045.725 if you participate in the ABT program.

(y) Include other applicable information, such as information specified in this part or 40 CFR part 1068 related to requests for exemptions.

(z) Name an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.

(aa) For imported engines, identify the following:

(1) The port(s) at which you have imported engines over the previous 12 months.

(2) The names and addresses of the agents you have authorized to import your engines.

(3) The location of a test facility in the United States where you can test your engines if we select them for testing under a selective enforcement audit, as specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart E.
