
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1045.105 What exhaust emission standards must my sterndrive/inboard engines meet?
####### Averaging, banking, and trading.

(b)You may not generate or use emission credits for high-performance engines. You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program described in subpart H of this part for demonstrating compliance with HC + NOand CO emission standards for conventional sterndrive-inboard engines. To generate or use emission credits, you must specify a family emission limit for each pollutant you include in the ABT program for each engine family. These family emission limits serve as the emission standards for the engine family with respect to all required testing instead of the standards specified in this section. An engine family meets emission standards even if its family emission limit is higher than the standard, as long as you show that the whole averaging set of applicable engine families meets the emission standards using emission credits and the engines within the family meet the family emission limit. Family emission limits for conventional sterndrive/inboard engines may not be higher than 16.0 g/kW-hr for HC + NOand 150 g/kW-hr for CO except as specified in ยง 1045.145(c).
