
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1045.103 What exhaust emission standards must my outboard and personal watercraft engines meet?
####### Averaging, banking, and trading.

(b)You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program described in subpart H of this part for demonstrating compliance with HC + NOemission standards. For CO emissions, you may generate or use emission credits for averaging as described in subpart H of this part, but such credits may not be banked or traded. To generate or use emission credits, you must specify a family emission limit for each pollutant you include in the ABT program for each engine family. These family emission limits serve as the emission standards for the engine family with respect to all required testing instead of the standards specified in this section. An engine family meets emission standards even if its family emission limit is higher than the standard, as long as you show that the whole averaging set of applicable engine families meets the emission standards using emission credits and the engines within the family meet the family emission limit. The following FEL caps apply:

(1) For engines with maximum engine power at or below 4.3 kW, the maximum value of the family emission limit for HC + NOis 81.0 g/kW-hr. For all other engines, the maximum value of the family emission limit for HC + NOis defined by the following formula, with results rounded to the nearest 0.1 g/kW-hr:

(2) For engines with maximum engine power above 40 kW, the maximum value of the family emission limit for CO is 450 g/kW-hr. For all other engines, the maximum value is defined by the following formula, with results rounded to the nearest g/kW-hr:
