
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1045.112 What are the standards for evaporative emissions?
####### Fuel line permeation.

(a)Nonmetal fuel lines must meet the permeation requirements specified in 40 CFR 1060.102 for EPA NRFL fuel lines as described in this paragraph (a).

(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, the emission standard for fuel lines starts for vessels or portable marine fuel tanks with a date of manufacture on or after January 1, 2009.

(2) The emission standard for primer bulbs applies starting January 1, 2011.

(3) The emission standard for under-cowl fuel lines used with outboard engines apply over a phase-in period as specified in this paragraph (a)(3).

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, the phase-in period is based on total length of fuel lines as specified in Table 1 to this section. For example, at least 30 percent of the length of under-cowl fuel lines used on your full lineup of 2010 model year outboard engines must meet the specified permeation standards. See ยง 1045.145(k) for administrative requirements related to this phase-in.

(ii) You may instead meet the permeation standards of this paragraph (a) by complying with the specified standards with 100 percent of your under-cowl fuel lines across your full lineup of 2011 model year outboard engines. In this case, the requirements of this part would not apply to under-cowl fuel lines before the 2011 model year. To use this option, you must notify the Designated Compliance Officer before December 31, 2009 of your intent to meet permeation standards on all your under-cowl fuel lines in the 2011 model year.
