
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1045.135 How must I label and identify the engines I produce?

The provisions of this section apply to engine manufacturers.

(a) Assign each engine a unique identification number and permanently affix, engrave, or stamp it on the engine in a legible way.

(b) At the time of manufacture, affix a permanent and legible label identifying each engine. The label must be-

(1) Attached in one piece so it is not removable without being destroyed or defaced.

(2) Secured to a part of the engine needed for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement.

(3) Durable and readable for the engine's entire life.

(4) Written in English.

(c) The label must-

(1) Include the heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(2) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may identify another company and use its trademark instead of yours if you comply with the provisions of ยง 1045.640.

(3) Include EPA's standardized designation for the engine family (and subfamily, where applicable).

(4) State the engine's displacement (in liters) and maximum engine power (in kW); however, you may omit the displacement from the label if all the engines in the engine family have the same per-cylinder displacement and total displacement.

(5) State the date of manufacture [DAY (optional), MONTH, and YEAR]; however, you may omit this from the label if you stamp, engrave, or otherwise permanently identify it elsewhere on the engine, in which case you must also describe in your application for certification where you will identify the date on the engine.

(6) State the FELs to which the engines are certified (in g/kW-hr) if certification depends on the ABT provisions of subpart H of this part.

(7) Identify the emission control system. Use terms and abbreviations as described in 40 CFR 1068.45. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.

(8) List specifications and adjustments for engine tuneups; however, you may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.

(9) Identify the fuel type and any requirements for fuel and lubricants; however, you may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.

(10) State: "THIS MARINE ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA EXHAUST REGULATIONS FOR [MODEL YEAR]."

(11) If your durability demonstration for sterndrive/inboard engines is limited to fresh water, state: "THIS ENGINE IS NOT INTENDED FOR USE IN SALTWATER."

(d) You may add information to the emission control information label as follows:

(1) You may identify other emission standards that the engine meets or does not meet (such as California standards). You may include this information by adding it to the statement we specify or by including a separate statement.

(2) You may add other information to ensure that the engine will be properly maintained and used.

(3) You may add appropriate features to prevent counterfeit labels. For example, you may include the engine's unique identification number on the label.

(e) You may ask us to approve modified labeling requirements in this part 1045 if you show that it is necessary or appropriate. We will approve your request if your alternate label is consistent with the requirements of this part.

(f) If you obscure the engine label while installing the engine in the vessel such that the label cannot be read during normal maintenance, you must place a duplicate label on the vessel. If others install your engine in their vessels in a way that obscures the engine label, we require them to add a duplicate label on the vessel (see 40 CFR 1068.105); in that case, give them the number of duplicate labels they request and keep the following records for at least five years:

(1) Written documentation of the request from the vessel manufacturer.

(2) The number of duplicate labels you send for each engine family and the date you sent them.
