
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1045.103 What exhaust emission standards must my outboard and personal watercraft engines meet?
####### Useful life.

(e)Your engines must meet the exhaust emission standards in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section over the full useful life as follows:

(1) For outboard engines, the minimum useful life is 350 hours of engine operation or 10 years, whichever comes first.

(2) For personal watercraft engines, the minimum useful life is 350 hours of engine operation or 5 years, whichever comes first.

(3) You must specify a longer useful life in terms of hours for the engine family if the average service life of your vehicles is longer than the minimum value, as follows:

(i) Except as allowed by paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, your useful life (in hours) may not be less than either of the following:

(A) Your projected operating life from advertisements or other marketing materials for any engines in the engine family.

(B) Your basic mechanical warranty for any engines in the engine family.

(ii) Your useful life may be based on the average service life of vehicles in the engine family if you show that the average service life is less than the useful life required by paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, but more than the minimum useful life (350 hours of engine operation). In determining the actual average service life of vehicles in an engine family, we will consider all available information and analyses. Survey data is allowed but not required to make this showing.
