
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1045.130 What installation instructions must I give to vessel manufacturers?

(a) If you sell an engine for someone else to install in a vessel, give the engine installer instructions for installing it consistent with the requirements of this part. Include all information necessary to ensure that an engine will be installed in its certified configuration.

(b) Make sure the instructions have the following information:

(1) Include the heading: "Emission-related installation instructions".

(2) State: "Failing to follow these instructions when installing a certified engine in a vessel violates federal law (40 CFR 1068.105(b)), subject to fines or other penalties as described in the Clean Air Act."

(3) Describe the instructions needed to properly install the exhaust system and any other components. Include instructions consistent with the requirements of § 1045.205(u) related to in-use measurement and the requirements of § 1045.655 related to altitude kits.

(4) Describe the steps needed to control evaporative emissions as described in § 1045.112. This will generally require notification that the installer and/or vessel manufacturer must meet the requirements of § 1045.112 and 40 CFR part 1060.

(5) Describe any necessary steps for installing the diagnostic system described in § 1045.110.

(6) Describe any limits on the range of applications needed to ensure that the engine operates consistently with your application for certification. For example, if your engines are certified only for personal watercraft, tell vessel manufacturers not to install the engines in vessels longer than 4.0 meters.

(7) Describe any other instructions to make sure the installed engine will operate according to design specifications in your application for certification. For example, this may include specified limits for catalyst systems, such as exhaust backpressure, catalyst location, and temperature profiles during engine operation.

(8) State: "If you install the engine in a way that makes the engine's emission control information label hard to read during normal engine maintenance, you must place a duplicate label on the vessel, as described in 40 CFR 1068.105."

(c) You do not need installation instructions for engines you install in your own vessels.

(d) Provide instructions in writing or in an equivalent format. For example, you may post instructions on a publicly available Web site for downloading or printing. If you do not provide the instructions in writing, explain in your application for certification how you will ensure that each installer is informed of the installation requirements.
