
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart E - In-Use Testing
###### ยง 1045.405 How does this program work?

(a) You must test in-use engines for exhaust emissions from the families we select. We may select up to 25 percent of your engine families in any model year-or one engine family if you have three or fewer families. When we select an engine family for testing, we may specify that you preferentially test engines based on the type of vessel. In addition, we may identify specific modes of operation or sampling times. You may choose to test additional engine families that we do not select.

(b) The provisions of this paragraph (b) describe how test families are selected, depending on when we receive the application for certification.

(1) If we receive the application by December 31 of a given calendar year for the following model year (for example, by December 31, 2009 for model year 2010), we would expect to select engine families for testing by February 28 of the model year. If we have not completed the selection of engine families by February 28, you may select your own engine families for in-use testing. In this case, you must make your selections and notify us which engine families you have selected by March 31. You should consider the following factors in selecting engine families, in priority order:

(i) Select an engine family that has not recently been tested in an in-use testing regimen (and passed) under the provisions of this subpart. This should generally involve engine families that have not been selected in the previous two model years. If design changes have required new testing for certification, we would consider that this engine family has not been selected for in-use testing.

(ii) Select an engine family if we have approved an alternative approach to establishing a deterioration factor under ยง 1045.245(b)(8).

(iii) Select the engine family with the highest projected U.S.-directed production volume.

(2) If we receive an application for a given model year after December 31 of the previous calendar year, you must conduct in-use testing with that engine family without regard to the limitations specified in paragraph (a) of this section, unless we waive this requirement. We will generally waive testing under this paragraph (b)(2) only for small-volume engine manufacturers or in the case where similar testing was recently completed for a related engine family.

(c) Send us an in-use testing plan for engine families selected for testing as described in this paragraph (c). Complete the testing within 36 months after we direct you to test a particular engine family. Send us a complete in-use testing plan according to the following deadlines:

(1) Within six months after we direct you to test a particular engine family.

(2) By February 28 of the following year if you select engine families for testing under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) Within six months after we approve certification for engine families subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(4) If we request additional information or require you to modify your plan to meet the requirements of this subpart, you must provide the information or the modified plan within 30 days of our request.

(d) You may need to test engines from more than one model year at a given time.

(e) In appropriate extreme and unusual circumstances that are clearly outside your control and could not have been avoided by the exercise of prudence, diligence, and due care, we may allow more time to complete testing or we may waive the in-use testing requirement for an engine family. For example, if your test fleet is destroyed by severe weather during service accumulation and we agree that completion of testing is not possible, we would generally waive testing requirements for that engine family.
