
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### § 1045.635 What special provisions apply for small-volume engine manufacturers?

This section describes how we apply the special provisions in this part for small-volume engine manufacturers.

(a) Special provisions apply for certain small-volume engine manufacturers, as illustrated by the following examples:

(1) Additional lead time and other provisions related to the transition to new emission standards. See § 1045.145.

(2) More flexible arrangements for creating engine families for high-performance engines. See § 1045.230.

(3) Assigned deterioration factors. See § 1045.240.

(4) Waived requirements for production-line testing. See § 1045.301.

(5) Additional special provisions apply for small-volume engine and vessel manufacturers. For example, see § 1045.625 and 40 CFR 1068.250.

(b) If you use any of the provisions of this part that apply specifically to small-volume engine manufacturers and we find that you do not qualify to use these provisions, we may consider you to be in violation of the requirements that apply for companies that are not small-volume engine manufacturers. If your number of employees grows to the point that you no longer qualify as a small-volume engine manufacturer, we will work with you to determine a reasonable schedule for complying with additional requirements that apply. For example, if you no longer qualify as a small-volume engine manufacturer shortly before you certify your engines for the next model year, we might allow you to use assigned deterioration factors for one more model year.
