
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### § 1045.610 What provisions apply to using engines already certified to Small SI emission standards?

This section applies to marine engines that are identical to land-based engines certified under 40 CFR part 90 or 1054. See § 1045.605 for provisions that apply to marine engines that are certified under other programs.

(a) If an engine meets all the following criteria, it is exempt from the requirements of this part:

(1) The engine must be in an engine family that has a valid certificate of conformity showing that it meets emission standards for nonhandheld engines under 40 CFR part 90 or 1054 for the appropriate model year.

(2) You must show that fewer than 5 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in marine applications. This includes engines used in any application without regard to which company manufactures the vessel or equipment.

Show this as follows:

(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the engine, base this showing on your sales information.

(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the engine to confirm this based on its sales information.

(b) The only requirements or prohibitions from this part that apply to an engine that meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section are in this section.

(c) Engines exempted under this section are subject to all the requirements affecting engines under 40 CFR part 90 or 1054. The requirements and restrictions of 40 CFR part 90 or 1054 apply to anyone manufacturing these engines, anyone manufacturing equipment that uses these engines, and all other persons in the same manner as if these engines were not used as propulsion marine engines.

(d) You may use the provisions of § 1045.605 in addition to the provisions of this section for engines certified under 40 CFR part 1054. Where § 1045.605 references 40 CFR parts 85, 86, and/or 1048, apply the applicable provisions of 40 CFR part 1054 instead. Include the engines you sell under this section in your demonstration that you meet the sales limit in § 1045.605(d)(3).
