
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Testing Production-line Engines
###### ยง 1045.315 How do I know when my engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
####### Round deteriorated test results.

(3)Round the results to the number of decimal places in the emission standard expressed to one more decimal place.

(b) Construct the following CumSum Equation for each engine family for HC + NOand CO emissions:

(c) Use final deteriorated test results to calculate the variables in the equation in paragraph (b) of this section (see ยง 1045.315(a)).

(d) After each new test, recalculate the CumSum statistic.

(e) If you test more than the required number of engines, include the results from these additional tests in the CumSum Equation.

(f) After each test, compare the current CumSum statistic, Ci, to the recalculated Action Limit, H, defined as H = 5.0 x &#x3C3;.

(g) If the CumSum statistic exceeds the Action Limit in two consecutive tests, the engine family fails the production-line testing requirements of this subpart. Tell us within ten working days if this happens. You may request to amend the application for certification to raise the FEL of the entire engine family as described in ยง 1045.225(f).

(h) If you amend the application for certification for an engine family under ยง 1045.225, do not change any previous calculations of sample size or CumSum statistics for the model year.
