
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1045.625 What requirements apply under the Diurnal Transition Program?
####### Notification and reporting.

(d)You must notify us of your intent to use the provisions of this section and send us an annual report to verify that you are not exceeding the allowances, as follows:

(1) Before you produce vessels that are exempt under this section, send the Designated Compliance Officer a written notice of your intent with the following information:

(i) Identify your company's name and address, and your parent company's name and address, if applicable.

(ii) Identify the name, e-mail address, and phone number of a person to contact for further information.

(iii) Identify the name and address of the company you expect to produce the fuel tanks you will be using for the vessels exempted under this section.

(iv) If you qualify as a small-volume vessel manufacturer, state whether you will comply under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.

(v) Include your production figures for the period from July 31, 2009 through July 31, 2010, including figures broken down by model.

(2) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a written report by December 31, 2012. If you are a small-volume manufacturer using the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section to produce exempted vessels after July 31, 2012, send us a second report by December 31, 2013. These reports must include the total number of vessels and the number of exempted vessels you sold in the preceding year for each model, based on actual U.S.-directed production information. You may omit the count of compliant vessels if you include in the report a statement that you are not using the percent-of-production allowances in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If you initially comply using the percent-of-production allowances in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, you may not use the small-volume allowances in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for later production.

(3) If you send your initial notification under paragraph (d)(1) of this section after the specified deadline, we may approve your use of allowances under this section. In your request, describe why you were unable to meet the deadline. We will not approve your request if the delay could have been avoided with reasonable care and discretion.
