
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart I - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### ยง 1045.801 What definitions apply to this part?
####### New propulsion marine engine,new engine

ormeans any of the following things:

(1) A freshly manufactured propulsion marine engine for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title. This kind of engine might commonly be thought of as "brand new." In the case of this paragraph (1), the engine is new from the time it is produced until the ultimate purchaser receives the title or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.

(2) An engine originally manufactured as a motor vehicle engine, a nonroad engine that is not a propulsion marine engine, or a stationary engine that is later used or intended to be used as a propulsion marine engine. In this case, the engine is no longer a motor vehicle, nonpropulsion, or stationary engine and becomes a "new propulsion marine engine." The engine is no longer new when it is placed into service as a marine propulsion engine. This paragraph (2) applies for engines we exclude under ยง 1045.5, where that engine is later installed as a propulsion engine in a vessel that is covered by this part 1045.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) An engine not covered by paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition that is intended to be installed in a new vessel. This generally includes installation of used engines in new vessels. The engine is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the vessel or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.

(5) An imported marine engine, subject to the following provisions:

(i) An imported marine engine covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part that meets the criteria of one or more of paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, where the original engine manufacturer holds the certificate, is new as defined by those applicable paragraphs.

(ii) An imported engine that will be covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part, where someone other than the original engine manufacturer holds the certificate (such as when the engine is modified after its initial assembly), is a new propulsion marine engine when it is imported. It is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the engine or it is placed into service, whichever comes first.

(iii) An imported propulsion marine engine that is not covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part at the time of importation is new. This addresses uncertified engines and vessels initially placed into service that someone seeks to import into the United States. Importation of this kind of engine (or vessel containing such an engine) is generally prohibited by 40 CFR part 1068. However, the importation of such an engine is not prohibited if the engine has an earlier model year than that identified in the following table, since it is not subject to standards:
