
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1045 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SPARK-IGNITION PROPULSION MARINE ENGINES AND VESSELS
##### Subpart I - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### § 1045.825 What reporting and recordkeeping requirements apply under this part?
####### et seq.

Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501), the Office of Management and Budget approves the reporting and recordkeeping specified in the applicable regulations. The following items illustrate the kind of reporting and recordkeeping we require for engines and vessels regulated under this part:

(a) We specify the following requirements related to engine and vessel certification in this part 1045:

(1) In § 1045.20 we require vessel manufacturers to label their vessels if they are relying on component certification.

(2) In § 1045.135 we require engine manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels sent to vessel manufacturers.

(3) In § 1045.145 we include various reporting and recordkeeping requirements related to interim provisions.

(4) In subpart C of this part we identify a wide range of information required to certify engines.

(5) In §§ 1045.345 and 1045.350 we specify certain records related to production-line testing.

(6) In §§ 1045.420 and 1045.425 we specify certain records related to in-use testing.

(7) In subpart G of this part we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various special compliance provisions.

(8) In §§ 1045.725, 1045.730, and 1045.735 we specify certain records related to averaging, banking, and trading.

(b) We specify the following requirements related to vessel or component certification in 40 CFR part 1060:

(1) In 40 CFR 1060.20 we give an overview of principles for reporting information.

(2) In 40 CFR part 1060, subpart C, we identify a wide range of information required to certify products.

(3) In 40 CFR 1060.301 we require manufacturers to make engines or vessels available for our testing if we make such a request.

(4) In 40 CFR 1060.505 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published test procedures.

(c) We specify the following requirements related to testing in 40 CFR part 1065:

(1) In 40 CFR 1065.2 we give an overview of principles for reporting information.

(2) In 40 CFR 1065.10 and 1065.12 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published test procedures.

(3) In 40 CFR 1065.25 we establish basic guidelines for storing test information.

(4) In 40 CFR 1065.695 we identify data that may be appropriate for collecting during testing of in-use engines using portable analyzers.

(d) We specify the following requirements related to the general compliance provisions in 40 CFR part 1068:

(1) In 40 CFR 1068.5 we establish a process for evaluating good engineering judgment related to testing and certification.

(2) In 40 CFR 1068.25 we describe general provisions related to sending and keeping information.

(3) In 40 CFR 1068.27 we require manufacturers to make engines available for our testing or inspection if we make such a request.

(4) In 40 CFR 1068.105 we require vessel manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels from engine manufacturers.

(5) In 40 CFR 1068.120 we specify recordkeeping related to rebuilding engines.

(6) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various exemptions.

(7) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart D, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to importing engines.

(8) In 40 CFR 1068.450 and 1068.455 we specify certain records related to testing production-line engines in a selective enforcement audit.

(9) In 40 CFR 1068.501 we specify certain records related to investigating and reporting emission-related defects.

(10) In 40 CFR 1068.525 and 1068.530 we specify certain records related to recalling nonconforming engines.
