
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1048.101 What exhaust emission standards must my engines meet?
####### Engine protection.

(d)For engines that require enrichment at high loads to protect the engine, you may ask to meet alternate Tier 2 standards of 2.7 g/kW-hr for HC + NOand 31.0 g/kW-hr for CO instead of the emission standards described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for steady-state testing. If we approve your request, you must still meet the transient testing standards in paragraph (a) of this section and the field-testing standards in paragraph (c) of this section. To qualify for this allowance, you must do all the following things:

(1) Show that enrichment is necessary to protect the engine from damage.

(2) Show that you limit enrichment to operating modes that require additional cooling to protect the engine from damage.

(3) Show in your application for certification that enrichment will rarely occur in use in the equipment in which your engines are installed. For example, an engine that is expected to operate 5 percent of the time in use with enrichment would clearly not qualify.

(4) Include in your installation instructions any steps necessary for someone installing your engines to prevent enrichment during normal operation (see ยง 1048.130).
