
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### ยง 1048.20 What requirements from this part apply to excluded stationary engines?

(a) You must add a permanent label or tag to each new engine you produce or import that is excluded under ยง 1048.1(c) as a stationary engine and is not required by 40 CFR part 60, subpart JJJJ, to meet the standards and other requirements of this part 1048 that are equivalent to the requirements applicable to nonroad SI engines for the same model year. To meet labeling requirements, you must do the following things:

(1) Attach the label or tag in one piece so no one can remove it without destroying or defacing it.

(2) Secure it to a part of the engine needed for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement.

(3) Make sure it is durable and readable for the engine's entire life.

(4) Write it in English.

(5) Follow the requirements in ยง 1048.135(g) regarding duplicate labels if the engine label is obscured in the final installation.

(b) Engine labels or tags required under this section must have the following information:

(1) Include the heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(2) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.

(3) State the engine displacement (in liters) and maximum engine power.

(4) State: "THIS ENGINE IS EXCLUDED FROM THE REQUIREMENTS OF 40 CFR PART 1048 AS A "STATIONARY ENGINE" AND THE OWNER/OPERATOR MUST COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF 40 CFR PART 60. INSTALLING OR USING THIS ENGINE IN ANY OTHER APPLICATION MAY BE A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW SUBJECT TO CIVIL PENALTY.".

(c) Stationary engines required by 40 CFR part 60, subpart JJJJ, to meet the requirements of this part 1048 must meet the labeling requirements of 40 CFR 60.4242.
