
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1048.101 What exhaust emission standards must my engines meet?
####### Emission standards for transient testing.

(a)Starting in the 2007 model year, transient exhaust emissions from your engines may not exceed the Tier 2 emission standards, as follows:

(1) Measure emissions using the applicable transient test procedures described in subpart F of this part.

(2) The Tier 2 HC + NOstandard is 2.7 g/kW-hr and the Tier 2 CO standard is 4.4 g/kW-hr. For severe-duty engines, the Tier 2 HC + NOstandard is 2.7 g/kW-hr and the Tier 2 CO standard is 130.0 g/kW-hr. The following engines are not subject to the transient standards in this paragraph (a):

(i) High-load engines.

(ii) Engines with maximum engine power above 560 kW.

(iii) Engines with maximum test speed above 3400 rpm.

(iv) Constant-speed engines and severe-duty engines.

(3) You may optionally certify your engines according to the following formula instead of the standards in paragraph (a)(1) of this section: (HC + NO) x CO&#x2264;8.57. The HC + NOand CO emission levels you select to satisfy this formula, rounded to the nearest 0.1 g/kW-hr, become the emission standards that apply for those engines. You may not select an HC + NOemission standard higher than 2.7 g/kW-hr or a CO emission standard higher than 20.6 g/kW-hr. The following table illustrates a range of possible values under this paragraph (a)(3):
