
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### § 1048.205 What must I include in my application?

This section specifies the information that must be in your application, unless we ask you to include less information under § 1048.201(c). We may require you to provide additional information to evaluate your application.

(a) Describe the engine family's specifications and other basic parameters of the engine's design and emission controls. List the fuel types on which your engines are designed to operate (for example, gasoline and natural gas). List each distinguishable engine configuration in the engine family.

(b) Explain how the emission control systems operate. Describe the evaporative emission controls, if applicable. Also describe in detail all system components for controlling exhaust emissions, including all auxiliary emission control devices (AECDs) and all fuel-system components you will install on any production or test engine. Identify the part number of each component you describe. For this paragraph (b), treat as separate AECDs any devices that modulate or activate differently from each other. Include sufficient detail to allow us to evaluate whether the AECDs are consistent with the defeat device prohibition of § 1048.115.

(c) Explain how the engine diagnostic system works, describing especially the engine conditions (with the corresponding diagnostic trouble codes) that cause the malfunction-indicator light to go on. Propose what you consider to be extreme conditions under which the diagnostic system should disregard trouble codes, as described in § 1048.110.

(d) Describe the engines you selected for testing and the reasons for selecting them.

(e) Describe the test equipment and procedures that you used, including any special or alternate test procedures you used (see § 1048.501).

(f) Describe how you operated the emission-data engine before testing, including the duty cycle and the number of engine operating hours used to stabilize emission levels. Explain why you selected the method of service accumulation. Describe any scheduled maintenance you did.

(g) List the specifications of each test fuel to show that it falls within the required ranges we specify in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H.

(h) Identify the engine family's useful life.

(i) Include the maintenance instructions you will give to the ultimate purchaser of each new nonroad engine (see § 1048.125).

(j) Include the emission-related installation instructions you will provide if someone else installs your engines in a piece of nonroad equipment (see § 1048.130).

(k) Identify each high-cost warranted part and show us how you calculated its replacement cost, including the estimated retail cost of the part, labor rates, and labor hours to diagnose and replace defective parts.

(l) Describe your emission control information label (see § 1048.135).

(m) Identify the emission standards to which you are certifying engines in the engine family.

(n) Identify the engine family's deterioration factors and describe how you developed them (see § 1048.240). Present any emission test data you used for this.

(o) State that you operated your emission-data engines as described in the application (including the test procedures, test parameters, and test fuels) to show you meet the requirements of this part.

(p) Present emission data to show that you meet emission standards, as follows:

(1) Present exhaust emission data for HC, NO, and CO on an emission-data engine to show your engines meet the applicable duty-cycle emission standards we specify in § 1048.101. Show emission figures before and after applying deterioration factors for each engine. Include emission results for each mode if you do discrete-mode testing under § 1048.505. Include test data for each type of fuel from 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, on which you intend for engines in the engine family to operate (for example, gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, methanol, or natural gas). If we specify more than one grade of any fuel type (for example, a summer grade and winter grade of gasoline), you need to submit test data only for one grade unless the regulations of this part specify otherwise for your engine. Note that § 1048.235 allows you to submit an application in certain cases without new emission data.

(2) If your engine family includes a volatile liquid fuel (and you do not use design-based certification under § 1048.245), present evaporative test data to show your vehicles meet the evaporative emission standards we specify in subpart B of this part. Show these figures before and after applying deterioration factors, where applicable.

(q) State that all the engines in the engine family comply with the field-testing emission standards we specify in § 1048.101(c) for all normal operation and use when tested as specified in § 1048.515. Describe any relevant testing, engineering analysis, or other information in sufficient detail to support your statement.

(r) For engines not subject to transient testing requirements in § 148.101(a), include information showing how your emission controls will function during normal in-use transient operation. For example, this might include the following:

(1) Emission data from transient testing of engines using measurement systems designed for measuring in-use emissions.

(2) Comparison of the engine design for controlling transient emissions with that from engines for which you have emission data over the transient duty cycle for certification.

(3) Detailed descriptions of control algorithms and other design parameters for controlling transient emissions.

(s) Report test results as follows:

(1) Report all test results involving measurement of pollutants for which emission standards apply. Include test results from invalid tests or from any other tests, whether or not they were conducted according to the test procedures of subpart F of this part. We may ask you to send other information to confirm that your tests were valid under the requirements of this part and 40 CFR part 1065.

(2) Report measured CO, NO, and CHas described in § 1048.235. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit reporting NO and CH.

(t) Describe all adjustable operating parameters (see § 1048.115(e)), including production tolerances. For any operating parameters that do not qualify as adjustable parameters, include a description supporting your conclusion (see 40 CFR 1068.50(c)). Include the following in your description of each adjustable parameter:

(1) For practically adjustable parameters, include the nominal or recommended setting, the intended practically adjustable range, and the limits or stops used to establish adjustable ranges. State that the limits, stops, or other means of inhibiting adjustment are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use engines to settings outside your intended practically adjustable ranges and provide information to support this statement.

(2) For programmable operating parameters, state that you have restricted access to electronic controls to prevent parameter adjustments on in-use engines that would allow operation outside the practically adjustable range. Describe how your engines are designed to prevent unauthorized adjustments.

(u) Provide the information to read, record, and interpret all the information broadcast by an engine's onboard computers and electronic control units. State that, upon request, you will give us any hardware, software, or tools we would need to do this. If you broadcast a surrogate parameter for torque values, you must provide us what we need to convert these into torque units. You may reference any appropriate publicly released standards that define conventions for these messages and parameters. Format your information consistent with publicly released standards.

(v) Confirm that your emission-related installation instructions specify how to ensure that sampling of exhaust emissions will be possible after engines are installed in equipment and placed in service. If this cannot be done by simply adding a 20-centimeter extension to the exhaust pipe, show how to sample exhaust emissions in a way that prevents diluting the exhaust sample with ambient air.

(w) State whether your certification is intended to include engines used in stationary applications. Also state whether your certification is limited for certain engines. If this is the case, describe how you will prevent use of these engines in applications for which they are not certified. This applies for engines such as the following:

(1) Constant-speed engines.

(2) Variable-speed engines.

(x) Unconditionally certify that all the engines in the engine family comply with the requirements of this part, other referenced parts of the CFR, and the Clean Air Act.

(y) Include good-faith estimates of U.S.-directed production volumes. Include a justification for the estimated production volumes if they are substantially different than actual production volumes in earlier years for similar models.

(z) Include other applicable information, such as information specified in this part or part 1068 of this chapter related to requests for exemptions.

(aa) Name an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.
