
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Testing In-use Engines
###### ยง 1048.401 What testing requirements apply to my engines that have gone into service?

(a) If you produce engines that are subject to the requirements of this part, you must test them as described in this subpart. This generally involves testing engines in the field or removing them for measurement in a laboratory.

(b) We may approve an alternate plan for showing that in-use engines comply with the requirements of this part if one of the following is true:

(1) You produce 200 or fewer engines per year in the selected engine family.

(2) Removing the engine from most of the applications for that engine family causes significant, irreparable damage to the equipment.

(3) You identify a unique aspect of your engine applications that keeps you from doing the required in-use testing.

(c) We may void your certificate of conformity for an engine family if you do not meet your obligations under this part.

(d) Independent of your responsibility to test in-use engines, we may choose at any time to do our own testing of your in-use engines.

(e) If in-use testing shows that engines fail to meet emission standards or other requirements of this part, we may pursue a recall or other remedy as allowed by the Act (see ยง 1048.415).
