
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Testing In-use Engines
###### ยง 1048.420 What in-use testing information must I report to EPA?

(a) In a report to us within three months after you finish testing an engine family, do all the following:

(1) Identify the engine family, model, serial number, and date of manufacture.

(2) For each engine inspected or considered for testing, identify whether the diagnostic system was functioning.

(3) Describe the specific reasons for disqualifying any engines for not being properly maintained or used.

(4) For each engine selected for testing, include the following information:

(i) Estimate the hours each engine was used before testing.

(ii) Describe all maintenance, adjustments, modifications, and repairs to each test engine.

(5) State the date and time of each test attempt.

(6) Include the results of all emission testing, including incomplete or invalidated tests, if any.

(b) Send electronic reports of in-use testing to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.

(c) We will send copies of your reports to anyone from the public who asks for them. See ยง 1048.815 for information on how we treat information you consider confidential.

(d) We may ask for more information.
