
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1048.135 How must I label and identify the engines I produce?

(a) Assign each engine a unique identification number and permanently affix, engrave, or stamp it on the engine in a legible way.

(b) At the time of manufacture, affix a permanent and legible label identifying each engine. The label must be-

(1) Attached in one piece so it is not removable without being destroyed or defaced.

(2) Secured to a part of the engine needed for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement.

(3) Durable and readable for the engine's entire life.

(4) Written in English.

(c) The label must-

(1) Include the heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(2) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may identify another company and use its trademark instead of yours if you comply with the provisions of § 1048.635.

(3) Include EPA's standardized designation for the engine family (and subfamily, where applicable).

(4) State the engine's displacement (in liters); however, you may omit this from the label if all the engines in the engine family have the same per-cylinder displacement and total displacement.

(5) State the date of manufacture [DAY (optional), MONTH, and YEAR]; however, you may omit this from the label if you stamp, engrave, or otherwise permanently identify it elsewhere on the engine, in which case you must also describe in your application for certification where you will identify the date on the engine.

(6) Identify the emission control system. Use terms and abbreviations as described in 40 CFR 1068.45. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.

(7) State: "THIS ENGINE IS CERTIFIED TO OPERATE ON [specify operating fuel or fuels]."

(8) Identify any requirements for fuel and lubricants. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.

(9) List specifications and adjustments for engine tuneups; show the proper position for the transmission during tuneup and state which accessories should be operating. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.

(10) State the useful life for your engine family if it has a longer useful life under § 1048.101(g)(1) or a shortened useful life under § 1048.101(g)(2).

(11) Identify the emission standards to which you have certified the engine (in g/kW-hr).

(12) Include one of the following compliance statements:

(i) For engines that may be used in nonroad or stationary equipment, state: "THIS ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR [MODEL YEAR] NONROAD AND STATIONARY ENGINES."

(ii) For engines that will be used only in nonroad equipment, state: "THIS ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR [MODEL YEAR] NONROAD ENGINES."

(iii) For engines that will be used only in stationary equipment, state: "THIS ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR [MODEL YEAR] STATIONARY ENGINES."

(13) Include any of the following additional statements for special situations if they apply to your engines:

(i) If your engines are certified only for constant-speed operation, state: "USE IN CONSTANT-SPEED APPLICATIONS ONLY."

(ii) If your engines are certified only for variable-speed operation, state: "USE IN VARIABLE-SPEED APPLICATIONS ONLY."

(iii) If your engines are certified only for high-load engines, state: "THIS ENGINE IS NOT INTENDED FOR OPERATION AT LESS THAN 75 PERCENT OF FULL LOAD."

(iv) If you certify your engines under § 1048.101(d), and show in your application for certification that in-use engines will experience infrequent high-load operation, state: "THIS ENGINE IS NOT INTENDED FOR OPERATION AT MORE THAN PERCENT OF FULL LOAD." Specify the appropriate percentage of full load based on the nature of the engine protection. You may add other statements to discourage operation in engine-protection modes.

(v) If your engines are certified to the voluntary standards in § 1048.140, state: "BLUE SKY SERIES" and identify the standard to which you certify the engines.

(d) You may add information to the emission control information label to identify other emission standards that the engine meets or does not meet (such as California standards). You may also add other information to ensure that the engine will be properly maintained and used.

(e) You may ask us to approve modified labeling requirements in this part 1048 if you show that it is necessary or appropriate. We will approve your request if your alternate label is consistent with the requirements of this part.

(f) If you obscure the engine label while installing the engine in the equipment such that the label cannot be read during normal maintenance, you must place a duplicate label on the equipment. If others install your engine in their equipment in a way that obscures the engine label, we require them to add a duplicate label on the equipment (see 40 CFR 1068.105); in that case, give them the number of duplicate labels they request and keep the following records for at least five years:

(1) Written documentation of the request from the equipment manufacturer.

(2) The number of duplicate labels you send for each engine family and the date you sent them.
