
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1048.125 What maintenance instructions must I give to buyers?
####### Critical emission-related maintenance.

(a)Critical emission-related maintenance includes any adjustment, cleaning, repair, or replacement of critical emission-related components. This may also include additional emission-related maintenance that you determine is critical if we approve it in advance. You may schedule critical emission-related maintenance on these components if you meet the following conditions:

(1) You demonstrate that the maintenance is reasonably likely to be done at the recommended intervals on in-use engines. We will accept scheduled maintenance as reasonably likely to occur if you satisfy any of the following conditions:

(i) You present data showing that, if a lack of maintenance increases emissions, it also unacceptably degrades the engine's performance.

(ii) You present survey data showing that at least 80 percent of engines in the field get the maintenance you specify at the recommended intervals.

(iii) You provide the maintenance free of charge and clearly say so in your maintenance instructions

(iv) You otherwise show us that the maintenance is reasonably likely to be done at the recommended intervals.

(2) You may not schedule critical emission-related maintenance more frequently than the following minimum intervals, except as specified in paragraphs (a)(3), (b) and (c) of this section:

(i) For catalysts, fuel injectors, electronic control units, superchargers, and turbochargers: The useful life of the engine family.

(ii) For gaseous fuel-system components (cleaning without disassembly only) and oxygen sensors: 2,500 hours.

(3) If your engine family has an alternate useful life under ยง 1048.101(g) that is shorter than the period specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, you may not schedule critical emission-related maintenance more frequently than the alternate useful life, except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) You may ask us to approve a maintenance interval shorter than that specified in paragraphs (a)(2) of this section. In your request you must describe the proposed maintenance step, recommend the maximum feasible interval for this maintenance, include your rationale with supporting evidence to support the need for the maintenance at the recommended interval, and demonstrate that the maintenance will be done at the recommended interval on in-use engines. In considering your request, we will evaluate the information you provide and any other available information to establish alternate specifications for maintenance intervals, if appropriate.
