
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Testing In-use Engines
###### ยง 1048.415 What happens if in-use engines do not meet requirements?

(a) Determine the reason each in-use engine exceeds the emission standards.

(b) If the average emission levels calculated in ยง 1048.410(h) exceed any of the emission standards that apply, notify us within fifteen days of completing testing on this family. Otherwise follow the reporting instructions in ยง 1048.420.

(c) We will consider failure rates, average emission levels, and any defects-among other things-to decide on taking remedial action under this subpart (see 40 CFR 1068.505). We may consider the results from any voluntary additional testing you perform. We may also consider information related to testing from other engine families showing that you designed them to exceed the minimum requirements for controlling emissions. We may order a recall before or after you complete testing of an engine family if we determine a substantial number of engines do not conform to section 213 of the Act or to this part. The scope of the recall may include other engine families in the same or different model years if the cause of the problem identified in paragraph (a) of this section applies more broadly than the tested engine family, as allowed by the Act.

(d) If in-use testing reveals a design or manufacturing defect that prevents engines from meeting the requirements of this part, you must correct the defect as soon as possible for any future production for engines in every family affected by the defect. See 40 CFR 1068.501 for additional requirements related to defect reporting.

(e) You may voluntarily recall an engine family for emission failures, as described in 40 CFR 1068.535, unless we have ordered a recall for that family under 40 CFR 1068.505.

(f) You have the right to a hearing before we order you to recall your engines or implement an alternative remedy (see ยง 1048.820).
