
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1048.240 How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with exhaust emission standards?
####### See

(a) For purposes of certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the applicable numerical emission standards in ยง 1048.101(a) and (b) if all emission-data engines representing that family have test results showing official emission results and deteriorated emission levels at or below these standards. This includes all test points over the course of the durability demonstration. This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors.paragraph (e) of this section for provisions related to demonstrating compliance with field-testing standards.

(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing an official emission result or a deteriorated emission level for any pollutant that is above an applicable emission standard from ยง 1048.101(a) and (b). Similarly, your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing any emission level above the applicable field-testing standard for any pollutant. This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors.

(c) To compare emission levels from the emission-data engine with the applicable emission standards, apply deterioration factors to the measured emission levels for each pollutant. Specify the deterioration factors based on emission measurements using four significant figures, consistent with good engineering judgment. For example, your deterioration factors must take into account any available data from in-use testing with similar engines (see subpart E of this part). Small-volume engine manufacturers may use assigned deterioration factors that we establish. In addition, anyone may use assigned deterioration factors for engine families with a projected U.S.-directed production volume at or below 300 engines. Apply deterioration factors as follows:
