
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1048.240 How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with exhaust emission standards?
####### Additive deterioration factor.

(2)Use an additive deterioration factor for exhaust emissions if engines do not use aftertreatment technology. Also, you may use an additive deterioration factor for exhaust emissions for a particular pollutant if all the emission-data engines in the engine family have low-hour emission levels at or below 0.3 g/kW-hr for HC + NOor 0.5 g/kW-hr for CO, unless a multiplicative deterioration factor is more appropriate. For example, you should use a multiplicative deterioration factor if emission increases are best represented by the ratio of exhaust emissions at the end of the useful life to exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. An additive deterioration factor is the difference between exhaust emissions at the end of useful life and exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. Adjust the official emission results for each tested engine at the selected test point by adding the factor to the measured emissions. If the factor is less than zero, use zero.

(d) Collect emission data using measurements to one more decimal place than the applicable standard. Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data engine. In the case of HC + NOstandards, apply the deterioration factor to each pollutant and then add the results before rounding.

(e) Use good engineering judgment to demonstrate compliance with field-testing standards throughout the useful life. You may, but are not required to, apply the same deterioration factors used to show compliance with the applicable duty-cycle standards.

(f) You may alternatively determine and verify deterioration factors based on bench-aged aftertreatment as described in 40 CFR 1036.245 and 1036.246, with the following exceptions:

(1) The minimum required aging for engines as specified in 40 CFR 1036.245(c)(2) is 300 hours. Operate the engine for service accumulation using the same sequence of duty cycles that would apply for determining a deterioration factor under paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Use good engineering judgment to perform verification testing using the procedures of ยง 1048.515 rather than 40 CFR 1036.555. For PEMS testing, measure emissions as the equipment goes through its normal operation over the course of the day (or shift-day).
