
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1048.640 What special provisions apply for small-volume engine manufacturers?

This section describes how we apply the special provisions in this part for small-volume engine manufacturers.

(a) Special provisions apply for small-volume engine manufacturers, as illustrated by the following examples:

(1) Waived requirements related to torque broadcasting. See ยง 1048.115.

(2) Assigned deterioration factors to reduce testing burden. See ยง 1048.240.

(3) Additional special provisions apply for small-volume engine and equipment manufacturers under 40 CFR part 1068. For example, see 40 CFR 1068.250.

(b) If you use any of the provisions of this part that apply specifically to small-volume engine manufacturers and we find that you do not qualify to use these provisions, we may consider you to be in violation of the requirements that apply for companies that are not small-volume engine manufacturers. If you no longer qualify as a small-volume engine manufacturer (based on increased production volumes or other factors), we will work with you to determine a reasonable schedule for complying with additional requirements that apply. For example, if you no longer qualify as a small-volume engine manufacturer shortly before you certify your engines for the next model year, we might allow you to use assigned deterioration factors for one more model year.
