
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1048 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1048.615 What are the provisions for exempting engines designed for lawn and garden applications?

This section is intended for engines designed for lawn and garden applications, but it applies to any engines meeting the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section.

(a) If an engine meets all the following criteria, it is exempt from the requirements of this part:

(1) The engine must have a nominal displacement of 1000 cc or less.

(2) The engine must have a maximum engine power at or below 30 kW.

(3) The engine must be in an engine family that has a valid certificate of conformity showing that it meets emission standards for Class II engines under 40 CFR part 90 or 1054 for the appropriate model year.

(b) The only requirements or prohibitions from this part that apply to an engine that meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section are in this section.

(c) If your engines do not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (a) of this section, they will be subject to the provisions of this part. Introducing these engines into commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101.

(d) Engines exempted under this section are subject to all the requirements affecting engines under 40 CFR part 90 or 1054. The requirements and restrictions of 40 CFR part 90 or 1054 apply to anyone manufacturing these engines, anyone manufacturing equipment that uses these engines, and all other persons in the same manner as if these engines had a total maximum engine power at or below 19 kW.
