
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1051.137 What are the consumer labeling requirements?

Label every vehicle certified under this part with a removable hang-tag showing its emission characteristics relative to other models. The label should be attached securely to the vehicle before it is offered for sale in such a manner that it would not be accidentally removed prior to sale. Use the applicable equations of this section to determine the normalized emission rate (NER) from the FEL for your vehicle. If the vehicle is certified without a family emission limit that is different than the otherwise applicable standard, use the final deteriorated emission level. Round the resulting normalized emission rate for your vehicle to one decimal place. If the calculated NER value is less than zero, consider NER to be zero for that vehicle. We may specify a standardized format for labels. At a minimum, the tag should include: the manufacturer's name, vehicle model name, engine description (500 cc two-stroke with DFI), the NER, and a brief explanation of the scale (for example, note that 0 is the cleanest and 10 is the least clean).

(a) For snowmobiles, use the following equation:

(b) For off-highway motorcycles, use the following equations:

(1) For off-highway motorcycles certified to the standards in § 1051.105, use one of the equations specified below.

(i) If the vehicle has HC + NOemissions less than or equal to 2.0 g/km, use the following equation:

(ii) If the vehicle has HC + NOemissions greater than 2.0 g/km, use the following equation:

(2) For off-highway motorcycles certified to the standards in § 1051.615(b), use the following equation:

(c) For ATVs, use the following equations:

(1) For ATVs certified to the standards in § 1051.107, use one of the equations specified below.

(i) If the vehicle has HC + NOemissions less than or equal to 1.5 g/km, use the following equation:

(ii) If the vehicle has HC + NOemissions greater than 1.5 g/km, use the following equation:

(2) For ATVs certified to the standards in § 1051.615(a), use the following equation:
