
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### § 1051.205 What must I include in my application?

This section specifies the information that must be in your application, unless we ask you to include less information under § 1051.201(c). We may require you to provide additional information to evaluate your application.

(a) Describe the engine family's specifications and other basic parameters of the vehicle's design and emission controls. List the fuel type on which your engines are designed to operate (for example, gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, methanol, or natural gas). List vehicle configurations and model names that are included in the engine family.

(b) Explain how the emission control systems operate. Describe the evaporative emission controls. Also describe in detail all system components for controlling exhaust emissions, including all auxiliary emission control devices (AECDs) and all fuel-system components you will install on any production or test vehicle or engine. Identify the part number of each component you describe. For this paragraph (b), treat as separate AECDs any devices that modulate or activate differently from each other. Include sufficient detail to allow us to evaluate whether the AECDs are consistent with the defeat device prohibition of § 1051.115.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Describe the vehicles or engines you selected for testing and the reasons for selecting them.

(e) Describe the test equipment and procedures that you used, including any special or alternate test procedures you used (see § 1051.501).

(f) Describe how you operated the emission-data vehicle before testing, including the duty cycle and the extent of engine operation used to stabilize emission levels. Explain why you selected the method of service accumulation. Describe any scheduled maintenance you did.

(g) List the specifications of the test fuel to show that it falls within the required ranges we specify in 40 CFR part 1065.

(h) Identify the engine family's useful life.

(i) Include the maintenance instructions you will give to the ultimate purchaser of each new vehicle (see § 1051.125).

(j) Include the emission-related installation instructions you will provide if someone else installs your engines in a vehicle (see § 1051.130).

(k) Describe the labels you create to meet the requirements of § 1051.135.

(l) Identify the exhaust emission standards or FELs to which you are certifying engines in the engine family.

(m) Identify the engine family's deterioration factors and describe how you developed them (see § 1051.243 and § 1051.245). Present any emission test data you used for this.

(n) State that you operated your emission-data vehicles as described in the application (including the test procedures, test parameters, and test fuels) to show you meet the requirements of this part.

(o) Present emission data to show that you meet emission standards, as follows:

(1) Present exhaust emission data for hydrocarbons (such as NMHC or THCE, as applicable), NO, and CO on an emission-data vehicle to show your vehicles meet the exhaust emission standards as specified in subpart B of this part. Show emission figures before and after applying deterioration factors for each vehicle or engine. If we specify more than one grade of any fuel type (for example, a summer grade and winter grade of gasoline), you need to submit test data only for one grade unless the regulations of this part specify otherwise for your engine.

(2) Present evaporative test data for hydrocarbons to show your vehicles meet the evaporative emission standards we specify in subpart B of this part. Show emission figures before and after applying deterioration factors for each vehicle or engine, where applicable. If you did not perform the testing, identify the source of the test data.

(3) Note that § 1051.235 and § 1051.245 allow you to submit an application in certain cases without new emission data.

(p) Report test results as follows:

(1) Report all test results involving measurement of pollutants for which emission standards apply. Include test results from invalid tests or from any other tests, whether or not they were conducted according to the test procedures of subpart F of this part. We may ask you to send other information to confirm that your tests were valid under the requirements of this part and 40 CFR parts 86 and 1065.

(2) Report measured CO, NO, and CHas described in § 1051.235. Small-volume manufacturers may omit reporting NO and CH.

(q) Describe all adjustable operating parameters (see § 1051.115(e)), including production tolerances. For any operating parameters that do not qualify as adjustable parameters, include a description supporting your conclusion (see 40 CFR 1068.50(c)). Include the following in your description of each adjustable parameter:

(1) For practically adjustable parameters, include the nominal or recommended setting, the intended practically adjustable range, and the limits or stops used to establish adjustable ranges. State that the limits, stops, or other means of inhibiting adjustment are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use engines to settings outside your intended practically adjustable ranges and provide information to support this statement.

(2) For programmable operating parameters, state that you have restricted access to electronic controls to prevent parameter adjustments on in-use engines that would allow operation outside the practically adjustable range. Describe how your engines are designed to prevent unauthorized adjustments.

(r) Confirm that your emission-related installation instructions specify how to ensure that sampling of exhaust emissions will be possible after engines are installed in equipment and placed in service. If this cannot be done by simply adding a 20-centimeter extension to the exhaust pipe, show how to sample exhaust emissions in a way that prevents diluting the exhaust sample with ambient air.

(s) Unconditionally certify that all the vehicles and/or engines in the engine family comply with the requirements of this part, other referenced parts of the CFR, and the Clean Air Act.

(t) Include good-faith estimates of U.S.-directed production volumes. Include a justification for the estimated production volumes if they are substantially different than actual production volumes in earlier years for similar models.

(u) Include the information required by other subparts of this part. For example, include the information required by § 1051.725 if you participate in the ABT program.

(v) Include other applicable information, such as information specified in this part or 40 CFR part 1068 related to requests for exemptions.

(w) Name an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.
