
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### ยง 1051.15 Do any other regulation parts apply to me?

(a) Parts 86 and 1065 of this chapter describe procedures and equipment specifications for testing vehicles and engines to measure exhaust emissions. Subpart F of this part 1051 describes how to apply the provisions of parts 86 and 1065 of this chapter to determine whether vehicles meet the exhaust emission standards in this part.

(b) Part 1060 of this chapter describes standards and procedures that optionally apply for controlling evaporative emissions from engines fueled by gasoline or other volatile liquid fuels and the associated fuel systems.

(c) The requirements and prohibitions of part 1068 of this chapter apply to everyone, including anyone who manufactures, imports, installs, owns, operates, or rebuilds any of the vehicles subject to this part 1051, or vehicles containing these engines. Part 1068 of this chapter describes general provisions, including these seven areas:

(1) Prohibited acts and penalties for manufacturers and others.

(2) Rebuilding and other aftermarket changes.

(3) Exclusions and exemptions for certain vehicles and engines.

(4) Importing vehicles and engines.

(5) Selective enforcement audits of your production.

(6) Defect reporting and recall.

(7) Procedures for hearings.

(d) Other parts of this chapter apply if referenced in this part.
