
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1051.110 What evaporative emission standards must my vehicles meet?

Your new vehicles that run on a volatile liquid fuel (such as gasoline) must meet the emission standards of this section over their full useful life. Note that ยง 1051.245 allows you to use design-based certification instead of generating new emission data.

(a) Beginning with the 2008 model year, permeation emissions from your vehicle's fuel tank(s) may not exceed 1.5 grams per square-meter per day when measured with the test procedures for tank permeation in subpart F of this part. You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program, as described in subpart H of this part.

(b) Beginning with the 2008 model year, permeation emissions from your vehicle's fuel lines may not exceed 15 grams per square-meter per day when measured with the test procedures for fuel-line permeation in subpart F of this part. Use the inside diameter of the hose to determine the surface area of the hose.

(c) You may certify your fuel tanks and fuel lines under the provisions of 40 CFR part 1060. You may also specify in your application for certification that you are using components that have been certified by the component manufacturer.
