
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Testing Production-Line Vehicles and Engines
###### § 1051.345 What production-line testing records must I send to EPA?

(a) Within 30 calendar days of the end of each test period, send us a report with the following information:

(1) Describe any facility used to test production-line vehicles or engines and state its location.

(2) State the total U.S.-directed production volume and number of tests for each engine family.

(3) Describe how you randomly selected vehicles or engines.

(4) Describe each test vehicle or engine, including the engine family's identification and the vehicle's model year, build date, model number, identification number, and number of hours of operation before testing.

(5) Identify how you accumulated hours of operation on the vehicles or engines and describe the procedure and schedule you used.

(6) Provide the test number; the date, time and duration of testing; test procedure; all initial test results; final test results; and final deteriorated test results for all tests. Provide the emission results for all measured pollutants. Include information for both valid and invalid tests and the reason for any invalidation.

(7) Describe completely and justify any nonroutine adjustment, modification, repair, preparation, maintenance, or test for the test vehicle or engine if you did not report it separately under this subpart. Include the results of any emission measurements, regardless of the procedure or type of vehicle.

(8) Provide the CumSum analysis required in § 1051.315 and the sample-size calculation required in § 1051.310 for each engine family.

(9) Report on each failed vehicle or engine as described in § 1051.320.

(10) State the date the test period ended for each engine family.

(b) We may ask you to add information to your written report, so we can determine whether your new vehicles conform with the requirements of this subpart. We may also ask you to send less information.

(c) An authorized representative of your company must sign the following statement: We submit this report under Sections 208 and 213 of the Clean Air Act. Our production-line testing conformed completely with the requirements of 40 CFR part 1051. We have not changed production processes or quality-control procedures for test engines (or vehicles) in a way that might affect emission controls. All the information in this report is true and accurate, to the best of my knowledge. I know of the penalties for violating the Clean Air Act and the regulations. (Authorized Company Representative)

(d) Send electronic reports of production-line testing to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.

(e) We will send copies of your reports to anyone from the public who asks for them. See § 1051.815 for information on how we treat information you consider confidential.
