
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1051.135 How must I label and identify the vehicles I produce?

Each of your vehicles must have three labels: a vehicle identification number as described in paragraph (a) of this section, an emission control information label as described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, and a consumer information label as described in § 1051.137.

(a) Assign each vehicle a unique identification number and permanently affix, engrave, or stamp it on the vehicle in a legible way.

(b) At the time of manufacture, affix a permanent and legible emission control information label identifying each vehicle. The label must be

(1) Attached so it is not removable without being destroyed or defaced.

(2) Secured to a part of the vehicle (or engine) needed for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement.

(3) Durable and readable for the vehicle's entire life.

(4) Written in English.

(c) The label must-

(1) Include the heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(2) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may identify another company and use its trademark instead of yours if you comply with the provisions of § 1051.645.

(3) Include EPA's standardized designation for engine families, as described in § 1051.230.

(4) State the engine's displacement (in liters). You may omit this from the emission control information label if the vehicle is permanently labeled with a unique model name that corresponds to a specific displacement. Also, you may omit displacement from the label if all the engines in the engine family have the same per-cylinder displacement and total displacement.

(5) State: "THIS VEHICLE IS CERTIFIED TO OPERATE ON [specify operating fuel or fuels].".

(6) State the date of manufacture [DAY (optional), MONTH, and YEAR]; however, you may omit this from the label if you stamp, engrave, or otherwise permanently identify it elsewhere on the vehicle or engine, in which case you must also describe in your application for certification where you will identify the date on the vehicle or engine.

(7) State the exhaust emission standards or FELs to which the vehicles are certified (in g/km or g/kW-hr). Also, state the FEL that applies for the fuel tank if it is different than the otherwise applicable standard.

(8) Identify the emission-control system. Use terms and abbreviations as described in 40 CFR 1068.45. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owner's manual instead.

(9) List specifications and adjustments for engine tuneups; show the proper position for the transmission during tuneup and state which accessories should be operating.

(10) Identify the fuel type and any requirements for fuel and lubricants. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.

(11) State the useful life for your engine family if it is different than the minimum value.

(12) State: "THIS VEHICLE MEETS U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR [MODEL YEAR] [SNOWMOBILES or OFF-ROAD MOTORCYCLES or ATVs or OFFROAD UTILITY VEHICLES]."

(13) Identify evaporative emission controls as specified in 40 CFR 1060.135.

(d) You may add information to the emission control information label to identify other emission standards that the vehicle meets or does not meet (such as California standards). You may also add other information to ensure that the engine will be properly maintained and used.

(e) You may ask us to approve modified labeling requirements in this part 1051 if you show that it is necessary or appropriate. We will approve your request if your alternate label is consistent with the requirements of this part.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) Label every vehicle certified under this part with a removable hang-tag showing its emission characteristics relative to other models, as described in § 1051.137.
