
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1051.115 What other requirements apply?
####### Other adjustments.

(d)The following provisions apply for engines with carburetor jets or needles, and for engines with any other technology involving service to adjust air-fuel ratio that falls within the time and cost specifications of 40 CFR 1068.50(d)(1):

(1) In your application for certification, specify the practically adjustable range of air-fuel ratios you expect to occur in use. You may specify it in terms of engine parts (such as the carburetor jet size and needle configuration as a function of atmospheric conditions).

(2) The practically adjustable range specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section must include all air-fuel ratios between the lean limit and the rich limit, unless you can show that some air-fuel ratios will not occur in use.

(i) The lean limit is the air-fuel ratio that produces the highest engine power output (averaged over the test cycle).

(ii) The rich limit is the richest of the following air-fuel ratios:

(A) The air-fuel ratio that would result from operating the vehicle as you produce it at the specified test conditions. This paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) does not apply if you produce the vehicle with an unjetted carburetor so that the vehicle must be jetted by the dealer or operator.

(B) The air-fuel ratio of the engine when you do durability testing.

(C) The richest air-fuel ratio that you recommend to your customers for the applicable ambient conditions.

(3) If the air-fuel ratio of your vehicle is adjusted primarily by changing the carburetor jet size and/or needle configuration, you may submit your recommended jetting chart instead of the range of air-fuel ratios required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section if the following criteria are met:

(i) Good engineering judgment indicates that vehicle operators would not have an incentive to operate the vehicle with richer air-fuel ratios than recommended.

(ii) The chart is based on use of a fuel that is equivalent to the specified test fuel(s). As an alternative you may submit a chart based on a representative in-use fuel if you also provide instructions for converting the chart to be applicable to the test fuel(s).

(iii) The chart is specified in units that are adequate to make it practical for an operator to keep the vehicle properly jetted during typical use. For example, charts that specify jet sizes based on increments of temperature smaller than 20 &#xB0;F (11.1 &#xB0;C) or increments of altitude less than 2000 feet would not meet this criteria. Temperature ranges must overlap by at least 5 &#xB0;F (2.8 &#xB0;C).

(iv) You follow the jetting chart for durability testing.

(v) You do not produce your vehicles with jetting richer than the jetting chart recommendation for the intended vehicle use.

(vi) The adjustable range of carburetor screws, such as air screw, fuel screw, and idle-speed screw must be defined by stops, limits, or specification on the jetting chart consistent with the requirements for specifying jet sizes and needle configuration in this section.

(4) We may require you to adjust the engine to any specification within the adjustable range during certification testing, production-line testing, selective enforcement auditing, or in-use testing. If we allow you to submit your recommended jetting chart instead of the range of air-fuel ratios required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, adjust the engine to the richest specification within the jetting chart for the test conditions, unless we specify a leaner setting. We may not specify a setting leaner than that described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.
