
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1051.240 How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with exhaust emission standards?

(a) For purposes of certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the applicable numerical exhaust emission standards in subpart B of this part if all emission-data vehicles representing that family have test results showing deteriorated emission levels at or below these standards. This includes all test points over the course of the durability demonstration. (Note: if you participate in the ABT program in subpart H of this part, your FELs are considered to be the applicable emission standards with which you must comply.)

(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data vehicle representing that family has test results showing a deteriorated emission level for any pollutant that is above an applicable FEL or emission standard. This includes all test points over the course of the durability demonstration.

(c) To compare emission levels from the emission-data vehicle with the applicable emission standards, apply deterioration factors to the measured emission levels. Section 1051.243 specifies how to test your vehicle to develop deterioration factors that represent the deterioration expected in emissions over your vehicle's full useful life. Your deterioration factors must take into account any available data from in-use testing with similar engines. Small-volume manufacturers may use assigned deterioration factors that we establish. Apply deterioration factors as follows:

(1) For vehicles that use aftertreatment technology, such as catalytic converters, use a multiplicative deterioration factor for exhaust emissions. A multiplicative deterioration factor is the ratio of exhaust emissions at the end of the useful life and exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. In these cases, adjust the official emission results for each tested vehicle or engine at the selected test point by multiplying the measured emissions by the deterioration factor. If the factor is less than one, use one. Multiplicative deterioration factors must be specified to three significant figures.

(2) For vehicles that do not use aftertreatment technology, use an additive deterioration factor for exhaust emissions. An additive deterioration factor for a pollutant is the difference between exhaust emissions at the end of the useful life and exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. In these cases, adjust the official emission results for each tested vehicle or engine at the selected test point by adding the factor to the measured emissions. If the factor is less than zero, use zero. Additive deterioration factors must be specified to one more decimal place than the applicable standard.

(d) Collect emission data using measurements to one more decimal place than the applicable standard. Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data vehicle. In the case of HC + NOstandards, add the emission results and apply the deterioration factor to the sum of the pollutants before rounding. However, if your deterioration factors are based on emission measurements that do not cover the vehicle's full useful life, apply the deterioration factor to each pollutant and then add the results before rounding.
