
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart G - Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1051.605 What provisions apply to engines already certified under the motor vehicle program or the Large Spark-ignition program?
####### Specific requirements.

(d)If you are an engine or vehicle manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new engine or vehicle, the vehicle using the engine is eligible for an exemption under this section:

(1) Your engine must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048.

(2) You must not make any changes to the certified engine that could reasonably be expected to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions. For example, if you make any of the following changes to one of these engines, you do not qualify for this exemption:

(i) Change any fuel system or evaporative system parameters from the certified configuration (this does not apply to refueling controls).

(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the engine manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.

(iii) Modify or design the engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original engine manufacturer's specified ranges.

(3) You must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in recreational vehicles. This includes engines used in any application, without regard to which company manufactures the vehicle or equipment. Show this as follows:

(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the engine, base this showing on your sales information.

(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the engine to confirm this based on its sales information.

(4) You must ensure that the engine has the emission control information label we require under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048.

(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the engine in a position where it will remain clearly visible after installation in the vehicle. In the supplemental label, do the following:

(i) Include the heading: "RECREATIONAL VEHICLE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.

(iii) State: "THIS ENGINE WAS ADAPTED FOR A RECREATIONAL USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS.".

(iv) State the date you finished installation (month and year), if applicable.

(6) The original and supplemental labels must be readily visible after the engine is installed in the vehicle or, if the vehicle obscures the engine's emission control information label, the make sure the vehicle manufacturer attaches duplicate labels, as described in 40 CFR 1068.105.

(7) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter by the end of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you) with all the following information:

(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.

(ii) List the engine or vehicle models you expect to produce under this exemption in the coming year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(iii) State: "We produce each listed [engine or vehicle] model for recreational application without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1051.605.".
