
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart G - Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1051.610 What provisions apply to vehicles already certified under the motor vehicle program?
####### Specific requirements.

(d)If you are a motor-vehicle manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new recreational vehicle and its engine, the vehicle is eligible for an exemption under this section:

(1) Your vehicle must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity as a motor vehicle issued under 40 CFR part 86.

(2) You must not make any changes to the certified vehicle that we could reasonably expect to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions if it is subject to evaporative-emission standards. For example, if you make any of the following changes, you do not qualify for this exemption:

(i) Change any fuel system parameters from the certified configuration.

(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the vehicle manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.

(iii) Modify or design the engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original vehicle manufacturer's specified ranges.

(iv) Add more than 500 pounds to the curb weight of the originally certified motor vehicle.

(3) You must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in recreational vehicles. This includes any type of vehicle, without regard to which company completes the manufacturing of the recreational vehicle. Show this as follows:

(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the vehicle, base this showing on your sales information.

(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the vehicle to confirm this based on their sales information.

(4) The vehicle must have the vehicle emission control information we require under 40 CFR part 86.

(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the vehicle in a position where it will remain clearly visible. In the supplemental label, do the following:

(i) Include the heading: "RECREATIONAL VEHICLE ENGINE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.

(iii) State: "THIS VEHICLE WAS ADAPTED FOR RECREATIONAL USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS.".

(iv) State the date you finished modifying the vehicle (month and year), if applicable.

(6) The original and supplemental labels must be readily visible in the fully assembled vehicle.

(7) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter by the end of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you) with all the following information:

(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.

(ii) List the vehicle models you expect to produce under this exemption in the coming year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(iii) State: "We produced each listed engine or vehicle model for recreational application without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1051.610.".
