
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
###### § 1051.701 General provisions.

(a) You may average, bank, and trade emission credits for purposes of certification as described in this subpart to show compliance with the standards of this part. To do this you must certify your engines to Family Emission Limits (FELs) and show that your average emission levels for all your engine families together are below the emission standards in subpart B of this part, or that you have sufficient credits to offset a credit deficit for the model year (as calculated in § 1051.720).

(b) The following averaging set restrictions apply:

(1) You may not average together engine families that are certified to different standards. You may, however, use banked credits that were generated relative to different standards, except as prohibited by paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, paragraph (e) of this section, or by other provisions in this part. For example, you may not average together within a model year off-highway motorcycles that are certified to the standards in § 1051.105(a)(1) and § 1051.105(a)(2); but you may use banked credits generated by off-highway motorcycles that are certified to the standards in § 1051.105(a)(1) to show compliance with the standards in § 1051.105(a)(2) in a later model year, and vice versa.

(2) There are separate averaging, banking, and trading programs for snowmobiles, ATVs, and off-highway motorcycles. You may not average or exchange banked or traded credits from engine families of one type of vehicle with those from engine families of another type of vehicle.

(3) You may not average or exchange banked or traded credits with other engine families if you use fundamentally different measurement procedures for the different engine families (for example, ATVs certified to chassis-based vs. engine-based standards). This paragraph (b)(3) does not restrict you from averaging together engine families that use test procedures that we determine provide equivalent emission results.

(4) You may not average or exchange banked or traded exhaust credits with evaporative credits, or vice versa.

(c) The definitions of Subpart I of this part apply to this subpart. The following definitions also apply:
