
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
###### § 1051.701 General provisions.
####### Trade

(8)means to exchange emission credits, either as a buyer or seller.

(d) In your application for certification, base your showing of compliance on projected production volumes for vehicles whose point of first retail sale is in the United States. As described in § 1051.730, compliance with the requirements of this subpart is determined at the end of the model year based on actual production volumes for vehicles whose point of first retail sale is in the United States. Do not include any of the following vehicles to calculate emission credits:

(1) Vehicles exempted under subpart G of this part or under 40 CFR part 1068.

(2) Exported vehicles.

(3) Vehicles not subject to the requirements of this part, such as those excluded under § 1051.5.

(4) Vehicles for which the location of first retail sale is in a state that has applicable state emission regulations for that model year. However, this restriction does not apply if we determine that the state standards and requirements are equivalent to those of this part and that these vehicles sold in such a state will not generate credits under the state program. For example, you may not include vehicles certified for California if it has more stringent emission standards for these vehicles or those vehicles generate or use emission credits under the California program.

(5) Any other vehicles, where we indicate elsewhere in this part 1051 that they are not to be included in the calculations of this subpart.

(e) You may not use emission credits generated under this subpart to offset any emissions that exceed an FEL or standard, except as specified in § 1051.225(f)(1). This applies for all testing, including certification testing, in-use testing, selective enforcement audits, and other production-line testing.

(f) Emission credits may be used in the model year they are generated or in future model years. Emission credits may not be used for past model years.

(g) You may increase or decrease an FEL during the model year by amending your application for certification under § 1051.225.
