
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1051.515 How do I test my fuel tank for permeation emissions?
####### Permeation test run.

(b)To run the test, take the following steps for a tank that was preconditioned as specified in paragraph (a) of this section:

(1) Weigh the sealed fuel tank and record the weight to the nearest 0.1 grams. You may use less precise weights as long as the difference in mass from the start of the test to the end of the test has at least three significant figures. Take this measurement within 8 hours of filling the tank with test fuel as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(2) Carefully place the tank within a ventilated, temperature-controlled room or enclosure. Do not spill or add any fuel.

(3) Close the room or enclosure and record the time.

(4) Ensure that the measured temperature in the room or enclosure is 28 +/-2 &#xB0;C.

(5) Leave the tank in the room or enclosure for 14 days.

(6) Hold the temperature of the room or enclosure to 28 +/-2 &#xB0;C; measure and record the temperature at least daily.

(7) At the end of the soak period, weigh the sealed fuel tank and record the weight to the nearest 0.1 grams. You may use less precise weights as long as the difference in mass from the start of the test to the end of the test has at least three significant figures. Unless the same fuel is used in the preconditioning fuel soak and the permeation test run, record weight measurements on five separate days per week of testing. The test is void if a linear plot of tank weight vs. test days for the full soak period for permeation testing specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section yields rbelow 0.8. See 40 CFR 1065.602 for the equation to calculate r.

(8) Subtract the weight of the tank at the end of the test from the weight of the tank at the beginning of the test; divide the difference by the internal surface area of the fuel tank. Divide this g/mvalue by the number of test days (using at least three significant figures) to calculate the g/m/day emission rate. Example: If a tank with an internal surface area of 0.72 mweighed 31882.3 grams at the beginning of the test and weighed 31813.8 grams after soaking for 14.03 days, then the g/m/day emission rate would be-

(9) Round your result to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard.

(10) In cases where consideration of permeation rates, using good engineering judgment, leads you to conclude that soaking for 14 days is not long enough to measure weight change to at least three significant figures, you may soak for 14 days longer. In this case, repeat the steps in paragraphs (b)(8) and (9) of this section to determine the weight change for the full 28 days.
