
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1051.501 What procedures must I use to test my vehicles or engines?
####### Exhaust.

(1)Use the fuels and lubricants specified in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, for all the exhaust testing we require in this part. For service accumulation, use the test fuel or any commercially available fuel that is representative of the fuel that in-use engines will use. The following provisions apply for using specific fuel types:

(i) For gasoline-fueled engines, use the grade of gasoline specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(c) for general testing. You may alternatively use ethanol-blended fuel meeting the specifications described in 40 CFR 1065.710(b) for general testing without our advance approval. If you use the ethanol-blended fuel for certifying a given engine family, you may also use it for production-line testing or any other testing you perform for that engine family under this part. If you use the ethanol-blended fuel for certifying a given engine family, we may use the ethanol-blended fuel or the specified neat gasoline test fuel with that engine family.

(ii) For diesel-fueled engines, use either low-sulfur diesel fuel or ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel meeting the specifications in 40 CFR 1065.703. If you use sulfur-sensitive technology as defined in 40 CFR 1039.801 and you measure emissions using ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel, you must add a permanent label near the fuel inlet with the following statement: "ULTRA LOW SULFUR FUEL ONLY".
