
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### § 1054.1 Does this part apply for my engines and equipment?

(a) Except as provided in § 1054.5, the regulations in this part 1054 apply as follows:

(1) The requirements of this part related to exhaust emissions apply to new, nonroad spark-ignition engines with maximum engine power at or below 19 kW. This includes auxiliary marine spark-ignition engines.

(2) The requirements of this part related to evaporative emissions apply as specified in §§ 1054.110 and 1054.112 to fuel systems used with engines subject to exhaust emission standards in this part if the engines use a volatile liquid fuel (such as gasoline).

(3) This part 1054 applies starting with the model years noted in the following table:

(4) This part 1054 applies for other spark-ignition engines as follows:

(i) The provisions of §§ 1054.620 and 1054.801 apply for new engines used solely for competition beginning January 1, 2010.

(ii) The provisions of §§ 1054.660 and 1054.801 apply for new engines used in emergency rescue equipment beginning January 1, 2010.

(5) We specify provisions in §§ 1054.145(f) and 1054.740 that allow for meeting the requirements of this part before the dates shown in Table 1 to this section. Engines, fuel-system components, or equipment certified to the standards in §§ 1054.145(f) and 1054.740 are subject to all the requirements of this part as if these optional standards were mandatory.

(b) Although the definition of nonroad engine in 40 CFR 1068.30 excludes certain engines used in stationary applications, stationary engines are required under 40 CFR part 60, subpart JJJJ, to comply with this part starting with the model years shown in Table 1 to this section.

(c) Engines originally meeting Phase 1 or Phase 2 standards as specified in appendix I of this part remain subject to those standards. Those engines remain subject to recall provisions as specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart F, throughout the useful life corresponding to the original certification. Also, tampering and defeat-device prohibitions continue to apply for those engines as specified in 40 CFR 1068.101.

(d) The regulations in this part optionally apply to engines with maximum engine power at or below 30 kW and with displacement at or below 1,000 cubic centimeters that would otherwise be covered by 40 CFR part 1048. See 40 CFR 1048.615 for provisions related to this allowance.

(e) In certain cases, the regulations in this part 1054 apply to propulsion marine engines that would otherwise be covered by 40 CFR part 1045. See 40 CFR 1045.610 for provisions related to these allowances.
