
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1054.105 What exhaust emission standards must my nonhandheld engines meet?
####### Averaging, banking, and trading.

(b)You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program for HC + NOemissions as described in subpart H of this part. You may not generate or use emission credits for CO emissions. To generate or use emission credits, you must specify a family emission limit for each engine family you include in the ABT program. These family emission limits serve as the emission standards for the engine family with respect to all required testing instead of the standards specified in this section. An engine family meets emission standards even if its family emission limit is higher than the standard, as long as you show that the whole averaging set of applicable engine families meets the emission standards using emission credits, and the engines within the family meet the family emission limit. The following FEL caps are the maximum values you may specify for family emission limits:

(1) 40.0 g/kW-hr for Class I engines with displacement below 100 cc.

(2) 16.1 g/kW-hr for Class I engines with displacement at or above 100 cc.

(3) 12.1 for Class II engines.
