
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1054.107 What is the useful life period for meeting exhaust emission standards?

This section describes an engine family's useful life, which is the period during which engines are required to comply with all emission standards that apply. The useful life period is five years or a number of hours of operation, whichever comes first, as described in this section.

(a) Determine the useful life period for exhaust requirements as follows:

(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, the useful life period for exhaust requirements is the number of engine operating hours from Table 1 to this section that most closely matches the expected median in-use life of your engines. The median in-use life of your engine is the shorter of the following values:

(i) The median in-use life of equipment into which the engine is expected to be installed.

(ii) The median in-use life of the engine without being scrapped or rebuilt.

(2) You may select a longer useful life for nonhandheld engines than that specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in 100-hour increments not to exceed 3,000 hours for Class I engines or 5,000 hours for Class II engines. For engine families generating emission credits, you may do this only with our approval. These are considered "Heavy Commercial" engines.

(3) The minimum useful life period for engines with maximum engine power above 19 kW is 1,000 hours (see ยง 1054.1(d)).

(b) Keep any available information to support your selection and make it available to us if we ask for it. We may require you to certify to a different useful life value from the table if we determine that the selected useful life value is not justified by the data. We may consider any relevant information, including your product warranty statements and marketing materials regarding engine life, in making this determination. We may void your certificate if we determine that you intentionally selected an incorrect value. Support your selection based on any of the following information:

(1) Surveys of the life spans of the equipment in which the subject engines are installed.

(2) Engineering evaluations of field aged engines to ascertain when engine performance deteriorates to the point where usefulness and/or reliability is impacted to a degree sufficient to necessitate overhaul or replacement.

(3) Failure reports from engine customers.

(4) Engineering evaluations of the durability, in hours, of specific engine technologies, engine materials, or engine designs.
