
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart I - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### ยง 1051.801 What definitions apply to this part?
####### New

means relating to any of the following things:

(1) A freshly manufactured vehicle for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title. This kind of vehicle might commonly be thought of as "brand new."

In the case of this paragraph (1), the vehicle is new from the time it is produced until the ultimate purchaser receives the title or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.

(2) An engine originally manufactured as a motor vehicle engine or a stationary engine that is later used or intended to be used in a vehicle subject to the standards and requirements of this part 1051. In this case, the engine is no longer a motor vehicle or stationary engine and becomes new. The engine is no longer new when it is placed into service as a recreational vehicle covered by this part 1051.

(3) A nonroad engine that has been previously placed into service in an application covered by 40 CFR part 90, 91, 1048, or 1054, when that engine is installed in a piece of equipment that is covered by this part 1051. The engine is no longer new when it is placed into service in a recreational vehicle covered by this part 1051. For example, this would apply to a marine propulsion engine that is no longer used in a marine vessel.

(4) An engine not covered by paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition that is intended to be installed in a new vehicle covered by this part 1051. This generally includes installation of used engines in new recreational vehicles. The engine is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the vehicle or it is placed into service, whichever comes first.

(5) An imported vehicle or engine, subject to the following provisions:

(i) An imported recreational vehicle or recreational-vehicle engine covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part that meets the criteria of one or more of paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, where the original manufacturer holds the certificate, is new as defined by those applicable paragraphs.

(ii) An imported vehicle or engine covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part, where someone other than the original manufacturer holds the certificate (such as when the engine is modified after its initial assembly), is new when it is imported. It is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the vehicle or engine or it is placed into service, whichever comes first.

(iii) An imported recreational vehicle or recreational-vehicle engine that is not covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part at the time of importation is new. This addresses uncertified vehicles and engines initially placed into service that someone seeks to import into the United States. Importation of this kind of vehicle or engine is generally prohibited by 40 CFR part 1068. However, the importation of such a vehicle or engine is not prohibited if it has a model year before 2006, since it is not subject to standards.
