
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1051 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES
##### Subpart I - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### ยง 1051.801 What definitions apply to this part?
####### Offroad utility vehicle

means a nonroad vehicle that has four or more wheels, seating for two or more persons, is designed for operation over rough terrain, and has either a rear payload capacity of 350 pounds or more or seating for six or more passengers. Vehicles intended primarily for recreational purposes that are not capable of transporting six passengers (such as dune buggies) are not offroad utility vehicles. (ยง 1051.1(a) specifies that some offroad utility vehicles are required to meet the requirements that apply for all-terrain vehicles.) Unless there is significant information to the contrary, we consider vehicles to be intended primarily for recreational purposes if they are marketed for recreational use, have a rear payload capacity no greater than 1,000 pounds, and meet at least five of the following criteria:

(1) Front and rear suspension travel is greater than 18 cm.

(2) The vehicle has no tilt bed.

(3) The vehicle has no mechanical power take-off (PTO) and no permanently installed hydraulic system for operating utility-oriented accessory devices.

(4) The engine has in-use operating speeds at or above 4,000 rpm.

(5) Maximum vehicle speed is greater than 35 miles per hour.

(6) The speed at which the engine produces peak power is above 4,500 rpm and the engine is equivalent to engines in ATVs certified by the same manufacturer. For the purpose of this paragraph (6), the engine is considered equivalent if it could be included in the same emission family based on the characteristics specified in ยง 1051.230(b).

(7) Gross Vehicle Weight Rating is no greater than 3,750 pounds. This is the maximum design loaded weight of the vehicle as defined in 40 CFR 86.1803-01, including passengers and cargo.
