
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### § 1054.20 What requirements apply to my equipment?

(a) If you manufacture equipment using engines certified under this part, your equipment must meet all applicable emission standards with the engine and fuel system installed.

(b) Except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, all equipment subject to the exhaust standards of this part must meet the evaporative emission standards of 40 CFR part 1060, as described in §§ 1054.110 and 1054.112.

(c) Except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, you must identify and label equipment you produce under this section consistent with the requirements of 40 CFR 1060.135.

(d) You may need to certify your equipment or fuel systems as described in 40 CFR 1060.1 and 1060.601.

(e) You must follow all emission-related installation instructions from the certifying manufacturers as described in § 1054.130, 40 CFR 1060.130, and 40 CFR 1068.105. Failure to follow these instructions subjects you to civil penalties as described in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart B.

(f) Motor vehicles and marine vessels may contain engines subject to the exhaust emission standards in this part 1054. Evaporative emission standards apply to these products as follows:

(1) Marine vessels using spark-ignition engines are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 1045. The vessels are not required to comply with the evaporative emission standards and related requirements of this part 1054.

(2) Motor vehicles are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 86. They are not required to comply with the evaporative emission standards and related requirements of this part 1054.
