
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Certifying Emission Families
###### ยง 1054.225 How do I amend my application for certification?

Before we issue you a certificate of conformity, you may amend your application to include new or modified engine or fuel-system configurations, subject to the provisions of this section. After we have issued your certificate of conformity, you may send us an amended application requesting that we include new or modified configurations within the scope of the certificate, subject to the provisions of this section. You must amend your application if any changes occur with respect to any information included in your application.

(a) You must amend your application before you take any of the following actions:

(1) Add an engine or fuel-system configuration to an emission family. In this case, the configuration added must be consistent with other configurations in the emission family with respect to the criteria listed in ยง 1054.230.

(2) Change a configuration already included in an emission family in a way that may affect emissions, or change any of the components you described in your application for certification. This includes production and design changes that may affect emissions any time during the engine's lifetime.

(3) Modify an FEL for an emission family with respect to exhaust emissions as described in paragraph (f) of this section.

(b) To amend your application for certification, send the following relevant information to the Designated Compliance Officer.

(1) Describe in detail the addition or change in the model or configuration you intend to make.

(2) Include engineering evaluations or data showing that the amended emission family complies with all applicable requirements in this part. You may do this by showing that the original emission-data engine or emission-data equipment is still appropriate for showing that the amended family complies with all applicable requirements in this part.

(3) If the original emission-data engine for the engine family is not appropriate to show compliance for the new or modified engine configuration, include new test data showing that the new or modified engine configuration meets the requirements of this part.

(4) Include any other information needed to make your application correct and complete.

(c) We may ask for more test data or engineering evaluations. You must give us these within 30 days after we request them.

(d) For emission families already covered by a certificate of conformity, we will determine whether the existing certificate of conformity covers your new or modified configuration. You may ask for a hearing if we deny your request (see ยง 1054.820).

(e) For emission families already covered by a certificate of conformity, you may start producing the new or modified configuration anytime after you send us your amended application and before we make a decision under paragraph (d) of this section. However, if we determine that the affected configurations do not meet applicable requirements, we will notify you to cease production of the configurations and may require you to recall the engine or equipment at no expense to the owner. Choosing to produce engines under this paragraph (e) is deemed to be consent to recall all engines or equipment that we determine do not meet applicable emission standards or other requirements and to remedy the nonconformity at no expense to the owner. If you do not provide information required under paragraph (c) of this section within 30 days after we request it, you must stop producing the new or modified engine or equipment.

(f) You may ask us to approve a change to your FEL with respect to exhaust emissions in certain cases after the start of production. The changed FEL may not apply to engines you have already introduced into U.S. commerce, except as described in this paragraph (f). If we approve a changed FEL after the start of production, you must identify the month and year for applying the new FEL. You may ask us to approve a change to your FEL in the following cases:

(1) You may ask to raise your FEL for your emission family at any time. In your request, you must show that you will still be able to meet the emission standards as specified in subparts B and H of this part. If you amend your application by submitting new test data to include a newly added or modified engine, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, use the appropriate FELs with corresponding production volumes to calculate emission credits for the model year, as described in subpart H of this part. In all other circumstances, you must use the higher FEL for the entire family to calculate emission credits under subpart H of this part.

(2) You may ask to lower the FEL for your emission family only if you have test data from production engines showing that emissions are below the proposed lower FEL. The lower FEL does not apply to engines you produce before the new FEL starts to apply, as specified in this paragraph (f). Use the appropriate FELs with corresponding production volumes to calculate emission credits for the model year, as described in subpart H of this part.

(g) You may produce engines as described in your amended application for certification and consider those engines to be in a certified configuration if we approve a new or modified engine configuration during the model year under paragraph (d) of this section. Similarly, you may modify in-use engines as described in your amended application for certification and consider those engines to be in a certified configuration if we approve a new or modified engine configuration at any time under paragraph (d) of this section. Modifying a new or in-use engine to be in a certified configuration does not violate the tampering prohibition of 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1), as long as this does not involve changing to a certified configuration with a higher family emission limit.
