
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1054.630 What provisions apply for importation of individual items for personal use?

(a) Any individual may import previously used nonconforming engines for purposes other than resale, but no more than once in any five-year period. This may include up to three nonconforming engines imported at the same time. To import engines under this section, provide to the Customs official the following information:

(1) Identify your name, address, and telephone number.

(2) If you are importing engines under this section on behalf of another person, identify the ultimate engine owner's name, address, and telephone number.

(3) Identify the total number of engines you are importing and specify the make, model, identification number, and original production year of each engine.

(4) State: "I am importing these previously used engines for personal use. I have not imported any engines under the provisions of 40 CFR 1054.630 within the previous five years. I am not importing these engines for purpose of resale. I authorize EPA enforcement officers to inspect my engines and my facilities as permitted by the Clean Air Act."

(b) We may require you to send us additional information but you do not need written approval from us to import engines under this section. We will also not require a U.S. Customs Service bond for engines you import under this section.

(c) The provisions of this section may not be used to circumvent emission standards that apply to new engines under this part. For example, you may not purchase new engines and use them in a trivial manner outside of the United States to qualify for importation under this section.

(d) If you violate the provisions of this section, or submit false information to obtain this exemption, you will be subject to civil penalties as specified in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2) and (b)(5).
