
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1054.120 What emission-related warranty requirements apply to me?
####### Requirements related to warranty claims.

(f)You are required at a minimum to meet the following conditions to ensure that owners will be able to promptly obtain warranty repairs:

(1) You must provide and monitor a toll-free telephone number and an e-mail address for owners to receive information about how to make a warranty claim, and how to make arrangements for authorized repairs.

(2) You must provide a source of replacement parts within the United States. For parts that you import, this requires you to have at least one distributor within the United States.

(3) You must use one of the following methods to show that you will generally be able to honor warranty claims:

(i) If you have authorized service centers in all U.S. population centers with a population of 100,000 or more based on the 2000 census, you may limit warranty repairs to these service providers.

(ii) You may limit warranty repairs to authorized service centers for owners located within 100 miles of an authorized service center. For owners located more than 100 miles from an authorized service center, you must state in your warranty that you will either pay for shipping costs to and from an authorized service center, provide for a service technician to come to the owner to make the warranty repair, or pay for the repair to be made at a local nonauthorized service center. The provisions of this paragraph (f)(3)(ii) apply only for the contiguous states, excluding the states with high-altitude areas identified in 40 CFR part 1068, Appendix III.

(iii) You may use the approach described in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) of this section for some states and the approach described in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section for other states. However, you must have at least one authorized service center in each state unless the whole state is within 100 miles of authorized service centers in other states.

(4) If your plan for meeting the requirements of this paragraph (f) does not include at least 100 authorized repair facilities in the United States or at least one such facility for each 5,000 engines you sell in the United States, you must also post a bond as described in ยง 1054.690 to ensure that you will fulfill your warranty-repair responsibilities even if you are not obligated to post a bond under that section. Note that you may post a single bond to meet the requirements of this section and ยง 1054.690.
