
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1054.135 How must I label and identify the engines I produce?

The provisions of this section apply to engine manufacturers.

(a) Assign each engine a unique identification number and permanently affix, engrave, or stamp it on the engine in a legible way.

(b) At the time of manufacture, affix a permanent and legible label identifying each engine. The label must be-

(1) Attached in one piece so it is not removable without being destroyed or defaced.

(2) Secured to a part of the engine needed for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement.

(3) Durable and readable for the engine's entire life.

(4) Written in English.

(c) The label must conform to the following specifications without exception:

(1) Include the heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(2) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may identify another company and use its trademark instead of yours if you comply with the branding provisions of 40 CFR 1068.45.

(3) Include EPA's standardized designation for the emission family (and subfamily, where applicable).

(4) State the following based on the useful life requirements in § 1054.107: "EMISSION COMPLIANCE PERIOD = [identify applicable useful life period] HOURS". In addition to specifying the hours, you may optionally add the descriptive terms specified in § 1054.107(a) to characterize the useful life. You may use the term Heavy Commercial for nonhandheld engines if you establish a longer useful life under § 1054.107(a)(2).

(5) State the engine's displacement (in cubic centimeters); however, you may omit this from the label if all the engines in the emission family have the same per-cylinder displacement and total displacement.

(6) State the date of manufacture [DAY (optional), MONTH, and YEAR]; however, you may omit this from the label if you stamp, engrave, or otherwise permanently identify it elsewhere on the engine, in which case you must also describe in your application for certification where you will identify the date on the engine.

(7) Identify the emission control system. Use terms and abbreviations as described in 40 CFR 1068.45. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.

(8) Include one of the following statements:

(i) If you are an integrated equipment manufacturer certifying engines with respect to exhaust emissions and meeting all applicable evaporative emission requirements under 40 CFR part 1060, state-

"THIS ENGINE MEETS U.S. EPA EXH/EVP REGS FOR [MODEL YEAR]."

(ii) In all other cases, state-

"THIS ENGINE MEETS U.S. EPA EXH REGS FOR [MODEL YEAR]."

(d) The following information may be included on the label or in the owners manual:

(1) List specifications and adjustments for engine tuneups.

(2) Identify the altitude at which an altitude kit should be installed if you specify an altitude kit under § 1054.115(c).

(3) Identify the fuel type and any requirements for fuel and lubricants.

(4) If your nonhandheld engines are certified for use only at rated speed or only at intermediate speed, add the statement: "CERTIFIED FOR [rated-speed or intermediate-speed] APPLICATIONS ONLY" or "CERTIFIED FOR [identify nominal engine speed or range of speeds for testing] OPERATION ONLY".

(e) You may add information to the emission control information label as follows:

(1) You may identify other emission standards that the engine meets or does not meet (such as California standards), as long as this does not cause you to omit any of the information described in paragraph (c) of this section. You may include this information by adding it to the statement we specify or by including a separate statement.

(2) You may add other information to ensure that the engine will be properly maintained and used.

(3) You may add appropriate features to prevent counterfeit labels. For example, you may include the engine's unique identification number on the label.

(f) Except for the labeling requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, you may ask us to approve modified labeling requirements in this part 1054 if you show that it is necessary or appropriate. We will approve your request if your alternate label is consistent with the requirements of this part.

(g) If others install your engine in their equipment in a way that obscures the engine label such that the label cannot be read during normal maintenance, we require them to add a duplicate label on the equipment (see 40 CFR 1068.105). If equipment manufacturers request it, send them labels that include all the information from the original label and that are clearly identified as duplicate labels. You may omit the date of manufacture from the duplicate label. Keep a written record of each request for five years after it is no longer needed for ongoing production.

(h) Integrated equipment manufacturers certifying their engines and equipment with respect to both exhaust and evaporative emission standards may meet labeling requirements with a single label that has all the required information specified in this section and in 40 CFR 1060.135.
