
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1054.690 What bond requirements apply for certified engines?
####### https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/circular-570.html

(f) If you are required to post a bond under this section, you must get the bond from a third-party surety that is cited in the U.S. Department of Treasury Circular 570, "Companies Holding Certificates of Authority as Acceptable Sureties on Federal Bonds and as Acceptable Reinsuring Companies" (). You must maintain this bond for every year in which you sell certified engines. The surety agent remains responsible for obligations under the bond for two years after the bond is cancelled or expires without being replaced.

(g) If you forfeit some or all of your bond in an enforcement action, you must post any appropriate bond for continuing sale within 90 days after you forfeit the bond amount.

(h) You will forfeit the proceeds of the bond posted under this section if you need to satisfy any United States administrative settlement agreement, administrative final order, or judicial judgment against you arising from your violation of this chapter, or violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001, 42 U.S.C. 7413(c)(2), or other applicable provisions of the Clean Air Act.

(i) If you are required to post a bond under this section, you must note that in your application for certification as described in ยง 1054.205. Your certification is conditioned on your compliance with this section. Your certificate is automatically suspended if you fail to comply with the requirements of this section. This suspension applies with respect to all engines in your possession as well as all engines being imported or otherwise introduced into U.S. commerce. For example, if you maintain a bond sufficient to cover 500 engines, you may introduce into U.S. commerce only 500 engines under your certificate; your certificate would be automatically suspended for any additional engines. Introducing such additional engines into U.S. commerce would violate 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1). For importation, U.S. Customs may deny entry of engines lacking the necessary bond, whether there is no bond or the value of the bond is not sufficient for the appropriate production volumes. We may also revoke your certificate.

(j) The following provisions apply if you import engines for resale when those engines have been certified by someone else (or equipment containing such engines):

(1) You and the certificate holder are each responsible for compliance with the requirements of this part and the Clean Air Act. For example, we may require you to comply with the warranty requirements in ยง 1054.120.

(2) You do not need to post bond if you or the certificate holder complies with the bond requirements of this section. You also do not need to post bond if the certificate holder complies with the asset requirements of this section and the repair-network provisions of ยง 1054.120(f)(4).
