
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1054.120 What emission-related warranty requirements apply to me?
####### Warranty period.

(b)Your emission-related warranty must be valid during the periods specified in this paragraph (b). You may offer an emission-related warranty more generous than we require. The emission-related warranty for the engine may not be shorter than any published warranty you offer without charge for the engine. Similarly, the emission-related warranty for any component may not be shorter than any published warranty you offer without charge for that component. If an engine has no hour meter, we base the warranty periods in this paragraph (b) only on the engine's age (in years). The warranty period begins on the date of sale to the ultimate purchaser. The minimum warranty periods are as follows:

(1) The minimum warranty period is two years except as allowed under paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section.

(2) We may establish a shorter warranty period for handheld engines subject to severe service in seasonal equipment if we determine that these engines are likely to operate for a number of hours greater than the applicable useful life within 24 months. You must request this shorter warranty period in your application for certification or in an earlier submission.

(3) For engines equipped with hour meters, you may deny warranty claims for engines that have accumulated a number of hours greater than 50 percent of the applicable useful life.
