
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1054.690 What bond requirements apply for certified engines?

This section generally applies for certifying engine manufacturers. It also applies to importers that do not certify engines as described in paragraph (j) of this section.

(a) Before introducing certified engines into U.S. commerce, you must post a bond to cover any potential compliance or enforcement actions under the Clean Air Act with respect to engines certified under this part unless you demonstrate to us in your application for certification that you are able to meet any potential compliance- or enforcement-related obligations, as described in this section. Note that you might also need to post bond under this section to meet your obligations under ยง 1054.120(f).

(b) The bonding requirements apply if you do not have long-term assets in the United States meeting any of the following thresholds:

(1) A threshold of $3 million applies if you have been a certificate holder in each of the preceding ten years without failing a test conducted by EPA officials or having been found by EPA to be noncompliant under applicable regulations.

(2) A threshold of $6 million applies if you are a secondary engine manufacturer.

(3) A threshold of $10 million applies if you do not qualify for the smaller bond thresholds in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(c) For the purpose of establishing your level of long-term assets under paragraph (b) of this section, include the values from your most recent balance sheet for buildings, land, and fixed equipment, but subtract depreciation and related long-term liabilities (such as a mortgage). If you have sufficient long-term assets to avoid bond payments under this section, you must identify the location of these assets in your application for certification.

(d) Determine the value of the bond as follows:

(1) Calculate a value based on the per-engine bond values shown in Table 1 to this section and on the projected U.S.-directed production volume from each displacement grouping for the model year. For example, if you have projected U.S.-directed production volumes of 10,000 engines with 180 cc displacement and 10,000 engines with 400 cc displacement in 2013, the calculated bond amount is $750,000. If the calculated value is less than $500,000, the appropriate bond amount is $500,000. If the calculated value exceeds the applicable threshold value specified in paragraph (b) of this section, use the applicable threshold value as the appropriate value of the bond. These values may be adjusted as described in paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section. You may generally change your projected U.S.-directed production volume under ยง 1054.225 during the model year; however, you may not decrease your bond based on new projected U.S.-directed production volumes once you have imported or otherwise introduced into U.S. commerce your first engine from that model year.

(2) If your estimated or actual U.S.-directed production volume increases beyond the level appropriate for your current bond payment, you must post additional bond to reflect the increased volume within 90 days after you change your estimate or determine the actual production volume. You may not decrease your bond in a given year, but you may calculate a lower bond value in a later year based on the highest actual U.S.-directed production volumes from the preceding three years.

(3) If you sell engines without aftertreatment components under the provisions of ยง 1054.610, you must increase the per-engine bond values for the current year by 20 percent.

(4) The minimum bond value is $25,000 instead of $500,000 if you are a small-volume engine manufacturer or a small-volume equipment manufacturer that has been a certificate holder in each of the preceding five years without failing a test conducted by EPA officials or having been found by EPA to be noncompliant under applicable regulations.

(e) The threshold identified in paragraph (b) of this section and the bond values identified in paragraph (d) of this section are in 2008 dollars. We will adjust these values for 2020 and later, and every 10 years after that, by considering the current Consumer Price Index values published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics relative to 2008. We will generally round values for thresholds and total bond obligations as follows:

(1) Round calculated values at or below $125,000 to the nearest $5,000.

(2) Round calculated values above $125,000 and at or below $2.25 million to the nearest $50,000.

(3) Round calculated values above $2.25 million to the nearest $500,000.
