
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
###### ยง 1054.706 How do I generate and calculate evaporative emission credits?

The provisions of this section apply for calculating evaporative emission credits related to fuel tank permeation. You may generate credits only if you are a certifying equipment manufacturer. This may include engine manufacturers that make engines with complete fuel systems as described in ยง 1054.2.

(a) For each participating family, calculate positive or negative emission credits relative to the otherwise applicable emission standard. Calculate positive emission credits for a family that has an FEL below the standard. Calculate negative emission credits for a family that has an FEL above the standard. Sum your positive and negative credits for the model year before rounding. Round the sum of emission credits to the nearest kilogram (kg) using consistent units throughout the following equation:

(b) For calculating credits under paragraph (a) of this section, the emission standard and FEL must both be based on test measurements at the same temperature (28 &#xB0; or 40 &#xB0;C). Determine the FEL for calculating emission credits relative to testing at 28 &#xB0;C as described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. Determine the FEL for calculating emission credits relative to testing at 40 &#xB0;C as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(1) To use an FEL below 5.0 g/m/day, it must be based on emission measurements.

(2) The provisions of this paragraph (b)(2) apply for all emission families with FELs at or above 5.0 g/m/day. To calculate emission credits for such emission families, you must choose from one of the following options and apply it to all your emission families with FELs at or above 5.0 g/m/day:

(i) Option 1: Establish all your FELs based on emission measurements. This may include measurements from a certifying fuel tank manufacturer.

(ii) Option 2: Use an assigned FEL of 10.4 g/m/day. This would apply without regard to whether any of these emission families have measured emission levels below 10.4 g/m/day. If any of your fuel tanks were otherwise certified (by you or the fuel tank manufacturer) with an FEL at or above 5.0 g/m/day, the assigned FEL of 10.4 g/m/day applies only for emission credit calculations.

(3) Determine the FEL for calculating emission credits relative to testing at 40 &#xB0;C as described in paragraph (b)(1) and (2) of this section, but use 8.3 g/m/day instead of 5.0 g/m/day and use 17.3 g/m/day instead of 10.4 g/m/day.
