
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1054.505 How do I test engines?

(a) This section describes how to test engines under steady-state conditions. We may also perform other testing as allowed by the Clean Air Act. Sample emissions separately for each mode, then calculate an average emission level for the whole cycle using the weighting factors specified for each mode. Control engine speed as specified in this section. Use one of the following methods for confirming torque values for nonhandheld engines:

(1) Calculate torque-related cycle statistics and compare with the established criteria as specified in 40 CFR 1065.514 to confirm that the test is valid.

(2) Evaluate each mode separately to validate the duty cycle. All torque feedback values recorded during non-idle sampling periods must be within +/-2 percent of the reference value or within +/-0.27 N&#xB7;m of the reference value, whichever is greater. Also, the mean torque value during non-idle sampling periods must be within +/-1 percent of the reference value or +/-0.12 N&#xB7;m of the reference value, whichever is greater. Control torque during idle as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) Measure emissions by testing engines on a dynamometer with the test procedures for constant-speed engines in 40 CFR part 1065 while using the steady-state duty cycles identified in this paragraph (b) to determine whether it meets the exhaust emission standards specified in ยง 1054.101(a). This paragraph (b) applies for all engines, including those not meeting the definition of "constant-speed engine" in 40 CFR 1065.1001.

(1) For handheld engines, use the two-mode duty cycle described in paragraph (a) of Appendix II of this part. Establish an engine's rated speed as follows:

(i) For ungoverned handheld engines used in fixed-speed applications all having approximately the same nominal in-use operating speed, hold engine speed within 350 rpm of the nominal speed for testing. We may allow you to include in your engine family, without additional testing, a small number of engines that will be installed such that they have a different nominal speed. If your engine family includes a majority of engines with approximately the same nominal in-use operating speed and a substantial number of engines with different nominal speeds, you must test engines as specified in this paragraph (b)(1)(i) and paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) For ungoverned handheld engines for which there is not a dominant value for nominal in-use operating speeds, hold engine speed within 350 rpm of the point at which the engine generates maximum power.

(iii) For governed handheld engines, hold engine speed at maximum test speed, as defined in 40 CFR 1065.1001.

(2) For nonhandheld engines designed to idle, use the six-mode duty cycle described in paragraph (b)(1) of appendix II of this part; use the five-mode duty cycle described in paragraph (b)(2) of appendix II of this part for engines that are not designed to idle. If an engine family includes engines designed to idle and engines not designed to idle, include in the application for certification the test results for the duty cycle that will result in worst-case HC+NOemissions based on measured values for that engine family. Control engine speed during the full-load operating mode as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. For all other modes, control engine speed to within 5 percent of the nominal speed specified in paragraph (d) of this section or let the installed governor (in the production configuration) control engine speed. For all modes except idle, control torque as needed to meet the cycle-validation criteria in paragraph (a) of this section. The governor may be adjusted before emission sampling to target the nominal speed identified in paragraph (d) of this section, but the installed governor must control engine speed throughout the emission-sampling period whether the governor is adjusted or not.

(c) During idle mode for nonhandheld engines, operate the engine with the following parameters:

(1) Allow the engine to operate at the idle speed determined by the installed governor. If any production engines from the engine family have a user-selectable idle speed, operate the engine with an installed governor that controls engine speed to the lowest available speed setting.

(2) Keep engine torque under 5 percent of the nominal torque value for Mode 1.

(3) You must conduct testing at the idle mode even if the allowable torque values overlap with those for another specified mode.

(d) During full-load operation for nonhandheld engines, operate the engine with the following parameters:

(1) Select an engine speed for testing as follows:

(i) For engines with a governed speed at full load between 2700 and 4000 rpm, select appropriate test speeds for the emission family. If all the engines in the emission family are used in intermediate-speed equipment, select a test speed of 3060 rpm. The test associated with intermediate-speed operation is referred to as the A Cycle. If all the engines in the emission family are used in rated-speed equipment, select a test speed of 3600 rpm. The test associated with rated-speed operation is referred to as the B Cycle. If an emission family includes engines used in both intermediate-speed equipment and rated-speed equipment, measure emissions at test speeds of both 3060 and 3600 rpm. In unusual circumstances, you may ask to use a test speed different than that specified in this paragraph (d)(1)(i) if it better represents in-use operation.

(ii) For engines with a governed speed below 2700 or above 4000 rpm, ask us to approve one or more test speeds to represent those engines using the provisions for special procedures in 40 CFR 1065.10(c)(2).

(2) Operate the engine ungoverned at wide-open throttle at the test speed established in paragraph (d)(1) of this section until the engine reaches thermal stability as described in 40 CFR 1065.530(a)(2)(ii). Record the torque value after stabilization. Use this value for the full-load torque setting and for denormalizing the rest of the duty cycle.

(3) Control engine speed during emission sampling to stay within 5 percent of the nominal speed identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(4) The provisions of this paragraph (d) apply instead of the engine mapping procedures in 40 CFR 1065.510.
