
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1054.125 What maintenance instructions must I give to buyers?
####### Critical emission-related maintenance.

(a)Critical emission-related maintenance includes any adjustment, cleaning, repair, or replacement of critical emission-related components. This may also include additional emission-related maintenance that you determine is critical if we approve it in advance. You may schedule critical emission-related maintenance on these components if you meet the following conditions:

(1) You demonstrate that the maintenance is reasonably likely to be done at the recommended intervals on in-use engines. We will accept scheduled maintenance as reasonably likely to occur if you satisfy any of the following conditions:

(i) You present data showing that any lack of maintenance that increases emissions also unacceptably degrades the engine's performance.

(ii) You present survey data showing that at least 80 percent of engines in the field get the maintenance you specify at the recommended intervals. If the survey data show that 60 to 80 percent of engines in the field get the maintenance you specify at the recommended intervals, you may ask us to consider additional factors such as the effect on performance and emissions. For example, we may allow you to schedule fuel-injector replacement as critical emission-related maintenance if you have survey data showing this is done at the recommended interval for 65 percent of engines and you demonstrate that performance degradation is roughly proportional to the degradation in emission control for engines that do not have their fuel injectors replaced.

(iii) You provide the maintenance free of charge and clearly say so in your maintenance instructions.

(iv) You otherwise show us that the maintenance is reasonably likely to be done at the recommended intervals.

(2) You may schedule cleaning or changing air filters or changing spark plugs at the least frequent interval described in the owners manual. See ยง 1054.245 for testing requirements related to these maintenance steps.

(3) You may not schedule critical emission-related maintenance within the useful life period for aftertreatment devices, pulse-air valves, fuel injectors, oxygen sensors, electronic control units, superchargers, or turbochargers, except as specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.

(4) You may ask us to approve a maintenance interval shorter than that specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. In your request you must describe the proposed maintenance step, recommend the maximum feasible interval for this maintenance, include your rationale with supporting evidence to support the need for the maintenance at the recommended interval, and demonstrate that the maintenance will be done at the recommended interval on in-use engines. In considering your request, we will evaluate the information you provide and any other available information to establish alternate specifications for maintenance intervals, if appropriate.
