
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Certifying Emission Families
###### ยง 1054.240 How do I demonstrate that my emission family complies with exhaust emission standards?

(a) For purposes of certification, your emission family is considered in compliance with the emission standards in ยง 1054.101(a) if all emission-data engines representing that family have test results showing official emission results and deteriorated emission levels at or below these standards. This paragraph (a) also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors. Note that your FELs are considered to be the applicable emission standards with which you must comply if you participate in the ABT program in subpart H of this part.

(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing an official emission result or a deteriorated emission level for any pollutant that is above an applicable emission standard in subpart B of this part. This paragraph (b) also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors.

(c) Determine a deterioration factor to compare emission levels from the emission-data engine with the applicable emission standards in subpart B of this part. Section 1054.245 specifies how to test engines to develop deterioration factors that represent the expected deterioration in emissions over your engines' full useful life. Calculate a multiplicative deterioration factor as described in ยง 1054.245(b). If the deterioration factor is less than one, use one. Specify the deterioration factor to one more significant figure than the emission standard. In the case of dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines, apply deterioration factors separately for each fuel type. You may use assigned deterioration factors that we establish for up to 10,000 nonhandheld engines from small-volume emission families in each model year, except that small-volume engine manufacturers may use assigned deterioration factors for any or all of their engine families.

(d) Determine the official emission result for each pollutant to at least one more decimal place than the applicable standard in subpart B of this part. Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, as described in ยง 1054.245(b), then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data engine. In the case of HC+NOstandards, add the official emission results and apply the deterioration factor to the sum of the pollutants before rounding. However, if your deterioration factors are based on emission measurements that do not cover the engine's full useful life, apply deterioration factors to each pollutant and then add the results before rounding.

(e) The provisions of this paragraph (e) apply only for engine families with a useful life at or below 300 hours. To apply the deterioration factor to engines other than the original emission-data engine, they must be operated for the same number of hours before starting emission measurements that you used for the original emission-data engine, within one hour. For example, if the original emission-data engine operated for 8 hours before the low-hour emission test, operate the other test engines for 7 to 9 hours before starting emission measurements.
