
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Certifying Emission Families
###### § 1054.235 What testing requirements apply for certification?

This section describes the exhaust emission testing you must perform to show compliance with the emission standards in §§ 1054.103 and 1054.105. See §§ 1054.240 and 1054.245 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E, regarding service accumulation before emission testing.

(a) Select an emission-data engine from each engine family for testing as described in 40 CFR 1065.401. Select a configuration and set adjustable parameters in a way that is most likely to exceed the HC+NOstandard in subpart B of this part, using good engineering judgment. Configurations must be tested as they will be produced, including installed governors, if applicable.

(b) Test your emission-data engines using the procedures and equipment specified in subpart F of this part. In the case of dual-fuel engines, measure emissions when operating with each type of fuel for which you intend to certify the engine. In the case of flexible-fuel engines, measure emissions when operating with the fuel mixture that is most likely to cause the engine to exceed the applicable HC+NOemission standard, though you may ask us to instead perform tests with both fuels separately if you can show that intermediate mixtures are not likely to occur in use.

(c) We may perform confirmatory testing by measuring emissions from any of your emission-data engines or other engines from the emission family, as follows:

(1) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. If we do this, you must deliver the engine to a test facility we designate. The engine you provide must include appropriate manifolds, aftertreatment devices, electronic control units, and other emission-related components not normally attached directly to the engine block. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.

(2) If we measure emissions on one of your engines, the results of that testing become the official emission results for the engine.

(3) We may set the adjustable parameters of your engine to any point within the physically adjustable ranges (see § 1054.115(b)).

(4) Before we test one of your engines, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter. For example, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for a parameter that is subject to production variability because it is adjustable during production, but is not considered an adjustable parameter (as defined in § 1054.801) because it is permanently sealed.

(d) You may ask to use carryover emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests, but only if all the following are true:

(1) The emission family from the previous model year differs from the current emission family only with respect to model year, items identified in § 1054.225(a), or other characteristics unrelated to emissions. We may waive this paragraph (d)(1) for differences we determine not to be relevant.

(2) The emission-data engine from the previous model year remains the appropriate emission-data engine under paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) The data show that the emission-data engine would meet all the requirements of this part that apply to the emission family covered by the application for certification.

(e) We may require you to test another engine of the same or different configuration in addition to the engine(s) tested under paragraph (b) of this section.

(f) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.

(g) Measure COand CHwith each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2011 and 2012 model years, respectively. Also measure NO with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2013 model year for any engine family that depends on NOx aftertreatment to meet emission standards. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit measurement of NO and CH. Use the same units and modal calculations as for your other results to report a single weighted value for each constituent. Round the final values as follows:

(1) Round COto the nearest 1 g/kW-hr.

(2) Round NO to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.

(3) Round CHto the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.
