
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1054.615 What is the exemption for engines certified to standards for Large SI engines?

(a) An engine is exempt from the requirements of this part if it is in an emission family that has a valid certificate of conformity showing that it meets emission standards and other requirements under 40 CFR part 1048 for the appropriate model year.

(b) The only requirements or prohibitions from this part that apply to an engine that is exempt under this section are in this section.

(c) If your engines do not have the certificate required in paragraph (a) of this section, they will be subject to the provisions of this part. Introducing these engines into U.S. commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a).

(d) Engines exempted under this section are subject to all the requirements affecting engines under 40 CFR part 1048, including evaporative emission standards. The requirements and restrictions of 40 CFR part 1048 apply to anyone manufacturing these engines, anyone manufacturing equipment that uses these engines, and all other persons in the same manner as if these were nonroad spark-ignition engines above 19 kW.

(e) Engines exempted under this section may not generate or use emission credits under this part 1054.
