
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### § 1054.501 How do I run a valid emission test?
####### General requirements.

(b)Use the equipment and procedures for spark-ignition engines in 40 CFR part 1065 to determine whether engines meet the exhaust emission standards, as follows:

(1) Measure the emissions of all exhaust constituents subject to emission standards as specified in § 1054.505 and 40 CFR part 1065. Measure CO, NO, and CHas described in § 1054.235. See § 1054.650 for special provisions that apply for variable-speed engines (including engines shipped without governors).

(2) Use the appropriate fuels and lubricants specified in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, for all the testing we require in this part. Gasoline test fuel must meet the specifications in 40 CFR 1065.710(c), except as specified in § 1054.145(n) and 40 CFR 1065.10 and 1065.701. Use gasoline specified for general testing except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. For service accumulation, use the test fuel or any commercially available fuel that is representative of the fuel that in-use engines will use. Note that § 1054.145(n) allows for testing with gasoline test fuels specified by the California Air Resources Board for any individual engine family.

(3) Ambient conditions for duty-cycle testing must be within ranges specified in 40 CFR 1065.520, subject to the provisions of § 1054.115(c).
