
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart I - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### ยง 1054.801 What definitions apply to this part?
####### Handheld

means relating to equipment that meets any of the following criteria:

(1) It is carried by the operator throughout the performance of its intended function.

(2) It is designed to operate multi-positionally, such as upside down or sideways, to complete its intended function.

(3) It has a combined engine and equipment dry weight under 16.0 kilograms, has no more than two wheels, and at least one of the following attributes is also present:

(i) The operator provides support or carries the equipment throughout the performance of its intended function. Carry means to completely bear the weight of the equipment, including the engine. Support means to hold a piece of equipment in position to prevent it from falling, slipping, or sinking, without carrying it.

(ii) The operator provides support or attitudinal control for the equipment throughout the performance of its intended function. Attitudinal control involves regulating the horizontal or vertical position of the equipment.

(4) It is an auger with a combined engine and equipment dry weight under 22.0 kilograms.

(5) It is used in a recreational application with a combined total vehicle dry weight under 20.0 kilograms.

(6) It is a hand-supported jackhammer or rammer/compactor. This does not include equipment that can remain upright without operator support, such as a plate compactor.
