
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart I - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### ยง 1054.801 What definitions apply to this part?
####### Model year

has the meaning given in 40 CFR part 1060 for equipment and means one of the following things for engines:

(1) For freshly manufactured engines (see definition of "new nonroad engine," paragraph (1)), model year means your annual new model production period. This must include January 1 of the calendar year for which the model year is named. It may not begin before January 2 of the previous calendar year and it must end by December 31 of the named calendar year. For seasonal production periods not including January 1, model year means the calendar year in which the production occurs, unless you choose to certify the applicable emission family with the following model year. For example, if your production period is June 1, 2010 through November 30, 2010, your model year would be 2010 unless you choose to certify the emission family for model year 2011.

(2) For an engine that is converted to a nonroad engine after being placed into service as a stationary engine, or being certified and placed into service as a motor vehicle engine, model year means the calendar year in which the engine was originally produced. For a motor vehicle engine that is converted to be a nonroad engine without having been certified, model year means the calendar year in which the engine becomes a new nonroad engine. (See definition of "new nonroad engine," paragraph (2).)

(3) For a nonroad engine excluded under ยง 1054.5 that is later converted to operate in an application that is not excluded, model year means the calendar year in which the engine was originally produced (see definition of "new nonroad engine," paragraph (3)).

(4) For engines that are not freshly manufactured but are installed in new nonroad equipment, model year means the calendar year in which the engine is installed in the new nonroad equipment (see definition of "new nonroad engine," paragraph (4)).

(5) For imported engines:
