
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Certifying Emission Families
###### § 1060.202 What are the certification requirements related to the general standards in § 1060.101?

Equipment manufacturers must ensure that their equipment is certified with respect to the general standards specified in § 1060.101(f) as follows:

(a) If § 1060.5 requires you to certify your equipment to any of the emission standards specified in §§ 1060.102 through 1060.105, describe in your application for certification how you will meet the general standards specified in § 1060.101(f).

(b) If § 1060.5 does not require you to certify your equipment to any of the emission standards specified in §§ 1060.102 through 1060.105, your equipment is deemed to be certified with respect to the general standards specified in § 1060.101(f) if you design and produce your equipment to meet those standards.

(1) You must keep records as described in § 1060.210. The other provisions of this part for certificate holders apply only as specified in § 1060.5.

(2) Your equipment is deemed to be certified only to the extent that it meets the general standards in § 1060.101(f). Thus, it is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) to introduce into U.S. commerce such equipment that does not meet applicable requirements under § 1060.101(f).

(c) Instead of relying on paragraph (b) of this section, you may submit an application for certification and obtain a certificate from us. The provisions of this part apply in the same manner for certificates issued under this paragraph (c) as for any other certificate issued under this part.
