
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart I - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### § 1054.825 What reporting and recordkeeping requirements apply under this part?

(a) This part includes various requirements to submit and record data or other information. Unless we specify otherwise, store required records in any format and on any media and keep them readily available for eight years after you send an associated application for certification, or eight years after you generate the data if they do not support an application for certification. We may request these records at any time. You must promptly give us organized, written records in English if we ask for them. This requirement to give us records applies whether or not you rely on someone else to keep records on your behalf. We may require you to submit written records in an electronic format.

(b) The regulations in § 1054.255 and 40 CFR 1068.25 and 1068.101 describe your obligation to report truthful and complete information. This includes information not related to certification. Failing to properly report information and keep the records we specify violates 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2), which may involve civil or criminal penalties.

(c) Send all reports and requests for approval to the Designated Compliance Officer (see § 1054.801).

(d) Any written information we require you to send to or receive from another company is deemed to be a required record under this section. Such records are also deemed to be submissions to EPA. We may require you to send us these records.

(e) Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.,), the Office of Management and Budget approves the reporting and recordkeeping specified in the applicable regulations in this chapter. The following items illustrate the kind of reporting and recordkeeping we require for engines and equipment regulated under this part:

(1) We specify the following requirements related to engine and equipment certification in this part:

(i) In § 1054.20 we require equipment manufacturers to label their equipment if they are relying on component certification.

(ii) In § 1054.135 we require engine manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels sent to equipment manufacturers.

(iii) In § 1054.145 we include various reporting and recordkeeping requirements related to interim provisions.

(iv) In subpart C of this part we identify a wide range of information required to certify engines.

(v) In §§ 1054.345 and 1054.350 we specify certain records related to production-line testing.

(vi) [Reserved]

(vii) In subpart G of this part we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various special compliance provisions.

(viii) In §§ 1054.725, 1054.730, and 1054.735 we specify certain records related to averaging, banking, and trading.

(2) We specify the following requirements related to component and equipment certification in 40 CFR part 1060:

(i) In 40 CFR 1060.20 we give an overview of principles for reporting information.

(ii) In 40 CFR part 1060, subpart C, we identify a wide range of information required to certify products.

(iii) In 40 CFR 1060.301 we require manufacturers to keep records related to evaluation of production samples for verifying that the products are as specified in the certificate of conformity.

(iv) In 40 CFR 1060.310 we require manufacturers to make components, engines, or equipment available for our testing if we make such a request.

(v) In 40 CFR 1060.505 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published test procedures.

(3) We specify the following requirements related to testing in 40 CFR part 1065:

(i) In 40 CFR 1065.2 we give an overview of principles for reporting information.

(ii) In 40 CFR 1065.10 and 1065.12 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published test procedures.

(iii) In 40 CFR 1065.25 we establish basic guidelines for storing test information.

(iv) In 40 CFR 1065.695 we identify the specific information and data items to record when measuring emissions.

(4) We specify the following requirements related to the general compliance provisions in 40 CFR part 1068:

(i) In 40 CFR 1068.5 we establish a process for evaluating good engineering judgment related to testing and certification.

(ii) In 40 CFR 1068.25 we describe general provisions related to sending and keeping information.

(iii) In 40 CFR 1068.27 we require manufacturers to make engines available for our testing or inspection if we make such a request.

(iv) In 40 CFR 1068.105 we require equipment manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels from engine manufacturers.

(v) In 40 CFR 1068.120 we specify recordkeeping related to rebuilding engines.

(vi) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various exemptions.

(vii) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart D, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to importing engines.

(viii) In 40 CFR 1068.450 and 1068.455 we specify certain records related to testing production-line engines in a selective enforcement audit.

(ix) In 40 CFR 1068.501 we specify certain records related to investigating and reporting emission-related defects.

(x) In 40 CFR 1068.525 and 1068.530 we specify certain records related to recalling nonconforming engines.

(xi) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart G, we specify certain records for requesting a hearing.
