
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1060.101 What evaporative emission requirements apply under this part?
####### Refueling.

(3)For any equipment using fuel tanks that are subject to diurnal or permeation emission standards under this part, you must design and build your equipment such that operators can reasonably be expected to fill the fuel tank without spitback or spillage during the refueling event. The following examples illustrate designs that meet this requirement:

(i) Equipment that is commonly refueled using a portable gasoline container should have a fuel tank inlet that is larger than a typical dispensing spout. The fuel tank inlet should be located so the operator can place the nozzle directly in the fuel tank inlet and see the fuel level in the tank while pouring the fuel from an appropriately sized refueling container (either through the tank wall or the fuel tank inlet). We will deem you to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (f)(3)(i) if you design your equipment to meet applicable industry standards related to fuel tank inlets.

(ii) Marine SI vessels with a filler neck extending to the side of the boat should be designed for automatic fuel shutoff. Alternatively, the filler neck should be designed such that the orientation of the filler neck allows dispensed fuel that collects in the filler neck to flow back into the fuel tank. A filler neck that ends with a horizontal or nearly horizontal segment at the opening where fuel is dispensed would not be an acceptable design.

(g) Components and equipment must meet the standards specified in this part throughout the applicable useful life. Where we do not specify procedures for demonstrating the durability of emission controls, use good engineering judgment to ensure that your products will meet the standards throughout the useful life. The useful life is one of the following values:

(1) The useful life in years specified for the components or equipment in the exhaust standard-setting part.

(2) The useful life in years specified for the engine in the exhaust standard-setting part if the exhaust standards are specified for the engine rather than the equipment and there is no useful life given for components or equipment.

(3) Five years if no useful life is specified in years for the components, equipment, or engines in the exhaust standard-setting part.
