
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### § 1060.5 Do the requirements of this part apply to me?
####### Marine SI.

(b)Certify vessels, engines, and fuel-system components as follows:

(1) Component manufacturers must certify their fuel lines and fuel tanks intended for installation with Marine SI engines and vessels under this part 1060, except as allowed by § 1060.601(f). This includes permeation and diurnal emission standards.

(2) Vessel manufacturers are subject to all the requirements of this part 1060 that apply to Marine SI engines and fuel systems. However, they must certify to the emission standards specified in §§ 1060.102 through 1060.105 only if one or more of the following conditions apply:

(i) Vessel manufacturers must certify fuel system components they install in their vessels if the components are not certified to meet all applicable evaporative emission standards, including both permeation and diurnal standards. This would include vessel manufacturers that make their own fuel tanks. Vessel manufacturers would need to act as component manufacturers to certify under this part 1060.

(ii) Vessel manufacturers must certify their vessels only if they intend to generate or use evaporative emission credits. Vessel manufacturers would certify under part 40 CFR part 1045 using the emission-credit provisions in subpart H of that part to demonstrate compliance with the emission standard.

(3) Engine manufacturers must meet all the requirements of this part 1060 that apply to vessel manufacturers for all fuel-system components they install on their engines. For example, engine manufacturers that install under-cowl fuel lines and fuel tanks must comply with the requirements specified for vessel manufacturers with respect to those components.
