
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1060.102 What permeation emission control requirements apply for fuel lines?

(a) Nonmetal fuel lines must meet permeation requirements as follows:

(1) Marine SI fuel lines, including fuel lines associated with outboard engines or portable marine fuel tanks, must meet the permeation requirements in this section.

(2) Large SI fuel lines must meet the permeation requirements specified in 40 CFR 1048.105.

(3) Fuel lines for recreational vehicles must meet the permeation requirements specified in 40 CFR 1051.110 or in this section.

(4) Small SI fuel lines must meet the permeation requirements in this section, unless they are installed in equipment certified to meet diurnal emission standards under § 1060.105(e).

(b) Different categories of nonroad equipment are subject to different requirements with respect to fuel line permeation. Fuel lines are classified based on measured emissions over the test procedure specified for the class.

(c) The regulations in 40 CFR part 1048 require that fuel lines used with Large SI engines must meet the standards for EPA Low-Emission Fuel Lines. The regulations in 40 CFR part 1054 require that fuel lines used with handheld Small SI engines installed in cold-weather equipment must meet the standards for EPA Cold-Weather Fuel Lines. Unless specified otherwise in this subchapter U, fuel lines used with all other engines and equipment subject to the provisions of this part 1060, including fuel lines associated with outboard engines or portable marine fuel tanks, must meet the standards for EPA Nonroad Fuel Lines.

(d) The following standards apply for each fuel line classification:

(1) EPA Low-Emission Fuel Lines must have permeation emissions at or below 10 g/m/day when measured according to the test procedure described in § 1060.510. Fuel lines that comply with this emission standard are deemed to comply with all the emission standards specified in this section.

(2) EPA Nonroad Fuel Lines must have permeation emissions at or below 15 g/m/day when measured according to the test procedure described in § 1060.515.

(3) EPA Cold-Weather Fuel Lines must meet the following permeation emission standards when measured according to the test procedure described in § 1060.515:

(e) You may certify fuel lines as follow:

(1) You may certify straight-run fuel lines as sections of any length.

(2) You may certify molded fuel lines in any configuration representing your actual production, subject to the provisions for selecting a worst-case configuration in § 1060.235(b).

(3) You may certify fuel line assemblies as aggregated systems that include multiple sections of fuel line with connectors and fittings. For example, you may certify fuel lines for portable marine fuel tanks as assemblies of fuel hose, primer bulbs, and self-sealing end connections. The length of such an assembly must not be longer than a typical in-use installation and must always be less than 2.5 meters long. You may also certify primer bulbs separately. The standard applies with respect to the total permeation emissions divided by the wetted internal surface area of the assembly. Where it is not practical to determine the actual internal surface area of the assembly, you may assume that the internal surface area per unit length of the assembly is equal to the ratio of internal surface area per unit length of the hose section of the assembly.
