
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Certifying Emission Families
###### ยง 1060.250 What records must I keep?

(a) Organize and maintain the following records:

(1) A copy of all applications and any summary information you send us.

(2) Any of the information we specify in ยง 1060.205 that you were not required to include in your application.

(3) A detailed history of each emission-data unit. For each emission data unit, include all of the following:

(i) The emission-data unit's construction, including its origin and buildup, steps you took to ensure that it represents production equipment, any components you built specially for it, and all the components you include in your application for certification.

(ii) All your emission tests (valid and invalid), including the date and purpose of each test and documentation of test parameters described in subpart F of this part.

(iii) All tests to diagnose emission control performance, giving the date and time of each and the reasons for the test.

(iv) Any other significant events.

(4) Annual production figures for each emission family divided by assembly plant.

(5) Keep a list of equipment identification numbers for all the equipment you produce under each certificate of conformity.

(b) Keep required data from emission tests and all other information specified in this section for eight years after we issue your certificate. If you use the same emission data or other information for a later model year, the eight-year period restarts with each year that you continue to rely on the information.

(c) Store these records in any format and on any media as long as you can promptly send us organized, written records in English if we ask for them. You must keep these records readily available. We may review them at any time.
