
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1054 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT
##### Appendix A to Part 1054 - Summary of Previous Emission Standards
###### Handheld engines.

(a)(1) Phase 1 standards apply for handheld engines as summarized in the following table starting with model year 1997:

(2) Phase 2 standards apply for handheld engines as summarized in the following table starting with model year 2002 for Class III and Class IV, and starting in model year 2004 for Class V:

(b) Nonhandheld engines. (1) Phase 1 standards apply for nonhandheld engines as summarized in the following table starting with model year 1997:

(2) Phase 2 standards apply for nonhandheld engines as summarized in the following table starting with model year 2001 (except as noted for Class I engines):

(3) Note that engines subject to Phase 1 standards were not subject to useful life, deterioration factor, production-line testing, or in-use testing provisions. In addition, engines subject to Phase 1 standards and engines subject to Phase 2 standards were both not subject to the following provisions:

(i) Evaporative emission standards as specified in §§ 1054.110 and 1054.112.

(ii) Altitude adjustments as specified in § 1054.115(c).

(iii) Warranty assurance provisions as specified in § 1054.120(f).

(iv) Emission-related installation instructions as specified in § 1054.130.

(v) Bonding requirements as specified in § 1054.690.
