
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1060.105 What diurnal requirements apply for equipment?

(a) Fuel tanks must meet diurnal emission requirements as follows:

(1) Marine SI fuel tanks, including engine-mounted fuel tanks and portable marine fuel tanks, must meet the requirements related to diurnal emissions specified in this section.

(2) Large SI fuel tanks must meet the requirements related to diurnal emissions specified in 40 CFR 1048.105.

(3) Recreational vehicles are not subject to diurnal emission standards.

(4) Small SI fuel tanks are not subject to diurnal emission standards, except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) Diurnal emissions from Marine SI fuel tanks may not exceed 0.40 g/gal/day when measured using the test procedures specified in ยง 1060.525 for general fuel temperatures. An alternative standard of 0.16 g/gal/day applies for fuel tanks installed in nontrailerable boats when measured using the corresponding fuel temperature profile in ยง 1060.525. Portable marine fuel tanks are not subject to the requirements of this paragraph (b), but must instead comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(c) Portable marine fuel tanks and associated fuel-system components must meet the following requirements:

(1) They must be self-sealing when detached from the engines. The tanks may not vent to the atmosphere when attached to an engine, except as allowed under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. An integrated or external manually activated device may be included in the fuel tank design to temporarily relieve pressure before refueling or connecting the fuel tank to the engine. However, the default setting for such a vent must be consistent with the requirement in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) They must remain sealed up to a positive pressure of 24.5 kPa (3.5 psig); however, they may contain air inlets that open when there is a vacuum pressure inside the tank. Such fuel tanks may not contain air outlets that vent to the atmosphere at pressures below 34.5 kPa (5.0 psig).

(d) Detachable fuel lines that are intended for use with portable marine fuel tanks must have connection points that are self-sealing when not attached to the engine or fuel tank.

(e) Manufacturers of nonhandheld Small SI equipment may optionally meet the diurnal emission standards adopted by the California Air Resources Board. To meet the requirement in this paragraph (e), equipment must be certified to the performance standards specified in Title 13 California Code of Regulations (CCR) 2754(a) based on the applicable requirements specified in CP-902 and TP-902, including the requirements related to fuel caps in Title 13 CCR 2756. Equipment certified under this paragraph (e) does not need to use fuel lines or fuel tanks that have been certified separately. Equipment certified under this paragraph (e) are subject to all the referenced requirements in this paragraph (e) as if these specifications were mandatory.

(f) The following general provisions apply for controlling diurnal emissions:

(1) If you are subject to both running loss and diurnal emission standards, use good engineering judgment to ensure that the emission controls are compatible.

(2) You may not use diurnal emission controls that increase the occurrence of fuel spitback or spillage during in-use refueling. Also, if you use a carbon canister, you must incorporate design features that prevent liquid gasoline from reaching the canister during refueling or as a result of fuel sloshing or fuel expansion.

(3) You must meet the following provisions from ABYC H-25, July 2010 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1060.810) with respect to portable marine fuel tanks:

(i) Provide information related to the pressure relief method (25.8.2.1 and 25.8.2.1.1).

(ii) Perform system testing (25.10 through 25.10.5).
