
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1060.520 How do I test fuel tanks for permeation emissions?
####### Preconditioning fuel soak.

(b)Take the following steps before an emission test:

(1) Fill the fuel tank to its nominal capacity with the fuel specified in paragraph (e) of this section, seal it, and allow it to soak at (28+/-5) &#xB0;C for at least 20 weeks. Alternatively, the fuel tank may be soaked for at least 10 weeks at (43+/-5) &#xB0;C. You may count the time of the preconditioning steps in paragraph (a) of this section as part of the preconditioning fuel soak as long as the ambient temperature remains within the specified temperature range and the fuel tank continues to be at least 40 percent full throughout the test; you may add or replace fuel as needed to conduct the specified durability procedures. Void the test if you determine that the fuel tank has any kind of leak.

(2) Empty the fuel tank and immediately refill it with the specified test fuel to its nominal capacity. Be careful not to spill any fuel.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) Allow the fuel tank and its contents to equilibrate to the temperatures specified in paragraph (d)(7) of this section. Seal the fuel tank as described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section once the fuel temperatures are stabilized at the test temperature. You must seal the fuel tank no more than eight hours after refueling. Until the fuel tank is sealed, take steps to minimize the vapor losses from the fuel tank, such as keeping the fuel cap loose on the fuel inlet or routing vapors through a vent hose.

(5) Seal the fuel tank as follows:

(i) If fuel tanks are designed for use with a filler neck such that the fuel cap is not directly mounted on the fuel tank, you may seal the fuel inlet with a nonpermeable covering.

(ii) If fuel tanks are designed with fuel caps directly mounted on the fuel tank, take one of the following approaches:

(A) Use a production fuel cap expected to have permeation emissions at least as high as the highest-emitting fuel cap that you expect to be used with fuel tanks from the emission family. It would generally be appropriate to consider an HDPE fuel cap with a nitrile rubber seal to be worst-case.

(B) You may seal the fuel inlet with a nonpermeable covering if you separately account for permeation emissions from the fuel cap. This may involve a separate measurement of permeation emissions from a worst-case fuel cap as described in ยง 1060.521. This may also involve specifying a worst-case Family Emission Limit based on separately certified fuel caps as described in ยง 1060.103(e).

(C) If you use or specify a fuel gasket made of low-permeability material, you may seal the fuel inlet with a nonpermeable covering and calculate an emission rate for the complete fuel tank using a default value of 30 g/m/day for the fuel cap (or 50 g/m/day for testing at 40 &#xB0;C). Use the smallest inside cross-sectional area of the opening on which the cap is mounted as the fuel cap's surface area.

(iii) Openings that are not normally sealed on the fuel tank (such as hose-connection fittings and vents in fuel caps) may be sealed using nonpermeable fittings such as metal or fluoropolymer plugs.

(iv) Openings for petcocks that are designed for draining fuel may be sealed using nonpermeable fittings such as metal or fluoropolymer plugs.

(v) Openings for grommets may be sealed using nonpermeable fittings such as metal or fluoropolymer plugs.

(vi) Rather than sealing a fuel tank with nonpermeable fittings, you may produce a fuel tank for testing without machining or stamping those holes.
