
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Certifying Emission Families
###### ยง 1060.201 What are the general requirements for obtaining a certificate of conformity?
####### production period

(a) You must send us a separate application for a certificate of conformity for each emission family. A certificate of conformity for equipment is valid starting with the indicated effective date but it is not valid for any production after December 31 of the model year for which it is issued. No certificate will be issued after December 31 of the model year. A certificate of conformity for a component is valid starting with the indicated effective date but it is not valid for any production after the end of thefor which it is issued.

(b) The application must contain all the information required by this part and must not include false or incomplete statements or information (see ยง 1060.255).

(c) We may ask you to include less information than we specify in this subpart as long as you maintain all the information required by ยง 1060.250. For example, equipment manufacturers might use only components that are certified by other companies to meet applicable emission standards, in which case we would not require submission of emission data already submitted by the component manufacturer.

(d) You must use good engineering judgment for all decisions related to your application (see 40 CFR 1068.5).

(e) An authorized representative of your company must approve and sign the application.

(f) See ยง 1060.255 for provisions describing how we will process your application.

(g) We may specify streamlined procedures for small-volume equipment manufacturers.
