
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### ยง 1060.1 Which products are subject to this part's requirements?

(a) The standards and other requirements in this part 1060 apply to the fuel lines, fuel tanks, couplings and fittings, and fuel caps used or intended to be used in the following categories of new engines and equipment that are fueled with a volatile liquid fuel (such as gasoline, but not including diesel fuel), and to the equipment in which these components are installed, starting with the model years shown in Table 1 to this section:

(1) Compression-ignition engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1039. This includes stationary compression-ignition engines we regulate under the provisions of 40 CFR part 1039, as indicated under 40 CFR part 60, subpart IIII. See the evaporative emission standards specified in 40 CFR 1048.105. These engines are considered to be Large SI engines for purposes of this part 1060.

(2) Marine compression-ignition engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1042. See the evaporative emission standards specified in 40 CFR 1045.112. These engines are considered to be Marine SI engines for purposes of this part 1060.

(3) Marine SI engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1045. See the evaporative emission standards specified in 40 CFR 1045.112.

(4) Large SI engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1048. This includes stationary spark-ignition engines subject to standards under 40 CFR parts 1048 or 1054 as indicated in 40 CFR part 60, subpart JJJJ. See the evaporative emission standards specified in 40 CFR 1048.105.

(5) Recreational vehicles and engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1051 (such as snowmobiles and off-highway motorcycles). This includes highway motorcycles subject to standards under 40 CFR part 1051 as indicated in 40 CFR part 86, subpart E since these motorcycles are considered to be recreational vehicles for purposes of this part 1060. See the evaporative emission standards specified in 40 CFR 1051.110.

(6) Small SI engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1054. See the evaporative emission standards specified for handheld engines in 40 CFR 1054.110 and for nonhandheld engines in 40 CFR 1054.112.

(7) Portable nonroad fuel tanks are considered portable marine fuel tanks for purposes of this part. Portable nonroad fuel tanks and fuel lines associated with such fuel tanks must therefore meet evaporative emission standards specified in 40 CFR 1045.112, whether or not they are used with marine vessels.

(b) The regulations in this part 1060 apply for new replacement components used with any of the engines or equipment specified in paragraph (a) of this section as described in ยง 1060.601.

(c) Fuel caps are subject to evaporative emission standards at the point of installation on a fuel tank. When a fuel cap is certified for use with Marine SI engines or Small SI engines under the optional standards of ยง 1060.103, it becomes subject to all the requirements of this part as if these optional standards were mandatory.

(d) This part does not apply to any diesel-fueled engine or any other engine that does not use a volatile liquid fuel. In addition, this part does not apply to any engines or equipment in the following categories even if they use a volatile liquid fuel:

(1) Light-duty motor vehicles (see 40 CFR part 86).

(2) Heavy-duty motor vehicles and heavy-duty motor vehicle engines (see 40 CFR part 86). This part also does not apply to fuel systems for nonroad engines where such fuel systems are subject to part 86 because they are part of a heavy-duty motor vehicle.

(3) Aircraft engines (see 40 CFR part 87).

(4) Locomotives (see 40 CFR part 1033).

(e) This part 1060 does not apply for fuel lines made wholly of metal.
