
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1060.520 How do I test fuel tanks for permeation emissions?
####### Permeation test run.

(d)To run the test, take the following steps after preconditioning:

(1) Determine the fuel tank's internal surface area in square-meters, accurate to at least three significant figures. You may use less accurate estimates of the surface area if you make sure not to overestimate the surface area.

(2) Weigh the sealed test tank and record the weight. Place the reference tank on the balance and tare it so it reads zero. Place the sealed test tank on the balance and record the difference between the test tank and the reference tank. This value is M. Take this measurement directly after sealing the test tank as specified in paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section.

(3) Carefully place the test tank within a temperature-controlled room or enclosure. Do not spill or add any fuel.

(4) Close the room or enclosure as needed to control temperatures and record the time. However, you may need to take steps to prevent an accumulation of hydrocarbon vapors in the room or enclosure that might affect the degree to which fuel permeates through the fuel tank. This might simply involve passive ventilation to allow fresh air exchanges.

(5) Ensure that the measured temperature in the room or enclosure stays within the temperatures specified in paragraph (d)(6) of this section.

(6) Leave the test tank in the room or enclosure for the duration of the test run, except that you may remove the tank for up to 30 minutes at a time to meet weighing requirements.

(7) Hold the temperature of the room or enclosure at 28 +/-2 &#xB0;C; measure and record the temperature at least daily. You may alternatively hold the temperature of the room or enclosure at 40 +/-2 &#xB0;C to demonstrate compliance with the alternative standards specified in ยง 1060.103(b).

(8) Measure weight loss daily by retaring the balance using the reference tank and weighing the sealed test tank. Calculate the cumulative weight loss in grams for each measurement. Calculate the coefficient of determination, r, based on a linear plot of cumulative weight loss vs. test days. Use the equation in 40 CFR 1065.602(k), with cumulative weight loss represented by yand cumulative time represented by y. The daily measurements must be at approximately the same time each day. You may omit up to two daily measurements in any seven-day period. Test for ten full days, then determine when to stop testing as follows:

(i) You may stop testing after the measurement on the tenth day if ris at or above 0.95 or if the measured value is less than 50 percent of the applicable standard. (Note that if a Family Emission Limit applies for the family, it is considered to be the applicable standard for that family.) This means that if you stop testing with an rbelow 0.95, you may not use the data to show compliance with a Family Emission Limit less than twice the measured value.

(ii) If after ten days of testing your rvalue is below 0.95 and your measured value is more than 50 percent of the applicable standard in subpart B of this part, continue testing for a total of 20 days or until ris at or above 0.95. If ris not at or above 0.95 within 20 days of testing, discontinue the test and precondition the test tank further until it has stabilized emission levels, then repeat the testing.

(9) Record the difference in mass between the reference tank and the test tank for each measurement. This value is M, where "i" is a counter representing the number of days elapsed. Subtract Mfrom Mand divide the difference by the internal surface area of the fuel tank. Divide this g/mvalue by the number of test days (using at least two decimal places) to calculate the emission rate in g/m/day. Example: If a fuel tank with an internal surface area of 0.720 mweighed 1.31 grams less than the reference tank at the beginning of the test and weighed 9.86 grams less than the reference tank after soaking for 10.03 days, the emission rate would be ((-1.31 g) - (-9.86 g))/0.720 m/10.03 days = 1.1839 g/m/day.

(10) Determine your final emission result based on the cumulative weight loss measured on the final day of testing. Round this result to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard.
