
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### ยง 1060.10 How is this part organized?

This part 1060 is divided into the following subparts:

(a) Subpart A of this part defines the applicability of part 1060 and gives an overview of regulatory requirements.

(b) Subpart B of this part describes the emission standards and other requirements that must be met to certify equipment or components under this part. Note that ยง 1060.110 discusses certain interim requirements and compliance provisions that apply only for a limited time.

(c) Subpart C of this part describes how to apply for a certificate of conformity.

(d) Subpart D of this part describes the requirements related to verifying that products are being produced as described in an approved application for certification.

(e) Subpart E of this part describes the requirements related to verifying that products are meeting the standards in use.

(f) Subpart F of this part describes how to measure evaporative emissions.

(g) Subpart G of this part and 40 CFR part 1068 describe requirements, prohibitions, and other provisions that apply to manufacturers, owners, operators, and all others.

(h) Subpart H of this part describes how to certify your equipment or components for inclusion in an emission averaging program allowed by an exhaust standard-setting part.

(i) Subpart I of this part contains definitions and other reference information.
