
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1060.104 What running loss emission control requirements apply?

(a) Engines and equipment must meet running loss requirements as follows:

(1) Marine SI engines and vessels are not subject to running loss emission standards.

(2) Large SI engines and equipment must prevent fuel boiling during operation as specified in 40 CFR 1048.105.

(3) Recreational vehicles are not subject to running loss emission standards.

(4) Nonhandheld Small SI engines and equipment that are not used in wintertime equipment must meet running loss requirements described in this section. Handheld Small SI engines and equipment are not subject to running loss emission standards.

(b) You must demonstrate control of running loss emissions in one of the following ways if your engines or equipment are subject to the requirements of this section:

(1) Route running loss emissions into the engine intake system so fuel vapors vented from the tank during engine operation are combusted in the engine. This may involve routing vapors through a carbon canister. If another company has certified the engine with respect to exhaust emissions, state in your application for certification that you have followed the engine manufacturer's installation instructions.

(2) Use a fuel tank that remains sealed under normal operating conditions. This may involve a bladder or other means to prevent pressurized fuel tanks.

(3) Get an approved executive order or other written approval from the California Air Resources Board showing that your system meets applicable running loss standards in California.

(c) If you are subject to both running loss and diurnal emission standards, use good engineering judgment to ensure that the emission controls are compatible.
