
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### ยง 1060.5 Do the requirements of this part apply to me?
####### Overall responsibilities.

(a)Manufacturers of the engines, equipment, and fuel-system components described in ยง 1060.1 are subject to the standards and other requirements of this part 1060 except as otherwise noted. Multiple manufacturers may be subject to these standards and other requirements. For example, when a Small SI equipment manufacturer buys fuel line manufactured by another person and installs them in its equipment, both the equipment manufacturer and the fuel line manufacturer are subject to the standards and other requirements of this part. The following provisions apply in such cases:

(1) Each person meeting the definition of manufacturer (see ยง 1060.801) for a product that is subject to the standards and other requirements of this part must comply with such requirements. However, if one person complies with a specific requirement for a given product, then all manufacturers are deemed to have complied with that specific requirement. For example, if a Small SI equipment manufacturer uses fuel lines manufactured and certified by another company, the equipment manufacturer is not required to obtain its own certificate with respect to the fuel line emission standards. Such an equipment manufacturer remains subject to the standards and other requirements of this part. However, where a provision in this part requires a specific manufacturer to comply with certain provisions, this paragraph (a) does not change or modify such a requirement. For example, this paragraph (a) does not allow you to rely on another company to certify instead of you if we specifically require you to certify.

(2) The requirements of subparts C and D of this part apply to the manufacturer that obtains the certificate of conformity. Other manufacturers are required to comply with the requirements of subparts C and D of this part only when we send notification. In our notification, we will specify a reasonable period for complying with the requirements identified in the notice. See ยง 1060.601 for the applicability of 40 CFR part 1068 to these other manufacturers.

(3) Certificate holders are responsible for meeting all applicable requirements even if other manufacturers are also subject to those requirements.
