
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1060.130 What installation instructions must I give to equipment manufacturers?

(a) If you sell a certified fuel-system component for someone else to install in equipment, give the installer instructions for installing it consistent with the requirements of this part.

(b) Make sure the instructions have the following information:

(1) Include the heading: "Emission-related installation instructions".

(2) State: "Failing to follow these instructions when installing [IDENTIFY COMPONENT(S)] in a piece of nonroad equipment violates federal law (40 CFR 1068.105(b)), subject to fines or other penalties as described in the Clean Air Act."

(3) Describe how your certification is limited for any type of application. For example:

(i) For fuel tanks sold without fuel caps, you must specify the requirements for the fuel cap, such as the allowable materials, thread pattern, how it must seal, etc. You must also include instructions to tether the fuel cap as described in § 1060.101(f)(1) if you do not sell your fuel tanks with tethered fuel caps. The following instructions apply for specifying a certain level of emission control for fuel caps that will be installed on your fuel tanks:

(A) If your testing involves a default emission value for fuel cap permeation as specified in § 1060.520(b)(5)(ii)(C), specify in your installation instructions that installed fuel caps must either be certified with a Family Emission Limit at or below 30 g/m2/day, or have gaskets made of certain materials meeting the definition of "low-permeability material" in § 1060.801.

(B) If you certify your fuel tanks based on a fuel cap certified with a Family Emission Limit above 30 g/m2/day, specify in your installation instructions that installed fuel caps must either be certified with a Family Emission Limit at or below the level you used for certifying your fuel tanks, or have gaskets made of certain materials meeting the definition of "low-permeability material" in § 1060.801.

(ii) If your fuel lines do not meet permeation standards specified in § 1060.102 for EPA Low-Emission Fuel Lines, tell equipment manufacturers not to install the fuel lines with Large SI engines that operate on gasoline or another volatile liquid fuel.

(4) Describe instructions for installing components so they will operate according to design specifications in your application for certification. Specify sufficient detail to ensure that the equipment will meet the applicable standards when your component is installed.

(5) If you certify a component with a family emission limit above the emission standard, be sure to indicate that the equipment manufacturer must have a source of credits to offset the higher emissions. Also indicate the applications for which the regulations allow for compliance using evaporative emission credits.

(6) Instruct the equipment manufacturers that they must comply with the requirements of § 1060.202.

(c) You do not need installation instructions for components you install in your own equipment.

(d) Provide instructions in writing or in an equivalent format. For example, you may post instructions on a publicly available Web site for downloading or printing, provided you keep a copy of these instructions in your records. If you do not provide the instructions in writing, explain in your application for certification how you will ensure that each installer is informed of the installation requirements.
