
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading Provisions
###### ยง 1060.705 How do I certify components to an emission level other than the standard under this part or use such components in my equipment?
####### Requirements for certifying component manufacturers.

(a)See subpart C of this part for instructions regarding the general requirements for certifying components.

(1) When you submit your application for certification, indicate the FEL to which your components will be certified. This FEL will serve as the applicable standard for your component, and the equipment that uses the component. For example, when the regulations of this part use the phrase "demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standard" it will mean "demonstrate compliance with the FEL" for your component.

(2) You may not change the FEL for an emission family. To specify a different FEL for your components, you must send a new application for certification for a new emission family.

(3) Unless your FEL is below all emission standards that could potentially apply, you must ensure that all equipment manufacturers that will use your component are aware of the limitations regarding the conditions under which they may use your component.

(4) It is your responsibility to read the instructions relative to emission-credit provisions in the standard-setting parts identified in ยง 1060.1.
