
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart I - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### ยง 1060.801 What definitions apply to this part?
####### New nonroad equipment

means equipment meeting one or more of the following criteria:

(1) Nonroad equipment for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title. The equipment is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives this title or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.

(2) Nonroad equipment that is defined as new under the exhaust standard-setting part. (Note: equipment that is not defined as new under the exhaust standard-setting part may be defined as new under this definition of "new nonroad equipment.")

(3) Nonroad equipment with an engine that becomes new (as defined in the exhaust standard-setting part) while installed in the equipment. The equipment is no longer new when it is subsequently placed into service. This paragraph (3) does not apply if the engine becomes new before being installed in the equipment.

(4) Nonroad equipment not covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part at the time of importation and manufactured after the requirements of this part start to apply (see ยง 1060.1). The equipment is no longer new when it is subsequently placed into service. Importation of this kind of new nonroad equipment is generally prohibited by 40 CFR part 1068.
