
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1060.601 How do the prohibitions of 40 CFR 1068.101 apply with respect to the requirements of this part?
####### Applicability of the tampering prohibition.

(3)If a fuel tank or fuel line needing replacement was certified to meet the emission standards in this part with a family emission limit below the otherwise applicable standard, the new replacement fuel tank or fuel line must be certified to current emission standards, but need not be certified with the same or lower family emission limit to avoid violating the tampering prohibition in 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1).

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Manufacturers that generate or use evaporative emission credits related to Marine SI engines in 40 CFR part 1045 or Small SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054 are subject to the emission standards for which they are generating or using evaporative emission credits. These engines or equipment must therefore be covered by a valid certificate of conformity showing compliance with emission-credit provisions before being introduced into U.S. commerce to avoid violating the prohibition of 40 CFR 1068.101(a).

(e) If there is no valid certificate of conformity for any given evaporative emission standard for new equipment, the manufacturers of the engine, equipment and fuel-system components are each liable for violations of the prohibited acts with respect to the fuel systems and fuel-system components they have introduced into U.S. commerce, including fuel systems and fuel-system components installed in engines or equipment at the time the engines or equipment are introduced into U.S. commerce.

(f) If you manufacture fuel lines or fuel tanks that are subject to the requirements of this part as described in paragraph (a) of this section, 40 CFR 1068.101(a) does not prohibit you from shipping your products directly to an equipment manufacturer or another manufacturer from which you have received a written commitment to be responsible for certifying the components as required under this part 1060. This includes SHED-based certification of Small SI equipment as described in ยง 1060.105. If you ship fuel lines or fuel tanks under this paragraph (f), you must include documentation that accompanies the shipped products identifying the name and address of the company receiving shipment and stating that the fuel lines or fuel tanks are exempt under the provisions of 40 CFR 1060.601(f).

(g) If new evaporative emission standards apply in a given model year, your equipment in that model year must have fuel-system components that are certified to the new standards, except that you may continue to use up your normal inventory of earlier fuel-system components that were built before the date of the new or changed standards. For example, if your normal inventory practice is to keep on hand a one-month supply of fuel tanks based on your upcoming production schedules, and a new tier of standards starts to apply for the 2012 model year, you may order fuel tanks based on your normal inventory requirements late in the fuel tank manufacturer's 2011 model year and install those fuel tanks in your equipment, regardless of the date of installation. Also, if your model year starts before the end of the calendar year preceding new standards, you may use fuel-system components from the previous model year (or uncertified components if no standards were in place) for those units you produce before January 1 of the year that new standards apply. If emission standards do not change in a given model year, you may continue to install fuel-system components from the previous model year without restriction. You may not circumvent the provisions of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) by stockpiling fuel-system components that were built before new or changed standards take effect.
