
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - Applicability and General Provisions
###### ยง 1065.1 Applicability.
####### www.epa.gov,,https://www.epa.gov/vehicle-and-fuel-emissions-testing/engine-testing-regulations.

(g) For additional information regarding the test procedures in this part, visit our website atand in particular

(h) This part describes procedures and specifications for measuring an engine's exhaust emissions. While the measurements are geared toward engine-based measurements (in units of g/kW &#xB7; hr), many of these provisions apply equally to vehicle-based measurements (in units of g/mile or g/kilometer). 40 CFR part 1066 describes the analogous procedures for vehicle-based emission measurements, and in many cases states that specific provisions of this part 1065 also apply for those vehicle-based measurements. Where material from this part 1065 applies for vehicle-based measurements under 40 CFR part 1066, it is sometimes necessary to include parenthetical statements in this part 1065 to properly cite secondary references that are different for vehicle-based testing. See 40 CFR part 1066 and the standard-setting part for additional information.

(i) The following additional procedures apply as described in subpart L of this part:

(1) Measuring brake-specific emissions of semi-volatile organic compounds, which are not subject to separate emission standards.

(2) Identifying the threshold temperature for vanadium sublimation for SCR catalysts.

(3) Measuring the smoke opacity of engine exhaust.

(4) Aging aftertreatment devices in support of determining deterioration factors for certified compression-ignition engines.
