
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Equipment Specifications
###### ยง 1065.140 Dilution for gaseous and PM constituents.
####### i.e.,

(2) For any PM dilution system (CVS or PFD), add dilution air to the raw exhaust such that the minimum overall ratio of diluted exhaust to raw exhaust is within the range of (5:1 to 7:1) and is at least 2:1 for any primary dilution stage. Base this minimum value on the maximum engine exhaust flow rate during a given duty cycle for discrete-mode testing and on the maximum engine exhaust flow rate during a given test interval for other testing. Either measure the maximum exhaust flow during a practice run of the test interval or estimate it based on good engineering judgment (for example, you might rely on manufacturer-published literature).

(3) Configure any PM dilution system to have an overall residence time of (1.0 to 5.5) s, as measured from the location of initial dilution air introduction to the location where PM is collected on the sample media. Also configure the system to have a residence time of at least 0.50 s, as measured from the location of final dilution air introduction to the location where PM is collected on the sample media. When determining residence times within sampling system volumes, use an assumed flow temperature of 25 &#xB0;C and pressure of 101.325 kPa.

(4) Control sample temperature to a (47 +/-5) &#xB0;C tolerance, as measured anywhere within 20 cm upstream or downstream of the PM storage media (such as a filter). You may instead measure sample temperature up to 30 cm upstream of the filter or other PM storage media if it is housed within a chamber with temperature controlled to stay within the specified temperature range. Measure sample temperature with a bare-wire junction thermocouple with wires that are (0.500 +/-0.025) mm diameter, or with another suitable instrument that has equivalent performance.
