
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - Applicability and General Provisions
###### ยง 1065.12 Approval of alternate procedures.

(a) To get approval for an alternate procedure under ยง 1065.10(c), send the EPA Program Officer an initial written request describing the alternate procedure and why you believe it is equivalent to the specified procedure. Anyone may request alternate procedure approval. This means that an individual engine manufacturer may request to use an alternate procedure. This also means that an instrument manufacturer may request to have an instrument, equipment, or procedure approved as an alternate procedure to those specified in this part. We may approve your request based on this information alone, whether or not it includes all the information specified in this section. Where we determine that your original submission does not include enough information for us to determine that the alternate procedure is equivalent to the specified procedure, we may ask you to submit supplemental information showing that your alternate procedure is consistently and reliably at least as accurate and repeatable as the specified procedure.

(b) We may make our approval under this section conditional upon meeting other requirements or specifications. We may limit our approval, for example, to certain time frames, specific duty cycles, or specific emission standards. Based upon any supplemental information we receive after our initial approval, we may amend a previously approved alternate procedure to extend, limit, or discontinue its use. We intend to publicly announce alternate procedures that we approve.

(c) Although we will make every effort to approve only alternate procedures that completely meet our requirements, we may revoke our approval of an alternate procedure if new information shows that it is significantly not equivalent to the specified procedure.

If we do this, we will grant time to switch to testing using an allowed procedure, considering the following factors:

(1) The cost, difficulty, and availability to switch to a procedure that we allow.

(2) The degree to which the alternate procedure affects your ability to show that your engines comply with all applicable emission standards.

(3) Any relevant factors considered in our initial approval.

(d) If we do not approve your proposed alternate procedure based on the information in your initial request, we may ask you to send additional information to fully evaluate your request. While we consider the information specified in this paragraph (d) and the statistical criteria of paragraph (e) of this section to be sufficient to demonstrate equivalence, it may not be necessary to include all the information or meet the specified statistical criteria. For example, systems that do not meet the statistical criteria in paragraph (e) of this section because they have a small bias toward high emission results could be approved since they would not adversely affect your ability to demonstrate compliance with applicable standards.
