
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - Applicability and General Provisions
###### ยง 1065.15 Overview of procedures for laboratory and field testing.
####### Fuel consumed and brake-specific fuel consumption.

(ii)Directly measure fuel consumed or calculate it with chemical balances of the fuel, intake air, and exhaust. To calculate fuel consumed by a chemical balance, you must also measure either intake-air flow rate or exhaust flow rate. Divide the fuel consumed during a test interval by the brake-specific fuel consumption to determine work over the test interval. For laboratory testing, calculate the brake-specific fuel consumption using fuel consumed and speed and torque over a test interval. For field testing, refer to the standard-setting part and ยง 1065.915 for selecting an appropriate value for brake-specific fuel consumption.

(d) Refer to ยง 1065.650 for calculations to determine brake-specific emissions.

(e) The following figure illustrates the allowed measurement configurations described in this part 1065:

(f) This part 1065 describes how to test engines in a laboratory-type environment or in the field.

(1) This affects test intervals and duty cycles as follows:

(i) For laboratory testing, you generally determine brake-specific emissions for duty-cycle testing by using an engine dynamometer in a laboratory or other environment. This typically consists of one or more test intervals, each defined by a duty cycle, which is a sequence of modes, speeds, and/or torques (or powers) that an engine must follow. If the standard-setting part allows it, you may also simulate field testing with an engine dynamometer in a laboratory or other environment.

(ii) Field testing consists of normal in-use engine operation while an engine is installed in a vehicle, equipment, or vessel rather than following a specific engine duty cycle. The standard-setting part specifies how test intervals are defined for field testing.

(2) The type of testing may also affect what test equipment may be used. You may use "lab-grade" test equipment for any testing. The term "lab-grade" refers to equipment that fully conforms to the applicable specifications of this part. For some testing you may alternatively use "field-grade" equipment. The term "field-grade" refers to equipment that fully conforms to the applicable specifications of subpart J of this part, but does not fully conform to other specifications of this part. You may use "field-grade" equipment for field testing. We also specify in this part and in the standard-setting parts certain cases in which you may use "field-grade" equipment for testing in a laboratory-type environment. (Although "field-grade" equipment is generally more portable than "lab-grade" test equipment, portability is not relevant to whether equipment is considered to be "field-grade" or "lab-grade".)
