
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - Applicability and General Provisions
###### ยง 1065.20 Units of measure and overview of calculations.
####### Rounding.

(e)You are required to round certain final values, such as final emission values. You may round intermediate values when transferring data as long as you maintain at least six significant digits (which requires more than six decimal places for values less than 0.1), or all significant digits if fewer than six digits are available. Unless the standard-setting part specifies otherwise, do not round other intermediate values. Round values to the number of significant digits necessary to match the number of decimal places of the applicable standard or specification as described in this paragraph (e). Note that specifications expressed as percentages have infinite precision (as described in paragraph (e)(7) of this section). Use the following rounding convention, which is consistent with ASTM E29 and NIST SP 811:

(1) If the first (left-most) digit to be removed is less than five, remove all the appropriate digits without changing the digits that remain. For example, 3.141593 rounded to the second decimal place is 3.14.

(2) If the first digit to be removed is greater than five, remove all the appropriate digits and increase the lowest-value remaining digit by one. For example, 3.141593 rounded to the fourth decimal place is 3.1416.

(3) If the first digit to be removed is five with at least one additional non-zero digit following the five, remove all the appropriate digits and increase the lowest-value remaining digit by one. For example, 3.141593 rounded to the third decimal place is 3.142.

(4) If the first digit to be removed is five with no additional non-zero digits following the five, remove all the appropriate digits, increase the lowest-value remaining digit by one if it is odd and leave it unchanged if it is even. For example, 1.75 and 1.750 rounded to the first decimal place are 1.8; while 1.85 and 1.850 rounded to the first decimal place are also 1.8. Note that this rounding procedure will always result in an even number for the lowest-value digit.
