
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - Applicability and General Provisions
###### ยง 1065.5 Overview of this part 1065 and its relationship to the standard-setting part.

(a) This part specifies procedures that apply generally to measuring brake-specific emissions from various categories of engines. See subpart L of this part for measurement procedures for testing related to standards other than brake-specific emission standards. See the standard-setting part for directions in applying specific provisions in this part for a particular type of engine. Before using this part's procedures, read the standard-setting part to answer at least the following questions:

(1) What duty cycles must I use for laboratory testing?

(2) Should I warm up the test engine before measuring emissions, or do I need to measure cold-start emissions during a warm-up segment of the duty cycle?

(3) Which exhaust constituents do I need to measure? Measure all exhaust constituents that are subject to emission standards, any other exhaust constituents needed for calculating emission rates, and any additional exhaust constituents as specified in the standard-setting part. Alternatively, you may omit the measurement of NO and CHfor an engine, provided it is not subject to an NO or CHemission standard. If you omit the measurement of NO and CH, you must provide other information and/or data that will give us a reasonable basis for estimating the engine's emission rates.

(4) Do any unique specifications apply for test fuels?

(5) What maintenance steps may I take before or between tests on an emission-data engine?

(6) Do any unique requirements apply to stabilizing emission levels on a new engine?

(7) Do any unique requirements apply to test limits, such as ambient temperatures or pressures?

(8) Is field testing required or allowed, and are there different emission standards or procedures that apply to field testing?

(9) Are there any emission standards specified at particular engine-operating conditions or ambient conditions?

(10) Do any unique requirements apply for durability testing?

(b) The testing specifications in the standard-setting part may differ from the specifications in this part. In cases where it is not possible to comply with both the standard-setting part and this part, you must comply with the specifications in the standard-setting part. The standard-setting part may also allow you to deviate from the procedures of this part for other reasons.

(c) The following table shows how this part divides testing specifications into subparts:
