
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - Applicability and General Provisions
###### ยง 1065.20 Units of measure and overview of calculations.
####### Scaling of specifications with respect to an applicable standard.

(g)Because this part 1065 is applicable to a wide range of engines and emission standards, some of the specifications in this part are scaled with respect to an engine's applicable standard or maximum power. This ensures that the specification will be adequate to determine compliance, but not overly burdensome by requiring unnecessarily high-precision equipment. Many of these specifications are given with respect to a "flow-weighted mean" that is expected at the standard or during testing. Flow-weighted mean is the mean of a quantity after it is weighted proportional to a corresponding flow rate. For example, if a gas concentration is measured continuously from the raw exhaust of an engine, its flow-weighted mean concentration is the sum of the products (dry-to-wet corrected, if applicable) of each recorded concentration times its respective exhaust flow rate, divided by the sum of the recorded flow rates. As another example, the bag concentration from a CVS system is the same as the flow-weighted mean concentration, because the CVS system itself flow-weights the bag concentration. Refer to ยง 1065.602 for information needed to estimate and calculate flow-weighted means. Wherever a specification is scaled to a value based upon an applicable standard, interpret the standard to be the family emission limit if the engine is certified under an emission credit program in the standard-setting part.
