
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1060 - CONTROL OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE NONROAD AND STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart I - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### ยง 1060.825 What reporting and recordkeeping requirements apply under this part?
####### et seq

(e) Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501.), the Office of Management and Budget approves the reporting and recordkeeping specified in the applicable regulations in this chapter. The following items illustrate the kind of reporting and recordkeeping we require for products regulated under this part:

(1) We specify the following requirements related to component and equipment certification in this part:

(i) In ยง 1060.20 we give an overview of principles for reporting information.

(ii) In subpart C of this part we identify a wide range of information required to certify engines.

(iii) In ยง 1060.301 we require manufacturers to make components, engines, or equipment available for our testing if we make such a request, and to keep records related to evaluation of production samples for verifying that the products are as specified in the certificate of conformity.

(iv) In ยง 1060.505 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published test procedures.

(2) We specify the following requirements related to the general compliance provisions in 40 CFR part 1068:

(i) In 40 CFR 1068.5 we establish a process for evaluating good engineering judgment related to testing and certification.

(ii) In 40 CFR 1068.25 we describe general provisions related to sending and keeping information.

(iii) In 40 CFR 1068.27 we require manufacturers to make equipment available for our testing or inspection if we make such a request.

(iv) In 40 CFR 1068.105 we require equipment manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels from engine manufacturers.

(v) [Reserved]

(vi) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various exemptions.

(vii) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart D, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to importing equipment.

(viii) In 40 CFR 1068.450 and 1068.455 we specify certain records related to testing production-line products in a selective enforcement audit.

(ix) In 40 CFR 1068.501 we specify certain records related to investigating and reporting emission-related defects.

(x) In 40 CFR 1068.525 and 1068.530 we specify certain records related to recalling nonconforming equipment.

(xi) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart G, we specify certain records for requesting a hearing.
