
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - Applicability and General Provisions
###### ยง 1065.12 Approval of alternate procedures.
####### F,F

(4) Demonstrate the precision of the proposed alternate procedure by showing that it passes an-test. Use a set of at least seven samples from the reference procedure and a set of at least seven samples from the alternate procedure to perform an-test. The sets must meet the following requirements:

(i) Within each set, the values must be independent. That is, the probability of any given value in a set must be unchanged by knowledge of another value in that set. For example, your data would violate this requirement if a set showed a distinct increase or decrease that was dependent upon the time at which they were sampled.

(ii) For each set, the population of values from which you sampled must have a normal (i.e., Gaussian) distribution. If the population of values is not normally distributed, consult a statistician for a more appropriate statistical test, which may include transforming the data with a mathematical function or using some kind of non-parametric test.

(iii) The two sets must be independent of each other. That is, the probability of any given value in one set must be unchanged by knowledge of another value in the other set. For example, your data would violate this requirement if one value in a set showed a distinct increase or decrease that was dependent upon a value in the other set. Note that a trend of emission changes from an engine would not violate this requirement.
