
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - Applicability and General Provisions
###### ยง 1065.15 Overview of procedures for laboratory and field testing.

This section outlines the procedures to test engines that are subject to emission standards.

(a) In the standard-setting part, we set brake-specific emission standards in g/(kW &#xB7; hr) (or g/(hp &#xB7; hr)), for the following constituents:

(1) Total oxides of nitrogen, NO.

(2) Hydrocarbon, HC, which may be expressed in the following ways:

(i) Total hydrocarbon, THC.

(ii) Nonmethane hydrocarbon, NMHC, which results from subtracting methane, CH, from THC.

(iii) Nonmethane-nonethane hydrocarbon, NMNEHC, which results from subtracting methane, CH, and ethane, CH, from THC.

(iv) Total hydrocarbon-equivalent, THCE, which results from adjusting THC mathematically to be equivalent on a carbon-mass basis.

(v) Nonmethane hydrocarbon-equivalent, NMHCE, which results from adjusting NMHC mathematically to be equivalent on a carbon-mass basis.

(3) Particulate matter, PM.

(4) Carbon monoxide, CO.

(5) Carbon dioxide, CO.

(6) Methane, CH.

(7) Nitrous oxide, NO.

(b) Note that some engines are not subject to standards for all the emission constituents identified in paragraph (a) of this section. Note also that the standard-setting part may include standards for pollutants not listed in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) We generally set brake-specific emission standards over test intervals and/or duty cycles, as follows:
