
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Measurement Instruments
###### Flow-Related Measurements
####### § 1065.220 Fuel flow meter.
######## Application.

(a)You may use fuel flow meters in combination with a chemical balance of fuel, DEF, intake air, and raw exhaust to calculate raw exhaust flow as described in § 1065.655(f). You may also use fuel flow meters to determine the mass flow rate of carbon-carrying fuel streams for performing carbon balance error verification in § 1065.543 and to calculate the mass of those fuel streams as described in § 1065.643. The following provisions apply for using fuel flow meters:

(1) Use the actual value of calculated raw exhaust flow rate in the following cases:

(i) For multiplying raw exhaust flow rate with continuously sampled concentrations.

(ii) For multiplying total raw exhaust flow with batch-sampled concentrations.

(iii) For calculating the dilution air flow for background correction as described in § 1065.667.

(2) In the following cases, you may use a fuel flow meter signal that does not give the actual value of raw exhaust, as long as it is linearly proportional to the exhaust molar flow rate's actual calculated value:

(i) For feedback control of a proportional sampling system, such as a partial-flow dilution system.

(ii) For multiplying with continuously sampled gas concentrations, if the same signal is used in a chemical-balance calculation to determine work from brake-specific fuel consumption and fuel consumed.
