
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Measurement Instruments
###### Flow-Related Measurements
####### § 1065.240 Dilution air and diluted exhaust flow meters.
######## Component requirements.

(b)We recommend that you use a diluted exhaust flow meter that meets the specifications in Table 1 of § 1065.205. Note that your overall system for measuring diluted exhaust flow must meet the linearity verification in § 1065.307 and the calibration and verifications in § 1065.340 and § 1065.341. You may use the following meters:

(1) For constant-volume sampling (CVS) of the total flow of diluted exhaust, you may use a critical-flow venturi (CFV) or multiple critical-flow venturis arranged in parallel, a positive-displacement pump (PDP), a subsonic venturi (SSV), or an ultrasonic flow meter (UFM). Combined with an upstream heat exchanger, either a CFV or a PDP will also function as a passive flow controller in a CVS system. However, you may also combine any flow meter with any active flow control system to maintain proportional sampling of exhaust constituents. You may control the total flow of diluted exhaust, or one or more sample flows, or a combination of these flow controls to maintain proportional sampling.

(2) For any other dilution system, you may use a laminar flow element, an ultrasonic flow meter, a subsonic venturi, a critical-flow venturi or multiple critical-flow venturis arranged in parallel, a positive-displacement meter, a thermal-mass meter, an averaging Pitot tube, or a hot-wire anemometer.
