
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Measurement Instruments
###### Flow-Related Measurements
####### § 1065.225 Intake-air flow meter.
######## Application.,n

(a)You may use intake-air flow meters in combination with a chemical balance of fuel, DEF, intake air, and raw exhaust to calculate raw exhaust flow as described in § 1065.655(f) and (g). You may also use intake-air flow meters to determine the amount of intake air input for performing carbon balance error verification in § 1065.543 and to calculate the measured amount of intake air,, as described in § 1065.643. The following provisions apply for using intake air flow meters:

(i) For multiplying raw exhaust flow rate with continuously sampled concentrations.

(ii) For multiplying total raw exhaust flow with batch-sampled concentrations.

(iii) For verifying minimum dilution ratio for PM batch sampling as described in § 1065.546.

(iv) For calculating the dilution air flow for background correction as described in § 1065.667.

(2) In the following cases, you may use an intake-air flow meter signal that does not give the actual value of raw exhaust, as long as it is linearly proportional to the exhaust flow rate's actual calculated value:

(i) For feedback control of a proportional sampling system, such as a partial-flow dilution system.

(ii) For multiplying with continuously sampled gas concentrations, if the same signal is used in a chemical-balance calculation to determine work from brake-specific fuel consumption and fuel consumed.
