
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Measurement Instruments
###### Hydrocarbon Measurements
####### § 1065.269 Photoacoustic analyzer for ethanol and methanol.
######## § 1065.272 Nondispersive ultraviolet analyzer.
######### Humidity effects.
########## Instrument types.

(b)You may use any of the following analyzers to measure NO:

(1) Nondispersive infrared (NDIR) analyzer.

(2) Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) analyzer. Use appropriate analytical procedures for interpretation of infrared spectra. For example, EPA Test Method 320 (see § 1065.266(b)) and ASTM D6348 (incorporated by reference in § 1065.1010) are considered valid methods for spectral interpretation.

(3) Laser infrared analyzer. Examples of laser infrared analyzers are pulsed-mode high-resolution narrow band mid-infrared analyzers, and modulated continuous wave high-resolution narrow band mid-infrared analyzers.

(4) Photoacoustic analyzer. Use an optical wheel configuration that gives analytical priority to measurement of the least stable components in the sample. Select a sample integration time of at least 5 seconds. Take into account sample chamber and sample line volumes when determining flush times for your instrument.

(5) Gas chromatograph analyzer. You may use a gas chromatograph with an electron-capture detector (GC-ECD) to measure NO concentrations of diluted exhaust for batch sampling.

(i) You may use a packed or porous layer open tubular (PLOT) column phase of suitable polarity and length to achieve adequate resolution of the NO peak for analysis. Examples of acceptable columns are a PLOT column consisting of bonded polystyrene-divinylbenzene or a Porapack Q packed column. Take the column temperature profile and carrier gas selection into consideration when setting up your method to achieve adequate NO peak resolution.

(ii) Use good engineering judgment to zero your instrument and correct for drift. You do not need to follow the specific procedures in §§ 1065.530 and 1065.550(b) that would otherwise apply. For example, you may perform a span gas measurement before and after sample analysis without zeroing and use the average area counts of the pre-span and post-span measurements to generate a response factor (area counts/span gas concentration), which you then multiply by the area counts from your sample to generate the sample concentration.
