
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Measurement Instruments
###### Measurement of Engine Parameters and Ambient Conditions
####### ยง 1065.210 Work input and output sensors.
######## Application.,i.e.,,&#x3B7;,&#x3B7;,&#x3B7;

(a)Use instruments as specified in this section to measure work inputs and outputs during engine operation. We recommend that you use sensors, transducers, and meters that meet the specifications in Table 1 of ยง 1065.205. Note that your overall systems for measuring work inputs and outputs must meet the linearity verifications in ยง 1065.307. We recommend that you measure work inputs and outputs where they cross the system boundary as shown in Figure 1 of this section. The system boundary is different for air-cooled engines than for liquid-cooled engines. If you choose to measure work before or after a work conversion, relative to the system boundary, use good engineering judgment to estimate any work-conversion losses in a way that avoids overestimation of total work. For example, if it is impractical to instrument the shaft of an exhaust turbine generating electrical work, you may decide to measure its converted electrical work. As another example, you may decide to measure the tractive (electrical output) power of a locomotive, rather than the brake power of the locomotive engine. In these cases, divide the electrical work by accurate values of electrical generator efficiency (<1), or assume an efficiency of 1 (=1), which would over-estimate brake-specific emissions. For the example of using locomotive tractive power with a generator efficiency of 1 (=1), this means using the tractive power as the brake power in emission calculations. Do not underestimate any work conversion efficiencies for any components outside the system boundary that do not return work into the system boundary. And do not overestimate any work conversion efficiencies for components outside the system boundary that do return work into the system boundary. In all cases, ensure that you are able to accurately demonstrate compliance with the applicable standards in this chapter. Figure 1 follows:
