
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Measurement Instruments
###### Hydrocarbon Measurements
####### ยง 1065.269 Photoacoustic analyzer for ethanol and methanol.
######## ยง 1065.272 Nondispersive ultraviolet analyzer.
######### Humidity effects.
########## Interference verification.

(c)Perform interference verification for NDIR, FTIR, laser infrared analyzers, and photoacoustic analyzers using the procedures of ยง 1065.375. Interference verification is not required for GC-ECD. Certain interference gases can positively interfere with NDIR, FTIR, and photoacoustic analyzers by causing a response similar to NO. When running the interference verification for these analyzers, use interference gases as follows:

(1) The interference gases for NDIR analyzers are CO, CO, HO, CH, and SO. Note that interference species, with the exception of HO, are dependent on the NO infrared absorption band chosen by the instrument manufacturer. For each analyzer determine the NO infrared absorption band. For each NO infrared absorption band, use good engineering judgment to determine which interference gases to use in the verification.

(2) Use good engineering judgment to determine interference gases for FTIR, and laser infrared analyzers. Note that interference species, with the exception of HO, are dependent on the NO infrared absorption band chosen by the instrument manufacturer. For each analyzer determine the NO infrared absorption band. For each NO infrared absorption band, use good engineering judgment to determine interference gases to use in the verification.

(3) The interference gases for photoacoustic analyzers are CO, CO, and HO.
