
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Equipment Specifications
###### ยง 1065.145 Gaseous and PM probes, transfer lines, and sampling system components.
####### Osmotic-membrane.,T,p,T,p,p

(i)You may use an osmotic-membrane dryer upstream of any gaseous analyzer or storage medium, as long as it meets the temperature specifications in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Because osmotic-membrane dryers may deteriorate after prolonged exposure to certain exhaust constituents, consult with the membrane manufacturer regarding your application before incorporating an osmotic-membrane dryer. Monitor the dewpoint,, and absolute pressure,, downstream of an osmotic-membrane dryer. You may use continuously recorded values ofandin the amount of water calculations specified in ยง 1065.645. For our testing we may use average temperature and pressure values over the test interval or a nominal pressure value that we estimate as the dryer's average pressure expected during testing as constant values in the amount of water calculations specified in ยง 1065.645. For your testing, you may use the maximum temperature or minimum pressure values observed during a test interval or duty cycle or the high alarm temperature setpoint or low alarm pressure setpoint as constant values in the calculations specified in ยง 1065.645. For your testing, you may also use a nominal, which you may estimate as the dryer's lowest absolute pressure expected during testing.
