
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Equipment Specifications
###### ยง 1065.195 PM-stabilization environment for in-situ analyzers.
####### Absolute pressure.

(4)Use good engineering judgment to maintain a tolerance of absolute pressure if your PM measurement instrument requires it.

(d) Continuously measure dewpoint, temperature, and pressure using measurement instruments that meet the PM-stabilization environment specifications in subpart C of this part. Use these values to determine if the in-situ stabilization environment is within the tolerances specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Do not use any PM quantities that are recorded when any of these parameters exceed the applicable tolerances.

(e) If you use an inertial PM balance, we recommend that you install it as follows:

(1) Isolate the balance from any external noise and vibration that is within a frequency range that could affect the balance.

(2) Follow the balance manufacturer's specifications.

(f) If static electricity affects an inertial balance, you may use a static neutralizer, as follows:

(1) You may use a radioactive neutralizer such as a Polonium (Po) source or a Krypton (Kr) source. Replace radioactive sources at the intervals recommended by the neutralizer manufacturer.

(2) You may use other neutralizers, such as a corona-discharge ionizer. If you use a corona-discharge ionizer, we recommend that you monitor it for neutral net charge according to the ionizer manufacturer's recommendations.
