
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Equipment Specifications
###### § 1065.145 Gaseous and PM probes, transfer lines, and sampling system components.
####### Thermal chiller.,T,p,T,p,T,T,T,T,p

(ii)You may use a thermal chiller upstream of some gas analyzers and storage media. You may not use a thermal chiller upstream of a THC measurement system for compression-ignition engines, two-stroke spark-ignition engines, or four-stroke spark-ignition engines at or below 19 kW. If you use a thermal chiller upstream of an NO-to-NO converter or in a sampling system without an NO-to-NO converter, the chiller must meet the NOloss-performance check specified in § 1065.376. Monitor the dewpoint,, and absolute pressure,, downstream of a thermal chiller. You may use continuously recorded values ofandin the amount of water calculations specified in § 1065.645. If it is valid to assume the degree of saturation in the thermal chiller, you may calculatebased on the known chiller performance and continuous monitoring of chiller temperature,. If it is valid to assume a constant temperature offset betweenand, due to a known and fixed amount of sample reheat between the chiller outlet and the temperature measurement location, you may factor in this assumed temperature offset value into emission calculations. If we ask for it, you must show by engineering analysis or by data the validity of any assumptions allowed by this paragraph (e)(2)(ii). For our testing we may use average temperature and pressure values over the test interval or a nominal pressure value that we estimate as the dryer's average pressure expected during testing as constant values in the calculations specified in § 1065.645. For your testing you may use the maximum temperature and minimum pressure values observed during a test interval or duty cycle or the high alarm temperature setpoint and the low alarm pressure setpoint as constant values in the amount of water calculations specified in § 1065.645. For your testing you may also use a nominal, which you may estimate as the dryer's lowest absolute pressure expected during testing.
