
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Flow-Related Measurements
####### ยง 1065.340 Diluted exhaust flow (CVS) calibration.
######## Ex-situ CFV and SSV calibration.

(c)You may remove a CFV or SSV from its permanent position for calibration as long as it meets the following requirements when installed in the CVS:

(1) Upon installation of the CFV or SSV into the CVS, use good engineering judgment to verify that you have not introduced any leaks between the CVS inlet and the venturi.

(2) After ex-situ venturi calibration, you must verify all venturi flow combinations for CFVs or at minimum of 10 flow points for an SSV using the propane check as described in ยง 1065.341. Your propane check result for each venturi flow point may not exceed the tolerance in ยง 1065.341(f)(5).

(3) To verify your ex-situ calibration for a CVS with more than a single CFV, perform the following check to verify that there are no flow meter entrance effects that can prevent you from passing this verification.

(i) Use a constant flow device like a CFO kit to deliver a constant flow of propane to the dilution tunnel.

(ii) Measure hydrocarbon concentrations at a minimum of 10 separate flow rates for an SSV flow meter, or at all possible flow combinations for a CFV flow meter, while keeping the flow of propane constant. We recommend selecting CVS flow rates in a random order.

(iii) Measure the concentration of hydrocarbon background in the dilution air at the beginning and end of this test. Subtract the average background concentration from each measurement at each flow point before performing the regression analysis in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section.
