
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Flow-Related Measurements
####### § 1065.341 CVS and PFD flow verification (propane check).

This section describes two optional methods, using propane as a tracer gas, to verify CVS and PFD flow streams. You may use good engineering judgment and safe practices to use other tracer gases, such as COor CO. The first method, described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, applies for the CVS diluted exhaust flow measurement system. The first method may also apply for other single-flow measurement systems as described in Table 2 of § 1065.307. Paragraph (g) of this section describes a second method you may use to verify flow measurements in a PFD for determining the PFD dilution ratio.

(a) A propane check uses either a reference mass or a reference flow rate of CHas a tracer gas in a CVS. Note that if you use a reference flow rate, account for any non-ideal gas behavior of CHin the reference flow meter. Refer to §§ 1065.640 and 1065.642, which describe how to calibrate and use certain flow meters. Do not use any ideal gas assumptions in §§ 1065.640 and 1065.642. The propane check compares the calculated mass of injected CHusing HC measurements and CVS flow rate measurements with the reference value.

(b) Prepare for the propane check as follows:

(1) If you use a reference mass of CHinstead of a reference flow rate, obtain a cylinder charged with CH. Determine the reference cylinder's mass of CHwithin +/-0.5% of the amount of CHthat you expect to use. You may substitute a CHanalytical gas mixture (i.e., a prediluted tracer gas) for pure CH. This would be most appropriate for lower flow rates. The analytical gas mixture must meet the specifications in § 1065.750(a)(3).

(2) Select appropriate flow rates for the CVS and CH.

(3) Select a CHinjection port in the CVS. Select the port location to be as close as practical to the location where you introduce engine exhaust into the CVS, or at some point in the laboratory exhaust tubing upstream of this location. Connect the CHcylinder to the injection system.

(4) Operate and stabilize the CVS.

(5) Preheat or pre-cool any heat exchangers in the sampling system.

(6) Allow heated and cooled components such as sample lines, filters, chillers, and pumps to stabilize at operating temperature.

(7) You may purge the HC sampling system during stabilization.

(8) If applicable, perform a vacuum side leak verification of the HC sampling system as described in § 1065.345.

(9) You may also conduct any other calibrations or verifications on equipment or analyzers.

(c) If you performed the vacuum-side leak verification of the HC sampling system as described in paragraph (b)(8) of this section, you may use the HC contamination procedure in § 1065.520(f) to verify HC contamination. Otherwise, zero, span, and verify contamination of the HC sampling system, as follows:

(1) Select the lowest HC analyzer range that can measure the CHconcentration expected for the CVS and CHflow rates.

(2) Zero the HC analyzer using zero air introduced at the analyzer port.

(3) Span the HC analyzer using CHspan gas introduced at the analyzer port.

(4) Overflow zero air at the HC probe inlet or into a tee near the outlet of the probe.

(5) Measure the stable HC concentration of the HC sampling system as overflow zero air flows. For batch HC measurement, fill the batch container (such as a bag) and measure the HC overflow concentration.

(6) If the overflow HC concentration exceeds 2 µmol/mol, do not proceed until contamination is eliminated. Determine the source of the contamination and take corrective action, such as cleaning the system or replacing contaminated portions.
