
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Flow-Related Measurements
####### ยง 1065.345 Vacuum-side leak verification.
######## Vacuum-decay leak test.

(e)To perform this test you must apply a vacuum to the vacuum-side volume of your sampling system and then observe the leak rate of your system as a decay in the applied vacuum. To perform this test you must know the vacuum-side volume of your sampling system to within +/-10% of its true volume. For this test you must also use measurement instruments that meet the specifications of subpart C of this part and of this subpart D. Perform a vacuum-decay leak test as follows:

(1) Seal the probe end of the system as close to the probe opening as possible by taking one of the following steps:

(i) Cap or plug the end of the sample probe.

(ii) Disconnect the transfer line at the probe and cap or plug the transfer line.

(iii) Close a leak-tight valve located in the sample transfer line within 92 cm of the probe.

(2) Operate all vacuum pumps. Draw a vacuum that is representative of normal operating conditions. In the case of sample bags, we recommend that you repeat your normal sample bag pump-down procedure twice to minimize any trapped volumes.

(3) Turn off the sample pumps and seal the system. Measure and record the absolute pressure of the trapped gas and optionally the system absolute temperature. Wait long enough for any transients to settle and long enough for a leak at 0.5% to have caused a pressure change of at least 10 times the resolution of the pressure transducer, then again record the pressure and optionally temperature.

(4) Calculate the leak flow rate based on an assumed value of zero for pumped-down bag volumes and based on known values for the sample system volume, the initial and final pressures, optional temperatures, and elapsed time. Using the calculations specified in ยง 1065.644, verify that the vacuum-decay leak flow rate is less than 0.5% of the system's normal in-use flow rate.
