
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Flow-Related Measurements
####### ยง 1065.342 Sample dryer verification.
######## Sample dryer verification procedure.

(d)Use the following method to determine sample dryer performance. Run this verification with the dryer and associated sampling system operating in the same manner you will use for emission testing (including operation of sample pumps). You may run this verification test on multiple sample dryers sharing the same sampling system at the same time. You may run this verification on the sample dryer alone, but you must use the maximum gas flow rate expected during testing. You may use good engineering judgment to develop a different protocol.

(1) Use PTFE or stainless steel tubing to make necessary connections.

(2) Humidify room air, purified N, or purified air by bubbling it through distilled HO in a sealed vessel or use a device that injects distilled HO as vapor into a controlled gas flow to humidify the gas to the highest sample HO content that you estimate during emission sampling.

(3) Introduce the humidified gas upstream of the sample dryer. You may disconnect the transfer line from the probe and introduce the humidified gas at the inlet of the transfer line of the sample system used during testing. You may use the sample pumps in the sample system to draw gas through the vessel.

(4) Maintain the sample lines, fittings, and valves from the location where the humidified gas water content is measured to the inlet of the sampling system at a temperature at least 5 &#xB0;C above the local humidified gas dewpoint. For dryers used in NOsample systems, verify the sample system components used in this verification prevent aqueous condensation as required in ยง 1065.145(d)(1)(i). We recommend that the sample system components be maintained at least 5 &#xB0;C above the local humidified gas dewpoint to prevent aqueous condensation.
