
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Flow-Related Measurements
####### ยง 1065.341 CVS and PFD flow verification (propane check).
######## M,M

(3) Calculate total CHmass based on your CVS and HC data as described in ยง 1065.650 (40 CFR 1066.605 for vehicle testing) and ยง 1065.660, using the molar mass of CH,, instead of the effective molar mass of HC,.

(4) If you use a reference mass, determine the cylinder's propane mass within +/-0.5% and determine the CHreference mass by subtracting the empty cylinder propane mass from the full cylinder propane mass.

(5) Subtract the reference CHmass from the calculated mass. If this difference is within +/-2% of the reference mass, the CVS passes this verification. If not, take corrective action as described in paragraph (f) of this section.

(f) A failed propane check might indicate one or more problems requiring corrective action, as follows:

(g) You may verify flow measurements in a PFD (usually dilution air and diluted exhaust streams) for determining the dilution ratio in the PFD using the following method:

(1) Configure the HC sampling system to extract a sample from the PFD's diluted exhaust stream (such as near a PM filter). If the absolute pressure at this location is too low to extract an HC sample, you may sample HC from the PFD's pump exhaust. Use caution when sampling from pump exhaust because an otherwise acceptable pump leak downstream of a PFD diluted exhaust flow meter will cause a false failure of the propane check.

(2) Perform the propane check described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, but sample HC from the PFD's diluted exhaust stream. Inject the propane in the same exhaust stream that the PFD is sampling from (either CVS or raw exhaust stack).

(3) Calculate CHmass, taking into account the dilution from the PFD.

(4) Subtract the reference CHmass from the calculated mass. If this difference is within +/-2% of the reference mass, all PFD flow measurements for determining PFD dilution ratio pass this verification. If not, take corrective action as described in paragraph (f) of this section. For PFDs sampling only for PM, the allowed difference is +/-5%.

(h) Table 2 of ยง 1065.307 describes optional verification procedures you may perform instead of linearity verification for certain flow-measurement systems. Performing carbon balance error verification also replaces any required propane checks.
