
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Flow-Related Measurements
####### § 1065.341 CVS and PFD flow verification (propane check).
######## x

(7) When the overflow HC concentration does not exceed 2 µmol/mol, record this value asand use it to correct for HC contamination as described in § 1065.660.

(d) Perform the propane check as follows:

(1) For batch HC sampling, connect clean storage media, such as evacuated bags.

(2) Operate HC measurement instruments according to the instrument manufacturer's instructions.

(3) If you will correct for dilution air background concentrations of HC, measure and record background HC in the dilution air.

(4) Zero any integrating devices.

(5) Begin sampling, and start any flow integrators.

(6) Release the contents of the CHreference cylinder at the rate you selected. If you use a reference flow rate of CH, start integrating this flow rate.

(7) Continue to release the cylinder's contents until at least enough CHhas been released to ensure accurate quantification of the reference CHand the measured CH.

(8) Shut off the CHreference cylinder and continue sampling until you have accounted for time delays due to sample transport and analyzer response.

(9) Stop sampling and stop any integrators.

(e) Perform post-test procedure as follows:

(1) If you used batch sampling, analyze batch samples as soon as practical.

(2) After analyzing HC, correct for contamination and background.
