
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Measurement Instruments
###### PM Measurements
####### § 1065.298 Correcting real-time PM measurement based on gravimetric PM filter measurement for field-testing analysis.
######## Component requirements.

(c)(1) Gravimetric PM measurement must meet the laboratory measurement requirements of this part 1065, noting that there are specific exceptions to some laboratory requirements and specification for field testing given in § 1065.905(d)(2). In addition to those exceptions, field testing does not require you to verify proportional flow control as specified in § 1065.545. Note also that the linearity requirements of § 1065.307 apply only as specified in this section.

(2) Check the calibration and linearity of the photoacoustic and electrical aerosol instruments according to the instrument manufacturer's instructions and the following recommendations:

(i) For photoacoustic instruments we recommend one of the following:

(A) Use a reference elemental carbon-based PM source to calibrate the instrument Verify the photoacoustic instrument by comparing results either to a gravimetric PM measurement collected on the filter or to an elemental carbon analysis of collected PM.

(B) Use a light absorber that has a known amount of laser light absorption to periodically verify the instrument's calibration factor. Place the light absorber in the path of the laser beam. This verification checks the integrity of the microphone sensitivity, the power of the laser diode, and the performance of the analog-to-digital converter.

(C) Verify that you meet the linearity requirements in Table 1 of § 1065.307 by generating a maximum reference PM mass concentration (verified gravimetrically) and then using partial-flow sampling to dilute to various evenly distributed concentrations.

(ii) For electrical aerosol instruments we recommend one of the following:

(A) Use reference monodisperse or polydisperse PM-like particles with a mobility diameter or count median diameter greater than 45 nm. Use an electrometer or condensation particle counter that has a dat or below 10 nm to verify the reference values.

(B) Verify that you meet the linearity requirements in Table 1 of § 1065.307 using a maximum reference particle concentration, a zero-reference concentration, and at least two other evenly distributed points. Use partial-flow dilution to create the additional reference PM concentrations. The difference between measured values from the electrical aerosol and reference instruments at each point must be no greater than 15% of the mean value from the two measurements at that point.
