
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Hydrocarbon Measurements
####### § 1065.360 FID optimization and verification.
######## THC FID CH,response factor determination.,RF,RF,RF,RF

(d)This procedure is only for FID analyzers that measure THC. Since FID analyzers generally have a different response to CHversus CH, determine the THC-FID analyzer's CHresponse factor,, after FID optimization. Use the most recentmeasured according to this section in the calculations for HC determination described in § 1065.660 to compensate for CHresponse. Determineas follows, noting that you do not determinefor FIDs that are calibrated and spanned using CHwith a nonmethane cutter:

(1) Select a CHspan gas concentration that you use to span your analyzers before emission testing. Use only span gases that meet the specifications of § 1065.750. Record the CHconcentration of the gas.

(2) Select a CHspan gas concentration that you use to span your analyzers before emission testing. Use only span gases that meet the specifications of § 1065.750. Record the CHconcentration of the gas.

(3) Start and operate the FID analyzer according to the manufacturer's instructions.

(4) Confirm that the FID analyzer has been calibrated using CH. Calibrate on a carbon number basis of one (C). For example, if you use a CHspan gas of concentration 200 µmol/mol, span the FID to respond with a value of 600 µmol/mol.

(5) Zero the FID with a zero gas that you use for emission testing.

(6) Span the FID with the CHspan gas that you selected under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(7) Introduce the CHspan gas that you selected under paragraph (d)(2) of this section into the FID analyzer.

(8) Allow time for the analyzer response to stabilize. Stabilization time may include time to purge the analyzer and to account for its response.

(9) While the analyzer measures the CHconcentration, record 30 seconds of sampled data. Calculate the arithmetic mean of these values.

(10) For analyzers with multiple ranges, you need to perform the procedure in this paragraph (d) only on a single range.
