
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Hydrocarbon Measurements
####### ยง 1065.366 Interference verification for FTIR analyzers.
######## Procedure.
######### Procedure.
########## Procedure.

(d)Perform the interference verification as follows:

(1) Start, operate, zero, and span the NONDUV analyzer according to the instrument manufacturer's instructions.

(2) We recommend that you extract engine exhaust to perform this verification. Use a CLD that meets the specifications of subpart C of this part to quantify NOin the exhaust. Use the CLD response as the reference value. Also measure HC in the exhaust with a FID analyzer that meets the specifications of subpart C of this part. Use the FID response as the reference hydrocarbon value.

(3) Upstream of any sample dryer, if one is used during testing, introduce the engine exhaust to the NDUV analyzer.

(4) Allow time for the analyzer response to stabilize. Stabilization time may include time to purge the transfer line and to account for analyzer response.

(5) While all analyzers measure the sample's concentration, record 30 seconds of sampled data, and calculate the arithmetic means for the three analyzers.

(6) Subtract the CLD mean from the NDUV mean.

(7) Multiply this difference by the ratio of the flow-weighted mean HC concentration expected at the standard to the HC concentration measured during the verification. The analyzer meets the interference verification of this section if this result is within +/-2% of the NOconcentration expected at the standard.
