
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Hydrocarbon Measurements
####### § 1065.366 Interference verification for FTIR analyzers.
######## Procedure.
######### Procedure.
########## x

(4) Zero and span the CLD analyzer. Span the CLD analyzer with the NO span gas from paragraph (e)(3) of this section, record the span gas concentration as, and use it in the quench verification calculations in § 1065.675.

(5) Create a humidified NO span gas by bubbling a NO gas that meets the specifications in § 1065.750 through distilled HO in a sealed vessel or use a device that introduces distilled HO as vapor into a controlled gas flow. If the sample does not pass through a dryer during emission testing, humidify your test gas to an HO level approximately equal to the maximum mole fraction of HO expected during emission testing. If the humidified NO span gas sample does not pass through a sample dryer, the quench verification calculations in § 1065.675 scale the measured HO quench to the highest mole fraction of HO expected during emission testing. If the sample passes through a dryer during emission testing, you must humidify your test gas to an HO level at or above the level determined in § 1065.145(e)(2) for that dryer. For this case, the quench verification calculations in § 1065.675 do not scale the measured HO quench.

(6) Introduce the humidified NO test gas into the sample system. You may introduce it upstream or downstream of any sample dryer that is used during emission testing. Note that the sample dryer must meet the sample dryer verification check in § 1065.342.
