
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Hydrocarbon Measurements
####### ยง 1065.365 Nonmethane cutter penetration fractions.
######## Procedure for a FID calibrated with propane, bypassing the NMC.

(e)If you use a single FID for THC and CHdetermination with an NMC that is calibrated with propane, CH, by bypassing the NMC, determine its penetration fractions, PFand PF, as follows:

(1) Select CHand CHanalytical gas mixtures and ensure that both mixtures meet the specifications of ยง 1065.750. Select a CHconcentration that you would use for spanning the FID during emission testing and select a CHconcentration that is typical of the peak NMHC concentration expected at the hydrocarbon standard and the CHconcentration typical of the peak total hydrocarbon (THC) concentration expected at the hydrocarbon standard or equal to the THC analyzer's span value. For CHanalyzers with multiple ranges, perform this procedure on the highest range used for emission testing.

(2) Start and operate the nonmethane cutter according to the manufacturer's instructions, including any temperature optimization.

(3) Confirm that the FID analyzer meets all the specifications of ยง 1065.360.

(4) Start and operate the FID analyzer according to the manufacturer's instructions.

(5) Zero and span the FID as you would during emission testing. Span the FID by bypassing the cutter and by using CHspan gas.

(6) Introduce the CHanalytical gas mixture upstream of the nonmethane cutter. Use good engineering judgment to address the effect of hydrocarbon contamination if your point of introduction is vastly different from the point of zero/span gas introduction.

(7) Allow time for the analyzer response to stabilize. Stabilization time may include time to purge the nonmethane cutter and to account for the analyzer's response.

(8) While the analyzer measures a stable concentration, record 30 seconds of sampled data. Calculate the arithmetic mean of these data points.

(9) Reroute the flow path to bypass the nonmethane cutter, introduce the CHanalytical gas mixture, and repeat the steps in paragraph (e)(7) through (e)(8) of this section.
