
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Hydrocarbon Measurements
####### ยง 1065.360 FID optimization and verification.
######## Scope and frequency.

(a)For all FID analyzers, calibrate the FID upon initial installation. Repeat the calibration as needed using good engineering judgment. For a FID that measures THC, perform the following steps:

(1) Optimize the response to various hydrocarbons after initial analyzer installation and after major maintenance as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Determine the methane (CH) response factor after initial analyzer installation and after major maintenance as described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) If you determine NMNEHC by subtracting from measured THC, determine the ethane (CH) response factor after initial analyzer installation and after major maintenance as described in paragraph (f) of this section. Verify the CHresponse within 185 days before testing as described in paragraph (f) of this section.

(4) For any gaseous-fueled engine, including dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines, you may determine the methane (CH) and ethane (CH) response factors as a function of the molar water concentration in the raw or diluted exhaust. If you choose the option in this paragraph (a)(4), generate and verify the humidity level (or fraction) as described in ยง 1065.365(d)(11).
