
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Hydrocarbon Measurements
####### ยง 1065.365 Nonmethane cutter penetration fractions.
######## RFPF,RFPF,PF,RFPF,PF,PF

(d) Procedure for a FID calibrated with the NMC. The method described in this paragraph (d) is recommended over the procedures specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section and required for any gaseous-fueled engine, including dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines. If your FID arrangement is such that a FID is always calibrated to measure CHwith the NMC, then span that FID with the NMC using a CHspan gas, set the product of that FID's CHresponse factor and CHpenetration fraction,, equal to 1.0 for all emission calculations, and determine its combined CHresponse factor and CHpenetration fraction,, as follows. For any gaseous-fueled engine, including dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines, you must determine the CHpenetration fraction,, and CHresponse factor and CHpenetration fraction,, as a function of the molar water concentration in the raw or diluted exhaust as described in paragraphs (d)(10) and (12) of this section. Generate and verify the humidity generation as described in paragraph (d)(11) of this section. When using the option in this paragraph (d), note that the FID's CHpenetration fraction,, is set equal to 1.0 only for 0% molar water concentration. You are not required to meet the recommended lower limit forof greater than 0.85 for any of the penetration fractions generated as a function of molar water concentration.

(1) Select CHand CHanalytical gas mixtures and ensure that both mixtures meet the specifications of ยง 1065.750. Select a CHconcentration that you would use for spanning the FID during emission testing and select a CHconcentration that is typical of the peak NMHC concentration expected at the hydrocarbon standard or equal to the THC analyzer's span value. For CHanalyzers with multiple ranges, perform this procedure on the highest range used for emission testing.

(2) Start, operate, and optimize the nonmethane cutter according to the manufacturer's instructions, including any temperature optimization.

(3) Confirm that the FID analyzer meets all the specifications of ยง 1065.360.

(4) Start and operate the FID analyzer according to the manufacturer's instructions.

(5) Zero and span the FID with the nonmethane cutter as you would during emission testing. Span the FID through the cutter by using CHspan gas.

(6) Introduce the CHanalytical gas mixture upstream of the nonmethane cutter. Use good engineering judgment to address the effect of hydrocarbon contamination if your point of introduction is vastly different from the point of zero/span gas introduction.

(7) Allow time for the analyzer response to stabilize. Stabilization time may include time to purge the nonmethane cutter and to account for the analyzer's response.

(8) While the analyzer measures a stable concentration, record 30 seconds of sampled data. Calculate the arithmetic mean of these data points.
