
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Hydrocarbon Measurements
####### ยง 1065.366 Interference verification for FTIR analyzers.
######## Procedure.
######### Procedure.
########## Procedure.

(d)Perform the interference verification as follows:

(1) Start, operate, zero, and span the NO analyzer as you would before an emission test. If the sample is passed through a dryer during emission testing, you may run this verification test with the dryer if it meets the requirements of ยง 1065.342. Operate the dryer at the same conditions as you will for an emission test. You may also run this verification test without the sample dryer.

(2) Create a humidified test gas by bubbling a multi component span gas that incorporates the target interference species and meets the specifications in ยง 1065.750 through distilled HO in a sealed vessel or use a device that introduces distilled HO as vapor into a controlled gas flow. If the sample does not pass through a dryer during emission testing, humidify your test gas to an HO level at or above the maximum expected during emission testing. If the sample passes through a dryer during emission testing, you must humidify your test gas to an HO level at or above the level determined in ยง 1065.145(e)(2) for that dryer. Use interference span gas concentrations that are at least as high as the maximum expected during testing.

(3) Introduce the humidified interference test gas into the sample system. You may introduce it downstream of any sample dryer, if one is used during testing.
