
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Hydrocarbon Measurements
####### ยง 1065.360 FID optimization and verification.
######## THC FID C,RF,RF
######### Procedure.

(d)Determine FID Ointerference as follows, noting that you may use one or more gas dividers to create the reference gas concentrations that are required to perform this verification:

(1) Select three span reference gases that contain a CHconcentration that you use to span your analyzers before emission testing. Use only span gases that meet the specifications of ยง 1065.750. You may use CHspan reference gases for FIDs calibrated on CHwith a nonmethane cutter. Select the three balance gas concentrations such that the concentrations of Oand Nrepresent the minimum, maximum, and average Oconcentrations expected during testing. The requirement for using the average Oconcentration can be removed if you choose to calibrate the FID with span gas balanced with the average expected oxygen concentration.

(2) Confirm that the FID analyzer meets all the specifications of ยง 1065.360.

(3) Start and operate the FID analyzer as you would before an emission test. Regardless of the FID burner's air source during testing, use zero air as the FID burner's air source for this verification.

(4) Zero the FID analyzer using the zero gas used during emission testing.

(5) Span the FID analyzer using a span gas that you use during emission testing.

(6) Check the zero response of the FID analyzer using the zero gas used during emission testing. If the mean zero response of 30 seconds of sampled data is within +/-0.5% of the span reference value used in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, then proceed to the next step; otherwise restart the procedure at paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
