
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Hydrocarbon Measurements
####### ยง 1065.366 Interference verification for FTIR analyzers.
######## Procedure.
######### Procedure.
########## CO,quench verification procedure.

(d)Use the following method to determine COquench by using a gas divider that blends binary span gases with zero gas as the diluent and meets the specifications in ยง 1065.248, or use good engineering judgment to develop a different protocol:

(1) Use PTFE or stainless steel tubing to make necessary connections.

(2) Configure the gas divider such that nearly equal amounts of the span and diluent gases are blended with each other.

(3) If the CLD analyzer has an operating mode in which it detects NO-only, as opposed to total NO, operate the CLD analyzer in the NO-only operating mode.

(4) Use a COspan gas that meets the specifications of ยง 1065.750 and a concentration that is approximately twice the maximum COconcentration expected during emission testing.

(5) Use an NO span gas that meets the specifications of ยง 1065.750 and a concentration that is approximately twice the maximum NO concentration expected during emission testing.

(6) Zero and span the CLD analyzer. Span the CLD analyzer with the NO span gas from paragraph (d)(5) of this section through the gas divider. Connect the NO span gas to the span port of the gas divider; connect a zero gas to the diluent port of the gas divider; use the same nominal blend ratio selected in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and use the gas divider's output concentration of NO to span the CLD analyzer. Apply gas property corrections as necessary to ensure accurate gas division.

(7) Connect the COspan gas to the span port of the gas divider.

(8) Connect the NO span gas to the diluent port of the gas divider.
