
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### Hydrocarbon Measurements
####### § 1065.365 Nonmethane cutter penetration fractions.
######## RFPF,RFPF

(10) Determine the combined CHresponse factor and CHpenetration fraction as a function of molar water concentration and use it to account for CHresponse factor and CHpenetration fraction for NMHC determination as described in § 1065.660(b)(2)(iii) and for CHdetermination in § 1065.660(d)(1)(iii). Humidify the CHanalytical gas mixture as described in paragraph (d)(11) of this section. Repeat the steps in paragraphs (d)(6) through (8) of this section until measurements are complete for each setpoint in the selected range. Divide each mean measured CHconcentration by the reference concentration of CH, converted to a C-basis and adjusted for water content to determine the FID analyzer's combined CHresponse factor and CHpenetration fraction,. Useat the different setpoints to create a functional relationship between the combined response factor and penetration fraction and molar water concentration, downstream of the last sample dryer if any sample dryers are present. Use this functional relationship to determine the combined response factor and penetration fraction during the emission test.

(11) Create a humidified test gas by bubbling the analytical gas mixture that meets the specifications in § 1065.750 through distilled HO in a sealed vessel or use a device that introduces distilled HO as vapor into a controlled gas flow. If the sample does not pass through a dryer during emission testing, generate at least five different HO concentrations that cover the range from less than the minimum expected to greater than the maximum expected water concentration during testing. Use good engineering judgment to determine the target concentrations. For analyzers where the sample passes through a dryer during emission testing, humidify your test gas to an HO level at or above the level determined in § 1065.145(e)(2) for that dryer and determine a single wet analyzer response to the dehumidified sample. Heat all transfer lines from the water generation system to a temperature at least 5 &#xB0;C higher than the highest dewpoint generated. Determine HO concentration as an average value over intervals of at least 30 seconds. Monitor the humidified sample stream with a dewpoint analyzer, relative humidity sensor, FTIR, NDIR, or other water analyzer during each test or, if the humidity generator achieves humidity levels with controlled flow rates, validate the instrument within 370 days before testing and after major maintenance using one of the following methods:

(i) Determine the linearity of each flow metering device. Use one or more reference flow meters to measure the humidity generator's flow rates and verify the HO level value based on the humidity generator manufacturer's recommendations and good engineering judgment. We recommend that you utilize at least 10 flow rates for each flow-metering device.

(ii) Perform validation testing based on monitoring the humidified stream with a dewpoint analyzer, relative humidity sensor, FTIR, NDIR, or other water analyzer as described in this paragraph (d)(11). Compare the measured humidity to the humidity generator's value. Verify overall linearity performance for the generated humidity as described in § 1065.307 using the criteria for other dewpoint measurements or confirm all measured values are within +/-2% of the target mole fraction. In the case of dry gas, the measured value may not exceed 0.002 mole fraction.

(iii) Follow the performance requirements in § 1065.307(b) if the humidity generator does not meet validation criteria.

(12) Determine the CHpenetration fraction as a function of molar water concentration and use this penetration fraction for NMHC determination in § 1065.660(b)(2)(iii) and for CHdetermination in § 1065.660(d)(1)(iii). Repeat the steps in paragraphs (d)(6) through (11) of this section, but with the CHanalytical gas mixture instead of CH. Use this functional relationship to determine the penetration fraction during the emission test.
