
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### ยง 1065.309 Continuous gas analyzer system-response and updating-recording verification - for gas analyzers continuously compensated for other gas species.
####### t,t

(1) The product of the mean rise time,, and the frequency at which the system records an updated concentration must be at least 5, and the product of the mean fall time,, and the frequency at which the system records an updated concentration must be at least 5. If the recording frequency is different than the update frequency of the continuously combined/compensated signal, you must use the lower of these two frequencies for this verification. This criterion makes no assumption regarding the frequency content of changes in emission concentrations during emission testing; therefore, it is valid for any testing. Also, the mean rise time must be at or below 10 seconds and the mean fall time must be at or below 10 seconds.

(2) The frequency at which the system records an updated concentration must be at least 5 Hz. This criterion assumes that the frequency content of significant changes in emission concentrations during emission testing do not exceed 1 Hz. Also, the mean rise time must be at or below 10 seconds and the mean fall time must be at or below 10 seconds.

(3) You may use other criteria if we approve them in advance.

(4) You may meet the overall PEMS verification in ยง 1065.920 instead of the verification in this section for field testing with PEMS.
