
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### ยง 1065.309 Continuous gas analyzer system-response and updating-recording verification - for gas analyzers continuously compensated for other gas species.
####### Measurement principles.,t,t,t

(b)This procedure verifies that the updating and recording frequencies match the overall system response to a rapid change in the value of concentrations at the sample probe. It indirectly verifies the time-alignment and uniform response of all the continuous gas detectors used to generate a continuously combined/compensated concentration measurement signal. Gas analyzer systems must be optimized such that their overall response to rapid change in concentration is updated and recorded at an appropriate frequency to prevent loss of information. This test also verifies that the measurement system meets a minimum response time. For this procedure, ensure that all compensation algorithms and humidity corrections are turned on. You may use the results of this test to determine transformation time,, for the purposes of time alignment of continuous data in accordance with ยง 1065.650(c)(2)(i). You may also use an alternate procedure to determineconsistent with good engineering judgment. Note that any such procedure for determiningmust account for both transport delay and analyzer response time.
