
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Performing an Emission Test Over Specified Duty Cycles
###### ยง 1065.501 Overview.
####### Discrete-mode cycles.

(i)Before emission sampling, stabilize an engine at the first discrete mode of the duty cycle specified in the standard-setting part. Sample emissions and other parameters for that mode in the same manner as a transient cycle, with the exception that reference speed and torque values are constant. Record data for that mode, transition to the next mode, and then stabilize the engine at the next mode. Continue to sample each mode discretely as a separate test interval and calculate composite brake-specific emission results according to ยง 1065.650(g)(2).

(A) Use good engineering judgment to determine the time required to stabilize the engine. You may make this determination before starting the test based on prior experience, or you may make this determination in real time based an automated stability criteria. If needed, you may continue to operate the engine after reaching stability to get laboratory equipment ready for sampling.

(B) Collect PM on separate PM sample media for each mode.

(C) The minimum sample time is 60 seconds. We recommend that you sample both gaseous and PM emissions over the same test interval. If you sample gaseous and PM emissions over different test intervals, there must be no change in engine operation between the two test intervals. These two test intervals may completely or partially overlap, they may run consecutively, or they may be separated in time.
