
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Performing an Emission Test Over Specified Duty Cycles
###### ยง 1065.501 Overview.

(a) Use the procedures detailed in this subpart to measure engine emissions over a specified duty cycle. Refer to subpart J of this part for field test procedures that describe how to measure emissions during in-use engine operation. Refer to subpart L of this part for measurement procedures for testing related to standards other than brake-specific emission standards. This section describes how to-

(1) Map your engine, if applicable, by recording specified speed and torque data, as measured from the engine's primary output shaft.

(2) Transform normalized duty cycles into reference duty cycles for your engine by using an engine map.

(3) Prepare your engine, equipment, and measurement instruments for an emission test.

(4) Perform pre-test procedures to verify proper operation of certain equipment and analyzers.

(5) Record pre-test data.

(6) Start or restart the engine and sampling systems.

(7) Sample emissions throughout the duty cycle.

(8) Record post-test data.

(9) Perform post-test procedures to verify proper operation of certain equipment and analyzers.

(10) Weigh PM samples.

(b) Unless we specify otherwise, you may control the regeneration timing of infrequently regenerated aftertreatment devices such as diesel particulate filters using good engineering judgment. You may control the regeneration timing using a sequence of engine operating conditions or you may initiate regeneration with an external regeneration switch or other command. This provision also allows you to ensure that a regeneration event does not occur during an emission test.

(c) An emission test generally consists of measuring emissions and other parameters while an engine follows one or more duty cycles that are specified in the standard-setting part. There are two general types of duty cycles:
