
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Performing an Emission Test Over Specified Duty Cycles
###### ยง 1065.510 Engine mapping.
####### e.g.,

(iii) The check point speed of the map is the highest speed above maximum power at which 50% of maximum power occurs. If this speed is unsafe or unachievable (for ungoverned engines or engines that do not operate at that point), use good engineering judgment to map up to the maximum safe speed or maximum achievable speed. For discrete mapping, if the engine cannot be mapped to the check point speed, make sure the map includes at least 20 points from 95% of warm idle to the maximum mapped speed. For continuous mapping, if the engine cannot be mapped to the check point speed, verify that the sweep time from 95% of warm idle to the maximum mapped speed is (4 to 6) min.

(iv) Note that under ยง 1065.10(c)(1) we may allow you to disregard portions of the map when selecting maximum test speed if the specified procedure would result in a duty cycle that does not represent in-use operation.

(6) Determine warm high-idle speed for engines with a high-speed governor. You may skip this if the engine is not subject to transient testing with a duty cycle that includes reference speed values above 100%. You may use a manufacturer-declared warm high-idle speed if the engine is electronically governed. For engines with a high-speed governor that regulates speed by disabling and enabling fuel or ignition at two manufacturer-specified speeds, declare the middle of this specified speed range as the warm high-idle speed. You may alternatively measure warm high-idle speed using the following procedure:

(i) Run an operating point targeting zero torque.

(A) Set operator demand to maximum and use the dynamometer to target zero torque on the engine's primary output shaft.

(B) Wait for the engine governor and dynamometer to stabilize. We recommend that you stabilize for at least 15 seconds.

(C) Record 1 Hz means of the feedback speed and torque for at least 30 seconds. You may record means at a higher frequency as long as there are no gaps in the recorded data. For engines with a high-speed governor that regulates speed by disabling and enabling fuel or ignition, you may need to extend this stabilization period to include at least one disabling event at the higher speed and one enabling event at the lower speed.

(D) Determine if the feedback speed is stable over the recording period. The feedback speed is considered stable if all the recorded 1 Hz means are within +/-2% of the mean feedback speed over the recording period. If the feedback speed is not stable because of the dynamometer, void the results and repeat measurements after making any necessary corrections. You may void and repeat the entire map sequence, or you may void and replace only the results for establishing warm high-idle speed; use good engineering judgment to warm-up the engine before repeating measurements.

(E) If the feedback speed is stable, use the mean feedback speed over the recording period as the measured speed for this operating point.

(F) If the feedback speed is not stable because of the engine, determine the mean as the value representing the midpoint between the observed maximum and minimum recorded feedback speed.
