
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Engine Selection, Preparation, and Maintenance
###### ยง 1065.410 Maintenance limits for stabilized test engines.

(a) After you stabilize the test engine's emission levels, you may do maintenance as allowed by the standard-setting part. However, you may not do any maintenance based on emission measurements from the test engine (i.e., unscheduled maintenance).

(b) For any critical emission-related maintenance-other than what we specifically allow in the standard-setting part-you must completely test an engine for emissions before and after doing any maintenance that might affect emissions, unless we waive this requirement.

(c) If you inspect an engine, keep a record of the inspection and update your application for certification to document any changes that result. You may use any kind of equipment, instrument, or tool that is available at dealerships and other service outlets to identify malfunctioning components or perform maintenance. You may inspect using electronic tools or internal engine systems to monitor engine performance, but only if the information is readable without specialized equipment.

(d) You may repair defective parts from a test engine if they are unrelated to emission control. You must ask us to approve repairs that might affect the engine's emission controls. If we determine that a part failure, system malfunction, or associated repair makes the engine's emission controls unrepresentative of production engines, you may not use it as an emission-data engine. Also, if your test engine has a major mechanical failure that requires you to take it apart, you may no longer use it as an emission-data engine.
