
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### ยง 1065.307 Linearity verification.
####### x,[object Object]

(i) At the outlet of the gas-division system, connect a gas analyzer that meets the linearity verification described in this section and has not been linearized with the gas divider being verified. For example, verify the linearity of an analyzer using a series of reference analytical gases directly from compressed gas cylinders that meet the specifications of ยง 1065.750. We recommend using a FID analyzer or a PMD or MPD Oanalyzer because of their inherent linearity. Operate this analyzer consistent with how you would operate it during an emission test. Connect a span gas containing only a single constituent of interest with balance of purified air or purified Nto the gas-divider inlet. Use the gas-division system to divide the span gas with purified air or nitrogen. Select gas divisions that you typically use. Use a selected gas division as the measured value. Use the analyzer response divided by the span gas concentration as the reference gas-division value. Because the instrument response is not absolutely constant, sample and record values offor 30 seconds and use the arithmetic mean of the values,, as the reference value. Refer to ยง 1065.602 for an example of calculating arithmetic mean.

(ii) Using good engineering judgment and the gas divider manufacturer's recommendations, use one or more reference flow meters to measure the flow rates of the gas divider and verify the gas-division value.
