
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### PM Measurements
####### § 1065.390 PM balance verifications and weighing process verification.
######## Reference sample weighing.

(d)Verify all mass readings during a weighing session by weighing reference PM sample media (e.g., filters) before and after a weighing session. A weighing session may be as short as desired, but no longer than 80 hours, and may include both pre-test and post-test mass readings. We recommend that weighing sessions be eight hours or less. Successive mass determinations of each reference PM sample media (e.g., filter) must return the same value within +/-10 µg or +/-10% of the net PM mass expected at the standard (if known), whichever is higher. If successive reference PM sample media (e.g., filter) weighing events fail this criterion, invalidate all individual test media (e.g., filter) mass readings occurring between the successive reference media (e.g., filter) mass determinations. You may reweigh these media (e.g., filter) in another weighing session. If you invalidate a pre-test media (e.g., filter) mass determination, that test interval is void. Perform this verification as follows:

(1) Keep at least two samples of unused PM sample media (e.g., filters) in the PM-stabilization environment. Use these as references. If you collect PM with filters, select unused filters of the same material and size for use as references. You may periodically replace references, using good engineering judgment.

(2) Stabilize references in the PM stabilization environment. Consider references stabilized if they have been in the PM-stabilization environment for a minimum of 30 min, and the PM-stabilization environment has been within the specifications of § 1065.190(d) for at least the preceding 60 min.

(3) Exercise the balance several times with a reference sample. We recommend weighing ten samples without recording the values.

(4) Zero and span the balance. Using good engineering judgment, place a test mass such as a calibration weight on the balance, then remove it. After spanning, confirm that the balance returns to a zero reading within the normal stabilization time.

(5) Weigh each of the reference media (e.g., filters) and record their masses. We recommend using substitution weighing as described in § 1065.590(j). If you normally use mean values by repeating the weighing process to improve the accuracy and precision of the reference media (e.g., filter) mass, you must use mean values of sample media (e.g., filter) masses.

(6) Record the balance environment dewpoint, ambient temperature, and atmospheric pressure.

(7) Use the recorded ambient conditions to correct results for buoyancy as described in § 1065.690. Record the buoyancy-corrected mass of each of the references.

(8) Subtract each reference media's (e.g., filter's) buoyancy-corrected reference mass from its previously measured and recorded buoyancy-corrected mass.
