
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### ยง 1065.308 Continuous gas analyzer system-response and updating-recording verification - for gas analyzers not continuously compensated for other gas species.
####### Scope and frequency.

(a)This section describes a verification procedure for system response and updating-recording frequency for continuous gas analyzers that output a gas species mole fraction (i.e., concentration) using a single gas detector, i.e., gas analyzers not continuously compensated for other gas species measured with multiple gas detectors. See ยง 1065.309 for verification procedures that apply to continuous gas analyzers that are continuously compensated for other gas species measured with multiple gas detectors. Perform this verification to determine the system response of the continuous gas analyzer and its sampling system. This verification is required for continuous gas analyzers used for transient or ramped-modal testing. You need not perform this verification for batch gas analyzer systems or for continuous gas analyzer systems that are used only for discrete-mode testing. Perform this verification after initial installation (i.e., test cell commissioning) and after any modifications to the system that would change system response. For example, perform this verification if you add a significant volume to the transfer lines by increasing their length or adding a filter; or if you reduce the frequency at which the gas analyzer updates its output or the frequency at which you sample and record gas-analyzer concentrations.
