
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### ยง 1065.307 Linearity verification.
####### Mass

(9). For linearity verification for gravimetric PM balances, fuel mass scales, and DEF mass scales, use external calibration weights that meet the requirements in ยง 1065.790. Perform the linearity verification for fuel mass scales and DEF mass scales with the in-use container, installing all objects that interface with the container. For example, this includes all tubes, temperature probes, and objects submerged in the fluid in the container; it also includes tubes, fittings, regulators, and wires, and any other objects attached to the container. We recommend that you develop and apply appropriate buoyancy corrections for the configuration of your mass scale during normal testing, consistent with good engineering judgment. Account for the scale weighing a calibration weight instead of fluid if you calculate buoyancy corrections. You may also correct for the effect of natural convection currents from temperature differences between the container and ambient air. Prepare for linearity verification by taking the following steps for vented and unvented containers:

(i) If the container is vented to ambient, fill the container and tubes with fluid above the minimum level used to trigger a fill operation; drain the fluid down to the minimum level; tare the scale; and perform the linearity verification.

(ii) If the container is rigid and not vented, drain the fluid down to the minimum level; fill all tubes attached to the container to normal operating pressure; tare the scale; and perform the linearity verification.
