
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### ยง 1065.309 Continuous gas analyzer system-response and updating-recording verification - for gas analyzers continuously compensated for other gas species.
####### t

(2) Equipment setup. We recommend using minimal lengths of gas transfer lines between all connections and fast-acting three-way valves (2 inlets, 1 outlet) to control the flow of zero and blended span gases to the sample system's probe inlet or a tee near the outlet of the probe. If you inject the gas at a tee near the outlet of the probe, you may correct the transformation time,, for an estimate of the transport time from the probe inlet to the tee. Normally the gas flow rate is higher than the sample flow rate and the excess is overflowed out the inlet of the probe. If the gas flow rate is lower than the sample flow rate, the gas concentrations must be adjusted to account for the dilution from ambient air drawn into the probe. We recommend you use the final, stabilized analyzer reading as the final gas concentration. Select span gases for the species being continuously combined, other than HO. Select concentrations of compensating species that will yield concentrations of these species at the analyzer inlet that covers the range of concentrations expected during testing. You may use binary or multi-gas span gases. You may use a gas blending or mixing device to blend span gases. A gas blending or mixing device is recommended when blending span gases diluted in Nwith span gases diluted in air. You may use a multi-gas span gas, such as NO-CO-CO-CH-CH, to verify multiple analyzers at the same time. In designing your experimental setup, avoid pressure pulsations due to stopping the flow through the gas blending device. The change in gas concentration must be at least 20% of the analyzer's range. If HO correction is applicable, then span gases must be humidified before entering the analyzer; however, you may not humidify NOspan gas by passing it through a sealed humidification vessel that contains HO. You must humidify NOspan gas with another moist gas stream. We recommend humidifying your NO-CO-CO-CH-CH, balance N, blended gas by bubbling the gas mixture that meets the specifications in ยง 1065.750 through distilled HO in a sealed vessel and then mixing the gas with dry NOgas, balance purified air, or by using a device that introduces distilled HO as vapor into a controlled span gas flow. If the sample does not pass through a dryer during emission testing, humidify your span gas to an HO level at or above the maximum expected during emission testing. If the sample passes through a dryer during emission testing, it must pass the sample dryer verification check in ยง 1065.342, and you must humidify your span gas to an HO level at or above the level determined in ยง 1065.145(e)(2) for that dryer. If you are humidifying span gases without NO, use good engineering judgment to ensure that the wall temperatures in the transfer lines, fittings, and valves from the humidifying system to the probe are above the dewpoint required for the target HO content. If you are humidifying span gases with NO, use good engineering judgment to ensure that there is no condensation in the transfer lines, fittings, or valves from the point where humidified gas is mixed with NOspan gas to the probe. We recommend that you design your setup so that the wall temperatures in the transfer lines, fittings, and valves from the humidifying system to the probe are at least 5 &#xB0;C above the local sample gas dewpoint. Operate the measurement and sample handling system as you do for emission testing. Make no modifications to the sample handling system to reduce the risk of condensation. Flow humidified gas through the sampling system before this check to allow stabilization of the measurement system's sampling handling system to occur, as it would for an emission test.
