
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### ยง 1065.308 Continuous gas analyzer system-response and updating-recording verification - for gas analyzers not continuously compensated for other gas species.
####### Optional procedure.

(g)Instead of using a three-way valve to switch between zero and span gases, you may use a fast-acting two-way valve to switch sampling between ambient air and span gas at the probe inlet. For this alternate procedure, the following provisions apply:

(1) If your probe is sampling from a continuously flowing gas stream (e.g., a CVS tunnel), you may adjust the span gas flow rate to be different than the sample flow rate.

(2) If your probe is sampling from a gas stream that is not continuously flowing (e.g., a raw exhaust stack), you must adjust the span gas flow rate to be less than the sample flow rate so ambient air is always being drawn into the probe inlet. This avoids errors associated with overflowing span gas out of the probe inlet and drawing it back in when sampling ambient air.

(3) When sampling ambient air or ambient air mixed with span gas, all the analyzer readings must be stable within +/-0.5% of the target gas concentration step size. If any analyzer reading is outside the specified range, you must resolve the problem and verify that all the analyzer readings meet this specification.

(4) For oxygen analyzers, you may use purified Nas the zero gas and ambient air (plus purified Nif needed) as the reference gas. Perform the verification with seven repeat measurements that each consist of stabilizing with purified N, switching to ambient air and observing the analyzer's rise and stabilized reading, followed by switching back to purified Nand observing the analyzer's fall and stabilized reading.
