
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Calibrations and Verifications
###### ยง 1065.307 Linearity verification.
####### Fuel and DEF mass flow rate

(4). Use a gravimetric reference measurement (such as a scale, balance, or mass comparator) and a container. Use a stopwatch or timer to measure the time intervals over which reference masses of fluid pass through the mass flow rate meter. Use good engineering judgment to correct the reference mass flowing through the mass flow rate meter for buoyancy effects from any tubes, temperature probes, or objects submerged in the fluid in the container that are not attached to the container. If the container has any tubes or wires connected to the container, recalibrate the gravimetric reference measurement device with them connected and at normal operating pressure using calibration weights that meet the requirements in ยง 1065.790. The corrected reference mass that flowed through the mass flow rate meter during a time interval divided by the duration of the time interval is the average reference mass flow rate. For meters that report a different quantity (such as actual volume, standard volume, or moles), convert the reported quantity to mass. For meters that report a cumulative quantity calculate the average measured mass flow rate as the difference in the reported cumulative mass during the time interval divided by the duration of the time interval. For measuring flow rate of gaseous fuel prevent condensation on the fuel container and any attached tubes, fittings, or regulators.
