
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Performing an Emission Test Over Specified Duty Cycles
###### ยง 1065.510 Engine mapping.
####### Mapping constant-speed engines.,e.g.,

(d)Map constant-speed engines using the procedure in this paragraph (d). When testing without a motoring dynamometer (eddy-current or water-brake dynamometer or any device that is already installed on a vehicle, equipment, or vessel) operate these devices over the no-load operating points in the procedure as close to no-load as possible.

(1) Record the atmospheric pressure.

(2) Warm up the engine by operating it. We recommend operating the engine at approximately 75% of the engine's expected maximum power. Continue the warm-up until the engine coolant, block, or head absolute temperature is within +/-2% of its mean value for at least 2 min or until the engine thermostat controls engine temperature.

(3) You may operate the engine with a production constant-speed governor or simulate a constant-speed governor by controlling engine speed with an operator demand control system described in ยง 1065.110. Use either isochronous or speed-droop governor operation, as appropriate.

(4) With the governor or simulated governor controlling speed using operator demand, operate the engine at the no-load, or minimum achievable load, governed speed (at high speed, not low idle) for at least 15 seconds.

(5) Record at 1 Hz the mean of feedback speed and torque. Use the dynamometer to increase torque at a constant rate. Unless the standard-setting part specifies otherwise, complete the map such that it takes (2 to 4) min to sweep from no-load governed speed to the speed below maximum mapped power at which the engine develops 90% of maximum mapped power. You may map your engine to lower speeds. Stop recording after you complete the sweep. Use this series of speeds and torques to generate the power map as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
