
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Performing an Emission Test Over Specified Duty Cycles
###### ยง 1065.518 Engine preconditioning.

(a) This section applies for engines where measured emissions are affected by prior operation, such as with a diesel engine that relies on urea-based selective catalytic reduction. Note that ยง 1065.520(e) allows you to run practice duty cycles before the emission test; this section recommends how to do this for the purpose of preconditioning the engine. Follow the standard-setting part if it specifies a different engine preconditioning procedure.

(b) The intent of engine preconditioning is to manage the representativeness of emissions and emission controls over the duty cycle and to reduce bias.

(c) This paragraph (c) specifies the engine preconditioning procedures for different types of duty cycles. You must identify the amount of preconditioning before starting to precondition. You must run the predefined amount of preconditioning. You may measure emissions during preconditioning. You may not abort an emission test sequence based on emissions measured during preconditioning. For confirmatory testing, you may ask us to run more preconditioning cycles than we specify in this paragraph (c); we will agree to this only if you show that additional preconditioning cycles are required to meet the intent of paragraph (b) of this section, for example, due to the effect of DPF regeneration on NHstorage in the SCR catalyst. Perform preconditioning as follows, noting that the specific cycles for preconditioning are the same ones that apply for emission testing:
