
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Performing an Emission Test Over Specified Duty Cycles
###### ยง 1065.525 Engine starting, restarting, and shutdown.

(a) For test intervals that require emission sampling during engine starting, start the engine using one of the following methods:

(1) Start the engine as recommended in the owners manual using a production starter motor or air-start system and either an adequately charged battery, a suitable power supply, or a suitable compressed air source.

(2) Use the dynamometer to start the engine. To do this, motor the engine within +/-25% of its typical in-use cranking speed. Stop cranking within 1 second of starting the engine.

(3) In the case of hybrid engines, activate the system such that the engine will start when its control algorithms determine that the engine should provide power instead of or in addition to power from the RESS. Unless we specify otherwise, engine starting throughout this part generally refers to this step of activating the system on hybrid engines, whether or not that causes the engine to start running.

(b) If the engine does not start after 15 seconds of cranking, stop cranking and determine why the engine failed to start, unless the owners manual or the service-repair manual describes the longer cranking time as normal.

(c) Respond to engine stalling with the following steps:

(1) If the engine stalls during warm-up before emission sampling begins, restart the engine and continue warm-up.

(2) If the engine stalls during preconditioning before emission sampling begins, restart the engine and restart the preconditioning sequence.

(3) Void the entire test if the engine stalls at any time after emission sampling begins, except as described in ยง 1065.526. If you do not void the entire test, you must void the individual test mode or test interval in which the engine stalls.

(d) Shut down the engine according to the manufacturer's specifications.
