
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Performing an Emission Test Over Specified Duty Cycles
###### ยง 1065.510 Engine mapping.
####### Mapping variable-speed engines with an electric hybrid system.

(g)Map variable-speed engines that include electric hybrid systems as described in this paragraph (g). You may ask to apply these provisions to other types of hybrid engines, consistent with good engineering judgment. However, do not use this procedure for engines used in hybrid vehicles where the hybrid system is certified as part of the vehicle rather than the engine. Follow the steps for mapping a variable-speed engine as given in paragraph (b)(5) of this section except as noted in this paragraph (g). You must generate one engine map with the hybrid system inactive as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and a separate map with the hybrid system active as described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. See the standard-setting part to determine how to use these maps. The map with the system inactive is typically used to generate steady-state duty cycles, but may also be used to generate transient cycles, such as those that do not involve engine motoring. This hybrid-inactive map is also used for generating the hybrid-active map. The hybrid-active map is typically used to generate transient duty cycles that involve engine motoring.

(1) Prepare the engine for mapping by either deactivating the hybrid system or by operating the engine as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section and remaining at this condition until the rechargeable energy storage system (RESS) is depleted. Once the hybrid has been disabled or the RESS is depleted, perform an engine map as specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. If the RESS was depleted instead of deactivated, ensure that instantaneous power from the RESS remains less than 2% of the instantaneous measured power from the engine (or engine-hybrid system) at all engine speeds.

(2) The purpose of the mapping procedure in this paragraph (g) is to determine the maximum torque available at each speed, such as what might occur during transient operation with a fully charged RESS. Use one of the following methods to generate a hybrid-active map:

(i) Perform an engine map by using a series of continuous sweeps to cover the engine's full range of operating speeds. Prepare the engine for hybrid-active mapping by ensuring that the RESS state of charge is representative of normal operation. Perform the sweep as specified in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, but stop the sweep to charge the RESS when the power measured from the RESS drops below the expected maximum power from the RESS by more than 2% of total system power (including engine and RESS power). Unless good engineering judgment indicates otherwise, assume that the expected maximum power from the RESS is equal to the measured RESS power at the start of the sweep segment. For example, if the 3-second rolling average of total engine-RESS power is 200 kW and the power from the RESS at the beginning of the sweep segment is 50 kW, once the power from the RESS reaches 46 kW, stop the sweep to charge the RESS. Note that this assumption is not valid where the hybrid motor is torque-limited. Calculate total system power as a 3-second rolling average of instantaneous total system power. After each charging event, stabilize the engine for 15 seconds at the speed at which you ended the previous segment with operator demand set to maximum before continuing the sweep from that speed. Repeat the cycle of charging, mapping, and recharging until you have completed the engine map. You may shut down the system or include other operation between segments to be consistent with the intent of this paragraph (g)(2)(i). For example, for systems in which continuous charging and discharging can overheat batteries to an extent that affects performance, you may operate the engine at zero power from the RESS for enough time after the system is recharged to allow the batteries to cool. Use good engineering judgment to smooth the torque curve to eliminate discontinuities between map intervals.

(ii) Perform an engine map by using discrete speeds. Select map setpoints at intervals defined by the ranges of engine speed being mapped. From 95% of warm idle speed to 90% of the expected maximum test speed, select setpoints that result in a minimum of 13 equally spaced speed setpoints. From 90% to 110% of expected maximum test speed, select setpoints in equally spaced intervals that are nominally 2% of expected maximum test speed. Above 110% of expected maximum test speed, select setpoints based on the same speed intervals used for mapping from 95% warm idle speed to 90% maximum test speed. You may stop mapping at the highest speed above maximum power at which 50% of maximum power occurs. We refer to the speed at 50% power as the check point speed as described in paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section. Stabilize engine speed at each setpoint, targeting a torque value at 70% of peak torque at that speed without hybrid-assist. Make sure the engine is fully warmed up and the RESS state of charge is within the normal operating range. Snap the operator demand to maximum, operate the engine there for at least 10 seconds, and record the 3-second rolling average feedback speed and torque at 1 Hz or higher. Record the peak 3-second average torque and 3-second average speed at that point. Use linear interpolation to determine intermediate speeds and torques. Follow ยง 1065.610(a) to calculate the maximum test speed. Verify that the measured maximum test speed falls in the range from 92 to 108% of the estimated maximum test speed. If the measured maximum test speed does not fall in this range, repeat the map using the measured value of maximum test speed.
