
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart G - Calculations and Data Requirements
###### ยง 1065.601 Overview.

(a) This subpart describes how to-

(1) Use the signals recorded before, during, and after an emission test to calculate brake-specific emissions of each measured exhaust constituent.

(2) Perform calculations for calibrations and performance checks.

(3) Determine statistical values.

(b) You may use data from multiple systems to calculate test results for a single emission test, consistent with good engineering judgment. You may also make multiple measurements from a single batch sample, such as multiple weighings of a PM filter or multiple readings from a bag sample. Although you may use an average of multiple measurements from a single test, you may not use test results from multiple emission tests to report emissions.

(1) We allow weighted means where appropriate.

(2) You may discard statistical outliers, but you must report all results.

(3) For emission measurements related to durability testing, we may allow you to exclude certain test points other than statistical outliers relative to compliance with emission standards, consistent with good engineering judgment and normal measurement variability; however, you must include these results when calculating the deterioration factor. This would allow you to use durability data from an engine that has an intermediate test result above the standard that cannot be discarded as a statistical outlier, as long as good engineering judgment indicates that the test result does not represent the engine's actual emission level. Note that good engineering judgment would preclude you from excluding endpoints. Also, if normal measurement variability causes emission results below zero, include the negative result in calculating the deterioration factor to avoid an upward bias. These provisions related to durability testing are intended to address very stringent standards where measurement variability is large relative to the emission standard.

(c) You may use any of the following calculations instead of the calculations specified in this subpart G:

(1) Mass-based emission calculations prescribed by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), according to ISO 8178, except the following:

(i) ISO 8178-1 Section 14.4, NOCorrection for Humidity and Temperature. See ยง 1065.670 for approved methods for humidity corrections.

(ii) ISO 8178-1 Section 15.1, Particulate Correction Factor for Humidity.

(2) Other calculations that you show are equivalent to within +/-0.1% of the brake-specific emission results determined using the calculations specified in this subpart G.
