
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Performing an Emission Test Over Specified Duty Cycles
###### § 1065.590 PM sampling media (e.g., filters) preconditioning and tare weighing.

Before an emission test, take the following steps to prepare PM sampling media (e.g., filters) and equipment for PM measurements:

(a) Make sure the balance and PM-stabilization environments meet the periodic verifications in § 1065.390.

(b) Visually inspect unused sample media (e.g., filters) for defects and discard defective media.

(c) To handle PM sampling media (e.g., filters), use electrically grounded tweezers or a grounding strap, as described in § 1065.190.

(d) Place unused sample media (e.g., filters) in one or more containers that are open to the PM-stabilization environment. If you are using filters, you may place them in the bottom half of a filter cassette.

(e) Stabilize sample media (e.g., filters) in the PM-stabilization environment. Consider an unused sample medium stabilized as long as it has been in the PM-stabilization environment for a minimum of 30 min, during which the PM-stabilization environment has been within the specifications of § 1065.190.

(f) Weigh the sample media (e.g., filters) automatically or manually, as follows:

(1) For automatic weighing, follow the automation system manufacturer's instructions to prepare samples for weighing. This may include placing the samples in a special container.

(2) Use good engineering judgment to determine if substitution weighing is necessary to show that an engine meets the applicable standard. You may follow the substitution weighing procedure in paragraph (j) of this section, or you may develop your own procedure.

(g) Correct the measured mass of each sample medium (e.g., filter) for buoyancy as described in § 1065.690. These buoyancy-corrected values are subsequently subtracted from the post-test mass of the corresponding sample media (e.g., filters) and collected PM to determine the mass of PM emitted during the test.

(h) You may repeat measurements to determine the mean mass of each sample medium (e.g., filter). Use good engineering judgment to exclude outliers from the calculation of mean mass values.

(i) If you use filters as sample media, load unused filters that have been tare-weighed into clean filter cassettes and place the loaded cassettes in a clean, covered or sealed container before removing them from the stabilization environment for transport to the test site for sampling. We recommend that you keep filter cassettes clean by periodically washing or wiping them with a compatible solvent applied using a lint-free cloth. Depending upon your cassette material, ethanol (CHOH) might be an acceptable solvent. Your cleaning frequency will depend on your engine's level of PM and HC emissions.
