
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Performing an Emission Test Over Specified Duty Cycles
###### ยง 1065.510 Engine mapping.
####### Required declared torques.

(4)If a nonzero idle or minimum torque is representative of in-use operation, you must declare the appropriate torque as follows:

(i) For variable-speed engines, declare a warm idle torque that is representative of in-use operation. For example, if your engine is typically connected to an automatic transmission or a hydrostatic transmission, declare the torque that occurs at the idle speed at which your engine operates when the transmission is engaged. Use this value for cycle generation. You may use multiple warm idle torques and associated idle speeds in cycle generation for representative testing. For example, for cycles that start the engine and begin with idle, you may start a cycle in idle with the transmission in neutral with zero torque and later switch to a different idle with the transmission in drive with the Curb-Idle Transmission Torque (CITT). For variable-speed engines intended primarily for propulsion of a vehicle with an automatic transmission where that engine is subject to a transient duty cycle with idle operation, you must declare a CITT. We recommend that you specify CITT as a function of idle speed for engines with adjustable warm idle or enhanced-idle. You may specify a CITT based on typical applications at the mean of the range of idle speeds you specify at stabilized temperature conditions.

(ii) For constant-speed engines, declare a warm minimum torque that is representative of in-use operation. For example, if your engine is typically connected to a machine that does not operate below a certain minimum torque, declare this torque and use it for cycle generation.
