
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Performing an Emission Test Over Specified Duty Cycles
###### § 1065.520 Pre-test verification procedures and pre-test data collection.
####### x

(6) Record this value as the initial THC concentration,, and use it to correct measured values as described in § 1065.660.

(7) You may correct the measured initial THC concentration for drift as follows:

(i) For batch and continuous HC analyzers, after determining the initial THC concentration, flow zero gas to the analyzer zero or sample port. When the analyzer reading is stable, record the mean analyzer value.

(ii) Flow span gas to the analyzer span or sample port. When the analyzer reading is stable, record the mean analyzer value.

(iii) Use mean analyzer values from paragraphs (f)(2), (f)(3), (f)(7)(i), and (f)(7)(ii) of this section to correct the initial THC concentration recorded in paragraph (f)(6) of this section for drift, as described in § 1065.550.

(8) If any of the xvalues exceed the greatest of the following values, determine the source of the contamination and take corrective action, such as purging the system during an additional preconditioning cycle or replacing contaminated portions:

(i) 2% of the flow-weighted mean concentration expected at the HC (THC or NMHC) standard.

(ii) 2% of the flow-weighted mean concentration of HC (THC or NMHC) measured during testing.

(iii) 2 µmol/mol.

(9) If corrective action does not resolve the deficiency, you may request to use the contaminated system as an alternate procedure under § 1065.10.
