
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Performing an Emission Test Over Specified Duty Cycles
###### § 1065.516 Sample system decontamination and preconditioning.

This section describes how to manage the impact of sampling system contamination on emission measurements. Use good engineering judgment to determine if you should decontaminate and precondition your sampling system. Contamination occurs when a regulated pollutant accumulates in the sample system in a high enough concentration to cause release during emission tests. Hydrocarbons and PM are generally the only regulated pollutants that contaminate sample systems. Note that although this section focuses on avoiding excessive contamination of sampling systems, you must also use good engineering judgment to avoid loss of sample to a sampling system that is too clean. The goal of decontamination is not to perfectly clean the sampling system, but rather to achieve equilibrium between the sampling system and the exhaust so emission components are neither lost to nor entrained from the sampling system.

(a) You may perform contamination checks as follows to determine if decontamination is needed:

(1) For dilute exhaust sampling systems, measure hydrocarbon and PM emissions by sampling with the CVS dilution air turned on, without an engine connected to it.

(2) For raw analyzers and systems that collect PM samples from raw exhaust, measure hydrocarbon and PM emissions by sampling purified air or nitrogen.

(3) When calculating zero emission levels, apply all applicable corrections, including initial THC contamination and diluted (CVS) exhaust background corrections.

(4) Sampling systems are considered contaminated if either of the following conditions applies:

(i) The hydrocarbon emission level exceeds 2% of the flow-weighted mean concentration expected at the HC standard.

(ii) The PM emission level exceeds 5% of the level expected at the standard and exceeds 20 µg on a 47 mm PTFE membrane filter.

(b) To precondition or decontaminate sampling systems, use the following recommended procedure or select a different procedure using good engineering judgment:

(1) Start the engine and use good engineering judgment to operate it at a condition that generates high exhaust temperatures at the sample probe inlet.

(2) Operate any dilution systems at their expected flow rates. Prevent aqueous condensation in the dilution systems.

(3) Operate any PM sampling systems at their expected flow rates.

(4) Sample PM for at least 10 min using any sample media. You may change sample media at any time during this process and you may discard them without weighing them.

(5) You may purge any gaseous sampling systems that do not require decontamination during this procedure.

(6) You may conduct calibrations or verifications on any idle equipment or analyzers during this procedure.

(c) If your sampling system is still contaminated following the procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section, you may use more aggressive procedures to decontaminate the sampling system, as long as the decontamination does not cause the sampling system to be cleaner than an equilibrium condition such that artificially low emission measurements may result.
