
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Performing an Emission Test Over Specified Duty Cycles
###### ยง 1065.512 Duty cycle generation.
####### Engine speed for variable-speed engines.,f,f,f

(1)For variable-speed engines, normalized speed may be expressed as a percentage between warm idle speed,, and maximum test speed,, or speed may be expressed by referring to a defined speed by name, such as "warm idle," "intermediate speed," or "A," "B," or "C" speed. Section 1065.610 describes how to transform these normalized values into a sequence of reference speeds,. Running duty cycles with negative or small normalized speed values near warm idle speed may cause low-speed idle governors to activate and the engine torque to exceed the reference torque even though the operator demand is at a minimum. In such cases, we recommend controlling the dynamometer so it gives priority to follow the reference torque instead of the reference speed and let the engine govern the speed. Note that the cycle-validation criteria in ยง 1065.514 allow an engine to govern itself. This allowance permits you to test engines with enhanced-idle devices and to simulate the effects of transmissions such as automatic transmissions. For example, an enhanced-idle device might be an idle speed value that is normally commanded only under cold-start conditions to quickly warm up the engine and aftertreatment devices. In this case, negative and very low normalized speeds will generate reference speeds below this higher enhanced-idle speed. You may do either of the following when using enhanced-idle devices:

(i) Control the dynamometer so it gives priority to follow the reference torque, controlling the operator demand so it gives priority to follow reference speed and let the engine govern the speed when the operator demand is at minimum.

(ii) While running an engine where the ECM broadcasts an enhanced-idle speed that is above the denormalized speed, use the broadcast speed as the reference speed. Use these new reference points for duty-cycle validation. This does not affect how you determine denormalized reference torque in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(iii) If an ECM broadcast signal is not available, perform one or more practice cycles to determine the enhanced-idle speed as a function of cycle time. Generate the reference cycle as you normally would but replace any reference speed that is lower than the enhanced-idle speed with the enhanced-idle speed. This does not affect how you determine denormalized reference torque in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
