
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart G - Calculations and Data Requirements
###### § 1065.650 Emission calculations.
####### t

(i) Use good engineering judgment to time-align flow and concentration data to match transformation time,, to within +/-1 s.

(ii) Correct all gaseous emission analyzer concentration readings, including continuous readings, sample bag readings, and dilution air background readings, for drift as described in § 1065.672. Note that you must omit this step where brake-specific emissions are calculated without the drift correction for performing the drift validation according to § 1065.550(b). When applying the initial THC and CHcontamination readings according to § 1065.520(f), use the same values for both sets of calculations. You may also use as-measured values in the initial set of calculations and corrected values in the drift-corrected set of calculations as described in § 1065.520(f)(7).

(iii) Correct all THC and CHconcentrations for initial contamination as described in § 1065.660(a), including continuous readings, sample bags readings, and dilution air background readings.

(iv) Correct all concentrations measured on a "dry" basis to a "wet" basis, including dilution air background concentrations, as described in § 1065.659.

(v) Calculate all NMHC and CHconcentrations, including dilution air background concentrations, as described in § 1065.660.

(vi) For emission testing with an oxygenated fuel, calculate any HC concentrations, including dilution air background concentrations, as described in § 1065.665. See subpart I of this part for testing with oxygenated fuels.

(vii) Correct all the NOconcentrations, including dilution air background concentrations, for intake-air humidity as described in § 1065.670.
