
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart G - Calculations and Data Requirements
###### ยง 1065.650 Emission calculations.
####### [object Object],P,[object Object],[object Object],[object Object]

(2) To calculate an engine's mean steady-state total power,, add the mean steady-state power from all the work paths described in ยง 1065.210 that cross the system boundary including electrical power, mechanical shaft power, and fluid pumping power. For all work paths, except the engine's primary output shaft (crankshaft), the mean steady-state power over the test interval is the integration of the net work flow rate (power) out of the system boundary divided by the period of the test interval. When power flows into the system boundary, the power/work flow rate signal becomes negative; in this case, include these negative power/work rate values in the integration to calculate the mean power from that work path. Some work paths may result in a negative mean power. Include negative mean power values from any work path in the mean total power from the engine rather than setting these values to zero. The rest of this paragraph (e)(2) describes how to calculate the mean power from the engine's primary output shaft. Calculateusing Eq. 1065.650-13, noting that,, andrefer to mean power, mean rotational shaft frequency, and mean torque from the primary output shaft. Account for the power of simulated accessories according to ยง 1065.110 (reducing the mean primary output shaft power or torque by the accessory power or torque). Set the power to zero during actual motoring operation (negative feedback torques), unless the engine was connected to one or more energy storage devices. Examples of such energy storage devices include hybrid powertrain batteries and hydraulic accumulators, like the ones denoted "Acc." and "Batt." as illustrated in Figure 1 of ยง 1065.210. Set the power to zero for modes with a zero reference load (0 N&#xB7;m reference torque or 0 kW reference power). Include power during idle modes with simulated minimum torque or power.

(3) Divide emission mass rate by power to calculate a brake-specific emission result as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(4) The following example shows how to calculate mass of emissions using mean mass rate and mean power:
