
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart G - Calculations and Data Requirements
###### § 1065.655 Chemical balances of fuel, DEF, intake air, and exhaust.
####### Fuel and diesel exhaust fluid composition.

(e)Determine fuel and diesel exhaust fluid composition represented by &#x3B1;, &#x3B2;, &#x3B3;, and δ as described in this paragraph (e). When using measured fuel or diesel exhaust fluid properties, you must determine values for &#x3B1; and &#x3B2; in all cases. If you determine compositions based on measured values and the default value listed in Table 2 of this section is zero, you may set &#x3B3; and δ to zero; otherwise determine &#x3B3; and δ (along with &#x3B1; and &#x3B2;) based on measured values. Determine elemental mass fractions and values for &#x3B1;, &#x3B2;, &#x3B3;, and δ as follows:

(1) For liquid fuels, use the default values for &#x3B1;, &#x3B2;, &#x3B3;, and δ in Table 2 of this section or determine mass fractions of liquid fuels for calculation of &#x3B1;, &#x3B2;, &#x3B3;, and δ as follows:

(i) Determine the carbon and hydrogen mass fractions according to ASTM D5291 (incorporated by reference in § 1065.1010). When using ASTM D5291 to determine carbon and hydrogen mass fractions of gasoline (with or without blended ethanol), use good engineering judgment to adapt the method as appropriate. This may include consulting with the instrument manufacturer on how to test high-volatility fuels. Allow the weight of volatile fuel samples to stabilize for 20 minutes before starting the analysis; if the weight still drifts after 20 minutes, prepare a new sample). Retest the sample if the carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen mass fractions do not add up to a total mass of 100 +/-0.5%; you may assume oxygen has a zero mass contribution for this specification for diesel fuel and neat (E0) gasoline. You may also assume that sulfur and nitrogen have a zero mass contribution for this specification for all fuels except residual fuel blends.

(ii) Determine oxygen mass fraction of gasoline (with or without blended ethanol) according to ASTM D5599 (incorporated by reference in § 1065.1010). For all other liquid fuels, determine the oxygen mass fraction using good engineering judgment.

(iii) Determine the nitrogen mass fraction according to ASTM D4629 or ASTM D5762 (incorporated by reference in § 1065.1010) for all liquid fuels. Select the correct method based on the expected nitrogen content.

(iv) Determine the sulfur mass fraction according to subpart H of this part.

(2) For gaseous fuels and diesel exhaust fluid, use the default values for &#x3B1;, &#x3B2;, &#x3B3;, and δ in Table 2 of this section, or use good engineering judgment to determine those values based on measurement.

(3) For nonconstant fuel mixtures, you must account for the varying proportions of the different fuels. This paragraph (e)(3) generally applies for dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines, but it also applies if diesel exhaust fluid is injected in a way that is not strictly proportional to fuel flow. Account for these varying concentrations either with a batch measurement that provides averaged values to represent the test interval, or by analyzing data from continuous mass rate measurements. Application of average values from a batch measurement generally applies to situations where one fluid is a minor component of the total fuel mixture, for example dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines with diesel pilot injection, where the diesel pilot fuel mass is less than 5% of the total fuel mass and diesel exhaust fluid injection; consistent with good engineering judgment.
