
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart G - Calculations and Data Requirements
###### § 1065.650 Emission calculations.
####### Total work over a test interval.

(d)To calculate the total work from the engine over a test interval, add the total work from all the work paths described in § 1065.210 that cross the system boundary including electrical energy/work, mechanical shaft work, and fluid pumping work. For all work paths, except the engine's primary output shaft (crankshaft), the total work for the path over the test interval is the integration of the net work flow rate (power) out of the system boundary. When energy/work flows into the system boundary, this work flow rate signal becomes negative; in this case, include these negative work rate values in the integration to calculate total work from that work path. Some work paths may result in a negative total work. Include negative total work values from any work path in the calculated total work from the engine rather than setting the values to zero. The rest of this paragraph (d) describes how to calculate total work from the engine's primary output shaft over a test interval. Before integrating power on the engine's primary output shaft, adjust the speed and torque data for the time alignment used in § 1065.514(c). Any advance or delay used on the feedback signals for cycle validation must also be used for calculating work. Account for work of accessories according to § 1065.110. Exclude any work during cranking and starting. Exclude work during actual motoring operation (negative feedback torques), unless the engine was connected to one or more energy storage devices. Examples of such energy storage devices include hybrid powertrain batteries and hydraulic accumulators, like the ones illustrated in Figure 1 of § 1065.210. Exclude any work during reference zero-load idle periods (0% speed or idle speed with 0 N&#xB7;m reference torque). Note, that there must be two consecutive reference zero load idle points to establish a period where the zero-load exclusion applies. Include work during idle points with simulated minimum torque such as Curb Idle Transmissions Torque (CITT) for automatic transmissions in "drive". The work calculation method described in paragraphs (d)(1) though (7) of this section meets the requirements of this paragraph (d) using rectangular integration. You may use other logic that gives equivalent results. For example, you may use a trapezoidal integration method as described in paragraph (d)(8) of this section.

(1) Time align the recorded feedback speed and torque values by the amount used in § 1065.514(c).

(2) Calculate shaft power at each point during the test interval by multiplying all the recorded feedback engine speeds by their respective feedback torques.

(3) Adjust (reduce) the shaft power values for accessories according to § 1065.110.

(4) Set all power values during any cranking or starting period to zero. See § 1065.525 for more information about engine cranking.

(5) Set all negative power values to zero, unless the engine was connected to one or more energy storage devices. If the engine was tested with an energy storage device, leave negative power values unaltered.

(6) Set all power values to zero during idle periods with a corresponding reference torque of 0 N &#xB7; m.

(7) Integrate the resulting values for power over the test interval. Calculate total work as follows:

Using Eq. 1065.650-5:

(8) You may use a trapezoidal integration method instead of the rectangular integration described in this paragraph (d). To do this, you must integrate the fraction of work between points where the torque is positive. You may assume that speed and torque are linear between data points. You may not set negative values to zero before running the integration.
