
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart G - Calculations and Data Requirements
###### ยง 1065.667 Dilution air background emission correction.
####### x,[object Object]
############# ยง 1065.670 NOintake-air humidity and temperature corrections.

See the standard-setting part to determine if you may correct NOemissions for the effects of intake-air humidity or temperature. Use the NOintake-air humidity and temperature corrections specified in the standard-setting part instead of the NOintake-air humidity correction specified in this part 1065. If the standard-setting part does not prohibit correcting NOemissions for intake-air humidity according to this part 1065, correct NOconcentrations for intake-air humidity as described in this section. See ยง 1065.650(c)(1) for the proper sequence for applying the NOintake-air humidity and temperature corrections. You may use a time-weighted mean intake air humidity to calculate this correction if your intake air humidity remains within a tolerance of +/-0.0025 mol/mol of the mean value over the test interval. For intake-air humidity correction, use one of the following approaches:

(a) For compression-ignition engines, correct for intake-air humidity using the following equation:

(b) For spark-ignition engines, correct for intake-air humidity using the following equation:

(c) Develop your own correction, based on good engineering judgment.
