
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart G - Calculations and Data Requirements
###### ยง 1065.667 Dilution air background emission correction.
####### n,i.e.,,e.g.,,M,,n,M,,m.,m

(a) To determine the mass of background emissions to subtract from a diluted exhaust sample, first determine the total flow of dilution air,over the test interval. This may be a measured quantity or a calculated quantity. Multiply the total flow of dilution air by the mean mole fraction (concentration) of a background emission. This may be a time-weighted mean or a flow-weighted mean (a proportionally sampled background). Finally, multiply by the molar mass,of the associated gaseous emission constituent. The product ofand the mean molar concentration of a background emission and its molar mass,is the total background emission mass,In the case of PM, where the mean PM concentration is already in units of mass per mole of exhaust, multiply it by the total amount of dilution air flow, and the result is the total background mass of PM,Subtract total background mass from total mass to correct for background emissions.

(b) You may determine the total flow of dilution air by a direct flow measurement.

(c) You may determine the total flow of dilution air by subtracting the calculated raw exhaust molar flow as described in ยง 1065.655(g) from the measured dilute exhaust flow. This may be done by totaling continuous calculations or by using batch results.
