
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart H - Engine Fluids, Test Fuels, Analytical Gases and Other Calibration Standards
###### ยง 1065.701 General requirements for test fuels.
####### Fuels not specified in this subpart.

(c)If you produce engines that run on a type of fuel (or mixture of fuels) that we do not specify in this subpart, you must get our written approval to establish the appropriate test fuel. See the standard-setting part for provisions related to fuels and fuel mixtures not specified in this subpart.

(1) For engines designed to operate on a single fuel, we will generally allow you to use the fuel if you show us all the following things are true:

(i) Show that your engines will use only the designated fuel in service.

(ii) Show that this type of fuel is commercially available.

(iii) Show that operating the engines on the fuel we specify would be inappropriate, as in the following examples:

(A) The engine will not run on the specified fuel.

(B) The engine or emission controls will not be durable or work properly when operating with the specified fuel.

(C) The measured emission results would otherwise be substantially unrepresentative of in-use emissions.

(2) For engines that are designed to operate on different fuel types, the provisions of paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section apply with respect to each fuel type.

(3) For engines that are designed to operate on different fuel types as well as continuous mixtures of those fuels, we may require you to test with either the worst-case fuel mixture or the most representative fuel mixture, unless the standard-setting part specifies otherwise.
