
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart J - Field Testing and Portable Emission Measurement Systems
###### § 1065.905 General provisions.
####### Laboratory testing using PEMS.

(e)You may use PEMS for testing in a laboratory as described in § 1065.901(b). Use the following procedures and specifications when using PEMS for laboratory testing:

(1) Use the applicability and general provisions of subpart A of this part.

(2) Use equipment specifications in subpart B of this part. Section 1065.910 specifies additional equipment specific to testing with PEMS.

(3) Use measurement instruments in subpart C of this part, except as specified in § 1065.915.

(4) Use calibrations and verifications in subpart D of this part, except as specified in § 1065.920. Section 1065.920 also specifies additional calibration and verifications for PEMS.

(5) Use the provisions of § 1065.401 for selecting engines for testing. Use the provisions of subpart E of this part for maintaining engines, except as specified in the standard-setting part.

(6) Use the procedures in subpart F of this part and in the standard-setting part to start and run a laboratory test.

(7) Use the calculations in subpart G of this part to calculate emissions over the applicable duty cycle. Section 1065.940 specifies additional calculations for testing with PEMS.

(8) Use a fuel meeting the specifications of subpart H of this part, as specified in the standard-setting part.

(9) Use the lubricant and coolant specifications in §§ 1065.740 and 1065.745.

(10) Use the analytical gases and other calibration standards in §§ 1065.750 and 1065.790.

(11) If you are testing with oxygenated fuels, use the procedures specified for testing with oxygenated fuels in subpart I of this part.

(12) Apply the definitions and reference materials in subpart K of this part.
