
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart J - Field Testing and Portable Emission Measurement Systems
###### § 1065.905 General provisions.
####### Field testing and this part 1065.

(d)Use the following specifications for field testing:

(1) Use the applicability and general provisions of subpart A of this part.

(2) Use equipment specifications in § 1065.101 and in the sections from § 1065.140 to the end of subpart B of this part, with the exception of §§ 1065.140(e)(1) and (4), 1065.170(c)(1)(vi), and 1065.195(c). Section 1065.910 identifies additional equipment that is specific to field testing.

(i) For PM samples, configure dilution systems as follows:

(A) Use good engineering judgment to control dilution air temperature. If you choose to directly and actively control dilution air temperature, set the temperature to 25 &#xB0;C.

(B) Control sample temperature to a (32 to 62) &#xB0;C tolerance, as measured anywhere within 20 cm upstream or downstream of the PM storage media (such as a filter or oscillating crystal), where the tolerance applies only during sampling.

(C) Maintain filter face velocity to a (5 to 100) cm/s tolerance for flow-through media. Compliance with this provision can be verified by engineering analysis. This provision does not apply for non-flow-through media.

(ii) For inertial PM balances, there is no requirement to control the stabilization environment temperature or dewpoint.

(3) Use measurement instruments in subpart C of this part, except as specified in § 1065.915.

(4) Use calibrations and verifications in subpart D of this part, except as specified in § 1065.920. Section 1065.920 also specifies additional calibrations and verifications for field testing.

(5) Use the provisions of the standard-setting part for selecting and maintaining engines in the field instead of the specifications in subpart E of this part.

(6) Use the procedures in §§ 1065.930 and 1065.935 to start and run a field test. If you use a gravimetric balance for PM, weigh PM samples according to §§ 1065.590 and 1065.595.

(7) Use the calculations in subpart G of this part to calculate emissions over each test interval. Note that "test interval" is defined in subpart K of this part 1065, and that the standard setting part indicates how to determine test intervals for your engine.

Section 1065.940 specifies additional calculations for field testing. Use any calculations specified in the standard-setting part to determine if your engines meet the field-testing standards. The standard-setting part may also contain additional calculations that determine when further field testing is required.

(8) Use a typical in-use fuel meeting the specifications of § 1065.701(d).

(9) Use the lubricant and coolant specifications in §§ 1065.740 and 1065.745.

(10) Use the analytical gases and other calibration standards in § 1065.750 and § 1065.790.

(11) If you are testing with oxygenated fuels, use the procedures specified for testing with oxygenated fuels in subpart I of this part.

(12) Apply the definitions and reference materials in subpart K of this part.
