
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart I - Testing With Oxygenated Fuels
###### ยง 1065.805 Sampling system.

(a) Dilute engine exhaust, and use batch sampling to collect proportional flow-weighted dilute samples of the applicable alcohols and carbonyls. You may not use raw sampling for alcohols and carbonyls.

(b) You may collect background samples for correcting dilution air for background concentrations of alcohols and carbonyls.

(c) Maintain sample temperatures within the dilution tunnel, probes, and sample lines high enough to prevent aqueous condensation up to the point where a sample is collected to prevent loss of the alcohols and carbonyls by dissolution in condensed water. Use good engineering judgment to ensure that surface reactions of alcohols and carbonyls do not occur, as surface decomposition of methanol has been shown to occur at temperatures greater than 120 &#xB0;C in exhaust from methanol-fueled engines.

(d) You may bubble a sample of the exhaust through water to collect alcohols for later analysis. You may also use a photoacoustic analyzer to quantify ethanol and methanol in an exhaust sample as described in ยง 1065.269.

(e) Sample the exhaust through cartridges impregnated with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine to collect carbonyls for later analysis. If the standard-setting part specifies a duty cycle that has multiple test intervals (such as multiple engine starts or an engine-off soak phase), you may proportionally collect a single carbonyl sample for the entire duty cycle. For example, if the standard-setting part specifies a six-to-one weighting of hot-start to cold-start emissions, you may collect a single carbonyl sample for the entire duty cycle by using a hot-start sample flow rate that is six times the cold-start sample flow rate.

(f) You may sample alcohols or carbonyls using "California Non-Methane Organic Gas Test Procedures" (incorporated by reference in ยง 1065.1010). If you use this method, follow its calculations to determine the mass of the alcohol/carbonyl in the exhaust sample, but follow subpart G of this part for all other calculations (40 CFR part 1066, subpart G, for vehicle testing).

(g) Use good engineering judgment to sample other oxygenated hydrocarbon compounds in the exhaust.
