
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart J - Field Testing and Portable Emission Measurement Systems
###### § 1065.920 PEMS calibrations and verifications.
####### Subsystem calibrations and verifications.

(a)Use all the applicable calibrations and verifications in subpart D of this part, including the linearity verifications in § 1065.307, to calibrate and verify PEMS. Note that a PEMS does not have to meet the system-response and updating-recording verifications of § 1065.308 and § 1065.309 if it meets the overall verification described in paragraph (b) of this section or if it measures PM using any method other than that described in § 1065.170(c)(1). This section does not apply to ECM signals. Note that because the regulations of this part require you to use good engineering judgment, it may be necessary to perform additional verifications and analysis. It may also be necessary to limit the range of conditions under which the PEMS can be used or to include specific additional maintenance to ensure that it functions properly under the test conditions. As provided in 40 CFR 1068.5, we will deem your system to not meet the requirements of this section if we determine that you did not use good engineering judgment to verify the measurement equipment. We may also deem your system to meet these requirements only under certain test conditions. If we ask for it, you must send us a summary of your verifications. We may also ask you to provide additional information or analysis to support your conclusions.
