
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart J - Field Testing and Portable Emission Measurement Systems
###### ยง 1065.905 General provisions.
####### Field testing and the standard-setting part.

(c)This subpart J specifies procedures for field-testing various categories of engines. See the standard-setting part for specific provisions for a particular type of engine. Before using this subpart's procedures for field testing, read the standard-setting part to answer at least the following questions:

(1) How many engines must I test in the field?

(2) How many times must I repeat a field test on an individual engine?

(3) How do I select vehicles for field testing?

(4) What maintenance steps may I take before or between tests?

(5) What data are needed for a single field test on an individual engine?

(6) What are the limits on ambient conditions for field testing? Note that the ambient condition limits in ยง 1065.520 do not apply for field testing. Field testing may occur at any ambient temperature, pressure, and humidity unless otherwise specified in the standard-setting part.

(7) Which exhaust constituents do I need to measure?

(8) How do I account for crankcase emissions?

(9) Which engine and ambient parameters do I need to measure?

(10) How do I process the data recorded during field testing to determine if my engine meets field-testing standards? How do I determine individual test intervals? Note that "test interval" is defined in subpart K of this part 1065.

(11) Should I warm up the test engine before measuring emissions, or do I need to measure cold-start emissions during a warm-up segment of in-use operation?

(12) Do any unique specifications apply for test fuels?

(13) Do any special conditions invalidate parts of a field test or all of a field test?

(14) Does any special measurement allowance apply to field-test emission results or standards, based on using PEMS for field-testing versus using laboratory equipment and instruments for laboratory testing?

(15) Do results of initial field testing trigger any requirement for additional field testing or laboratory testing?

(16) How do I report field-testing results?
