
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart J - Field Testing and Portable Emission Measurement Systems
###### ยง 1065.920 PEMS calibrations and verifications.
####### Overall verification.

(b)This paragraph (b) specifies methods and criteria for verifying the overall performance of systems not fully compliant with requirements that apply for laboratory testing. Maintain records to show that the particular make, model, and configuration of your PEMS meets this verification. You may rely on data and other information from the PEMS manufacturer. However, we recommend that you generate your own records to show that your specific PEMS meets this verification. If you upgrade or change the configuration of your PEMS, your record must show that your new configuration meets this verification. The verification required by this section consists of operating an engine over a duty cycle in the laboratory and statistically comparing data generated and recorded by the PEMS with data simultaneously generated and recorded by laboratory equipment as follows:

(1) Mount an engine on a dynamometer for laboratory testing. Prepare the laboratory and PEMS for emission testing, as described in this part, to get simultaneous measurements. We recommend selecting an engine with emission levels close to the applicable duty-cycle standards, if possible.

(2) Select or create a duty cycle that has all the following characteristics:

(i) Engine operation that represents normal in-use speeds, loads, and degree of transient activity. Consider using data from previous field tests to generate a cycle.

(ii) A duration of (6 to 9) hours.

(3) Starting with a warmed-up engine, run a valid emission test with the duty cycle from paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The laboratory and PEMS must both meet applicable validation requirements, such as drift validation, hydrocarbon contamination validation, and proportional validation.

(4) Determine the brake-specific emissions and mass rate emissions, as applicable, for each test interval for both laboratory and the PEMS measurements, as follows:

(i) For both laboratory and PEMS measurements, use identical values to determine the beginning and end of each test interval.

(ii) For both laboratory and PEMS measurements, use identical values to determine total work over each test interval.

(iii) If the standard-setting part specifies the use of a measurement allowance for field testing, also apply the measurement allowance during calibration using good engineering judgment. If the measurement allowance is normally added to the standard, this means you must subtract the measurement allowance from measured PEMS emission results.

(iv) Round results to the same number of significant digits as the standard.

(5) For each test interval and emission, subtract the lab result from the PEMS result.

(6) The PEMS passes the verification of this paragraph (b) if any one of the following are true for each constituent:

(i) 91% or more of the differences are zero or less than zero.
