
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart H - Engine Fluids, Test Fuels, Analytical Gases and Other Calibration Standards
###### § 1065.750 Analytical gases.
####### FID CH,span gas.

(v)If you always span and calibrate a CHFID with a nonmethane cutter, then span and calibrate the FID with span concentrations of CH. Calibrate on a carbon number basis of one (C). For example, if you use a CHspan gas of concentration 200 µmol/mol, span a FID to respond with a value of 200 µmol/mol. Note that FID span balance gases may be any combination of purified air and purified nitrogen. We recommend FID analyzer span gases that contain approximately the expected flow-weighted mean concentration of Oin the exhaust sample during testing. If the expected Oconcentration in the exhaust sample is zero, we recommend using a balance gas of purified nitrogen.

(3) Use the following gas mixtures, with gases traceable within +/-1% of the NIST-accepted value or other gas standards we approve:

(i) CH, balance purified air and/or N(as applicable).

(ii) CH, balance purified air and/or N(as applicable).

(iii) CH, balance purified air and/or N(as applicable).

(iv) CO, balance purified N.

(v) CO, balance purified N.

(vi) NO, balance purified N.

(vii) NO, balance purified air.

(viii) O, balance purified N.

(ix) CH, CO, CO, NO, balance purified N.

(x) CH, CH, CO, CO, NO, balance purified N.

(xi) NO, balance purified air and/or N(as applicable).

(xii) CH, CH, balance purified air and/or N(as applicable).

(xiii) CH, CHO, CHO, CH, CH, CHO, CH, CH, CH, CHO, and CH. You may omit individual gas constituents from this gas mixture. If your gas mixture contains oxygenated hydrocarbon, your gas mixture must be in balance purified N, otherwise you may use balance purified air.

(4) You may use gases for species other than those listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section (such as methanol in air, which you may use to determine response factors), as long as they are traceable to within +/-3% of the NIST-accepted value or other similar standards we approve, and meet the stability requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.

(5) You may generate your own calibration gases using a precision blending device, such as a gas divider, to dilute gases with purified Nor purified air. If your gas divider meets the specifications in § 1065.248, and the gases being blended meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section, the resulting blends are considered to meet the requirements of this paragraph (a).

(b) Record the concentration of any calibration gas standard and its expiration date specified by the gas supplier.

(1) Do not use any calibration gas standard after its expiration date, except as allowed by paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) Calibration gases may be relabeled and used after their expiration date as follows:

(i) Alcohol/carbonyl calibration gases used to determine response factors according to subpart I of this part may be relabeled as specified in subpart I of this part.

(ii) Other gases may be relabeled and used after the expiration date only if we approve it in advance.

(c) Transfer gases from their source to analyzers using components that are dedicated to controlling and transferring only those gases. For example, do not use a regulator, valve, or transfer line for zero gas if those components were previously used to transfer a different gas mixture. We recommend that you label regulators, valves, and transfer lines to prevent contamination. Note that even small traces of a gas mixture in the dead volume of a regulator, valve, or transfer line can diffuse upstream into a high-pressure volume of gas, which would contaminate the entire high-pressure gas source, such as a compressed-gas cylinder.

(d) To maintain stability and purity of gas standards, use good engineering judgment and follow the gas standard supplier's recommendations for storing and handling zero, span, and calibration gases. For example, it may be necessary to store bottles of condensable gases in a heated environment.
