
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds
####### § 1065.1103 General provisions for SVOC measurement.

The provisions of §§ 1065.1103 through 1065.1111 specify procedures for measuring semi-volatile organic compounds (SVOC) along with PM. These sections specify how to collect a sample of the SVOCs during exhaust emission testing, as well as how to use wet chemistry techniques to extract SVOCs from the sample media for analysis. Note that the precise method you use will depend on the category of SVOCs being measured. For example, the method used to measure polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) will differ slightly from the method used to measure dioxins. Follow standard analytic chemistry methods for any aspects of the analysis that are not specified.

(a) Laboratory cleanliness is especially important throughout SVOC testing. Thoroughly clean all sampling system components and glassware before testing to avoid sample contamination. For the purposes of this subpart, the sampling system is defined as sample pathway from the sample probe inlet to the downstream most point where the sample is captured (in this case the condensate trap).

(b) We recommend that media blanks be analyzed for each batch of sample media (sorbent, filters, etc.) prepared for testing. Blank sorbent modules (i.e., field blanks) should be stored in a sealed environment and should periodically accompany the test sampling system throughout the course of a test, including sampling system and sorbent module disassembly, sample packaging, and storage. Use good engineering judgment to determine the frequency with which you should generate field blanks. The field blank sample should be close to the sampler during testing.

(c) We recommend the use of isotope dilution techniques, including the use of isotopically labeled surrogate, internal, alternate, and injection standards.

(d) If your target analytes degrade when exposed to ultraviolet radiation, such as nitropolynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons (nPAHs), perform these procedures in the dark or with ultraviolet filters installed over the lights.

(e) The following definitions and abbreviations apply for SVOC measurements:
