
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Vanadium Sublimation In SCR Catalysts
####### § 1065.1121 Vanadium sample dissolution and analysis in alumina capture beds.
######## et al,

(2) We recommend that you digest and analyze a minimum of three solid vanadium NIST Standard Reference Materials in duplicate with every batch of 25 vanadium alumina capture bed samples that you analyze in this section, as described in "Emissions of metals associated with motor vehicle roadways" (Herner, J.D.Environmental Science and Technology. 2005, 39, 826-836). This will serve as a quality assurance check to help gauge the relative uncertainties in each measurement, specifically if the measurement errors are normally distributed and independent.

(3) Use the 3-sigma approach to determine the analytical method detection limits for vanadium and the 10-sigma approach if you determine the reporting limit. This process involves analyzing at least seven replicates of a reactor blank using the analytical method described in paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) of this section, converting the responses into concentration units, and calculating the standard deviation. Determine the detection limit by multiplying the standard deviation by 3 and adding it to the average. Determine the reporting limit by multiplying the standard deviation by 10 and adding it to the average. Determine the following analytical method detection limits:

(i) Determine the ICP-MS (or ICP-OES) instrumental detection limit (ng/L) by measuring at least seven blank samples made up of the reagents from paragraph (a) of this section.

(ii) Determine the method detection limit (µg/mof flow) by measuring at least seven reactor blank samples taken as described in § 1065.1119(d).

(iii) We recommend that your method detection limit determined under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section is at or below 15 µg/m. You must report your detection limits determined in this paragraph (b)(3) and reporting limits (if determined) with your test results.

(4) If you account for vanadium-loaded particles contaminating catalyst-coated monoliths as a result of physical abrasion as allowed in § 1065.1115(f), use the 3-sigma approach to determine the analytical method detection limits for titanium and the 10-sigma approach if you determine the reporting limit. This process involves analyzing at least seven replicates of a blank using the analytical method described in paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) of this section, converting the responses into concentration units, and calculating the standard deviation. Determine the detection limit by multiplying the standard deviation by 3 and subtracting it from the average. Determine the reporting limit by multiplying the standard deviation by 10 and subtracting it from the average.

(i) Determine the ICP-MS (or ICP-OES) instrumental detection limit (ng/L) by measuring at least seven blank samples made up of the reagents from paragraph (a) of this section.

(ii) Determine the method detection limit (µg/mof flow) by measuring at least seven reactor blank samples taken as described in § 1065.1119(d).
