
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1139 Aging cycle generation.
######## Method 2-Cluster-based weighting of certification cycle modes.

(2)Use Method 2 if there is insufficient exhaust flow and temperature data from the field at the time the cycle is being developed. The data requirements for Method 2 are described in ยง 1065.1133(b)(2). You also need laboratory data recorded in the form of 1 Hz data sets for the regulatory duty cycles you are certifying to for your application as described in the standard setting part. Include exhaust flow rate and the inlet temperature for each key catalyst component in the laboratory data sets, as described in paragraph (e) of this section. The laboratory data sets must also include parameters that match the field data as described in ยง 1065.1133(b)(2), which will be used to facilitate the clustering analysis.

(i) Perform k-means clustering is described in ยง 1065.1133(b)(1) but using data sets containing the two parameters recorded in the field data sets. For example, you might use speed and torque, as recorded both in the field and the laboratory for Method 2 clustering.

(ii) Determine the fraction of points from each of the regulatory laboratory duty-cycles that are within each cluster, in addition to the overall fraction of points from the entire data set.
