
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds
####### ยง 1065.1105 Sampling system design.
######## Sample system configuration.

(c)This paragraph (c) specifies the components necessary to collect SVOC samples, along with our recommended design parameters. Where you do not follow our recommendations, use good engineering judgment to design your sampling system so it does not result in loss of SVOC during sampling. The sampling system should contain the following components in series in the order listed:

(1) Use a sample probe similar to the PM sample probe specified in subpart B of this part.

(2) Use a PM filter holder similar to the holder specified in subpart B of this part, although you will likely need to use a larger size to accommodate the high sample flow rates. We recommend using a 110 mm filter for testing spark ignition engines or engines that utilize exhaust aftertreatment for PM removal and a 293 mm filter for other engines. If you are not analyzing separately for SVOCs in gas and particle phases, you do not have to control the temperature of the filter holder. Note that this differs from normal PM sampling procedures, which maintain the filter at a much lower temperature to capture a significant fraction of exhaust SVOC on the filter. In this method, SVOCs that pass through the filter will be collected on the downstream sorbent module. If you are collecting SVOCs in gas and particle phases, control your filter face temperature according to ยง 1065.140(e)(4).

(3) Use good engineering judgment to design a cooling coil that will drop the sample temperature to approximately 5 &#xB0;C. Note that downstream of the cooling coil, the sample will be a mixture of vapor phase hydrocarbons in CO, air, and a primarily aqueous liquid phase.

(4) Use a hydrophobic sorbent in a sealed sorbent module. Note that this sorbent module is intended to be the final stage for collecting the SVOC sample and should be sized accordingly. We recommend sizing the module to hold 40 g of XAD-2 along with PUF plugs at either end of the module, noting that you may vary the mass of XAD used for testing based on the anticipated SVOC emission concentration and sample flow rate.

(5) Include a condensate trap to separate the aqueous liquid phase from the gas stream. We recommend using a peristaltic pump to remove water from the condensate trap over the course of the test to prevent build-up of the condensate. Note that for some tests it may be appropriate to collect this water for analysis.
