
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Vanadium Sublimation In SCR Catalysts
####### § 1065.1119 Blank testing.

This section describes the process for analyzing blanks. Use blanks to determine the background effects and the potential for contamination from the sampling process.

(a) Take blanks from the same batch of alumina used for the capture bed.

(b) Media blanks are used to determine if there is any contamination in the sample media. Analyze at least one media blank for each reactor aging cycle or round of testing performed under § 1065.1117. If your sample media is taken from the same lot, you may analyze media blanks less frequently consistent with good engineering judgment.

(c) Field blanks are used to determine if there is any contamination from environmental exposure of the sample media. Analyze at least one field blank for each reactor aging cycle or round of testing performed under § 1065.1117. Field blanks must be contained in a sealed environment and accompany the reactor sampling system throughout the course of a test, including reactor disassembly, sample packaging, and storage. Use good engineering judgment to determine how frequently to generate field blanks. Keep the field blank sample close to the reactor during testing.

(d) Reactor blanks are used to determine if there is any contamination from the sampling system. Analyze at least one reactor blank for each reactor aging cycle or round of testing performed under § 1065.1117.

(1) Test reactor blanks with the reactor on and operated identically to that of a catalyst test in § 1065.1117 with the exception that when loading the reactor, only the alumina capture bed will be loaded (no catalyst sample is loaded for the reactor blank). We recommend acquiring reactor blanks with the reactor operating at average test temperature you used when acquiring your test samples under § 1065.1117.

(2) You must run at least three reactor blanks if the result from the initial blank analysis is above the detection limit of the method, with additional blank runs based on the uncertainty of the reactor blank measurements, consistent with good engineering judgment.
