
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Smoke Opacity
####### ยง 1065.1127 Test procedure for determining percent opacity.
######## Linearity.

(ii)Insert each of the qualified reference filters in the light path perpendicular to the axis of the light beam and adjust the smokemeter to give a result within 1 percentage point of the named value for each reference filter.

(c) Prepare the engine, dynamometer, and smokemeter for testing as follows:

(1) Set up the engine to run in a configuration that represents in-use operation.

(2) Determine the smokemeter's optical path length to the nearest mm.

(3) If the smokemeter uses purge air or another method to prevent deposits on the light source and detector, adjust the system according to the system manufacturer's instructions and activate the system before starting the engine.

(4) Program the dynamometer to operate in torque-control mode throughout testing. Determine the dynamometer load needed to meet the cycle requirements in paragraphs (d)(4)(ii) and (iv) of this section.

(5) You may program the dynamometer to apply motoring assist with negative flywheel torque, but only during the first 0.5 seconds of the acceleration events in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. Negative flywheel torque may not exceed 13.6 N&#xB7;m.

(d) Operate the engine and dynamometer over repeated test runs of the duty cycle illustrated in Figure 1 of this appendix. As noted in the figure, the test run includes an acceleration mode from points A through F in the figure, followed by a lugging mode from points I to J. Detailed specifications for testing apply as follows:

(1)Continuously record opacity, engine speed, engine torque, and operator demand over the course of the entire test at 10 Hz; however, you may interrupt measurements to recalibrate during each idle mode.

(2) Precondition the engine by operating it for 10 minutes at maximum mapped power.

(3) Operate the engine for (5.0 to 5.5) minutes at warm idle speed, &#x192;with load set to Curb Idle Transmission Torque.

(4) Operate the engine and dynamometer as follows during the acceleration mode:
