
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1139 Aging cycle generation.
######## Mode consolidation.

(c)Sometimes the clustering analysis process will generate multiple modes that are very similar to each other in temperature, such that although they are distinct modes they will not have a significantly different impact on aftertreatment aging. To reduce the complexity of the aging cycle, you may consolidate modes that are similar into a single mode as described below.

(1) Consolidate any two or more modes which have a target temperature within 10 &#xB0;C into a single mode. If you choose to do this, the target temperature of the single consolidated mode is the temperature associated with the highest weight factor mode before consolidation. If the modes being consolidated all have weighting factors within 0.05 of each other, use the highest temperature among the modes.

(2) Use the highest exhaust flow target among the modes being combined as the target exhaust flow for new consolidate mode.

(3) Use the combined sum of the weighting factors for all modes being consolidate as the weighting factor for the new consolidated mode. Similarly, the total duration of the new consolidated mode is the sum of the durations of the modes being consolidated.
