
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1137 Determination of thermal reactivity coefficient.
######## Diesel oxidation catalysts.

(4)Conversion rate of NO to NOat 200 &#xB0;C is the key aging metric for tracking thermal aging for DOCs which are used to optimize exhaust characteristics for a downstream SCR system. HC reduction efficiency (as measured using ethylene) at 200 &#xB0;C is the key aging metric for DOCs which are part of a system that does not contain an SCR catalyst for NOreduction. This same guidance applies to an oxidation catalyst coated onto the surface of a DPF, if there is no other DOC in the system.

(c)(1) Use good engineering judgment to select at least three different temperatures to run the degradation experiments at. We recommend selecting these temperatures to accelerated thermal deactivation such that measurable changes in the aging metric can be observed at multiple time points over the course of no more than 50 hours. Avoid temperatures that are too high to prevent rapid catalyst failure by a mechanism that does not represent normal aging. An example of temperatures to run the degradation experiment at for a small-pore copper zeolite SCR catalyst is 600 &#xB0;C, 650 &#xB0;C, and 725 &#xB0;C.
