
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1139 Aging cycle generation.
######## Cycle assembly without infrequent regenerations.

(2)For systems that do not use infrequent regenerations, the cycle will be arranged to achieve as much thermal cycling as possible using the following steps.

(i) Assign a duration of 15 minutes to the mode with the lowest weight factor. Calculate the duration of the remaining modes in proportion to the final weight factors after mode durations have been adjusted during heat load tuning in paragraph (f) of this section.

(ii) Place the mode with the lowest temperature first, then move to the highest temperature mode, followed by the next lowest temperature mode, and then the next highest mode, continuing in this alternating pattern until all modes are included.

(iii) Transition between normal modes within (60 to 300) seconds. The transition period is considered complete when you are within +/-5 &#xB0;C of the target temperature for the primary key component. Transitions may follow any pattern of flow and temperature to reach this target within the required 300 seconds.

(iv) For normal modes longer than 30 minutes, you may count the transition time as time in mode. Account for the transition time for modes shorter than 30 minutes by shortening the duration of the longest mode by an equivalent amount of time.

(v) This cycle will be repeated the number of times necessary to reach the target aging duration.
