
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1139 Aging cycle generation.
######## Method 1-Direct clustering.

(1)Use Method 1 when sufficient exhaust flow and temperature data are available directly from the field data. The data requirements for Method 1 are described in ยง 1065.1133(b)(1). The method involves three steps: clustering analysis, mode consolidation, and cycle building.

(i) The primary method for determining modes from a field data set involves the use of k-means clustering. K-means clustering is a method where a series of observations is partitioned into set of clusters of "similar" data points, where every observation is a member of a cluster with the nearest mean, which is referred to as the centroid of that cluster. The number of clusters is a parameter of the analysis, and the k-means algorithm generally seeks an optimal number of clusters to minimize the least-squares distance of all points to their respective centroids. There are a number of different commercially available software programs to perform k-means clustering, as well as freely available algorithm codes. K-means clustering can arrive at many different solutions, and we are providing the following guidance to help select the optimal solution for use in accelerated aging cycle generation. The process involves analyzing the data multiple time using an increasing number of clusters for each analysis. Use at least 5 clusters, and we recommend developing solutions for the range between 5 and 8 clusters, although you may use more if desired. Each cluster is a potential aging mode with a temperature and flow rate defined by the centroid. More clusters result in more aging modes, although this number may be reduced later via model consolidation.

(ii) The cubic clustering criteria (CCC) is a metric calculated for each solution having a different number of clusters. The computation of CCC is complex and described in more detail in the following reference. The CCC computation is normally available as one of the metrics in commercially available software packages that can be used for k-means clustering. The optimal solution is typically the one with the number of clusters corresponding to the highest CCC.

(iii) Check each solution, starting with the one with the highest CCC to determine if it satisfies the following requirements:

(A) No more than one cluster contains fewer than 3% of the data points.

(B) The temperature ratio between the centroid with the maximum temperature and the centroid with the minimum temperature is at least 1.6 for clusters containing more than 3% of the data points.

(C) If that solution does not satisfy these requirements move to the solution with the next highest CCC.

(iv) The process described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section generally works well for most data sets, but if you have difficulty with the CCC metric in a particular data set, use good engineering judgment to leverage additional criteria to help the down-selection process. Examples of alternate clustering metrics include a Davies-Bouldin Index (optimizing on the minimum value) or a Calinski-Harabasz Index (optimize on the maximum value).

(v) The initial candidate mode conditions are temperature and flow rate combinations that are the centroids for each cluster from the analysis in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section. As part of the analysis, you must also determine the 10th percentile and 90th percentile temperatures for each cluster. These additional values may be needed later for the cycle heat load tuning process described in ยง 1065.1143.

(vi) The mode weight factor for a given cluster is the fraction data points contained within that cluster.
