
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1139 Aging cycle generation.
######## D

(3) For each recorded regeneration, calculate the cumulative deactivation,, using the equations in paragraph (e) of this section.

(4) If you have a large number of recorded regenerations in your data set, select a regeneration event with a cumulative deactivation representing the 75th percentile of the distribution of heat loads in your recorded data set. If you have a smaller number of recorded regenerations, such that you cannot clearly identify the real distribution, select the recorded regeneration with the highest recorded cumulative deactivation.

(5) This regeneration event will be used as the regeneration profile for that type of event during aging. The profile should include the entire event, include the temperature ramp and cool-down period.

(6) The regeneration must be conducted in the same manner as it is run in the field. For instance, if the regeneration temperature is generated from an exothermic reaction by injecting fuel in front of a DOC, this methodology should also be used during bench aging.

(7) If part of the system is at a lower temperature during regeneration because it is upstream of the temperature generating component, the set the target temperature for the aftertreatment system inlet to be equivalent to the system inlet temperature used during the highest duration non-regeneration mode, or 350 &#xB0;C, whichever is lower.
