
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1139 Aging cycle generation.
######## Cycle generation process overview.

(a)The process of cycle generation begins with the determination of the number of bench aging hours. The input into this calculation is the number of real or field hours that represent the useful life for the target application. This could be given as a number of hours or miles, and for miles, the manufacturer must use field data and good engineering judgment to translate this to an equivalent number of operating hours for the target application. The target for the accelerated aging protocol is a 10-time acceleration of the aging process, therefore the total number of aging hours is always set at useful life hours divided by 10. For example, if an on-highway heavy duty engine has a full useful life of 750,000 miles and this is determined to be represented by 24,150 field hours, the target duration for the DAAAC protocol for this application would be 2,415 bench-aging hours. The 2,415 hours will then be divided among different operating modes that will be arranged to result in repetitive temperature cycling over that period. For systems that incorporate periodic regeneration, the total duration will be split between regeneration and normal (non-regeneration) operation. The analysis of normal operation data is given in paragraph (b) of this section. The analysis of regeneration data is given in paragraph (c) of this section.
