
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1139 Aging cycle generation.

Generation of the accelerated aging cycle for a given application involves analysis of the field data to determine a set of aging modes that will represent that field operation. There are two methods of cycle generation, each of which is described separately below. Method 1 involves the direct application of field data and is used when the recorded data includes sufficient exhaust flow and temperature data to allow for determination of aging conditions directly from the field data set and must be available for all of the key components. Method 2 is meant to be used when insufficient flow and temperature data is available from the field data. In Method 2, the field data is used to weight a set of modes derived from the laboratory certification cycles for a given application. These weighted modes are then combined with laboratory recorded flow and temperatures on the certification cycles to derive aging modes. There are two different cases to consider for aging cycle generation, depending on whether or not a given aftertreatment system incorporates the use of a periodic regeneration event. For the purposes of this section, a "regeneration" is any event where the operating temperature of some part of the aftertreatment system is raised beyond levels that are observed during normal (non-regeneration) operation. The analysis of regeneration data is considered separately from normal operating data.
