
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Smoke Opacity
####### ยง 1065.1127 Test procedure for determining percent opacity.
######## Lugging-IJ.,f

(ii)Apply dynamometer loading as needed to decrease engine speed from 50 r/min belowto intermediate speed in (35 +/-5) seconds. The engine speed must remain within +/-100 r/min of a target represented by a linear transition between the low and high engine speed targets.

(6) Return the dynamometer and engine controls to the idle position described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section within 60 seconds of completing the lugging mode.

(7) Repeat the procedures in paragraphs (d)(3) through (6) of this section as needed to complete three valid test runs. If you fail to meet the specifications during a test run, continue to follow the specified duty cycle before starting the next test run.

(8) Shut down the engine or remove the smokemeter from the exhaust stream to verify zero and linearity. Void the test if the smokemeter reports more than 2 percent opacity for the zero verification, or if the smokemeter's error for any of the linearity checks specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is more than 2 percent.

(e) Analyze and validate the test data as follows:

(1) Divide each test run into test segments. Each successive test segment starts when the preceding segment ends. Identify the test segments based on the following criteria:

(i) The idle mode specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section for the first test run starts immediately after engine preconditioning is complete. The idle mode for later test runs must start within 60 seconds after the end of the previous test run as specified in paragraph (d)(6) of this section. The idle mode ends when operator demand increases for the first acceleration event (Points A and B).

(ii) The first acceleration event in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section ends when operator demand is set to maximum for the second acceleration event (Point C).

(iii) The second acceleration event in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section ends when the engine reaches 85 percent of maximum test speed, &#x192;(Point D) and operator demand is set to minimum (Point E).

(iv) The transition period in paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section ends when operator demand is set to maximum (Point F).

(v) The third acceleration event in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section ends when engine speed reaches 95 percent of &#x192;(Point H).

(vi) The transition period in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section ends when engine speed first decreases to a point more than 50 r/min below &#x192;(Point I).

(vii) The lugging mode in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section ends when the engine reaches intermediate speed (Point J).
