
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1133 Application selection, data gathering, and analysis.
######## Application data gathering.

(b)Use good engineering judgment to gather data from one or more field vehicles to support the accelerated aging cycle generation. We recommend that you gather data at a recording frequency of 1 Hz. The type of data that you gather will depend on the method you plan to use for cycle generation. Record both the data and the number of engine operating hours which that data represents regardless of method, as this information will be used to scale the cycle calculations. Use good engineering judgment to ensure that the amount of data recorded provides an accurate representation of field operation for the target application. If your application includes a periodic regeneration event, you must record multiple events to ensure that you have accurately captured the variation of those events. We recommend that you record at least 300 hours of field operation, and at least 3 different regeneration events if applicable.

(1) When using Method 1, direct field data use, as described in ยง 1065.1139(b)(1), record data for exhaust flow rate and at least one representative inlet temperature for each major aftertreatment system catalyst component, such as a diesel oxidation catalyst (DOC), diesel particulate filter (DPF), or selective catalytic reduction (SCR) catalyst. If a given catalyst component has multiple substrates installed directly in sequence, it is sufficient to record only the inlet temperature for the first catalyst substrate in the sequence. It is not necessary to record separate temperatures for substrates that are "zone-coated" with multiple catalyst functions. Record a representative outlet temperature for any major catalyst component that is used to elevate the temperature of downstream components. This could be the inlet of the next major component if that would be representative. We recommend that you record engine fuel rate to assist in the determination of sulfur exposure rates, but you may use other data for this purpose.

(2) When using Method 2, weighting of certification cycles, as described ยง 1065.1139(b)(2), record data for engine speed and engine load. Record sufficient ECM load parameters to determine a torque value that can be compared directly to engine torque as measured in the laboratory. You may optionally use ECM fuel rate measurements to determine load, but only if the same measurements can also be performed during laboratory testing on certification test cycles using sensors with comparable response characteristics. For example, you could use ECM fuel consumption rates for both field data and during laboratory tests.

(i) Optionally, as an alternative to the parameters required in this paragraph (b)(2), you may use a system exhaust temperature measurement to represent load. This requires one recorded temperature that represents the aftertreatment system. We recommend that you use a temperature recorded at the outlet of the first major catalyst component. If you choose to use this option, you must use the same temperature sensor for both field and laboratory measurements. Do not compare measurements between on-engine production temperature sensors with laboratory temperature sensors.

(ii) Optionally, as an alternative to the parameters required in this paragraph (b)(2), you may use exhaust flow and temperature measurements recorded in the field to support Method 2 calculations. Only one recorded temperature that represents the aftertreatment system is needed in this case. We recommend that you use a temperature recorded at the outlet of the first major catalyst component. Do not compare measurements between on-engine production temperature sensors with laboratory temperature sensors.

(3) If you have an aftertreatment system which involves periodic regeneration events where the temperature is raised above levels observed during normal operation, you must record data to characterize each such event. Data must be recorded at a frequency of at least 1 Hz, and you must record the exhaust flow rate and inlet temperature of each key catalyst component that will experience elevated temperatures during the regeneration. In addition, record a flag or variable that can be used to determine the beginning and end of a regeneration event. You must record at least three such events to allow determination of the average regeneration profile. If you have multiple types of regeneration events which influence different catalyst components in the system, you must record this data for each type of event separately. Use good engineering judgment to determine the average duration of each type of regeneration event, and the average interval of time between successive regeneration events of that type. You may use the data recorded for this cycle determination, or any other representative data to determine average regeneration duration or regeneration interval. These values may be determined from the analysis used to determine emission adjustments to account for infrequent regeneration of aftertreatment devices in ยง 1065.680.
