
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds
####### § 1065.1109 Post-test sampler disassembly and sample extraction.
######## PAH clean-up.

(1)The following method is appropriate for clean-up of extracts intended for analysis of PAHs:

(i) Pack a glass gravity column (250 mm x 10 mm recommended) by inserting a clean glass wool plug into the bottom of the column and add 10 g of activated silica gel in methylene chloride. Tap the column to settle the silica gel and then add a 1 cm layer of anhydrous sodium sulfate. Verify the volume of solvent required to completely elute all the PAHs and adjust the weight of the silica gel accordingly to account for variations among batches of silica gel that may affect the elution volume of the various PAHs.

(ii) Elute the column with 40 ml of hexane. The rate for all elutions should be about 2 ml/min. You may increase the elution rate by using dry air or nitrogen to maintain the headspace slightly above atmospheric pressure. Discard the eluate just before exposing the sodium sulfate layer to the air or nitrogen and transfer the 1 ml sample extract onto the column using two additional 2 ml rinses of hexane. Just before exposing the sodium sulfate layer to the air or nitrogen, begin elution of the column with 25 ml of hexane followed by 25 ml of 40 volume % methylene chloride in hexane. Collect the entire eluate and concentrate it to about 5 ml using the Kuderna-Danish concentrator or a rotary evaporator. Make sure not to evaporate all the solvent from the extract during the concentration process. Transfer the eluate to a small sample vial using a hexane rinse and concentrate it to 100 µl using a stream of nitrogen without violently disturbing the solvent. Store the extracts in a refrigerator at or below 4 &#xB0;C, and away from light.
