
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds
####### § 1065.1109 Post-test sampler disassembly and sample extraction.
######## nPAH clean up.,et al

(2)The following procedure, adapted from "Determination and Comparison of Nitrated-Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons Measured in Air and Diesel Particulate Reference Materials" (Bamford, H.A.,, Chemosphere, Vol. 50, Issue 5, pages 575-587), is an appropriate method to clean up extracts intended for analysis of nPAHs:

(i) Condition an aminopropyl solid phase extraction (SPE) cartridge by eluting it with 20 ml of 20 volume % methylene chloride in hexane. Transfer the extract quantitatively to the SPE cartridge with at least two methylene chloride rinses. Elute the extract through the SPE cartridge by using 40 ml of 20 volume % methylene chloride in hexane to minimize potential interference of polar constituents, and then reduce the extract to 0.5 ml in hexane and subject it to normal-phase liquid chromatography using a pre-prepared 9.6 mm x 25 cm semi-preparative Chromegabond&#xAE; amino/cyano column (5 µm particle size) to isolate the nPAH fraction. The mobile phase is 20 volume % methylene chloride in hexane at a constant flow rate of 5 ml per minute. Back-flash the column with 60 ml of methylene chloride and then condition it with 200 ml of 20 volume % methylene chloride in hexane before each injection. Collect the effluent and concentrate it to about 2 ml using the Kuderna-Danish concentrator or a rotary evaporator. Transfer it to a minivial using a hexane rinse and concentrate it to 100 µl using a gentle stream of nitrogen. Store the extracts at or below 4 &#xB0;C, and away from light.

(ii) [Reserved]
