
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds
####### ยง 1065.1109 Post-test sampler disassembly and sample extraction.
######## Sample extraction.

(b)Extract the SVOCs from the sorbent using Soxhlet extraction as described in this paragraph (b). Two 16 hour extractions are necessary to accommodate the Soxhlet extractions of all SVOCs from a single sample. This reduces the possibility of losing low molecular weight SVOCs and promotes water removal. We recommend performing the first extraction with acetone/hexane and the second using toluene (or an equivalent solvent system). You may alternatively use an equivalent method such as an automated solvent extractor.

(1) We recommend equipping the Soxhlet extractor with a Dean-Stark trap to facilitate removal of residual water from the sampling system rinse. The Soxhlet apparatus must be large enough to allow extraction of the PUF, XAD-2, and filter in a single batch. Include in the extractor setup a glass thimble with a coarse or extra coarse sintered glass bottom. Pre-clean the extractor using proper glass-cleaning procedures. We recommend that the Soxhlet apparatus be cleaned with a (4 to 8) hour Soxhlet extraction with methylene chloride at a cycling rate of three cycles per hour. Discard the solvent used for pre-cleaning (no analysis is necessary).

(2) Load the extractor thimble before placing it in the extractor by first rolling the PM filter around the inner circumference of the thimble, with the sampled side facing in. Push one PUF plug down into the bottom of the thimble, add approximately half of the XAD-2, and then spike the XAD-2 in the thimble with the isotopically labeled extraction standards of known mass. Target the center of the XAD-2 bed for delivering the extraction standard. We recommend using multiple isotopically labeled extraction standards that cover the range of target analytes. This generally means that you should use isotopically labeled standards at least for the lowest and highest molecular weight analytes for each category of compounds (such as PAHs and dioxins). These extraction standards monitor the efficiency of the extraction and are also used to determine analyte concentrations after analysis. Upon completion of spiking, add the remaining XAD-2 to the thimble, insert the remaining PUF plug, and place the thimble into the extractor. Note that if you are collecting and analyzing for SVOCs in gas and particle phases, perform separate extractions for the filter and XAD-2.

(3) For the initial extraction, combine the concentrated acetone rinses (from the sampling system in paragraph (a) of this section) with enough hexane to bring the solvent volume up to the target level of 700 ml. Assemble the extractor and turn on the heating controls and cooling water. Allow the sample to reflux for 16 hours with the rheostat adjusted to cycle the extraction at a rate of (3.0 +/-0.5) cycles per hour. Drain the water from the Dean-Stark trap as it accumulates by opening the stopcock on the trap. Set aside the water for analysis or discard it. In most cases, any water present will be removed within approximately 2 hours after starting the extraction.

(4) After completing the initial extraction, remove the solvent and concentrate it to (4.0 +/-0.5) ml using a Kuderna-Danish concentrator that includes a condenser such as a three-ball Snyder column with venting dimples and a graduated collection tube. Hold the water bath temperature at (75 to 80) &#xB0;C. Using this concentrator will minimize evaporative loss of analytes with lower molecular weight.

(i) Rinse the round bottom flask of the extractor with (60 to 100) ml of hexane and add the rinsate to this concentrated extract.

(ii) Concentrate the mixture to (4 +/-0.5) ml using a Kuderna-Danish concentrator or similar apparatus.

(iii) Repeat the steps in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section three times, or as necessary to remove all the residual solvent from the round bottom flask of the extractor, concentrating the final rinsate to (4 +/-0.5) ml.

(5) For the second extraction, combine the toluene rinses (from the sampling system in paragraph (a) of this section) with any additional toluene needed to bring the solvent volume up to the target level of 700 ml. As noted in paragraph (a) of this section, you may need to concentrate the rinsate before adding it to the extraction apparatus if the rinsate solvent volume is too large. Allow the sample to reflux for 16 hours with the rheostat adjusted to cycle the extraction at a rate of (3.0 +/-0.5) cycles per hour. Check the Dean-Stark trap for water during the first 2 hours of the extraction (though little or no water should be present during this stage).

(6) Upon completion of the second extraction, remove the solvent and concentrate it to (4 +/-0.5) ml as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Using hexane from paragraph (b)(4) of this section as the rinse solvent effectively performs a solvent exchange of toluene with hexane.

(7) Combine the concentrated extract from paragraph (b)(4) of this section with the concentrated extract from paragraph (b)(6) of this section. Divide the extract into a number of fractions based on the number of analyses you need to perform. Perform the separate sample clean-up described in paragraph (c) of this section as needed for each fraction.
