
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds
####### ยง 1065.1109 Post-test sampler disassembly and sample extraction.
######## Sampling system disassembly.

(a)Disassemble the sampling system in a clean environment as follows after the test:

(1) Remove the PM filter, PUF plugs, and all the XAD-2 from the sampling system and store them at or below 5 &#xB0;C until analysis.

(2) Rinse sampling system wetted surfaces upstream of the condensate trap with acetone followed by toluene (or a comparable solvent system), ensuring that all the solvent remaining in liquid phase is collected (note that a fraction of the acetone and toluene will likely be lost to evaporation during mixing). Rinse with solvent volumes that are sufficient to cover all the surfaces exposed to the sample during testing. We recommend three fresh solvent rinses with acetone and two with toluene. We recommend rinse volumes of 60 ml per rinse for all sampling system components except the condenser coil, of which you should use 200 ml per rinse. Keep the acetone rinsate separate from the toluene rinsate to the extent practicable. Rinsate fractions should be stored separately in glass bottles that have been pre-rinsed with acetone, hexane, and toluene (or purchase pre-cleaned bottles).

(3) Use good engineering judgment to determine if you should analyze the aqueous condensate phase for SVOCs. If you determine that analysis is necessary, use toluene to perform a liquid-liquid extraction of the SVOCs from the collected aqueous condensate using a separatory funnel or an equivalent method. Add the toluene from this aqueous extraction to the toluene rinsate fraction described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(4) Reduce rinsate solvent volumes as needed using a Kuderna-Danish concentrator or rotary evaporator and retain these rinse solvents for reuse during sample media extraction for the same test. Be careful to avoid loss of low molecular weight analytes when concentrating with rotary evaporation.
