
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds
####### ยง 1065.1109 Post-test sampler disassembly and sample extraction.
######## Sample clean-up.

(c)This paragraph (c) describes how to perform sample cleaning to remove from the sample extract any solids and any SVOCs that will not be analyzed. This process, known as "sample clean-up", reduces the potential for interference or co-elution of peaks during analytical analysis. Before performing the sample clean-up, spike the extract with an alternate standard that contains a known mass of isotopically labeled compounds that are identical to the target analytes (except for the labeling). The category of the target analyte compounds (such as PAHs or dioxin) will determine the number of compounds that make up the standard. For example, PAHs require the use of four compounds in the alternate standard to cover the four basic ring structures of PAHs (2-ring, 3-ring, 4-ring, and 5-ring structures). These alternate standards are used to monitor the efficiency of the clean-up procedure. Before sample clean-up, concentrate the fractionated sample to about 2 ml with a Kuderna-Danish concentrator or rotary evaporator, and then transfer the extract to an 8 ml test tube with hexane rinse. Concentrate it to a volume of about 1 ml using a Kuderna-Danish concentrator. Use good engineering judgment to select an appropriate column chromatographic clean-up option for your target analytes. Note that these clean-up techniques generally remove compounds based on their polarity. The following procedures are examples of clean-up techniques for PAHs and nPAHs.
