
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1139 Aging cycle generation.
######## D

(ii) Increase the target temperature of the stable portion of the regeneration profile by the amount necessary to reach the target criteria. You may not increase this temperature higher than the temperature observed in the regeneration profile with the highestobserved in the field. If you reach this limit and you still do not meet the criteria in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, proceed to the next step.

(iii) Increase the target temperature of the highest temperature normal operation mode. You may not increase this temperature above the 90th percentile determined in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section for Method 1, or above the maximum temperature for the regulatory cycle from which the mode was derived for Method 2. If you reach this limit and you still do not meet the criteria in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, you may repeat this step using the next highest temperature mode, until you reach the target, or all modes have been adjusted.

(iv) If you are unable to reach the target deactivation by following paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section, use good engineering judgment to increase the number of regenerations to meet the criteria in paragraph (e)(5) of this section. Note that this will increase the total regeneration hours, therefore you must decrease the number of normal operation hours and re-calculate mode durations for the normal operation modes.
