
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1139 Aging cycle generation.
######## Analysis of regeneration data.

(d)Regeneration data is treated separately from the normal operating mode data. Generally, the target for accelerated aging cycle operation is to run all of the regenerations that would be expected over the course of useful life. If multiple types of regeneration are conducted on different system components, each type of regeneration must be analyzed separately using the steps in this paragraph (d). The data requirements for input into this process are described in ยง 1065.1133(b)(3). The process described below is meant to determine a representative regeneration profile that will be used during aging. You may also ask us to allow the use of other engineering data or analysis to determine a representative regeneration profile.

(1) The total number of regenerations that will be run during the accelerated aging process will be the same as the total number of regenerations over useful life. Calculate this number by dividing the total number of useful life hours by the interval between regenerations as determined in ยง 1065.1133(b)(3).

(2) Use the 1 Hz regeneration data to determine an appropriate regeneration profile. The recorded regeneration event begins when the engine indicates it has started regeneration using the recorded regeneration indicator and ends when the aftertreatment has returned back to the normal operating temperature after the flag indicates the regeneration is complete.
