
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1139 Aging cycle generation.
######## Cycle assembly with infrequent regenerations.

(1)For systems that use infrequent regenerations, the number of cycle repeats is equal to the number of regeneration events that happen over full useful life. The infrequent regenerations are placed at the end of the cycle. The total cycle duration of the aging cycle is calculated as the total aging duration in hours divided by the number of infrequent regeneration events. In the case of systems with multiple types of infrequent regenerations, use the regeneration with the lowest frequency to calculate the cycle duration.

(i) If you have multiple types of infrequent regenerations, arrange the more frequent regenerations such that they are spaced evenly throughout the cycle.

(ii) Determine the length of the normal (non-regeneration) part of the cycle by subtracting the regeneration duration, including any regeneration extension determined as part of cycle tuning from paragraph (e) of this section, from the total cycle duration. If you have multiple types of regeneration, then the combined total duration of regeneration events performed in the cycle must be subtracted from the total. For example, if you have one type of regeneration that is performed for 30 minutes every 30 cycle hours, and a second type that is performed for 30 minutes every 10 cycle hours (such that 3 of these secondary events will happen during each cycle), then you would subtract a total of 2 hours of regeneration time from the total cycle duration considering all 4 of these events.

(iii) Divide the duration of the normal part of the cycle into modes based on the final weighting factors determined in paragraph (c) of this section following any mode consolidation.

(iv) Place the mode with the lowest temperature first, then move to the highest temperature mode, followed by the next lowest temperature mode, and then the next highest mode, continuing in this alternating pattern until all modes are included.

(v) Transition between normal modes within (60 to 300) seconds. The transition period is considered complete when you are within +/-5 &#xB0;C of the target temperature for the primary key component. Transitions may follow any pattern of flow and temperature to reach this target within the required 300 seconds.

(vi) For normal modes longer than 30 minutes, you may count the transition time as time in mode. Account for the transition time for modes shorter than 30 minutes by shortening the duration of the longest mode by an equivalent amount of time.

(vii) If the shortest normal operating mode is longer than 60 minutes, you must divide the normal cycle into shorter sub-cycles with the same pattern in paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this section, but with shorter durations, so that the pattern repeats two or more times. You must divide the cycle into sub-cycles until the duration of the shortest mode in each sub-cycle is no longer than 30 minutes. No mode may have a duration shorter than 15 minutes, not including transition time.

(viii) If a regeneration event is scheduled to occur during a normal mode, shift the start of regeneration to the end of the nearest normal mode.
