
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Equipment, Measurement Instruments, Fuel, and Analytical Gas Specifications
###### ยง 1066.125 Data updating, recording, and control.

This section specifies criteria that your test system must meet for updating and recording data. It also specifies criteria for controlling the systems related to driver demand, the dynamometer, sampling equipment, and measurement instruments.

(a) Read and record values and calculate mean values relative to a specified frequency as follows:

(1) This paragraph (a)(1) applies where we specify a minimum command and control frequency that is greater than the minimum recording frequency, such as for sample flow rates from a CVS that does not have a heat exchanger. For these measurements, the rate at which you read and interpret the signal must be at least as frequent as the minimum command and control frequency. You may record values at the same frequency, or you may record them as mean values, as long as the frequency of the mean values meets the minimum recording frequency. You must use all read values, either by recording them or using them to calculate mean values. For example, if your system reads and controls the sample flow rate at 10 Hz, you may record these values at 10 Hz, record them at 5 Hz by averaging pairs of consecutive points together, or record them at 1 Hz by averaging ten consecutive points together.

(2) For all other measured values covered by this section, you may record the values instantaneously or as mean values, consistent with good engineering judgment.

(3) You may not use rolling averages of measured values where a given measured value is included in more than one recorded mean value.

(b) Use data acquisition and control systems that can command, control, and record at the following minimum frequencies:
