
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Equipment, Measurement Instruments, Fuel, and Analytical Gas Specifications
###### ยง 1066.110 Equipment specifications for emission sampling systems.

(a) This section specifies equipment related to emission testing, other than measurement instruments. This equipment includes dynamometers (described further in subpart C of this part) and various emission-sampling hardware.

(b) The following equipment specifications apply for testing under this part:

(1) Connect a vehicle's exhaust system to any dilution stage as follows:

(i) Minimize lengths of laboratory exhaust tubing. You may use a total length of laboratory exhaust tubing up to 4 m without needing to heat or insulate the tubing. However, you may use a total length of laboratory exhaust tubing up to 10 m, or up to 15 m for samples not involving PM measurement, if you insulate and/or heat the tubing to minimize the temperature difference between the exhaust gas and the whole tubing wall over the course of the emission test. The laboratory exhaust tubing starts at the end of the vehicle's tailpipe and ends at the first sample point or the first dilution point. The laboratory exhaust tubing may include flexible sections, but we recommend that you limit the amount of flexible tubing to the extent practicable. For multiple-tailpipe configurations where the tailpipes combine into a single flow path for emission sampling, the start of the laboratory exhaust tubing may be taken at the last joint where the exhaust flow first becomes a single, combined flow.

(ii) For vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR, you may shorten the tailpipe up to the outlet of the last aftertreatment device or silencer, whichever is furthest downstream.

(iii) You may insulate or heat any laboratory exhaust tubing.

(iv) Use laboratory exhaust tubing materials that are smooth-walled and not chemically reactive with exhaust constituents. (For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1), nominally smooth spiral-style and accordion-style flexible tubing are considered to be smooth-walled.) For measurements involving PM, tubing materials must also be electrically conductive. Stainless steel is an acceptable material for any testing. You may use short sections of nonconductive flexible tubing to connect a PM sampling system to the vehicle's tailpipe; use good engineering judgment to limit the amount of nonconductive surface area exposed to the vehicle's exhaust.

(v) We recommend that you use laboratory exhaust tubing that has either a wall thickness of less than 2 mm or is air gap-insulated to minimize temperature differences between the wall and the exhaust.

(vi) You must seal your system to the extent necessary to ensure that any remaining leaks do not affect your ability to demonstrate compliance with the applicable standards in this chapter. We recommend that you seal all known leaks.

(vii) Electrically ground the entire exhaust system, with the exception of nonconductive flexible tubing, as allowed under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section.
