
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Equipment, Measurement Instruments, Fuel, and Analytical Gas Specifications
###### ยง 1066.135 Linearity verification.
####### y

(1) Use instrument manufacturer recommendations and good engineering judgment to select at least ten reference values,, that cover the range of values that you expect during testing (to prevent extrapolation beyond the verified range during emission testing). We recommend selecting zero as one of your reference values. For each range calibrated, if the deviation from a least-squares best-fit straight line is 2% or less of the value at each data point, concentration values may be calculated by use of a straight-line curve fit for that range. If the deviation exceeds 2% at any point, use the best-fit nonlinear equation that represents the data to within 2% of each test point to determine concentration. If you use a gas divider to blend calibration gases, you may verify that the calibration curve produced names a calibration gas within 2% of its certified concentration. Perform this verification between 10 and 60% of the full-scale analyzer range.

(2) Use the linearity requirements of 40 CFR 1065.307, except for COmeasurements used for determining fuel economy and GHG emissions for motor vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR. If you choose this linearity option, you must use the provisions of 40 CFR 1065.672 to check for drift and make appropriate drift corrections.

(b) For dilution air, diluted exhaust, and raw exhaust sample flow, use a reference flow meter with a blower or pump to simulate flow rates. Use a restrictor, diverter valve, variable-speed blower, or variable-speed pump to control the range of flow rates. Use the reference meter's response for the reference values.
