
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Equipment, Measurement Instruments, Fuel, and Analytical Gas Specifications
###### § 1066.135 Linearity verification.
####### Linearity criteria.,x,a,a,[object Object],a,SEE,[object Object],r

(3)The values measured during linearity verification for flow meters must meet the following criteria: |(-1) +| &#x2264; 1% &#xB7;;= 0.98-1.02;= &#x2264; 2% &#xB7;; and≥0.990.

(c) Perform linearity verifications for the following temperature measurements instead of those specified at 40 CFR 1065.307(e)(7):

(1) Test cell ambient air.

(2) Dilution air for PM sampling, including CVS, double-dilution, and partial-flow systems.

(3) PM sample.

(4) Chiller sample, for gaseous sampling systems that use thermal chillers to dry samples, and that use chiller temperature to calculate dewpoint at the chiller outlet. For testing, if you choose to use the high alarm temperature setpoint for the chiller temperature as a constant value in determining the amount of water removed from the emission sample, you may verify the accuracy of the high alarm temperature setpoint using good engineering judgment without following the linearity verification for chiller temperature. We recommend that you input a simulated reference temperature signal below the alarm setpoint, increase this signal until the high alarm trips, and verify that the alarm setpoint value is no less than 2 &#xB0;C below the reference value at the trip point.

(5) CVS flow meter inlet temperature.

(d) Perform linearity verifications for the following pressure measurements instead of those specified at 40 CFR 1065.307(e)(8):

(1) Raw exhaust static pressure control.

(2) Barometric pressure.

(3) CVS flow meter inlet pressure.

(4) Sample dryer, for gaseous sampling systems that use either osmotic-membrane dryers or thermal chillers to dry samples. For your testing, if you choose to use a low alarm pressure setpoint for the sample dryer pressure as a constant value in determining the amount of water removed from the emission sample, you may verify the accuracy of the low alarm pressure setpoint using good engineering judgment without following the linearity verification for sample dryer pressure. We recommend that you input a reference pressure signal above the alarm setpoint, decrease this signal until the low alarm trips, and verify that the alarm setpoint value is no more than 4 kPa above the reference value at the trip point.

(e) When following procedures or practices that we incorporate by reference in § 1066.1010, you must meet the linearity requirements given by the procedure or practice for any analytical instruments not covered under 40 CFR 1065.307, such as GC-FID or HPLC.
