
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1065 - ENGINE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Methods for Unregulated and Special Pollutants and Additional Procedures
###### Accelerated Aftertreatment Aging
####### ยง 1065.1145 Execution of accelerated aging, cycle tracking, and cycle validation criteria.
######## Engine-based platform.,Initial cycle development.

(1)(i)It will be necessary to determine a set of engine modes that will generate the required combinations of temperature, exhaust flow, oil consumption, and NOto meet the target aging requirements. The development of these modes will be an iterative process using the engine and independent temperature control features of the aging stand. This process assumes that you have already implemented the oil consumption increase modifications, and that these have already been stabilized and validated to reach the necessary levels of bulk oil exposure. In general, we recommend the use of higher engine speeds and loads to generate the desired oil consumption, leveraging the temperature controls as needed to lower temperature to the targets. Several iterations will likely be needed to reach all targets. Note that during transitions you may utilize any combination of conditions necessary to help primary component catalysts reach the target temperature and flow conditions within no more than 5 minutes. For example, you may use a higher exhaust flow rate and lower temperature to rapidly cool the aftertreatment system to the next temperature. NOtargets do not need to be met during transitions. It is permissible to deviate from engine-out NOemission targets if needed to reach the temperature, exhaust flow, and oil consumption targets. We recommend that you maintain a NOlevel that is at the target level or higher, but you may lower NOby up to 25%, if necessary, on some modes. Note that validation of oil consumption requires at least 72 hours of operation. Tune the parameters for infrequent regeneration towards then end of this initial development process (such as hydrocarbon injection schedules and temperature ramp rates).
