
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Equipment, Measurement Instruments, Fuel, and Analytical Gas Specifications
###### § 1066.101 Overview.

(a) This subpart addresses equipment related to emission testing, as well as test fuels and analytical gases.

(b) The provisions of 40 CFR part 1065 specify engine-based procedures for measuring emissions. Except as specified otherwise in this part, the provisions of 40 CFR part 1065 apply for testing required by this part as follows:

(1) The provisions of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart B, describe equipment specifications for exhaust dilution and sampling systems; these specifications apply for testing under this part as described in § 1066.110.

(2) The provisions of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart C, describe specifications for measurement instruments; these specifications apply for testing under this part as described in § 1066.120.

(3) The provisions of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart D, describe specifications for measurement instrument calibrations and verifications; these specifications apply for testing under this part as described in § 1066.130.

(4) The provisions of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, describe specifications for fuels, engine fluids, and analytical gases; these specifications apply for testing under this part as described in § 1066.145.

(5) The provisions of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart I, describe specifications for testing with oxygenated fuels; these specifications apply for NMOG determination as described in § 1066.635.

(c) The provisions of this subpart are intended to specify systems that can very accurately and precisely measure emissions from motor vehicles such as light-duty vehicles. To the extent that this level of accuracy or precision is not necessary for testing highway motorcycles or nonroad vehicles, we may waive or modify the specifications and requirements of this part for testing these other vehicles, consistent with good engineering judgment. For example, it may be appropriate to allow the use of a hydrokinetic dynamometer that is not able to meet all the performance specifications described in this subpart.
