
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Dynamometer Specifications
###### ยง 1066.225 Roll runout and diameter verification procedure.
####### Roll runout procedure.

(c)Verify roll runout based on the following procedure, or an equivalent procedure based on good engineering judgment:

(1) Perform this verification with laboratory and dynamometer temperatures stable and at equilibrium. Release the roll brake and shut off power to the dynamometer. Remove any dirt, rubber, rust, and debris from the roll surface. Mark measurement locations on the roll surface using a marker. Mark the roll at a minimum of four equally spaced locations across the roll width; we recommend taking measurements every 150 mm across the roll. Secure the marker to the deck plate adjacent to the roll surface and slowly rotate the roll to mark a clear line around the roll circumference. Repeat this process for all measurement locations.

(2) Measure roll runout using an indicator with a probe that allows for measuring the position of the roll surface relative to the roll centerline as it turns through a complete revolution. The indicator must have some means of being securely mounted adjacent to the roll. The indicator must have sufficient range to measure roll runout at all points, with a minimum accuracy of +/-0.025 mm. Calibrate the indicator according to the instrument manufacturer's instructions.

(3) Position the indicator adjacent to the roll surface at the desired measurement location. Position the shaft of the indicator perpendicular to the roll such that the point of the indicator is slightly touching the surface of the roll and can move freely through a full rotation of the roll. Zero the indicator according to the instrument manufacturer's instructions. Avoid distortion of the runout measurement from the weight of a person standing on or near the mounted dial indicator.

(4) Slowly turn the roll through a complete rotation and record the maximum and minimum values from the indicator. Calculate runout as the difference between these maximum and minimum values.

(5) Repeat the steps in paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section for all measurement locations.

(6) The roll runout must be less than 0.254 mm (0.0100 inches) at all measurement locations.
