
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Dynamometer Specifications
###### ยง 1066.225 Roll runout and diameter verification procedure.
####### Diameter procedure.

(d)Verify roll diameter based on the following procedure, or an equivalent procedure based on good engineering judgment:

(1) Prepare the laboratory and the dynamometer as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(2) Measure roll diameter using a Pi Tape&#xAE;. Orient the Pi Tape&#xAE; to the marker line at the desired measurement location with the Pi Tape&#xAE; hook pointed outward. Temporarily secure the Pi Tape&#xAE; to the roll near the hook end with adhesive tape. Slowly turn the roll, wrapping the Pi Tape&#xAE; around the roll surface. Ensure that the Pi Tape&#xAE; is flat and adjacent to the marker line around the full circumference of the roll. Attach a 2.26-kg weight to the hook of the Pi Tape&#xAE; and position the roll so that the weight dangles freely. Remove the adhesive tape without disturbing the orientation or alignment of the Pi Tape&#xAE;.

(3) Overlap the gage member and the vernier scale ends of the Pi Tape&#xAE; to read the diameter measurement to the nearest 0.01 mm. Follow the manufacturer's recommendation to correct the measurement to 20 &#xB0;C, if applicable.

(4) Repeat the steps in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section for all measurement locations.

(5) The measured roll diameter must be within +/-0.254 mm of the specified nominal value at all measurement locations. You may revise the nominal value to meet this specification, as long as you use the corrected nominal value for all calculations in this subpart.
