
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Dynamometer Specifications
###### ยง 1066.270 Unloaded coastdown verification.
####### Procedure.

(c)This procedure verifies the dynamometer's settings derived from coastdown testing. For dynamometers that have an automated process for this procedure, perform this evaluation by setting the initial speed, final speed, inertial coefficients, and road-load coefficients as required for each test, using good engineering judgment to ensure that these values properly represent in-use operation. Use the following procedure if your dynamometer does not perform this verification with an automated process:

(1) Warm up the dynamometer as specified by the dynamometer manufacturer.

(2) With the dynamometer in coastdown mode, set the dynamometer inertia for the smallest vehicle weight that you expect to test and set A, B, and C road-load coefficients to values typical of those used during testing. Program the dynamometer to coast down over the dynamometer operational speed range (typically from a speed of 80 mi/hr through a minimum speed at or below 10 mi/hr). Perform at least one coastdown run over this speed range, collecting data over each 10 mi/hr interval.

(3) Repeat the steps in paragraph (c)(2) of this section with the dynamometer inertia and road-load coefficients set for the largest vehicle weight that you expect to test.
