
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Coastdown
###### ยง 1066.301 Overview of road-load determination procedures.

Vehicle testing on a chassis dynamometer involves simulating the road-load force, which is the sum of forces acting on a vehicle from aerodynamic drag, tire rolling resistance, driveline losses, and other effects of friction. Determine dynamometer settings to simulate road-load force in two stages. First, perform a road-load force specification by characterizing on-road operation. Second, perform a road-load derivation to determine the appropriate dynamometer load settings to simulate the road-load force specification from the on-road test.

(a) The procedures described in this subpart are used to determine the road-load target coefficients (A, B, and C) for the simulated road-load equation in ยง 1066.210(d)(3).

(b) The general procedure for determining road-load force is performing coastdown tests and calculating road-load coefficients. This procedure is described in SAE J1263 and SAE J2263 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1066.1010). Continued testing based on the 2008 version of SAE J2263 is optional, except that it is no longer available for testing starting with model year 2026. This subpart specifies certain deviations from those procedures for certain applications.

(c) Use good engineering judgment for all aspects of road-load determination. For example, minimize the effects of grade by performing coastdown testing on reasonably level surfaces and determining coefficients based on average values from vehicle operation in opposite directions over the course.
