
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Dynamometer Specifications
###### ยง 1066.250 Base inertia verification.
####### Procedure.

(c)Verify the base inertia using the following procedure:

(1) Warm up the dynamometer according to the dynamometer manufacturer's instructions. Set the dynamometer's road-load inertia to zero, turning off any electrical simulation of road load and inertia so that the base inertia of the dynamometer is the only inertia present. Motor the rolls to 5 mi/hr. Apply a constant force to accelerate the roll at a nominal rate of 1 (mi/hr)/s. Measure the elapsed time to accelerate from 10 to 40 mi/hr, noting the corresponding speed and time points to the nearest 0.01 mi/hr and 0.01 s. Also determine mean force over the measurement interval.

(2) Starting from a steady roll speed of 45 mi/hr, apply a constant force to the roll to decelerate the roll at a nominal rate of 1 mi/hr/s. Measure the elapsed time to decelerate from 40 to 10 mi/hr, noting the corresponding speed and time points to the nearest 0.01 mi/hr and 0.01 s. Also determine mean force over the measurement interval.

(3) Repeat the steps in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section for a total of five sets of results at the nominal acceleration rate and the nominal deceleration rate.

(4) Use good engineering judgment to select two additional acceleration and deceleration rate pairs that cover the middle and upper rates expected during testing. Repeat the steps in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section at each of these additional acceleration and deceleration rates.
