
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Coastdown
###### ยง 1066.305 Procedures for specifying road-load forces for motor vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR.

(a) For motor vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR, develop representative road-load coefficients to characterize each vehicle covered by a certificate of conformity. Calculate road-load coefficients by performing coastdown tests using the provisions of SAE J1263 and SAE J2263 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1066.1010). This protocol establishes a procedure for determination of vehicle road load force for speeds between 115 and 15 km/hr (71.5 and 9.3 mi/hr); the final result is a model of road-load force (as a function of speed) during operation on a dry, level road under reference conditions of 20 &#xB0;C, 98.21 kPa, no wind, no precipitation, and the transmission in neutral. You may use other methods that are equivalent to SAE J2263, such as equivalent test procedures or analytical modeling, to characterize road load using good engineering judgment. Determine dynamometer settings to simulate the road-load profile represented by these road-load target coefficients as described in ยง 1066.315. Supply representative road-load forces for each vehicle at speeds above 15 km/hr (9.3 mi/hr), and up to 115 km/hr (71.5 mi/hr), or the highest speed from the range of applicable duty cycles.

(b) For cold temperature testing described in subpart H of this part, determine road-load target coefficients using one of the following methods:

(1) You may perform coastdown tests or use other methods to characterize road load as described in paragraph (a) of this section based on vehicle operation at a nominal ambient temperature of -7 &#xB0;C (20 &#xB0;F).

(2) You may multiply each of the road-load target coefficients determined using the procedures described in paragraph (a) of this section by 1.1 to approximate a 10 percent decrease in coastdown time for the test vehicle.
