
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart I - Exhaust Emission Test Procedures for Motor Vehicles
###### § 1066.835 Exhaust emission test procedure for SC03 emissions.

This section describes how to test using the SC03 driving schedule (see § 1066.801). This procedure is designed to determine gaseous exhaust emissions while simulating an urban trip on a hot summer day. The provisions of 40 CFR part 86 and 40 CFR part 600 waive SC03 testing for some vehicles; in those cases, calculate SFTP composite emissions by adjusting the weighting calculation as specified in 40 CFR part 86, subpart S.

(a) Drain and refill the vehicle's fuel tank(s) if testing starts more than 72 hours after the most recent FTP or HFET measurement (with or without evaporative emission measurements).

(b) Keep the vehicle in an environment meeting the conditions described in paragraph (f) of this section throughout the preconditioning sequence.

(c) Warm up the vehicle to a stabilized condition as follows:

(1) Push or drive the test vehicle onto the dynamometer.

(2) Close the vehicle's windows before testing.

(3) The test cell and equipment must meet the specifications in paragraph (e) of this section. Measure and control ambient conditions as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(4) Set the vehicle's air conditioning controls by selecting A/C mode and "maximum", setting airflow to "recirculate" (if so equipped), selecting the highest fan setting, and turning the A/C temperature to full cold (or 72 &#xB0;F for automatic systems). Turn the control to the "on" position before testing so the air conditioning system is active whenever the engine is running.

(5) Perform a preconditioning drive by operating the test vehicle one time over the first 505 seconds of the UDDS (bag 1), the last 867 seconds of the UDDS (bag 2), or the SC03 driving schedule. If the air conditioning test sequence starts more than 2 hours after a different exhaust emission test, you may instead operate the vehicle one time over the full UDDS.

(6) Following the preconditioning drive, turn off the test vehicle and the vehicle cooling fan(s) and allow the vehicle to soak for (9 to 11) minutes.

(d) Follow the exhaust emission measurement procedures specified in §§ 1066.410 through 1066.425, subject to the following exceptions and additional provisions:

(1) Place the vehicle in gear 15 seconds after engine starting, which is 3 seconds before the first acceleration. Follow the SC03 driving schedule.

(2) Turn the engine off 2 seconds after the end of the last deceleration. Five seconds after the engine stops running, stop all sampling and recording, including background sampling. Stop any integrating devices any indicate the end of the test cycle in the recorded data. Note that the 5 second delay is intended to account for sampling system transport.

(3) Correct calculated NOemissions as described in § 1066.615(a)(2).

(e) The following requirements apply for the test cell and cooling fan configuration:
