
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart I - Exhaust Emission Test Procedures for Motor Vehicles
###### § 1066.815 Exhaust emission test procedures for FTP testing.
####### Test sequence.

(d)Follow the exhaust emission measurement procedures specified in §§ 1066.410 through 1066.425, subject to the following exceptions and additional provisions:

(1) Take the following steps for the cold-start test:

(i) Precondition the vehicle as described in § 1066.816. Initiate the cold-start test following the 12 to 36 hour soak period.

(ii) Simultaneously start any electronic integrating devices, continuous data recording, and batch sampling before attempting to start the engine. Initiate the sequence of points in the test cycle when the engine starts. Place the vehicle in gear 15 seconds after engine starting, which is 5 seconds before the first acceleration.

(iii) At the end of the deceleration scheduled to occur 505 seconds into the cold-start UDDS, simultaneously switch all the sample flows from the cold-start transient interval to the stabilized interval, stopping all cold-start transient interval sampling and recording, including background sampling. Reset integrating devices for the stabilized interval and indicate the end of the cold-start interval in the recorded data. Operate the vehicle over the remainder of the UDDS. Turn the engine off 2 seconds after the end of the last deceleration in the stabilized interval (1,369 seconds after the start of the driving schedule).

(iv) Five seconds after the engine stops running, stop all stabilized interval sampling and recording, including background sampling. Stop any integrating devices for the stabilized interval and indicate the end of the stabilized interval in the recorded data. Note that the 5 second delay is intended to account for sampling system transport.

(2) Take the following steps for the hot-start test:

(i) Initiate the hot-start test (9 to 11) minutes after the end of the sample period for the cold-start UDDS.

(ii) Repeat the steps in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. Operate the vehicle over the first 505 seconds of the UDDS. For tests that do not include bag 4 operation, turn off the engine and simultaneously stop all hot-start sampling and recording, including background sampling, and any integrating devices at the end of the deceleration scheduled to occur 505 seconds into the hot-start UDDS.

(iii) To include bag 4 measurement, operate the vehicles over the remainder of the UDDS and conclude the testing as described in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section.

(3) This completes the procedure for measuring FTP exhaust emissions. See § 1066.801 and subpart J of this part for continuing the test sequence to measure evaporative or refueling emissions.
