
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart G - Calculations
###### ยง 1066.695 Data requirements.
####### V

(2) For PDP testing, test measurements required to calculatefor each test interval.

(n) The humidity of the dilution air, if you remove HO from an emission sample before measurement.

(o) Temperature of the dilute exhaust mixture and secondary dilution air (in the case of a double-dilution system) at the inlet to the respective gas meter or flow instrumentation used for PM sampling. Determine minimum values, maximum values, mean values, and percent of time outside of the tolerance over each test interval.

(p) The maximum exhaust gas temperature over the course of the test interval within 20 cm upstream or downstream of PM sample media.

(q) If applicable, the temperatures of the heated FID, the gas in the heated sample line, and the heated filter. Determine minimum values, maximum values, average values, and percent of time outside of the tolerance over each test interval.

(r) Gas meter or flow measurement instrumentation readings used for batch sampling over each test interval. Determine minimum, maximum, and average values over each test interval.

(s) The stabilized pre-test weight and post-test weight of each particulate sample media (e.g., filter).

(t) Continuous temperature and humidity of the ambient air in which the PM sample media are stabilized. Determine minimum values, maximum values, average values, and percent of time outside of the tolerance over each test interval.

(u) For vehicles fueled by natural gas, the test fuel composition, including all carbon-containing compounds (including CO, but excluding CO). Record Cand Ccompounds individually. You may record Cthrough Chydrocarbons together, and you may record Cand heavier hydrocarbon compounds together.

(v) For vehicles fueled by liquefied petroleum gas, the test fuel composition, including all carbon-containing compounds (including CO, but excluding CO). Record Cthrough Ccompounds individually. You may record Cand heavier hydrocarbons together.

(w) For the AC17 test in ยง 1066.845, interior volume, climate control system type and characteristics, refrigerant used, compressor type, and evaporator/condenser characteristics.

(x) Additional information related to evaporative emissions. [Reserved]

(y) Additional information related to refueling emissions. [Reserved]
