
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart G - Calculations
###### ยง 1066.695 Data requirements.

Record information for each test as follows:

(a) Test number.

(b) A brief description of the test vehicle (or other system/device tested).

(c) Date and time of day for each part of the test sequence.

(d) Test results. Also include a validation of driver accuracy as described in ยง 1066.425(j).

(e) Driver and equipment operators.

(f) Vehicle information as applicable, including identification number, model year, applicable emission standards (including bin standards or family emission limits, as applicable), vehicle model, vehicle class, test group, durability group, engine family, evaporative/refueling emission family, basic engine description (including displacement, number of cylinders, turbocharger/supercharger used, and catalyst type), fuel system (type of fuel injection and fuel tank capacity and location), engine code, GVWR, applicable test weight, inertia weight class, actual curb weight at zero miles, actual road load at 50 mi/hr, transmission class and configuration, axle ratio, odometer reading, idle rpm, and measured drive wheel tire pressure.

(g) Dynamometer identification, inertia weight setting, indicated power absorption setting, and records to verify compliance with the driving distance and cycle-validation criteria as calculated from measured roll or shaft revolutions.

(h) Analyzer bench identification, analyzer ranges, recordings of analyzer output during zero, span, and sample readings.

(i) Associate the following information with the test record: test number, date, vehicle identification, vehicle and equipment operators, and identification of the measurements recorded.

(j) Test cell barometric pressure and humidity. You may use a central laboratory barometer if the barometric pressure in each test cell is shown to be within +/-0.1% of the barometric pressure at the central barometer location.

(k) Records to verify compliance with the ambient temperature requirements throughout the test procedure and records of fuel temperatures during the running loss test.

(l) [Reserved]

(m) For CVS systems, record dilution factor for each test interval and the following additional information:
