
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart I - Exhaust Emission Test Procedures for Motor Vehicles
###### § 1066.815 Exhaust emission test procedures for FTP testing.
####### PM sampling options.

(b)Collect PM using any of the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section and use the corresponding equation in § 1066.820 to calculate FTP composite emissions. Testing must meet the requirements related to filter face velocity as described in § 1066.110(b)(2)(iii)(C), except as specified in paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section. For procedures involving flow weighting, set the filter face velocity to a weighting target of 1.0 to meet the requirements of § 1066.110(b)(2)(iii)(C). Allow filter face velocity to decrease as a percentage of the weighting factor if the weighting factor is less than 1.0 and do not change the nominal CVS flowrates or secondary dilution ratios between FTP or UDDS test intervals. Use the appropriate equations in § 1066.610 to show that you meet the dilution factor requirements of § 1066.110(b)(2)(iii)(B). If you collect PM using the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(4) or (5) of this section, the residence time requirements in 40 CFR 1065.140(e)(3) apply, except that you may exceed an overall residence time of 5.5 s for sample flow rates below the highest expected sample flow rate.

(1) You may collect a separate PM sample for transient and stabilized portions of the cold-start UDDS and the hot-start UDDS. This may either be done by sampling with three bags or four bags. You may omit the stabilized portion of the hot-start test (bag 4) and use the stabilized portion of the cold-start test (bag 2) in its place.

(2) You may collect PM on one filter over the cold-start UDDS and on a separate filter over the hot-start UDDS.

(3) You may collect PM on one filter over the cold-start UDDS (bag 1 and bag 2) and on a separate filter over the 867 seconds of the stabilized portion of the cold-start UDDS and the first 505 seconds of the hot-start UDDS (bag 2 and bag 3). Note that this option involves duplicate measurements during the stabilized portion of the cold-start UDDS.

(4) You may collect PM on a single filter over the cold-start UDDS and the first 505 seconds of the hot-start UDDS using one of the following methods:

(i) Adjust your sampling system flow rate over the filter to weight the filter face velocity over the three intervals of the FTP based on weighting targets of 0.43 for bag 1, 1.0 for bag 2, and 0.57 for bag 3.

(ii) Maintain a constant sampling system flow rate over the filter for all three intervals of the FTP by increasing overall dilution ratios for bag 1 and bag 3. To do this, reduce the sample flow rate from the exhaust (or diluted exhaust) such that the value is reduced to 43% and 57%, respectively, of the bag 2 values. For constant-volume samplers, this requires that you decrease the dilute exhaust sampling rate from the CVS and compensate for that by increasing the amount of secondary dilution air.

(5) You may collect PM on a single filter over the cold-start UDDS and the full hot-start UDDS using one of the following methods:

(i) Adjust your sampling system flow rate over the filter to weight the filter face velocity based on weighting targets of 0.75 for the cold-start UDDS and 1.0 for the hot-start UDDS.

(ii) Maintain a constant sampling system flow rate over the filter for both the cold-start and hot-start UDDS by increasing the overall dilution ratio for the cold-start UDDS. To do this, reduce the sample flow rate from the exhaust (or diluted exhaust) such that the value is reduced to 75% of the hot-start UDDS value. For constant-volume samplers, this requires that you decrease the dilute exhaust sampling rate from the CVS and compensate for that by increasing the amount of secondary dilution air.
