
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Electric Vehicles and Hybrid Electric Vehicles
###### ยง 1066.501 Overview.

Use the following procedures to test EVs and HEVs (including PHEVs):

(a) Correct the results for Net Energy Change of the RESS as follows:

(1) For all sizes of EVs, follow SAE J1634 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1066.1010).

(2) For HEVs at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR, follow SAE J1711 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1066.1010) except as described in this paragraph (a). Disregard provisions of SAE J1711 that differ from this part or the standard-setting part if they are not specific to HEVs. Apply the following adjustments and clarifications to SAE J1711:

(i) If the procedure calls for charge-sustaining operation, start the drive with a State of Charge that is appropriate to ensure charge-sustaining operation for the duration of the drive. Take steps other than emission measurements to confirm that vehicles are in charge-sustaining mode for the duration of the drive.

(ii) We may approve the use of the alternate End-of-Test criterion in Section 3.9.1 of SAE J1711 for charge-depleting tests and the Net Energy Change correction in Appendix C of SAE J1711 for charge-sustaining tests if the specified criterion and correction are insufficient or inappropriate.

(iii) For charge-sustaining tests Appendix C of SAE J1711 may be used to correct final fuel economy values, COemissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions, but may not be used to correct measured values for criteria pollutant emissions.

(iv) You may test subject to a measurement accuracy of +/-0.3% of full scale in place of the measurement accuracy specified in Section 4.2a of SAE J1711.

(3) For HEVs above 14,000 pounds GVWR, follow SAE J2711 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1066.1010) for requirements related to charge-sustaining operation.

(4) Use an integration frequency of 1 to 20 Hz for power analyzers to verify compliance with current and voltage specifications.

(b) This paragraph (b) applies for vehicles that include an engine-powered generator or other auxiliary power unit that provides motive power. For example, this would include a vehicle that has a small gasoline engine that generates electricity to charge batteries. Unless we approve otherwise, measure emissions for all test cycles when such an engine is operating. For each test cycle for which emissions are not measured, you must validate that such engines are not operating at any time during the test cycle.
