
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Preparing Vehicles and Running an Exhaust Emission Test
###### § 1066.420 Test preparation.

(a) Follow the procedures for PM sample preconditioning and tare weighing as described in 40 CFR 1065.590 if you need to measure PM emissions.

(b) Minimize the effect of nonmethane hydrocarbon contamination in the hydrocarbon sampling system for vehicles with compression-ignition engines as follows:

(1) For vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR, account for contamination using one of the following methods:

(i) Introduce zero and span gas during analyzer calibration using one of the following methods, noting that the hydrocarbon analyzer flow rate and pressure during zero and span calibration (and background bag reading) must be exactly the same as that used during testing to minimize measurement errors:

(A) Close off the hydrocarbon sampling system sample probe and introduce gases downstream of the probe making sure that you do not pressurize the system.

(B) Introduce zero and span gas directly at the hydrocarbon sampling system probe at a flow rate greater than 125% of the hydrocarbon analyzer flow rate allowing some gas to exit probe inlet.

(ii) Perform the contamination verification in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, except use 0.5 µmol/mol in 40 CFR 1065.520(f)(8)(iii).

(2) For vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR, verify the amount of nonmethane hydrocarbon contamination as described in 40 CFR 1065.520(f).

(c) Unless the standard-setting part specifies different tolerances, verify at some point before the test that ambient conditions are within the tolerances specified in this paragraph (c). For purposes of this paragraph (c), "before the test" means any time from a point just prior to engine starting (excluding engine restarts) to the point at which emission sampling begins.

(1) Ambient temperature must be (20 to 30) &#xB0;C. See § 1066.425(h) for circumstances under which ambient temperatures must remain within this range during the test.

(2) Dilution air conditions must meet the specifications in § 1066.110(b)(2). We recommend verifying dilution air conditions just before starting each test interval.

(d) Control test cell ambient air humidity as follows:

(1) For vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR, follow the humidity requirements in Table 1 of this section, unless the standard-setting part specifies otherwise. When complying with humidity requirements in Table 1, where no tolerance is specified, use good engineering judgment to maintain the humidity level near the specified value within the limitations of your test facility.

(2) For vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR, you may test vehicles at any humidity.

(3) Table 1 follows:

(e) You may perform a final calibration of proportional-flow control systems, which may include performing practice runs.

(f) You may perform the following procedure to precondition sampling systems:

(1) Operate the vehicle over the test cycle.

(2) Operate any dilution systems at their expected flow rates. Prevent aqueous condensation in the dilution systems as described in 40 CFR 1065.140(c)(6), taking into account allowances given in § 1066.110(b)(2)(iv).

(3) Operate any PM sampling systems at their expected flow rates.

(4) Sample PM using any sample media. You may change sample media during preconditioning. You must discard preconditioning samples without weighing them.

(5) You may purge any gaseous sampling systems during preconditioning.

(6) You may conduct calibrations or verifications on any idle equipment or analyzers during preconditioning.

(g) Take the following steps before emission sampling begins:

(1) For batch sampling, connect clean storage media, such as evacuated bags or tare-weighed filters.

(2) Start all measurement instruments according to the instrument manufacturer's instructions and using good engineering judgment.

(3) Start dilution systems, sample pumps, and the data-collection system.

(4) Pre-heat or pre-cool heat exchangers in the sampling system to within their operating temperature tolerances for a test.

(5) Allow heated or cooled components such as sample lines, filters, chillers, and pumps to stabilize at their operating temperatures.

(6) Adjust the sample flow rates to desired levels using bypass flow, if desired.

(7) Zero or re-zero any electronic integrating devices before the start of any test interval.

(8) Select gas analyzer ranges. You may not switch the gain of an analyzer's analog operational amplifier(s) during a test. However, you may switch (automatically or manually) gas analyzer ranges during a test if such switching changes only the range over which the digital resolution of the instrument is applied. For batch analyzers, select ranges before final bag analysis.
