
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart I - Exhaust Emission Test Procedures for Motor Vehicles
###### ยง 1066.805 Road-load power, test weight, and inertia weight class determination.

(a) Simulate a vehicle's test weight on the dynamometer using the appropriate equivalent test weight shown in Table 1 of this section. Equivalent test weights are established according to each vehicle's test weight basis, as described in paragraph (b) of this section. Table 1 also specifies the inertia weight class corresponding to each equivalent test weight; the inertia weight class allows for grouping vehicles with a range of equivalent test weights. Table 1 follows:

(b) The test weight basis for non-MDPV heavy-duty vehicles is "adjusted loaded vehicle weight". For all other vehicles, the test weight basis for establishing equivalent test weight is "loaded vehicle weight". These load terms are defined in 40 CFR 86.1803.

(c) For FTP, SFTP, New York City Cycle, HFET, and LA-92 testing, determine road-load forces for each test vehicle at speeds between 9.3 and 71.5 miles per hour. The road-load force must represent vehicle operation on a smooth, level road with no wind or calm winds, no precipitation, an ambient temperature of approximately 20 &#xB0;C, and atmospheric pressure of 98.21 kPa. You may extrapolate road-load force for speeds below 9.3 mi/hr.
