
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart H - Cold Temperature Test Procedures
###### ยง 1066.710 Cold temperature testing procedures for measuring CO and NMHC emissions and determining fuel economy.
####### lternative test procedures.

(4) AWe may approve the use of other settings under 40 CFR 86.1840 if a vehicle's climate control system is not compatible with the provisions of this section.

(d) Take the following steps to prepare and precondition vehicles for testing under this section:

(1) Prepare the vehicle as described in ยง 1066.810(a).

(2) Fill the fuel tank to approximately 40% of the manufacturer's nominal fuel tank capacity with the appropriate test fuel for cold temperature testing as specified 40 CFR Part 1065, subpart H. The temperature of the dispensed test fuel must be at or below 15.5 &#xB0;C. If the leftover fuel in the fuel tank before the refueling event does not meet these specifications, drain the fuel tank before refueling. You may operate the vehicle prior to the preconditioning drive to eliminate fuel effects on adaptive memory systems.

(3) You may start the preconditioning drive once the fuel in the fuel tank reaches (-12.6 to -1.4) &#xB0;C. Precondition the vehicle as follows:

(i) Push or drive the vehicle onto the dynamometer.

(ii) Operate the vehicle over one UDDS. You may perform additional vehicle preconditioning with repeated driving over the UDDS, subject to our advance approval.

(iii) Turn off the test vehicle and any cooling fans within 5 minutes after completing the preconditioning drive. Ambient temperature must be between (-12.0 and -1.0) &#xB0;C in the 5 minutes following the preconditioning drive.

(iv) Do not manually purge or load the evaporative canister.

(e) Soak the vehicle for (12 to 36) hours to stabilize it at test temperatures before starting the emission test as described in this paragraph (e). If you move a stabilized vehicle through a warm area when transporting it to the dynamometer for testing, you must restabilize the vehicle by holding it at an ambient temperature within the range specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for at least six times as long as the vehicle was exposed to warmer temperatures. Use one of the following methods to reach a stabilized condition:
