
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart I - Exhaust Emission Test Procedures for Motor Vehicles
###### ยง 1066.845 AC17 air conditioning efficiency test procedure.
####### Air conditioning system settings.

(e)For testing that requires the air conditioning to be operating, set the vehicle's air conditioning controls as follows:

(1) For automatic systems, set the temperature control to 72 &#xB0;F (22 &#xB0;C).

(2) For manual systems, select A/C mode, set the temperature to full cold and "maximum", set airflow to "recirculate" (if so equipped), and select the highest fan setting. During the first idle period of the SC03 driving schedule (between 186 and 204 seconds), reduce the fan speed setting to nominally 50% of maximum fan speed, set airflow to "fresh air" (if so equipped), and adjust the temperature setting to target a temperature of 55 &#xB0;F (13 &#xB0;C) at the dashboard air outlet. Maintain these settings for the remainder of the test. You may rely on prior temperature measurements to determine the temperature setting; however, if the system is unable to meet the 55 &#xB0;F (13 &#xB0;C) target, you may instead set airflow to "fresh air" and temperature to full cold. If the vehicle is equipped with technology that defaults to recirculated air at ambient temperatures above 75 &#xB0;F (22 &#xB0;C), that technology should remain enabled throughout the test; this may mean not setting the airflow to "recirculate" at the start and not setting the airflow to "fresh air" during the first idle period of the SC03 driving schedule. Except as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, use good engineering judgment to apply the settings described in this paragraph (e)(2) equally throughout the vehicle if there are separate controls for different zones (such as rear air conditioning).

(3) If the air conditioning system is designed with parameters that switch back to a default setting at key-off, perform testing in that default condition. If the air conditioning system includes any optional equipment or user controls not addressed in this paragraph (e), the manufacturer should ask us for preliminary approval to determine the appropriate settings for testing.
