
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart I - Exhaust Emission Test Procedures for Motor Vehicles
###### § 1066.840 Highway fuel economy test procedure.

This section describes the procedure for the highway fuel economy test (HFET). This test involves emission sampling and fuel economy measurement for certain vehicles as described in 40 CFR part 86, subpart S, and in 40 CFR part 600. See § 1066.801 for further information on the driving schedules. Follow the exhaust emission measurement procedures specified in §§ 1066.410 through 1066.425, subject to the following exceptions and additional provisions:

(a) Perform the HFET immediately following the FTP when this is practical. If the HFET procedure starts more than 3 hours after an FTP (including evaporative emission measurements, if applicable), operate it over one UDDS to precondition the vehicle. We may approve additional preconditioning in unusual circumstances.

(b) Operate the vehicle over the HFET driving schedule for preconditioning. Allow the vehicle to idle for 15 seconds (with the vehicle in gear), then start a repeat run of the HFET driving schedule and simultaneously start sampling and recording.

(c) Turn the engine off at the end of the HFET driving schedule and stop all sampling and recording, including background. Stop any integrating devices and indicate the end of the test cycle in the recorded data.
