
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Applicability and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 1068.25 What information must I give to EPA?

If you are subject to the requirements of this part, we may require you to give us information to evaluate your compliance with any regulations that apply, as authorized by the Clean Air Act. This includes the following things:

(a) You must provide the information we require in this chapter. We may require an authorized representative of your company to approve and sign any submission of information to us, and to certify that the information is accurate and complete.

(b) You must establish and maintain records, perform tests, make reports and provide additional information that we may reasonably require under section 208 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7542). This also applies to engines/equipment we exempt from emission standards or prohibited acts. Unless we specify otherwise, you must keep required records for eight years.

(c) You are responsible for statements and information in your applications for certification or any other requests or reports. If you provide statements or information to someone for submission to EPA, you are responsible for these statements and information as if you had submitted them to EPA yourself. For example, knowingly submitting false information to someone else for inclusion in an application for certification would be deemed to be a submission of false information to the U.S. government in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001.
