
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart I - Exhaust Emission Test Procedures for Motor Vehicles
###### § 1066.845 AC17 air conditioning efficiency test procedure.
####### Test procedure.

(f)Follow the exhaust emission measurement procedures specified in §§ 1066.410 through 1066.425, subject to the following exceptions and additional provisions:

(1) Prepare each test vehicle for a series of tests according to 40 CFR 86.132-00(a) through (g). If the vehicle has been tested within the last 36 hours concluding with a 12 to 36 hour soak, continue to paragraph (f)(2) of this section; otherwise perform an additional UDDS preconditioning cycle that concludes with a 12 to 36 hour soak. You may use a forced cooldown system to bring critical vehicle temperatures to within soak temperature limits. Critical temperatures include transmission oil, engine oil, engine coolant, and cabin air temperatures.

(2) Open the vehicle's windows and operate the vehicle over a preconditioning UDDS with no solar heating and with the air conditioning off. At the end of the preconditioning drive, turn off the test vehicle and all cooling fans.

(3) Turn on solar heating within one minute after turning off the engine. Once the solar energy intensity reaches 805 W/m, let the vehicle soak for (30 +/- 1) minutes. You may alternatively rely on prior measurements to start the soak period after a defined period of warming up to the specified solar heat load. Close the vehicle's windows at the start of the soak period; ensure that the windows are adequately closed where instrumentation and wiring pass through to the interior.

(4) Turn the air conditioning control to the "on" position before testing so the air conditioning system is active whenever the engine is running. Place the vehicle in gear 15 seconds after engine starting, which is 3 seconds before the first acceleration. At the end of the driving schedule, simultaneously switch all the sampling, recording, and integrating from SC03 to HFET, including background sampling. Indicate the end of the test cycle in the recorded data. Record the measured dynamometer roll revolutions corresponding to the SC03 driving schedule.

(5) Directly following the SC03 driving schedule, operate the vehicle over the HFET driving schedule. Turn the vehicle off at the end of the driving schedule and simultaneously stop all sampling, recording, and integrating, including background sampling. Indicate the end of the test cycle in the recorded data. Record the measured dynamometer roll revolutions corresponding to the HFET drive schedule. Turn off the solar heating.

(6) Allow the vehicle to remain on the dynamometer for (10 to 15) minutes after emission sampling has concluded. Repeat the testing described in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section and turn off the vehicle's air conditioner and the solar heating throughout the test run. The windows may be open or closed.
