
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Applicability and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 1068.10 Practices for handling confidential business information.

The provisions of this section apply both to any information you send us and to any information we collect from inspections, audits, or other site visits.

(a) When you submit information to us, if you claim any of that information as confidential, you may identify what you claim to be confidential by marking, circling, bracketing, stamping, or some other method; however, we will not consider any claims of confidentiality over information we have determined to be not entitled to confidential treatment under ยง 1068.11 or other applicable provisions.

(b) If you send us information without claiming it is confidential, we may make it available to the public without further notice to you, as described in 40 CFR 2.301(j).

(c) For submissions that include information that may be entitled to confidential treatment, we may require that you send a "public" copy of the report that does not include the confidential information. We may require that you substantiate your claim to confidential treatment for any items not contained in the public version. We will release additional information from the complete version of such a submission only as allowed under 40 CFR 2.301(j) and as described in this subpart and the standard-setting part.

(d) We will safeguard your confidential business information (CBI) as described in 40 CFR 2.301(j). Also, we will treat certain information as confidential and will only disclose this information if it has been determined to be not entitled to confidential treatment as specified in ยง 1068.11(c). The following general provisions describe how we will process requests for making information publicly available:
