
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Applicability and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 1068.20 May EPA enter my facilities for inspections?

(a) We may inspect your testing, manufacturing processes, storage facilities (including port facilities for imported engines and equipment or other relevant facilities), or records, as authorized by the Clean Air Act, to enforce the provisions of this chapter. Inspectors will have authorizing credentials and will limit inspections to reasonable times-usually, normal operating hours.

(b) We may select any facility to do any of the following:

(1) Inspect and monitor any aspect of engine or equipment manufacturing, assembly, storage, or other procedures, and any facilities where you do them.

(2) Inspect and monitor any aspect of engine or equipment test procedures or test-related activities, including test engine/equipment selection, preparation, service accumulation, emission duty cycles, and maintenance and verification of your test equipment's calibration.

(3) Inspect and copy records or documents related to assembling, storing, selecting, and testing an engine or piece of equipment.

(4) Inspect and photograph any part or aspect of engines or equipment and components you use for assembly.

(c) You must give us reasonable help without charge during an inspection authorized by the Clean Air Act. For example, you may need to help us arrange an inspection with the facility's managers, including clerical support, copying, and translation. You may also need to show us how the facility operates and answer other questions. If we ask in writing to see a particular employee at the inspection, you must ensure that he or she is present (legal counsel may accompany the employee).

(d) If you have facilities in other countries, we expect you to locate them in places where local law does not keep us from inspecting as described in this section. We will not try to inspect if we learn that local law prohibits it, but we may suspend your certificate if we are not allowed to inspect.
