
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart J - Evaporative Emission Test Procedures
###### Evaporative and Refueling Emission Test Procedures for Motor Vehicles
####### ยง 1066.985 Fuel storage system leak test procedure.
######## Measurement equipment.

(c)Your leak test equipment must meet the following requirements:

(1) Pressure, temperature, and flow sensors must be calibrated with NIST-traceable standards.

(2) Correct flow measurements to standard reference conditions.

(3) Leak test equipment must have the ability to pressurize fuel storage systems to at least 4.1 kPa and have an internal leak rate of less than 0.20 standard liters per minute.

(4) You must be able to attach the test equipment to the vehicle without permanent alteration of the fuel storage or evaporative emission control systems. For any testing that involves pressurizing the fuel system and detecting leaks at access points away from the fuel fill pipe, the gas cap must be installed in the production configuration. For the test point at or near the fuel fill pipe, attaching the test equipment may involve adding an extension to the fuel fill pipe that incorporates the access point to the fuel system. If the extension apparatus has a fixed cap, the vehicle's gas cap must be tested separately as described in paragraph (d)(9) of this section. This separate testing is not required if the extension apparatus incorporates the vehicle's gas cap.

(5) The point of attachment to the fuel storage system must allow pressurization to test system integrity of the fuel tank and of fuel lines and vapor lines reaching up to and including the gas cap and the evaporative canister. The evaporative system test port available on some vehicles is an example of an effective attachment point.
