
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1066 - VEHICLE-TESTING PROCEDURES
##### Subpart I - Exhaust Emission Test Procedures for Motor Vehicles
###### ยง 1066.835 Exhaust emission test procedure for SC03 emissions.
####### Solar heat load.

(3)Simulate solar heating as follows:

(i) You may use a metal halide lamp, a sodium lamp, or a quartz halogen lamp with dichroic mirrors as a radiant energy emitter. We may also approve the use of a different type of radiant energy emitter if you demonstrate that it meets the requirements of this section.

(ii) We recommend achieving radiant heating with spectral distribution characteristics as described in the following table:

(iii) Determine radiant energy intensity experienced by the vehicle as the average value between two measurements along the vehicle's centerline, one at the base of the windshield and the other at the bottom of the rear window (or equivalent location for vehicles without a rear window). This value must be (850 +/- 45) W/m. Instruments for measuring radiant energy intensity must meet the following minimum specifications:

(A) Sensitivity of 9 microvolts per W/m.

(B) Response time of 5 seconds. For purposes of this requirement, "response time" means the time for the instrument to reach 95 percent of its equilibrium response after a step change in radiant intensity.

(C) Cosine response error of no more than +/-1% for 0-70 degree zenith angles. The cosine response error is the percentage difference between the intensity measured at a given angle and a reference value, where the reference value is the intensity predicted from the zero-degree intensity and the cosine of the incident angle.

(D) When comparing measured values for radiant energy to reference values, each measured value over the full range of measurement may not deviate from the corresponding reference value by more than +/-0.5% of the analyzer range's maximum value.

(iv) Check the uniformity of radiant energy intensity at least every 500 hours of emitter usage or every 6 months, whichever is sooner, and after any major modifications affecting the solar simulation. Determine uniformity by measuring radiant energy intensity using instruments that meet the specifications described in paragraph (f)(3)(iii) of this section at each point of a 0.5 m grid over the vehicle's full footprint, including the edges of the footprint, at an elevation 1 m above the floor. Measured values of radiant energy intensity must be between (722 and 978) W/mat all points.
