
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Applicability and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 1068.5 How must manufacturers apply good engineering judgment?

(a) You must use good engineering judgment for decisions related to any requirements under this chapter. This includes your applications for certification, any testing you do to show that your certification, production-line, and in-use engines/equipment comply with requirements that apply to them, and how you select, categorize, determine, and apply these requirements.

(b) If we send you a written request, you must give us a written description of the engineering judgment in question. Respond within 15 working days of receiving our request unless we allow more time.

(c) We may reject your decision if it is not based on good engineering judgment or is otherwise inconsistent with the requirements that apply, based on the following provisions:

(1) We may suspend, revoke, or void a certificate of conformity if we determine you deliberately used incorrect information or overlooked important information, that you did not decide in good faith, or that your decision was not rational.

(2) If we believe a different decision would better reflect good engineering judgment, but none of the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section apply, we will tell you of our concern (and its basis). You will have 30 days to respond to our concerns, or more time if we agree that you need it to generate more information. After considering your information, we will give you a final ruling. If we conclude that you did not use good engineering judgment, we may reject your decision and apply the new ruling to similar situations as soon as possible.

(d) We will tell you in writing of the conclusions we reach under paragraph (c) of this section and explain our reasons for them.

(e) If you disagree with our conclusions, you may file a request for a hearing with the Designated Compliance Officer as described in subpart G of this part. In your request, specify your objections, include data or supporting analysis, and get your authorized representative's signature. If we agree that your request raises a substantial factual issue, we will hold the hearing according to subpart F of this part.
