
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Prohibited Actions and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1068.101 What general actions does this regulation prohibit?
####### Tampering.

(1)You may not remove or render inoperative any device or element of design installed on or in engines/equipment in compliance with the regulations prior to its sale and delivery to the ultimate purchaser. You also may not knowingly remove or render inoperative any such device or element of design after such sale and delivery to the ultimate purchaser. This includes, for example, operating an engine without a supply of appropriate quality urea if the emission control system relies on urea to reduce NOemissions or the use of incorrect fuel or engine oil that renders the emission control system inoperative. Section 1068.120 describes how this applies to rebuilding engines. See the standard-setting part, which may include additional provisions regarding actions prohibited by this requirement. For a manufacturer or dealer, we may assess a civil penalty up to $44,539 for each engine or piece of equipment in violation. For anyone else, we may assess a civil penalty up to $4,454 for each engine or piece of equipment in violation. This prohibition does not apply in any of the following situations:

(i) You need to repair the engine/equipment and you restore it to proper functioning when the repair is complete.

(ii) You need to modify the engine/equipment to respond to a temporary emergency and you restore it to proper functioning as soon as possible.

(iii) You modify new engines/equipment that another manufacturer has already certified to meet emission standards and recertify them under your own family. In this case you must tell the original manufacturer not to include the modified engines/equipment in the original family.
