
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Exemptions and Exclusions
###### ยง 1068.201 General exemption and exclusion provisions.

We may exempt new engines/equipment from some or all of the prohibited acts or requirements of this part under provisions described in this subpart. We may exempt nonroad engines/equipment already placed in service in the United States from the prohibition in ยง 1068.101(b)(1) if the exemption for nonroad engines/equipment used solely for competition applies (see ยง 1068.235). In addition, see ยง 1068.1 and the standard-setting parts to determine if other engines/equipment are excluded from some or all of the regulations in this chapter.

(a) This subpart identifies which engines/equipment qualify for exemptions and what information we need. We may require more information.

(b) If you violate any of the terms, conditions, instructions, or requirements to qualify for an exemption, we may void, revoke, or suspend the exemption.

(c) If you use an exemption under this subpart, we may require you to add a permanent or removable label to your exempted engines/equipment. You may ask us to modify these labeling requirements if it is appropriate for your engine/equipment.

(d) If you produce engines/equipment we exempt under this subpart, we may require you to make and keep records, perform tests, make reports and provide information as needed to reasonably evaluate the validity of the exemption.

(e) If you own or operate engines/equipment we exempt under this subpart, we may require you to provide information as needed to reasonably evaluate the validity of the exemption.

(f) Subpart D of this part describes how we apply these exemptions to engines/equipment you import (or intend to import).

(g) If you want to ask for an exemption or need more information, write to the Designated Compliance Officer.

(h) You may ask us to modify the administrative requirements for the exemptions described in this subpart or in subpart D of this part. We may approve your request if we determine that such approval is consistent with the intent of this part. For example, waivable administrative requirements might include some reporting requirements, but would not include any eligibility requirements or use restrictions.

(i) If you want to take an action with respect to an exempted or excluded engine/equipment that is prohibited by the exemption or exclusion, such as selling it, you need to certify the engine/equipment. We will issue a certificate of conformity if you send us an application for certification showing that you meet all the applicable requirements from the standard-setting part and pay the appropriate fee. Alternatively, we may allow you to include in an existing certified engine family those engines/equipment you modify (or otherwise demonstrate) to be identical to engines/equipment already covered by the certificate. We would base such an approval on our review of any appropriate documentation. These engines/equipment must have emission control information labels that accurately describe their status.
