
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Applicability and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### § 1068.31 Changing the status of nonroad or stationary engines under the definition of "nonroad engine".
####### i.e.,

This section specifies the provisions that apply when an engine previously used in a nonroad application is subsequently used in an application other than a nonroad application, or when an engine previously used in a stationary application (an engine that was not used as a nonroad engine and that was not used to propel a motor vehicle, an aircraft, or equipment used solely for competition) is moved.

(a) Changing the status of a stationary engine to be a new nonroad engine as described in paragraph (b) of this section is a violation of § 1068.101(a)(1) or (b)(3) unless the engine has been certified to be compliant with all requirements of this chapter that apply to new nonroad engines of the same type (for example, a compression-ignition engine rated at 40 kW) and model year, and is in its certified configuration. Note that the definitions of "model year" in the standard-setting parts generally identify the engine's original date of manufacture as the basis for determining which standards apply if it becomes a nonroad engine after it is no longer new. For example, see 40 CFR 1039.801 and 1048.801.

(b) A stationary engine becomes a new nonroad engine if-

(1) It is used in an application that meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (1)(i) or (ii) in the definition of "nonroad engine" in § 1068.30.

(2) It meets the criteria specified in paragraph (1)(iii) of the definition of "nonroad engine" in § 1068.30 and is moved so that it fails to meet (or no longer meets) the criteria specified in paragraph (2)(iii) in the definition of "nonroad engine" in § 1068.30.

(c) A stationary engine does not become a new nonroad engine if it is moved but continues to meet the criteria specified in paragraph (2)(iii) in the definition of "nonroad engine" in § 1068.30 in its new location. For example, a transportable engine that is used in a single specific location for 18 months and is later moved to a second specific location where it will remain for at least 12 months is considered to be a stationary engine in both locations. Note that for stationary engines that are neither portable nor transportable in actual use, the residence-time restrictions in the definition of "nonroad engine" generally do not apply.
