
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Prohibited Actions and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1068.125 What happens if I violate the regulations?
####### Administrative penalties.

(b)Instead of bringing a civil action, we may assess administrative penalties if the total is less than $356,312 against you individually. This maximum penalty may be greater if the Administrator and the Attorney General jointly determine that a greater administrative penalty assessment is appropriate, or if the limit is adjusted under 40 CFR part 19. No court may review this determination. Before we assess an administrative penalty, you may ask for a hearing as described in subpart G of this part. The Administrator may compromise or remit, with or without conditions, any administrative penalty that may be imposed under this section.

(1) To determine the amount of an administrative penalty, we will consider the factors described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(2) An administrative order we issue under this paragraph (b) becomes final 30 days after we issue it unless you ask for judicial review by that time (see paragraph (c) of this section). You may ask for review by any of the district courts listed in paragraph (a) of this section. Send the Administrator a copy of the filing by certified mail.

(3) We will not pursue an administrative penalty for a particular violation if either of the following two conditions is true:

(i) We are separately prosecuting the violation under this subpart.

(ii) We have issued a final order for a violation, no longer subject to judicial review, for which you have already paid a penalty.
