
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Prohibited Actions and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1068.105 What other provisions apply to me specifically if I manufacture equipment needing certified engines?
####### Attaching a duplicate label.

(c)If you obscure the engine's label, you must do four things to avoid violating ยง 1068.101(a)(1):

(1) Send a request for duplicate labels in writing on your company's letterhead to the engine manufacturer. Include the following information in your request:

(i) Identify the type of equipment and the specific engine and equipment models needing duplicate labels.

(ii) Identify the family (from the original engine label).

(iii) State the reason that you need a duplicate label for each equipment model.

(iv) Identify the number of duplicate labels you will need.

(2) Permanently attach the duplicate label to your equipment by securing it to a part needed for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement. Make sure an average person can easily read it. Note that attaching an inaccurate duplicate label may be a violation of ยง 1068.101(b)(7).

(3) Destroy any unused duplicate labels if you find that you will not need them.

(4) Keep the following records for at least eight years after the end of the model year identified on the engine label:

(i) Keep a copy of your written request.

(ii) Keep drawings or descriptions that show how you apply the duplicate labels to your equipment.

(iii) Maintain a count of those duplicate labels you use and those you destroy.
