
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Prohibited Actions and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1068.101 What general actions does this regulation prohibit?
####### see

(B) The regulations specifically direct you to remove the label. For example,ยง 1068.235.

(C) The part on which the label is mounted needs to be replaced. In this case, you must have a replacement part with a duplicate of the original label installed by the certifying manufacturer or an authorized agent, except that the replacement label may omit the date of manufacture if applicable. We generally require labels to be permanently attached to parts that will not normally be replaced, but this provision allows for replacements in unusual circumstances, such as damage in a collision or other accident.

(D) The original label is incorrect, provided that it is replaced with the correct label from the certifying manufacturer or an authorized agent. This allowance to replace incorrect labels does not affect whether the application of an incorrect original label is a violation.

(ii) Removing or altering a temporary or removable label contrary to the provisions of this paragraph (b)(7)(ii) is a violation of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(A) For labels identifying temporary exemptions, you may not remove or alter the label while the engine/equipment is in an exempt status. The exemption is automatically revoked for each engine/equipment for which the label has been removed.

(B) For temporary or removable consumer information labels, only the ultimate purchaser may remove the label.

(iii) You may not apply a false emission control information label. You also may not manufacture, sell, or offer to sell false labels. The application, manufacture, sale, or offer for sale of false labels is a violation of this section (such as paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(2) of this section). Note that applying an otherwise valid emission control information label to the wrong engine is considered to be applying a false label.

(c) If you cause someone to commit a prohibited act in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, you are in violation of that prohibition.

(d) Exemptions from these prohibitions are described in subparts C and D of this part and in the standard-setting part.

(e) The standard-setting parts describe more requirements and prohibitions that apply to manufacturers (including importers) and others under this chapter.

(f) The specification of prohibitions and penalties in this part does not limit the prohibitions and penalties described in the Clean Air Act. Additionally, a single act may trigger multiple violations under this section and the Act. We may pursue all available administrative, civil, or criminal remedies for those violations even if the regulation references only a single prohibited act in this section.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) The maximum penalty values listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and in ยง 1068.125 apply as of August 1, 2016. Maximum penalty values for earlier violations are published in 40 CFR part 19. Maximum penalty limits may be adjusted after August 1, 2016 based on the Consumer Price Index. The specific regulatory provisions for changing the maximum penalties, published in 40 CFR part 19, reference the applicable U.S. Code citation on which the prohibited action is based. The following table is shown here for informational purposes:
