
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Applicability and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 1068.31 Changing the status of nonroad or stationary engines under the definition of "nonroad engine".
####### see

(d) Changing the status of a nonroad engine to be a new stationary engine as described in paragraph (e) of this section is a violation of ยง 1068.101(a)(1) unless the engine complies with all the requirements of this chapter for new stationary engines of the same type (for example, a compression-ignition engine rated at 40 kW) and model year. For a new stationary engine that is required to be certified under 40 CFR part 60, the engine must have been certified to be compliant with all the requirements that apply to new stationary engines of the same type and model year, and must be in its certified configuration. Note that the definitions of "model year" in the standard-setting parts generally identify the engine's original date of manufacture as the basis for determining which standards apply if it becomes a stationary engine after it is no longer new. For example,40 CFR 60.4219 and 60.4248.

(e) A nonroad engine ceases to be a nonroad engine and becomes a new stationary engine if-

(1) At any time, it meets the criteria specified in paragraph (2)(iii) in the definition of "nonroad engine" in ยง 1068.30. For example, a portable generator engine ceases to be a nonroad engine if it is used or will be used in a single specific location for 12 months or longer. If we determine that an engine will be or has been used in a single specific location for 12 months or longer, it ceased to be a nonroad engine when it was placed in that location.

(2) It is otherwise regulated by a federal New Source Performance Standard promulgated under section 111 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7411).

(f) A nonroad engine ceases to be a nonroad engine if it is used to propel a motor vehicle, an aircraft, or equipment used solely for competition. See 40 CFR part 86 for requirements applicable to motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines. See 40 CFR part 87 for requirements applicable to aircraft and aircraft engines. See ยง 1068.235 for requirements applicable to equipment used solely for competition.
