
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Applicability and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 1068.45 General labeling provisions.
####### Labels on packaging.

(c)Unless we specify otherwise, where we require engine/equipment labels that may be removable, you may instead label the packaging if the engines/equipment are packaged together as described in this paragraph (c). For example, this may involve packaging engines together by attaching them to a rack, binding them together on a pallet, or enclosing them in a box. The provisions of this paragraph (c) also apply for engines/equipment boxed individually where you do not apply labels directly to the engines/equipment. The following provisions apply if you label the packaging instead of labeling engines/equipment individually:

(1) You may use the provisions of this paragraph (c) only if all the engines/equipment packaged together need the same label.

(2) You must place the label on the package in a readily visible location. This may require labeling the package in multiple locations.

(3) You must package the engines/equipment such that the labels will not be separated from the engines/equipment or otherwise become unreadable throughout the period that the label applies. For example, labels required for shipping engines to a secondary engine manufacturer under ยง 1068.262 must remain attached and readable until they reach the secondary engine manufacturer. Similarly, removable labels specified in ยง 1068.240 for replacement engines must remain attached and readable until they reach the point of final installation.

(4) You are in violation of ยง 1068.101(a)(1) if such engines/equipment are removed from the package or are otherwise separated from the label before reaching the point at which the label is no longer needed.
