
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Prohibited Actions and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1068.105 What other provisions apply to me specifically if I manufacture equipment needing certified engines?
####### Transitioning to new engine-based standards.

(a)If new engine-based emission standards apply in a given model year, your equipment produced in that calendar year (or later) must have engines that are certified to the new standards, except that you may continue to use up normal inventories of engines that were built before the date of the new or changed standards. For purposes of this paragraph (a), normal inventory applies for engines you possess and engines from your engine supplier's normal inventory. (this paragraph (a) does not apply in the case of new remanufacturing standards.) We may require you and your engine suppliers to provide us routine production and/or inventory records that document your normal practices for the preceding eight years. For example, if you have records documenting that your normal inventory practice is to keep on hand a one-month supply of engines based on your upcoming production schedules, and a new tier of standards starts to apply for the 2015 model year, you may order engines consistent with your normal inventory requirements late in the engine manufacturer's 2014 model year and install those engines in your equipment consistent with your normal production schedule. Also, if your model year starts before the end of the calendar year preceding new standards, you may use engines from the previous model year for those units you completely assemble before January 1 of the year that new standards apply. If emission standards for the engine do not change in a given model year, you may continue to install engines from the previous model year without restriction (or any earlier model year for which the same standards apply). You may not circumvent the provisions of ยง 1068.101(a)(1) by stockpiling engines that were built before new or changed standards take effect. Similarly, you may not circumvent the provisions of ยง 1068.101(a)(1) by knowingly installing engines that were stockpiled by engine suppliers in violation of ยง 1068.103(f). Note that this allowance does not apply for equipment subject to equipment-based standards. See 40 CFR 1060.601 for similar provisions that apply for equipment subject to evaporative emission standards. Note that the standard-setting part may impose further restrictions on using up inventories of engines from an earlier model year under this paragraph (a).
