
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Exemptions and Exclusions
###### § 1068.260 General provisions for selling or shipping engines that are not yet in their certified configuration.

Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, all new engines in the United States are presumed to be subject to the prohibitions of § 1068.101, which generally require that all new engines be in a certified configuration before being sold, offered for sale, or introduced or delivered into commerce in the United States or imported into the United States. All emission-related components generally need to be installed on an engine for such an engine to be in its certified configuration. This section specifies clarifications and exemptions related to these requirements for engines. Except for paragraph (c) of this section, the provisions of this section generally apply for engine-based standards but not for equipment-based exhaust emission standards.

(a) The provisions of this paragraph (a) apply for emission-related components that cannot practically be assembled before shipment because they depend on equipment design parameters.

(1) You do not need an exemption to ship an engine that does not include installation or assembly of certain emission-related components if those components are shipped along with the engine. For example, you may generally ship aftertreatment devices along with engines rather than installing them on the engine before shipment. We may require you to describe how you plan to use this provision.

(2) You may ask us at the time of certification for an exemption to allow you to ship your engines without emission-related components. If we allow this, we may specify conditions that we determine are needed to ensure that shipping the engine without such components will not result in the engine being operated outside of its certified configuration. You must identify unshipped parts by specific part numbers if they cannot be properly characterized by performance specification. For example, electronic control units, turbochargers, and EGR coolers must generally be identified by part number. Parts that we believe can be properly characterized by performance specification include air filters, noncatalyzed mufflers, and charge air coolers. See paragraph (d) of this section for additional provisions that apply in certain circumstances.

(b) You do not need an exemption to ship engines without specific components if they are not emission-related components identified in Appendix I of this part. For example, you may generally ship engines without the following parts:

(1) Radiators needed to cool the engine.

(2) Exhaust piping between the engine and an aftertreatment device, between two aftertreatment devices, or downstream of the last aftertreatment device.

(c) If you are a certificate holder, partially complete engines/equipment shipped between two of your facilities are exempt, subject to the provisions of this paragraph (c), as long as you maintain ownership and control of the engines/equipment until they reach their destination. We may also allow this where you do not maintain actual ownership and control of the engines/equipment (such as hiring a shipping company to transport the engines) but only if you demonstrate that the engines/equipment will be transported only according to your specifications. See § 1068.261(b) for the provisions that apply instead of this paragraph (c) for the special case of integrated manufacturers using the delegated-assembly exemption. Notify us of your intent to use this exemption in your application for certification, if applicable. Your exemption is effective when we grant your certificate. You may alternatively request an exemption in a separate submission; for example, this would be necessary if you will not be the certificate holder for the engines in question. We may require you to take specific steps to ensure that such engines/equipment are in a certified configuration before reaching the ultimate purchaser. Note that since this is a temporary exemption, it does not allow you to sell or otherwise distribute to ultimate purchasers an engine/equipment in an uncertified configuration with respect to exhaust emissions. Note also that the exempted engine/equipment remains new and subject to emission standards (see definition of "exempted" in § 1068.30) until its title is transferred to the ultimate purchaser or it otherwise ceases to be new.

(d) See § 1068.261 for delegated-assembly provisions in which certificate-holding manufacturers ship engines that are not yet equipped with certain emission-related components. See § 1068.262 for provisions related to manufacturers shipping partially complete engines for which a secondary engine manufacturer holds the certificate of conformity.

(e) Engines used in hobby vehicles are not presumed to be engines subject to the prohibitions of § 1068.101. Hobby vehicles are reduced-scale models of vehicles that are not capable of transporting a person. Some gas turbine engines are subject to the prohibitions of § 1068.101, but we do not presume that all gas turbine engines are subject to these prohibitions. Other engines that do not have a valid certificate of conformity or exemption when sold, offered for sale, or introduced or delivered into commerce in the United States or imported into the United States are presumed to be engines subject to the prohibitions of § 1068.101 unless we determine that such engines are excluded from the prohibitions of § 1068.101.

(f) While we presume that new non-hobby engines are subject to the prohibitions of § 1068.101, we may determine that a specific engine is not subject to these prohibitions based on information you provide or other information that is available to us. For example, the provisions of this part 1068 and the standard-setting parts provide for exemptions in certain circumstances. Also, some engines may be subject to separate prohibitions under subchapter C instead of the prohibitions of § 1068.101.
