
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Exemptions and Exclusions
###### ยง 1068.230 Exempting engines/equipment for export.

The provisions of this section apply differently depending on the country to which the engines/equipment are being exported.

(a) We will not exempt new engines/equipment if you export them to a country with emission standards identical to ours, in which case they must be covered by a certificate of conformity. Where we determine that such engines/equipment will not be placed into service in the United States, the following provisions apply for special export-only certification:

(1) The engines/equipment must be covered by a certificate of conformity or equivalent approval issued by the destination country.

(2) To get an export-only certificate of conformity, send the Designated Compliance Officer a request. We may require you to provide information such as documentation of the foreign certification and related test data.

(3) No fees apply for export-only certification.

(4) The engines/equipment must be labeled as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(5) This export-only certificate is not considered a valid certificate of conformity with respect to the prohibition in ยง 1068.101(a)(1) for sale to ultimate purchasers in the United States. These engines/equipment also may not reenter the United States unless the regulations of this chapter otherwise allow it.

(b) Engines/equipment exported to a country not covered by paragraph (a) of this section are exempt from the prohibited acts in this part without a request. If you produce exempt engines/equipment for export and any of them are sold or offered for sale to an ultimate purchaser in the United States, the exemption is automatically void for those engines/equipment, except as specified in ยง 1068.201(i). You may operate engines/equipment in the United States only as needed to prepare and deliver them for export.

(c) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, label exempted engines/equipment (including shipping containers if the label on the engine/equipment will be obscured by the container) with a label showing that they are not certified for sale or use in the United States. This label may be permanent or removable. See ยง 1068.45 for provisions related to the use of removable labels and applying labels to containers without labeling individual engines/equipment. The label must include your corporate name and trademark and the following statement: "THIS [engine, equipment, vehicle, etc.] IS SOLELY FOR EXPORT AND IS THEREFORE EXEMPT UNDER 40 CFR 1068.230 FROM U.S. EMISSION STANDARDS AND RELATED REQUIREMENTS."

(d) You must apply a permanent label as specified in this paragraph (d) for engines/equipment certified under paragraph (a) of this section. You may apply a permanent label as specified in this paragraph (d) instead of the label specified in paragraph (c) of this section for exempted engines/equipment. Add a permanent label meeting the requirements of the destination country and include in the bill of lading a statement that the engines/equipment must be exported to avoid violating EPA regulations. We may modify applicable labeling requirements to align with the labeling requirements that apply for the destination country.

(e) We may set other reasonable conditions to ensure that engines/equipment exempted under this section are not placed into service in the United States.

(f) Exemptions under this section expire once engines are no longer in the United States. Therefore exemptions under this section do not allow engines to be imported back into the United States.
