
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Imports
###### ยง 1068.315 Permanent exemptions for imported engines/equipment.
####### Identical configuration exemption.

(h)Unless specified otherwise in the standard-setting part, you may import nonconforming engines/equipment if they are identical in all material respects to certified engines/equipment produced by the same manufacturer, subject to the following provisions:

(1) You must meet all the following criteria:

(i) You have owned the engines/equipment for at least six months.

(ii) You agree not to sell, lease, donate, trade, or otherwise transfer ownership of the engines/equipment for at least five years. The only acceptable way to dispose of the engines/equipment during this five-year period is to destroy or export them.

(iii) You use data or evidence sufficient to show that the engines/equipment are in a configuration that is identical in all material respects to engines/equipment the original manufacturer has certified to meet emission standards that apply at the time the manufacturer finished assembling or modifying the engines/equipment in question. If you modify the engines/equipment to make them identical, you must completely follow the original manufacturer's written instructions.

(2) We will tell you in writing if we find the information insufficient to show that the engines/equipment are eligible for the identical configuration exemption. We will then not consider your request further until you address our concerns.
