
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Exemptions and Exclusions
###### ยง 1068.255 Exempting engines and fuel-system components for hardship for equipment manufacturers and secondary engine manufacturers.
####### Secondary engine manufacturers.

(c)As a secondary engine manufacturer, you may ask for approval to produce exempted engines under this section for up to 12 months. We may require you to certify your engines to compliance levels above the emission standards that apply. For example, in the case of multiple tiers of emission standards, we may require you to meet the standards from the previous tier.

(1) The provisions in paragraph (a) of this section that apply to equipment manufacturers requesting an exemption apply equally to you except that you may manufacture the engines. Before we approve an exemption under this section, we will generally require that you commit to a plan to make up the lost environmental benefit.

(i) If you produce uncertified engines under this exemption, we will calculate the lost environmental benefit based on our best estimate of uncontrolled emission rates for your engines.

(ii) If you produce engines under this exemption that are certified to a compliance level less stringent than the emission standards that would otherwise apply, we will calculate the lost environmental benefit based on the compliance level you select for your engines.

(2) The labeling requirements in paragraph (b) of this section apply to your exempted engines; however, if you certify engines to specific compliance levels, state on the label the compliance levels that apply to each engine.
