
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart G - Hearings
###### ยง 1068.610 Request for hearing - suspending, revoking, or voiding a certificate of conformity.

(a) You may request an informal hearing as described in ยง 1068.650 if you disagree with our decision to suspend, revoke, or void a certificate of conformity.

(b) If you request a hearing regarding the outcome of a testing regimen with established evaluation criteria, such as selective enforcement audits or routine production-line testing, we will hold a hearing limited to the following issues that are relevant to your circumstances:

(1) Whether tests were conducted in accordance with applicable regulations.

(2) Whether test equipment was properly calibrated and functioning.

(3) Whether specified sampling procedures were followed to select engines/equipment for testing.

(4) Whether there is a basis for determining that the problems identified do not apply for engines/equipment produced at plants other than the one from which engines/equipment were selected for testing.

(c) You must send your hearing request in writing to the Designated Compliance Officer no later than 30 days after we notify you of our decision to suspend, revoke, or void your certificate, or by some later deadline we specify. If the deadline passes, we may nevertheless grant you a hearing at our discretion.

(d) Your hearing request must include the following information:

(1) Identify the classes or categories of engines/equipment that will be the subject of the hearing.

(2) State briefly which issues you will raise at the hearing for each affected class or category of engines/equipment.

(3) Specify why you believe the hearing will conclude in your favor for each of the issues you will raise.

(4) Summarize the evidence supporting your position on each of the issues you will raise and include any supporting data.

(e) We will approve your request for an informal hearing if we find that your request raises a substantial factual issue in the decision we made that, if addressed differently, could alter the outcome of that decision.
