
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Exemptions and Exclusions
###### ยง 1068.240 Exempting new replacement engines.
####### Partially complete engines.

(d)The following requirements apply if you ship a partially complete replacement engine under this section:

(1) Provide instructions specifying how to complete the engine assembly such that the resulting engine conforms to the applicable certificate of conformity or the specifications of ยง 1068.265. Where a partially complete engine can be built into multiple different configurations, you must be able to identify all the engine models and model years for which the partially complete engine may properly be used for replacement purposes. Your instructions must make clear how the final assembler can determine which configurations are appropriate for the engine they receive.

(2) You must label the engine as follows:

(i) If you have a reasonable basis to believe that the fully assembled engine will include the original emission control information label, you may add a removable label to the engine with your corporate name and trademark and the statement: "This replacement engine is exempt under 40 CFR 1068.240." This would generally apply if all the engine models that are compatible with the replacement engine were covered by a certificate of conformity and they were labeled in a position on the engine or equipment that is not included as part of the partially complete engine being shipped for replacement purposes. Removable labels must meet the requirements specified in ยง 1068.45.

(ii) If you do not qualify for using a removable label in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, you must add a permanent label in a readily visible location, though it may be obscured after installation in a piece of equipment. Include on the permanent label your corporate name and trademark, the engine's part number (or other identifying information), and the statement: "THIS REPLACEMENT ENGINE IS EXEMPT UNDER 40 CFR 1068.240. THIS ENGINE MAY NOT BE INSTALLED IN EQUIPMENT THAT IS MORE THAN 40 YEARS OLD AT THE TIME OF INSTALLATION." If there is not enough space for this statement, you may alternatively add: "REPLACEMENT" or "SERVICE ENGINE." For purposes of this paragraph (d)(2), engine part numbers permanently stamped or engraved on the engine are considered to be included on the label.
