
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Reporting Defects and Recalling Engines/Equipment
###### ยง 1068.505 How does the recall program work?

(a) If we make a determination that a substantial number of properly maintained and used engines/equipment within a given class or category do not conform to the regulations of this chapter during their useful life, you must submit a plan to remedy the nonconformity of your engines/equipment. We will notify you of our determination in writing. Our notice will identify the class or category of engines/equipment affected and describe how we reached our conclusion. If this happens, you must meet the requirements and follow the instructions in this subpart. You must remedy at your expense all engines/equipment that experienced the nonconformity during the useful life in spite of being properly maintained and used, as described in ยง 1068.510(a)(7), regardless of their age or extent of service accumulation at the time of repair. You may not transfer this expense to a dealer (or equipment manufacturer for engine-based standards) through a franchise or other agreement.

(b) You may ask for a hearing if you disagree with our determination (see subpart G of this part).

(c) Unless we withdraw the determination of noncompliance, you must respond to it by sending a remedial plan to the Designated Compliance Officer. We will designate a date by which you must send us the remedial plan; the designated date will be no sooner than 45 days after we notify you, and no sooner than 30 days after a hearing.

(d) Once you have sold engines/equipment to the ultimate purchaser, we may inspect or test the engines/equipment only if the purchaser permits it, or if state or local inspection programs separately provide for it.

(e) You may ask us to allow you to conduct your recall differently than specified in this subpart, consistent with section 207(c) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7541(c)).

(f) You may do a voluntary recall under ยง 1068.535 unless we have made the determination described in ยง 1068.535(a).

(g) For purposes of recall, "owner" means someone who owns an engine or piece of equipment affected by a remedial plan.
