
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Selective Enforcement Auditing
###### ยง 1068.420 How do I know when my engine family fails an SEA?

(a) A failed engine or piece of equipment is one whose final deteriorated test results exceed an applicable emission standard for any regulated pollutant.

(b) Continue testing engines/equipment until you reach a pass decision for all pollutants or a fail decision for one pollutant, as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) You reach a pass decision for the SEA requirements when the number of failed engines/equipment is less than or equal to the pass decision number in Appendix A to this subpart for the total number of engines/equipment tested. You reach a fail decision for the SEA requirements when the number of failed engines/equipment is greater than or equal to the fail decision number in Appendix A to this subpart for the total number of engines/equipment you test. An acceptable quality level of 40 percent is the basis for the pass or fail decision.

(d) Consider test results in the same order as the engine/equipment testing sequence.

(e) If you reach a pass decision for one pollutant, but need to continue testing for another pollutant, we will not use these later test results for the pollutant with the pass decision as part of the SEA.

(f) Appendix A to this subpart lists multiple sampling plans. Use the sampling plan for the projected sales volume you reported in your application for the audited family.

(g) We may choose to stop testing after any number of tests.

(h) If we test some of your engines/equipment in addition to your own testing, we may decide not to include your test results as official data for those engines/equipment if there is substantial disagreement between your testing and our testing. We will reinstate your data as valid if you show us that we made an error and your data are correct.

(i) If we rely on our test data instead of yours, we will notify you in writing of our decision and the reasons we believe your facility is not appropriate for doing the tests we require under this subpart. You may request in writing that we consider your test results from the same facility for future testing if you show us that you have made changes to resolve the problem.
