
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Selective Enforcement Auditing
###### ยง 1068.455 What records must I keep?

(a) We may review your records at any time so it is important to keep required information readily available. Organize and maintain your records as described in this section.

(b) Keep paper records for testing under this subpart for one full year after you complete all the testing required for the selective enforcement audit. For additional storage, you may use any format or media.

(c) Keep a copy of the written reports described in ยง 1068.450.

(d) Keep the following additional records:

(1) The names of supervisors involved in each test.

(2) The name of anyone who authorizes adjusting, repairing, preparing, or modifying a test engine/equipment and the names of all supervisors who oversee this work.

(3) If you shipped the engine/equipment for testing, the date you shipped it, the associated storage or port facility, and the date the engine/equipment arrived at the testing facility.

(4) Any records related to your audit that are not in the written report.

(5) A brief description of any significant events during testing not otherwise described in the written report or in this section.

(e) If we ask, you must give us projected or actual production for a family. Include each assembly plant if you produce engines/equipment at more than one plant.

(f) We may ask you to keep or send other information necessary to implement this subpart.
