
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Exemptions and Exclusions
###### ยง 1068.265 Provisions for engines/equipment conditionally exempted from certification.

In some cases, exempted engines may need to meet alternate emission standards as a condition of the exemption. For example, replacement engines exempted under ยง 1068.240 in many cases need to meet the same standards as the engines they are replacing. The standard-setting part may similarly exempt engines/equipment from all certification requirements, or allow us to exempt engines/equipment from all certification requirements for certain cases, but require the engines/equipment to meet alternate standards. In these cases, all the following provisions apply:

(a) Your engines/equipment must meet the alternate standards we specify in (or pursuant to) the exemption section, and all other requirements applicable to engines/equipment that are subject to such standards.

(b) You need not apply for and receive a certificate for the exempt engines/equipment. However, you must comply with all the requirements and obligations that would apply to the engines/equipment if you had received a certificate of conformity for them unless we specifically waive certain requirements.

(c) You must have emission data from test engines/equipment using the appropriate procedures that demonstrate compliance with the alternate standards unless the engines/equipment are identical in all material respects to engines/equipment that you have previously certified to standards that are the same as, or more stringent than, the alternate standards. Note that "engines/equipment that you have previously certified" does not include any engines/equipment initially covered by a certificate that was later voided or otherwise invalidated, or engines/equipment that we have determined did not fully conform to the regulations.

(d) See the provisions of the applicable exemption for labeling instructions, including those related to the compliance statement and other modifications to the label otherwise required in the standard-setting part. If we do not identify specific labeling requirements for an exempted engine, you must meet the labeling requirements in the standard-setting part, with the following exceptions:

(1) Modify the family designation by eliminating the character that identifies the model year.

(2) We may also specify alternative language to replace the compliance statement otherwise required in the standard-setting part.

(e) You may not generate emission credits for averaging, banking, or trading with engines/equipment meeting requirements under the provisions of this section.

(f) Keep records to show that you meet the alternate standards as follows:

(1) If your exempted engines/equipment are identical to previously certified engines/equipment, keep your most recent application for certification for the certified family.

(2) If you previously certified a similar family, but have modified the exempted engines/equipment in a way that changes them from their previously certified configuration, keep your most recent application for certification for the certified family, a description of the relevant changes, and any test data or engineering evaluations that support your conclusions.

(3) If you have not previously certified a similar family, keep all the records we specify for the application for certification and any additional records the standard-setting part requires you to keep.

(g) We may require you to send us an annual report of the engines/equipment you produce under this section.
