
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Exemptions and Exclusions
###### ยง 1068.255 Exempting engines and fuel-system components for hardship for equipment manufacturers and secondary engine manufacturers.
####### Equipment exemption.

(a)As an equipment manufacturer, you may ask for approval to produce exempted equipment for up to 12 months. We will generally limit this to a single interval up to 12 months in the first year that new or revised emission standards apply. Exemptions under this section are not limited to small businesses. Send the Designated Compliance Officer a written request for an exemption before you are in violation. In your request, you must show you are not at fault for the impending violation and that you would face serious economic hardship if we do not grant the exemption. This exemption is not available under this paragraph (a) if you manufacture the engine or fuel-system components you need for your own equipment, or if complying engines or fuel-system components are available from other manufacturers that could be used in your equipment, unless we allow it elsewhere in this chapter. We may impose other conditions, including provisions to use products meeting less stringent emission standards or to recover the lost environmental benefit. In determining whether to grant the exemptions, we will consider all relevant factors, including the following:

(1) The number of engines or fuel-system components involved.

(2) The size of your company and your ability to endure the hardship.

(3) The amount of time you had to redesign your equipment to accommodate complying products.

(4) Whether there was any breach of contract by a supplier.

(5) The potential for market disruption.
