
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Selective Enforcement Auditing
###### ยง 1068.401 What is a selective enforcement audit?

(a) We may conduct or require you as a certificate holder to conduct emission tests on production engines/equipment in a selective enforcement audit. This requirement is independent of any requirement for you to routinely test production-line engines/equipment. Where there are multiple entities meeting the definition of manufacturer, we may require manufacturers other than the certificate holder to conduct or participate in the audit as necessary. For products subject to equipment-based standards, but tested using engine-based test procedures, this subpart applies to the engines and/or the equipment, as applicable. Otherwise this subpart applies to engines for products subject to engine-based standards and to equipment for products subject to equipment-based standards.

(b) If we send you a signed test order, you must follow its directions and the provisions of this subpart. We may tell you where to test the engines/equipment. This may be where you produce the engines/equipment or any other emission testing facility. You are responsible for all testing costs whether the testing is conducted at your facility or another facility.

(c) If we select one or more of your families for a selective enforcement audit, we will send the test order to the person who signed the application for certification or we will deliver it in person.

(d) If we do not select a testing facility, notify the Designated Compliance Officer within one working day of receiving the test order where you will test your engines/equipment.

(e) You must do everything we require in the audit without delay. We may suspend or revoke your certificate of conformity for the affected engine families if you do not fulfill your obligations under this subpart.
