
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Selective Enforcement Auditing
###### ยง 1068.405 What is in a test order?

(a) In the test order, we will specify the following things:

(1) The family we have identified for testing. We may also specify individual configurations.

(2) The engine/equipment assembly plant, storage facility, or (if you import the engines/equipment) port facility from which you must select engines/equipment.

(3) The procedure for selecting engines/equipment for testing, including a selection rate.

(4) The test procedures, duty cycles, and test points, as appropriate, for testing the engines/equipment to show that they meet emission standards.

(b) We may state that we will select the test engines/equipment.

(c) We may identify alternate families or configurations for testing in case we determine the intended engines/equipment are not available for testing or if you do not produce enough engines/equipment to meet the minimum rate for selecting test engines/equipment.

(d) We may include other directions or information in the test order.

(e) We may ask you to show us that you meet any additional requirements that apply to your engines/equipment (closed crankcases, for example).

(f) In anticipation of a potential audit, you may give us a list of your preferred families and the corresponding assembly plants, storage facilities, or (if you import the engines/equipment) port facilities from which we should select engines/equipment for testing. The information would apply only for a single model year so it would be best to include this information in your application for certification. If you give us this list before we issue a test order, we will consider your recommendations, but we may select different engines/equipment.

(g) If you also do routine production-line testing with the selected family in the same time period, the test order will tell you what changes you might need to make in your production-line testing schedule.
