
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Reporting Defects and Recalling Engines/Equipment
###### ยง 1068.535 How can I do a voluntary recall for emission-related problems?

If we have made a determination that a substantial number of properly maintained and used engines/equipment do not conform to the regulations of this chapter during their useful life, you may not use a voluntary recall or other alternate means to meet your obligation to remedy the noncompliance. Thus, this section applies only if you learn that your family does not meet the requirements of this chapter and we have not made such a determination.

(a) To do a voluntary recall under this section, first send the Designated Compliance Officer a plan, following the guidelines in ยง 1068.510. Within 15 days, we will send you our comments on your plan.

(b) Once we approve your plan, start notifying owners and carrying out the specified repairs. Make reasonable efforts to carry out the recall as quickly as possible.

(c) From the time you start the recall campaign, send us a report within 25 days of the end of each calendar quarter, following the guidelines in ยง 1068.525(b). Send reports for six consecutive quarters or until all the engines/equipment are inspected, whichever comes first.

(d) Keep your reports and the supporting information as described in ยง 1068.530.
