
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Exemptions and Exclusions
###### ยง 1068.240 Exempting new replacement engines.
####### General provisions.

(a)You are eligible for the exemption for new replacement engines only if you are a certificate holder. Note that this exemption does not apply for locomotives (40 CFR 1033.601) and that unique provisions apply to marine compression-ignition engines (40 CFR 1042.615).

(1) Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section describe different approaches for exempting new replacement engines where the engines are specially built to correspond to an engine model from an earlier model year that was subject to less stringent standards than those that apply for current production (or is no longer covered by a certificate of conformity). You must comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section for any number of replacement engines you produce in excess of what we allow under paragraph (c) of this section. You must designate engines you produce under this section as tracked engines under paragraph (b) of this section or untracked engines under paragraph (c) of this section by the deadline for the report specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(2) Paragraph (e) of this section describes a simpler approach for exempting partially complete new replacement engines that are built under a certificate of conformity that is valid for producing engines for the current model year.

(3) For all the different approaches described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, the exemption applies only for equipment that is 40 years old or less at the time of installation.
