
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Exemptions and Exclusions
###### ยง 1068.240 Exempting new replacement engines.
####### Previous-tier replacement engines with tracking.

(b)You may produce any number of new engines to replace an engine already placed into service in a piece of equipment, as follows:

(1) The engine being replaced must have been either not originally subject to emission standards or originally subject to less stringent emission standards than those that apply to a new engine meeting current standards. The provisions of this paragraph (b) also apply for engines that were originally certified to the same standards that apply for the current model year if you no longer have a certificate of conformity to continue producing that engine configuration.

(2) The following requirements and conditions apply for engines exempted under this paragraph (b):

(i) You must determine that you do not produce an engine certified to meet current requirements that has the appropriate physical or performance characteristics to repower the equipment. If the engine being replaced was made by a different company, you must make this determination also for engines produced by this other company.

(ii) In the case of premature engine failure, if the old engine was subject to emission standards, you must make the new replacement engine in a configuration identical in all material respects to the old engine and meet the requirements of ยง 1068.265. You may alternatively make the new replacement engine in a configuration identical in all material respects to another certified engine of the same or later model year as long as the engine is not certified with a family emission limit higher than that of the old engine.

(iii) For cases not involving premature engine failure, you must make a separate determination for your own product line addressing every tier of emission standards that is more stringent than the emission standards for the engine being replaced. For example, if the engine being replaced was built before the Tier 1 standards started to apply and engines of that power category are currently subject to Tier 3 standards, you must also consider whether any Tier 1 or Tier 2 engines that you produce have the appropriate physical and performance characteristics for replacing the old engine; if you produce a Tier 2 engine with the appropriate physical and performance characteristics, you must use it as the replacement engine.

(iv) You must keep records to document your basis for making the determinations in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section.

(3) An old engine block replaced by a new engine exempted under this paragraph (b) may be reintroduced into U.S. commerce as part of an engine that meets either the current standards for new engines, the provisions for new replacement engines in this section, or another valid exemption. Otherwise, you must destroy the old engine block (or confirm that it has been destroyed), or export the engine block without its emission label. Note that this paragraph (b)(3) does not require engine manufacturers to take possession of the engine being replaced. Owners may arrange to keep the old engine if they demonstrate that the engine block has been destroyed. An engine block is destroyed under this paragraph (b)(3) if it can never be restored to a running configuration.

(4) If the old engine was subject to emission standards, the replacement engine must meet the appropriate emission standards as specified in ยง 1068.265. This generally means you must make the new replacement engine in a previously certified configuration.

(5) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, you must add a permanent label, consistent with ยง 1068.45, with your corporate name and trademark and the following additional information:

(i) Add the following statement if the new engine may only be used to replace an engine that was not subject to any emission standards under this chapter:

(ii) Add the following statement if the new engine may replace an engine that was subject to emission standards:

(6) Engines exempt under this paragraph (b) may not be introduced into U.S. commerce before you make the determinations under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, except as specified in this paragraph (b)(6). We may waive the restriction in this paragraph (b)(6) for engines identified under paragraph (c)(5) of this section that you ship to a distributor. Where we waive the restriction in this paragraph (b)(6), you must take steps to ensure that the engine is installed consistent with the requirements of this paragraph (b). For example, at a minimum you must report to us annually whether engines we allowed you to ship to a distributor under this paragraph (b)(6) have been placed into service or remain in inventory. After an engine is placed into service, your report must describe how the engine was installed consistent with the requirements of this paragraph (b). Send these reports to the Designated Compliance Officer by the deadlines we specify.
