
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Imports
###### ยง 1068.301 General provisions for importing engines/equipment.

(a) This subpart applies to you if you import into the United States engines or equipment subject to EPA emission standards or equipment containing engines subject to EPA emission standards.

(b) In general, engines/equipment that you import must be covered by a certificate of conformity unless they were built before emission standards started to apply. This subpart describes the limited cases where we allow importation of exempt or excluded engines/equipment. If an engine has an exemption from exhaust emission standards, you may import the equipment under the same exemption. Imported engines/equipment that are exempt or excluded must have a label as described in the specific exemption or exclusion. If the regulation does not include specific labeling requirements, apply a label meeting the requirements of ยง 1068.45 that identifies your corporate name and describes the basis for the exemption or exclusion.

(c) U.S. Customs and Border Protection may prevent you from importing engines or equipment if you do not meet the requirements of this subpart. In addition, U.S. Customs and Border Protection regulations may contain other requirements for engines/equipment imported into the United States (see 19 CFR Chapter I).
