
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Exemptions and Exclusions
###### § 1068.215 Exempting manufacturer-owned engines/equipment.
####### See

(b) Engines/equipment may be exempt without a request if they are nonconforming engines/equipment under your ownership, possession, and control and you do not operate them for purposes other than to develop products, assess production methods, or promote your engines/equipment in the marketplace, or other purposes we approve. You may not loan, lease, sell, or use the engine/equipment to generate revenue, either by itself or for an engine installed in a piece of equipment, except as allowed by § 1068.201(i). Note that this paragraph (b) does not prevent the sale or shipment of a partially complete engine to a secondary engine manufacturer that will meet the requirements of this paragraph (b).§ 1068.262 for provisions related to shipping partially complete engines to secondary engine manufacturers.

(c) To use this exemption, you must do three things:

(1) Establish, maintain, and keep adequately organized and indexed information on all exempted engines/equipment, including the engine/equipment identification number, the use of the engine/equipment on exempt status, and the final disposition of any engine/equipment removed from exempt status.

(2) Let us access these records, as described in § 1068.20.

(3) Add a permanent label to all engines/equipment exempted under this section, consistent with § 1068.45, with at least the following items:

(i) The label heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(ii) Your corporate name and trademark.

(iii) Family identification and model year of the engine/equipment (as applicable), or whom to contact for further information.

(iv) The statement: "THIS [engine, equipment, vehicle, etc.] IS EXEMPT UNDER 40 CFR 1068.210 OR 1068.215 FROM EMISSION STANDARDS AND RELATED REQUIREMENTS."
