
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Reporting Defects and Recalling Engines/Equipment
###### ยง 1068.501 How do I report emission-related defects?
####### How to count defects.

(g)(1) Track defects separately for each model year and family as much as possible. If information is not identifiable by model year or family, use good engineering judgment to evaluate whether you exceed a threshold in paragraph (e) or

(f) of this section. Consider only your U.S.-directed production volume.

(2) Within a family, track defects together for all components or systems that are the same in all material respects. If multiple companies separately supply a particular component or system, treat each company's component or system as unique.

(3) For engine-based standards, if a possible defect is not attributed to any specific part of the engine, consider the complete engine a distinct component for evaluating whether you exceed a threshold in paragraph (e) of this section. For equipment-based standards, if a possible defect is not attributed to any specific part of the equipment, consider the complete piece of equipment a distinct component for evaluating whether you exceed a threshold in paragraph (e) of this section.

(4) If you correct defects before they reach the ultimate purchaser as a result of your quality-assurance procedures, count these against the investigation thresholds in paragraph (e) of this section unless you routinely check every engine or piece of equipment in the family. Do not count any corrected defects as actual defects under paragraph (f) of this section.

(5) Use aggregated data from all the different sources identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to determine whether you exceed a threshold in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.

(6) If information is readily available to conclude that the possible defects identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are actual defects, count these toward the reporting thresholds in paragraph (f) of this section.

(7) During an investigation, use appropriate statistical methods to project defect rates for engines/equipment that you are not otherwise able to evaluate. For example, if 75 percent of the components replaced under warranty are available for evaluation, it would be appropriate to extrapolate known information on failure rates to the components that are unavailable for evaluation. Take steps as necessary to prevent bias in sampled data. Make adjusted calculations to take into account any bias that may remain.
