
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Selective Enforcement Auditing
###### ยง 1068.450 What records must I send to EPA?

(a) Within 30 days of the end of each audit, send us a report with the following information:

(1) Describe any facility used to test production-line engines/equipment and state its location.

(2) State the total U.S.-directed production volume and number of tests for each family.

(3) Describe your test engines/equipment, including the family's identification and the engine/equipment's model year, build date, model number, identification number, and number of hours of operation before testing for each test engine or piece of equipment.

(4) Identify where you accumulated hours of operation on the engines/equipment and describe the procedure and schedule you used.

(5) Provide the test number; the date, time and duration of testing; test procedure; initial test results before and after rounding; final test results; and final deteriorated test results for all tests. Provide the emission figures for all measured pollutants. Include information for both valid and invalid tests and the reason for any invalidation.

(6) Describe completely and justify any nonroutine adjustment, modification, repair, preparation, maintenance, or test for the test engine/equipment if you did not report it separately under this subpart. Include the results of any emission measurements, regardless of the procedure or type of equipment.

(7) Report on each failed engine or piece of equipment as described in ยง 1068.425.

(b) We may ask you to add information to your written report, so we can determine whether your new engines/equipment conform to the requirements of this subpart.

(c) An authorized representative of your company must sign the following statement: We submit this report under Sections 208 and 213 of the Clean Air Act. Our testing conformed completely with the requirements of 40 CFR part 1068. We have not changed production processes or quality-control procedures for the family in a way that might affect the emission control from production engines/equipment. All the information in this report is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I know of the penalties for violating the Clean Air Act and the regulations. (Authorized Company Representative)

(d) Send reports of your testing to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.

(e) We may post test results on publicly accessible databases and we will send copies of your reports to anyone from the public who asks for them, consistent with ยง 1068.11.
