
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Exemptions and Exclusions
###### ยง 1068.225 Exempting engines/equipment for national security.

The standards and requirements of the standard-setting part and the prohibitions in ยง 1068.101(a)(1) and (b) do not apply to engines exempted under this section.

(a) An engine/equipment is exempt without a request if it will be owned by an agency of the Federal Government responsible for national defense and it meets at least one of the following criteria:

(1) An engine is automatically exempt in cases where the equipment in which it will be installed has armor, permanently attached weaponry, or other substantial features typical of military combat. Similarly, equipment subject to equipment-based standards is automatically exempt if it has any of these same features.

(2) In the case of marine vessels with compression-ignition engines, an engine is automatically exempt if the vessel in which it will be installed has specialized electronic warfare systems, unique stealth performance requirements, or unique combat maneuverability requirements.

(3) Gas turbine engines installed in marine vessels are automatically exempt.

(4) An engine/equipment is automatically exempt if it would need sulfur-sensitive technology to comply with emission standards, and it is intended to be used in areas outside the United States where ultra low-sulfur fuel is unavailable.

(b) For the circumstances described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, an engine/equipment is also exempt without a request if it will be used, but not owned, by an agency of the Federal Government responsible for national defense.

(c) Manufacturers may produce and ship engines/equipment under an automatic exemption as described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section if they receive a written request for such engines/equipment from the appropriate federal agency.

(d) Manufacturers may request a national security exemption for engines/equipment not meeting the conditions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section as long as the request is endorsed by an agency of the Federal Government responsible for national defense. In your request, explain why you need the exemption.

(e) Add a permanent label to all engines/equipment exempted under this section, consistent with ยง 1068.45, with at least the following items:

(1) The label heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(2) Your corporate name and trademark.

(3) Engine displacement, family identification, and model year of the engine/equipment (as applicable), or whom to contact for further information.

(4) The statement: "THIS [engine, equipment, vehicle, etc.] HAS AN EXEMPTION FOR NATIONAL SECURITY UNDER 40 CFR 1068.225."
