
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Reporting Defects and Recalling Engines/Equipment
###### ยง 1068.501 How do I report emission-related defects?
####### General provisions.

(a)As a certifying manufacturer, you must investigate in certain circumstances whether engines/equipment that have been introduced into U.S. commerce under your certificate have incorrect, improperly installed, or otherwise defective emission-related components or systems. This includes defects in design, materials, or workmanship. You must also send us reports as specified by this section.

(1) This section addresses defects for any of the following emission-related components or systems containing the following components:

(i) Electronic control units, aftertreatment devices, fuel-metering components, EGR-system components, crankcase-ventilation valves, all components related to charge-air compression and cooling, and all sensors associated with any of these components.

(ii) For engines and equipment subject to evaporative emission standards, fuel tanks, fuel caps, and fuel lines and connectors.

(iii) Any other component whose primary purpose is to reduce emissions.

(iv) Any other component whose failure would commonly increase emissions of any regulated pollutant without significantly degrading engine/equipment performance.

(2) The requirements of this section relate to defects in any of the components or systems identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section if the defects might affect any of the parameters or specifications in Appendix II of this part or might otherwise affect the emissions of any regulated pollutant.

(3) For the purposes of this section, defects do not include damage to emission-related components or systems (or maladjustment of parameters) caused by owners improperly maintaining or abusing their engines/equipment.

(4) The requirements of this section do not apply to emission control information labels. Note however, that ยง 1068.101(a)(1) prohibits the sale of engines/equipment without proper labels, which also applies to misprinted labels.

(5) You must track the information specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. You must assess this data at least every three months to evaluate whether you exceed the thresholds specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section. Where thresholds are based on a percentage of engines/equipment in the family, use actual U.S.-directed production volumes for the whole model year when they become available. Use projected production figures until the actual production figures become available. You are not required to collect additional information other than that specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section before reaching a threshold for an investigation specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(6) You may ask us to allow you to use alternate methods for tracking, investigating, reporting, and correcting emission-related defects. In your request, explain and demonstrate why you believe your alternate system will be at least as effective in the aggregate in tracking, identifying, investigating, evaluating, reporting, and correcting potential and actual emissions-related defects as the requirements in this section. In this case, provide all available data necessary to demonstrate why an alternate system is appropriate for your engines/equipment and how it will result in a system at least as effective as that required under this section.

(7) If we determine that emission-related defects result in a substantial number of properly maintained and used engines/equipment not conforming to the regulations of this chapter during their useful life, we may order you to conduct a recall of your engines/equipment (see ยง 1068.505).

(8) Send all reports required by this section to the Designated Compliance Officer.

(9) This section distinguishes between defects and possible defects. A possible defect exists anytime there is an indication that an emission-related component or system might have a defect, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
