
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Reporting Defects and Recalling Engines/Equipment
###### ยง 1068.525 What records must I send to EPA?

(a) Send us a copy of all communications related to the remedial plan you sent to dealers and others doing the repairs. Mail or e-mail us the information at the same time you send it to others.

(b) From the time you begin to notify owners, send us a report within 25 days of the end of each calendar quarter. Send reports for six consecutive quarters or until all the engines/equipment are inspected, whichever comes first. In these reports, identify the following:

(1) The range of dates you needed to notify owners.

(2) The total number of notices sent.

(3) The number of engines/equipment you estimate fall under the remedial plan (explain how you determined this number).

(4) The cumulative number of engines/equipment you inspected under the remedial plan.

(5) The cumulative number of these engines/equipment you found needed the specified repair.

(6) The cumulative number of these engines/equipment you have repaired.

(7) The cumulative number of engines/equipment you determined to be unavailable due to exportation, theft, retirement, or other reasons (specify).

(8) The cumulative number of engines/equipment you disqualified for not being properly maintained or used.

(c) If your estimated number of engines/equipment falling under the remedial plan changes, change the estimate in your next report and add an explanation for the change.

(d) We may ask for more information.

(e) We may waive reporting requirements or adjust the reporting schedule.

(f) If anyone asks to see the information in your reports, we will follow the provisions of ยง 1068.10 for handling confidential information.
