
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Imports
###### ยง 1068.305 How do I get an exemption or exclusion for imported engines/equipment?

(a) You must meet the requirements of the specific exemption or exclusion you intend to use, including any labeling requirements that apply, and complete the appropriate declaration form described in ยง 1068.301(d).

(b) If we ask for it, prepare a written request in which you do the following:

(1) Give your name, address, and telephone number.

(2) Give the engine/equipment owner's name, address, and telephone number.

(3) Identify the make, model, identification number, and original production year of all engines/equipment.

(4) Identify which exemption or exclusion in this subpart allows you to import nonconforming engines/equipment and describe how your engine/equipment qualifies.

(5) Tell us where you will keep your engines/equipment if you might need to store them until we approve your request.

(6) Authorize us to inspect or test your engines/equipment as the Clean Air Act allows.

(c) We may ask for more information.

(d) You may import the nonconforming engines/equipment you identify in your request if you get prior written approval from us. U.S. Customs and Border Protection may require you to present the approval letter. We may temporarily or permanently approve the exemptions or exclusions, as described in this subpart.
