
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Reporting Defects and Recalling Engines/Equipment
###### ยง 1068.501 How do I report emission-related defects?
####### Investigation reports.

(h)Once you trigger an investigation threshold under paragraph (e) of this section, you must report your progress and conclusions. In your reports, include the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section, or explain why the information is not relevant. Send us the following reports:

(1) While you are investigating, send us mid-year and end-of-year reports to describe the methods you are using and the status of the investigation. Send these status reports no later than June 30 and December 31 of each year.

(2) If you find that the number of components or systems with an emission-related defect exceeds a threshold specified in paragraph (f) of this section, send us a report describing your findings within 21 days after the date you reach this conclusion.

(3) If you find that the number of components or systems with an emission-related defect does not exceed any of the thresholds specified in paragraph (f) of this section, send us a final report supporting this conclusion. For example, you may exclude warranty claims that resulted from misdiagnosis and you may exclude defects caused by improper maintenance, improper use, or misfueling. Send this report within 21 days after the date you reach this conclusion.
