
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Reporting Defects and Recalling Engines/Equipment
###### ยง 1068.501 How do I report emission-related defects?
####### Investigation of possible defects.

(b)Investigate possible defects as follows:

(1) If the number of engines/equipment that have a possible defect, as defined by this paragraph (b)(1), exceeds a threshold specified in paragraph (e) of this section, you must conduct an investigation to determine if an emission-related component or system is actually defective. You must classify an engine/equipment component or system as having a possible defect if any of the following sources of information shows there is a significant possibility that a defect exists:

(i) A warranty claim is submitted for the component, whether this is under your emission-related warranty or any other warranty.

(ii) Your quality-assurance procedures suggest that a defect may exist.

(iii) You receive any other information for which good engineering judgment would indicate the component or system may be defective, such as information from dealers, field-service personnel, equipment manufacturers, hotline complaints, in-use testing, or engine diagnostic systems.

(2) If the number of shipped replacement parts for any individual component is high enough that good engineering judgment would indicate a significant possibility that a defect exists, you must conduct an investigation to determine if it is actually defective. Note that this paragraph (b)(2) does not require data-tracking or recording provisions related to shipment of replacement parts.

(3) Your investigation must be prompt, thorough, consider all relevant information, follow accepted scientific and engineering principles, and be designed to obtain all the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(4) Your investigation needs to consider possible defects that occur only within the useful life period, or within five years after the end of the model year, whichever is longer.

(5) You must continue your investigation until you are able to show that there is no emission-related defect or you obtain all the information specified for a defect report in paragraph (d) of this section.

(6) If a component with a possible defect is used in additional families or model years, you must investigate whether the component may be defective when used in these additional families or model years, and include these results in any defect report you send under paragraph (c) of this section.

(7) If your initial investigation concludes that the number of engines/equipment with a defect is fewer than any of the thresholds specified in paragraph (f) of this section, but other information later becomes available that may show that the number of engines/equipment with a defect exceeds a threshold, then you must resume your investigation. If you resume an investigation, you must include the information from the earlier investigation to determine whether to send a defect report.
