
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Exemptions and Exclusions
###### ยง 1068.240 Exempting new replacement engines.
####### Previous-tier replacement engines without tracking.

(c)You may produce a limited number of new replacement engines that are not from a currently certified engine family under the provisions of this paragraph (c). If you produce new engines under this paragraph (c) to replace engines subject to emission standards, the new replacement engine must be in a configuration identical in all material respects to the old engine and meet the requirements of ยง 1068.265. You may make the new replacement engine in a configuration identical in all material respects to another certified engine of the same or later model year as long as the engine is not certified with a family emission limit higher than that of the old engine. The provisions of this paragraph (c) also apply for engines that were originally certified to the same standards that apply for the current model year if you no longer have a certificate of conformity to continue producing that engine configuration. This would apply, for example, for engine configurations that were certified in an earlier model year but are no longer covered by a certificate of conformity. The following provisions apply to engines exempted under this paragraph (c):

(1) You may produce a limited number of replacement engines under this paragraph (c) representing 0.5 percent of your annual production volumes for each category and subcategory of engines identified in Table 1 to this section or five engines for each category and subcategory, whichever is greater. Calculate this number by multiplying your annual U.S.-directed production volume by 0.005 (or 0.01 through 2013) and rounding to the nearest whole number. Determine the appropriate production volume by identifying the highest total annual U.S.-directed production volume of engines from the previous three model years for all your certified engines from each category or subcategory identified in Table 1 to this section, as applicable. In unusual circumstances, you may ask us to base your production limits on U.S.-directed production volume for a model year more than three years prior. You may include stationary engines and exempted engines as part of your U.S.-directed production volume. Include U.S.-directed engines produced by any affiliated companies and those from any other companies you license to produce engines for you.

(2) Count every exempted new replacement engine from your total U.S.-directed production volume that you produce in a given calendar year under this paragraph (c), including partially complete engines, except for the following:

(i) Engines built to specifications for an earlier model year under paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) Partially complete engines exempted under paragraph (e) of this section.

(3) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a report by September 30 of the year following any year in which you produced exempted replacement engines under this paragraph (c).

(i) In your report include the total number of replacement engines you produce under this paragraph (c) for each category or subcategory, as appropriate, and the corresponding total production volumes determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If you send us a report under this paragraph (c)(3), you must also include the total number of complete and partially complete replacement engines you produced under paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section (including any replacement marine engines subject to reporting under 40 CFR 1042.615).

(ii) Count exempt engines as tracked under paragraph (b) of this section only if you meet all the requirements and conditions that apply under paragraph (b)(2) of this section by the due date for the annual report. In the annual report you must identify any replaced engines from the previous year whose final disposition is not resolved by the due date for the annual report. Continue to report those engines in later reports until the final disposition is resolved. If the final disposition of any replaced engine is not resolved for the fifth annual report following the production report, treat this as an untracked replacement in the fifth annual report for the preceding year.

(iii) You may include the information required under this paragraph (c)(3) in production reports required under the standard-setting part.

(4) Add a permanent label as specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. For partially complete engines, you may alternatively add a permanent or removable label as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(5) You may not use the provisions of this paragraph (c) for any engines in the following engine categories or subcategories:

(i) Land-based nonroad compression-ignition engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1039 with a per-cylinder displacement at or above 7.0 liters.

(ii) Marine compression-ignition engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1042 with a per-cylinder displacement at or above 7.0 liters.

(iii) Locomotive engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1033.
