
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 1090.20 Approval of submissions under this part.

(a) EPA may approve any submission required or allowed under this part if the request for approval satisfies all specified requirements.

(b) EPA may impose terms and conditions on any approval of any submission required or allowed under this part.

(c) EPA will deny any request for approval if the submission is incomplete, contains inaccurate or misleading information, or does not meet all specified requirements.

(d) EPA may revoke any prior approval under this part for cause. For cause includes, but is not limited to, any of the following:

(1) The approval has proved inadequate in practice.

(2) The party fails to notify EPA if information that the approval was based on substantively changed after the approval was granted.

(e) EPA may also revoke and void any approval under this part effective from the approval date for cause. Cause for voiding an approval includes, but is not limited to, any of the following:

(1) The approval was not fully or diligently implemented.

(2) The approval was based on false, misleading, or inaccurate information.

(3) Failure of a party to fulfill or cause to be fulfilled any term or condition of an approval under this part.

(f) Any person that has an approval revoked or voided under this part is liable for any resulting violation of the requirements of this part.
