
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 1090.50 Rounding.

(a) Unless otherwise specified, round values to the number of significant digits necessary to match the number of decimal places of the applicable standard or specification. Perform all rounding as specified in 40 CFR 1065.20(e)(1) through (6). This convention is consistent with ASTM E29 and NIST SP 811.

(b) Do not round intermediate values to transfer data unless the rounded number has at least 6 significant digits.

(c) When calculating a specified percentage of a given value, the specified percentage is understood to have infinite precision. For example, if an allowable limit is specified as a fuel volume representing 1 percent of total volume produced, calculate the allowable volume by multiplying total volume by exactly 0.01.

(d) Measurement devices that incorporate internal rounding may be used, consistent with the following provisions:

(1) Devices may use any rounding convention if they report 6 or more significant digits.

(2) Devices that report fewer than 6 significant digits may be used, consistent with the accuracy and repeatability specifications of the procedures specified in subpart N of this part.

(e) Use one of the following rounding conventions for all batch volumes in a given compliance period, and for all reporting under this part:

(1) Identify batch volume in gallons to the nearest whole gallon.

(2)(i) Round batch volumes between 1,000 and 11,000 gallons to the nearest 10 gallons.

(ii) Round batch volumes above 11,000 gallons to the nearest 100 gallons.
