
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 1090.1 Applicability and relationship to other parts.

(a) This part specifies fuel quality standards for gasoline and diesel fuel introduced into commerce in the United States. Additional requirements apply for fuel used in certain marine applications, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) The regulations include standards for fuel parameters that directly or indirectly affect vehicle, engine, and equipment emissions, air quality, and public health. The regulations also include standards and requirements for fuel additives and regulated blendstocks that are components of the fuels regulated under this part.

(2) This part also specifies requirements for any person that engages in activities associated with the production, distribution, storage, and sale of fuels, fuel additives, and regulated blendstocks, such as collecting and testing samples for regulated parameters, reporting information to EPA to demonstrate compliance with fuel quality requirements, and performing other compliance measures to implement the standards. A party that produces and distributes other related products, such as heating oil, may need to meet certain reporting, recordkeeping, labeling, or other requirements of this part.

(b)(1) The International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973 as modified by the Protocol of 1978 Annex VI ("MARPOL Annex VI") is an international treaty that sets maximum sulfur content for fuel used in marine vessels, including separate standards for marine vessels navigating in a designated Emission Control Area (ECA). These standards and related requirements are specified in 40 CFR part 1043. This part also sets corresponding sulfur standards that apply to any person who produces or handles ECA marine fuel.

(2) This part also includes requirements for parties involved in the production and distribution of IMO marine fuel, such as collecting and testing samples of fuels for regulated parameters, reporting information to EPA to demonstrate compliance with fuel quality requirements, and performing other compliance measures to implement the standards.

(c) The requirements for the registration of fuel and fuel additives under 42 U.S.C. 7545(a), (b), and (e) are specified in 40 CFR part 79. A party that must meet the requirements of this part may also need to comply with the requirements for the registration of fuel and fuel additives under 40 CFR part 79.

(d) The requirements for the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) are specified in 40 CFR part 80, subpart M. A party that must meet the requirements of this part may also need to comply with the requirements for the RFS program under 40 CFR part 80, subpart M.

(e) Nothing in this part is intended to preempt the ability of state or local governments to control or prohibit any fuel or fuel additive for use in motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines that is not explicitly regulated by this part.
