
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1068 - GENERAL COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS FOR HIGHWAY, STATIONARY, AND NONROAD PROGRAMS
##### Subpart G - Hearings
###### ยง 1068.650 Procedures for informal hearings.

(a) The following provisions apply for arranging the hearing:

(1) After granting your request for an informal hearing, we will designate a Presiding Officer for the hearing.

(2) The Presiding Officer will select the time and place for the hearing. The hearing must be held as soon as practicable for all parties involved.

(3) The Presiding Officer may require that all argument and presentation of evidence be concluded by a certain date after commencement of the hearing.

(b) The Presiding Officer will establish a paper or electronic hearing record, which may be made available for inspection. The hearing record includes, but is not limited to, the following materials:

(1) All documents relating to the application for certification, including the certificate of conformity itself, if applicable.

(2) Your request for a hearing and the accompanying supporting data.

(3) Correspondence and other data relevant to the hearing.

(4) The Presiding Officer's written decision regarding the subject of the hearing, together with any accompanying material.

(c) You may appear in person or you may be represented by counsel or by any other representative you designate.

(d) The Presiding Officer may arrange for a prehearing conference, either in response to a request from any party or at his or her own discretion. The Presiding Officer will select the time and place for the prehearing conference. The Presiding Officer will summarize the results of the conference and include the written summary as part of the record. The prehearing conference may involve consideration of the following items:

(1) Simplification of the issues.

(2) Stipulations, admissions of fact, and the introduction of documents.

(3) Limitation of the number of expert witnesses.

(4) Possibility of reaching an agreement to resolve any or all of the issues in dispute.

(5) Any other matters that may aid in expeditiously and successfully concluding the hearing.

(e) Hearings will be conducted as follows:

(1) The Presiding Officer will conduct informal hearings in an orderly and expeditious manner. The parties may offer oral or written evidence; however, the Presiding Officer may exclude evidence that is irrelevant, immaterial, or repetitious.

(2) Witnesses will not be required to testify under oath; however, the Presiding Officer must make clear that 18 U.S.C. 1001 specifies civil and criminal penalties for knowingly making false statements or representations or using false documents in any matter within the jurisdiction of EPA or any other department or agency of the United States.

(3) Any witness may be examined or cross-examined by the Presiding Officer, by you, or by any other parties.

(4) Written transcripts must be made for all hearings. Anyone may purchase copies of transcripts from the reporter.

(f) The Presiding Officer will make a final decision with written findings, conclusions and supporting rationale on all the substantial factual issues presented in the record. The findings, conclusions, and written decision must be provided to the parties and made a part of the record.
