
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 1090.5 Implementation dates.
####### e.g.,

(2) Unless otherwise specified (in-line blending waivers for gasoline as specified in paragraph (b)(8) of this section), any approval granted under 40 CFR part 80 continues to be in effect under this part. For example, if EPA approved the use of an alternative label under 40 CFR part 80, that approval continues to be valid under this part, subject to any conditions specified for the approval.

(3) Unless otherwise specified, a regulated party must use the provisions of 40 CFR part 80 in 2021 to demonstrate compliance with regulatory requirements for the 2020 calendar year. This applies to calculating credits for the 2020 compliance period, and to any sampling, testing, reporting, and auditing related to fuels, fuel additives, and regulated blendstocks produced or imported in 2020.

(4) Any testing to establish the precision and accuracy of alternative test procedures under 40 CFR part 80 continues to be valid under this part.

(5) Requirements to keep records and retain fuel samples related to actions taken before January 1, 2021, continue to be in effect, as specified in 40 CFR part 80.

(6) A party may comply with the PTD requirements of 40 CFR part 80 instead of the requirements of subpart L of this part until May 1, 2021.

(7) A party may comply with the automatic sampling provisions of 40 CFR 80.8 instead of the requirements in § 1090.1335(c) until January 1, 2022.

(8) A gasoline manufacturer may operate under an in-line blending waiver issued under 40 CFR part 80 until January 1, 2022, or until EPA approves a revised in-line blending waiver under § 1090.1315, whichever is earlier. The following provisions apply:

(i) A gasoline manufacturer operating under an in-line blending waiver under 40 CFR 80.65 must monitor and test for sulfur content, benzene content, and for summer gasoline, RVP, and may discontinue monitoring and testing for other properties that are included in their in-line blending waiver.

(ii) The auditing requirements in § 1090.1850 do not apply to an in-line blending waiver issued under 40 CFR part 80.

(c) The following requirements apply for the 2021 compliance period:

(1) The NSTOP specified in § 1090.1450 must begin no later than June 1, 2021.

(2) A gasoline manufacturer that accounts for oxygenate added downstream under § 1090.710 is deemed compliant with the requirement to participate in the NSTOP specified in § 1090.710(a)(3) until June 1, 2021, if the gasoline manufacturer meets all other applicable requirements specified in § 1090.710.

(3) The independent surveyor conducting the NSTOP must submit the proof of contract required under § 1090.1400(b) no later than April 15, 2021.

(4) The independent surveyor may collect only one summer or winter gasoline sample for each participating fuel manufacturing facility instead of the minimum two samples required under § 1090.1450(c)(2)(i).
