
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 22 - CONSOLIDATED RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING THE ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND THE REVOCATION/TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMITS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 22.4 Powers and duties of the Environmental Appeals Board, Regional Judicial Officer and Presiding Officer; disqualification, withdrawal, and reassignment.
####### Regional Judicial Officer.

(b)Each Regional Administrator shall delegate to one or more Regional Judicial Officers authority to act as Presiding Officer in proceedings under subpart I of this part, and to act as Presiding Officer until the respondent files an answer in proceedings under these Consolidated Rules of Practice to which subpart I of this part does not apply. The Regional Administrator may also delegate to one or more Regional Judicial Officers the authority to approve settlement of proceedings pursuant to ยง 22.18(b)(3). These delegations will not prevent a Regional Judicial Officer from referring any motion or case to the Regional Administrator. A Regional Judicial Officer shall be an attorney who is a permanent or temporary employee of the Agency or another Federal agency and who may perform other duties within the Agency. A Regional Judicial Officer shall not have performed prosecutorial or investigative functions in connection with any case in which he serves as a Regional Judicial Officer. A Regional Judicial Officer shall not knowingly preside over a case involving any party concerning whom the Regional Judicial Officer performed any functions of prosecution or investigation within the 2 years preceding the commencement of the case. A Regional Judicial Officer shall not prosecute enforcement cases and shall not be supervised by any person who supervises the prosecution of enforcement cases, but may be supervised by the Regional Counsel.
