
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart F - Transmix and Pipeline Interface Provisions
###### ยง 1090.500 Gasoline produced from blending transmix into PCG.
####### Quality assurance program.

(c)(1) The quality assurance program must be designed to assure that the type and amount of transmix blended into PCG will not cause violations of the applicable fuel quality standards.

(2) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, as a part of the quality assurance program, a transmix blender must collect samples of gasoline after blending transmix and test the samples to ensure the end-point temperature of the resultant transmix-blended gasoline does not exceed 437 degrees Fahrenheit, using one of the following sampling methods:

(i) For transmix that is blended in a tank (including a tank on a barge), collect a representative sample of the resultant transmix-blended gasoline following each occasion transmix is blended.

(ii) For transmix that is blended by a computer controlled in-line blending system, the transmix blender must collect composite samples of the resultant transmix-blended gasoline at least twice each calendar month during which transmix is blended.

(3) Any transmix blender may petition EPA for approval of a quality assurance program that does not include the minimum sampling and testing requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. To seek approval for such an alternative quality assurance program, the transmix blender must submit a petition to EPA that includes all the following:

(i) A detailed description of the quality assurance procedures to be carried out at each location where transmix is blended into PCG, including a description of how the transmix blender proposes to determine the ratio of transmix that can be blended with PCG without violating any of the applicable standards in this part, and a description of how the transmix blender proposes to determine that the gasoline produced by the transmix blending operation meets the applicable standards.

(ii) A letter signed by the RCO or their delegate stating that the information contained in the submission is true to the best of their belief must accompany the petition.

(iii) A transmix blender that petitions EPA to use an alternative quality assurance program must comply with any request by EPA for additional information or any other requirements that EPA includes as part of EPA's evaluation of the petition. However, the transmix blender may withdraw their petition or approved use of an alternative quality assurance program at any time, upon notice to EPA.
