
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart D - Diesel Fuel and ECA Marine Fuel Standards
###### § 1090.300 Overview and general requirements.

(a) Diesel fuel is subject to the ULSD standards in § 1090.305, except as follows:

(1) Alternative sulfur standards apply for 500 ppm LM diesel fuel and ECA marine fuel as specified in §§ 1090.320 and 1090.325, respectively.

(2) Exemption provisions apply as specified in subpart G of this part.

(b) Diesel fuel additives must meet the requirements in § 1090.310.

(c) A diesel fuel manufacturer or diesel fuel additive manufacturer must demonstrate compliance with the standards in this subpart by measuring fuel parameters in accordance with subpart N of this part.

(d) All the standards in this part apply to diesel fuel and diesel fuel additives on a per-gallon basis.

(e)(1) No person may produce, import, sell, offer for sale, distribute, offer to distribute, supply, offer for supply, dispense, store, transport, or introduce into commerce any diesel fuel, ECA marine fuel, or diesel fuel additive that does not meet any standard set forth in this subpart.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(1) of this section, an importer may import diesel fuel that does not comply with the standards set forth in this subpart if all the following conditions are met:

(i) The importer offloads the imported diesel fuel into one or more tanks that are physically located at the same import facility at which the imported diesel fuel first arrives in the United States or at a facility to which the imported diesel fuel is directly transported from the import facility at which the imported diesel fuel first arrived in the United States.

(ii) The importer uses the imported diesel fuel to produce one or more new batches of diesel fuel.

(iii) The importer certifies each new batch of diesel fuel under § 1090.1000(c) and demonstrates that it complies with the standards in this subpart by measuring fuel parameters in accordance with subpart N of this part before custody or title to each new batch of diesel fuel is transferred.

(f) No fuel or fuel additive manufacturer may introduce into commerce diesel fuel or diesel fuel additives that are not "substantially similar" under 42 U.S.C. 7545(f)(1) or permitted under a waiver granted under 42 U.S.C. 7545(f)(4).

(g) Distillate global marine fuel that does not qualify for an exemption under § 1090.650 is subject to the standards, requirements, and prohibitions that apply for ULSD under this part.

(h) No person may introduce used motor oil, or used motor oil blended with diesel fuel, into the fuel system of model year 2007 or later diesel motor vehicles or engines or model year 2011 or later nonroad diesel vehicles or engines (not including locomotive or marine diesel engines).
