
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart F - Transmix and Pipeline Interface Provisions
###### ยง 1090.500 Gasoline produced from blending transmix into PCG.
####### Requirements.

(b)(1) The distillation end-point of the resultant transmix-blended gasoline must not exceed 437 degrees Fahrenheit.

(2) The resultant transmix-blended gasoline must meet the downstream sulfur per-gallon standard in ยง 1090.205(c) and the applicable RVP standard in ยง 1090.215.

(3) The transmix blender must comply with the recordkeeping requirements in ยง 1090.1255.

(4) The transmix blender must maintain and follow a written quality assurance program that meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(5) In the event that the test result for any sample collected under the quality assurance program specified in paragraph (c) of this section indicates that the gasoline does not comply with any of the applicable standards in this part, the transmix blender must do all the following:

(i) Immediately take steps to stop the sale of the gasoline that was sampled.

(ii) Take reasonable steps to determine the cause of the noncompliance and prevent future instances of noncompliance.

(iii) Notify EPA of the noncompliance.

(iv) If the transmix was blended by a computer controlled in-line blending system, increase the rate of sampling and testing to a minimum frequency of once per week and a maximum frequency of once per day and continue the increased frequency of sampling and testing until the results of 10 consecutive samples and tests indicate that the gasoline complies with applicable standards, at which time the sampling and testing may be conducted at the original frequency.
