
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart C - Gasoline Standards
###### ยง 1090.290 Changes to RFG covered areas and procedures for opting out of RFG.
####### New RFG covered areas.

(a)(1) Effective 1 year after an area has been reclassified as a Severe ozone nonattainment area under 42 U.S.C. 7511(b), such Severe area will become a covered area under the RFG program as required by 42 U.S.C. 7545(k)(10)(D). The geographic extent of each such covered area must be the nonattainment area boundaries as specified in 40 CFR part 81, subpart C, for the ozone NAAQS that was the subject of the reclassification.

(2) Any classified ozone nonattainment area identified in 40 CFR part 81, subpart C, as Marginal, Moderate, Serious, or Severe may be included as a covered area upon the request of the governor of the state in which the area is located. EPA must do all the following:

(i) Publish the governor's request in theupon receipt.

(ii) Establish an effective date that is not later than 1 year after the request is received unless EPA determines that there is insufficient capacity to supply RFG as required by 42 U.S.C. 7545(k)(6)(A)(ii).

(3) Any ozone attainment area in the ozone transport region established by 42 U.S.C. 7511c(a) may be included as a covered area upon petition by the governor of the state in which the area is located as required by 42 U.S.C. 7545(k)(6)(B)(i). EPA must do all the following:

(i) Publish the governor's request in theas soon as practicable after it is received.

(ii) Establish an effective date that is not later than 180 days after the request is received unless EPA determines that there is insufficient capacity to supply RFG as required by 42 U.S.C. 7545(k)(6)(B)(iii).
