
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart C - Gasoline Standards
###### ยง 1090.290 Changes to RFG covered areas and procedures for opting out of RFG.
####### Procedure for opting out of RFG.

(d)EPA may approve a request from a state asking for either the removal of an RFG opt-in area (or portion of an RFG opt-in area), or the removal of a covered area (or portion of a covered area) under 42 U.S.C. 7545(k)(10)(D) that meets the criteria in paragraph (c) of this section, from the list of RFG covered areas in ยง 1090.285 if it meets the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section. If EPA approves such a request, an effective date will be set as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. EPA will notify the state in writing of EPA's action on the request and the effective date of the removal when the request is approved.

(1) An opt-out request must be signed by the governor of a state, or the governor's authorized representative, and must include all the following:

(i) A geographic description of each RFG area (or portion of each RFG area) that is covered by the request.

(ii) A description of all the means in which emissions reductions from RFG are relied upon in any approved SIP or any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved by EPA.

(iii) For an RFG area covered by the request where emissions reductions from RFG are relied upon as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the request must include all the following information:

(A) Identify whether the state is withdrawing any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved.
