
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart C - Gasoline Standards
###### ยง 1090.290 Changes to RFG covered areas and procedures for opting out of RFG.
####### 2

() A description of the state's plans and schedule for adopting and submitting any revision to any approved SIP or any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved.

(C) If the state is not withdrawing any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved and does not intend to submit a revision to any approved SIP or any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved, describe why no revision is necessary.

(iv) The governor of a state, or the governor's authorized representative, must submit additional information upon request by EPA.

(2)(i) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, EPA will set an effective date of the RFG opt-out as requested by the governor, or the governor's authorized representative, but no less than 90 days from EPA's written notification to the state approving the RFG opt-out request.

(ii) Where emissions reductions from RFG are included in an approved SIP or any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved, other than as a contingency measure consisting of a future opt-in to RFG, EPA will set an effective date of the RFG opt-out as requested by the governor, or the governor's authorized representative, but no less than 90 days from the effective date of EPA approval of the SIP revision that removes the emissions reductions from RFG, and, if necessary, provides emissions reductions to make up for those from RFG opt-out.

(iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, for an area in the ozone transport region that opted into RFG under 42 U.S.C. 7545(k)(6)(B), EPA will not set the effective date for removal of the area earlier than 4 years after the commencement date of opt-in.

(4) EPA will publish a notice in theannouncing the approval of an RFG opt-out request and its effective date.

(5) Upon the effective date for the removal of an RFG area (or portion of an RFG area) included in an approved request, such geographic area will no longer be considered an RFG covered area.
