
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart C - Gasoline Standards
###### ยง 1090.295 Procedures for relaxing the federal 7.8 psi RVP standard.

(a) EPA may approve a request from a state asking for relaxation of the federal 7.8 psi RVP standard for any area (or portion of an area) required to use such gasoline, if it meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. If EPA approves such a request, an effective date will be set as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. EPA will notify the state in writing of EPA's action on the request and the effective date of the relaxation when the request is approved.

(b) The request must be signed by the governor of the state, or the governor's authorized representative, and must include all the following:

(1) A geographic description of each federal 7.8 psi gasoline area (or portion of such area) that is covered by the request.

(2) A description of all the means in which emissions reduction from the federal 7.8 psi gasoline are relied upon in any approved SIP or in any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved by EPA.

(3) For any federal 7.8 psi gasoline area covered by the request where emissions reductions from the federal 7.8 psi gasoline are relied upon as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the request must include the following information:

(i) Identify whether the state is withdrawing any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved.

(ii)(A) Identify whether the state intends to submit a SIP revision to any approved SIP or any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved, which relies on emissions reductions from federal 7.8 psi gasoline, and describe any control measures that the state plans to submit to EPA for approval to replace the emissions reductions from federal 7.8 psi gasoline.

(B) A description of the state's plans and schedule for adopting and submitting any revision to any approved SIP or any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved.

(iii) If the state is not withdrawing any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved and does not intend to submit a revision to any approved SIP or any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved, describe why no revision is necessary.

(4) The governor of a state, or the governor's authorized representative, must submit additional information upon request by EPA.

(c)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, EPA will set an effective date of the relaxation of the federal 7.8 psi RVP standard as requested by the governor, or the governor's authorized representative, but no less than 90 days from EPA's written notification to the state approving the relaxation request.

(2) Where emissions reductions from the federal 7.8 psi gasoline are included in an approved SIP or any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved, EPA will set an effective date of the relaxation of the federal 7.8 psi RVP standard as requested by the governor, or the governor's authorized representative, but no less than 90 days from the effective date of EPA approval of the SIP revision that removes the emissions reductions from the federal 7.8 psi gasoline, and, if necessary, provides emissions reductions to make up for those from the federal 7.8 psi gasoline relaxation.

(d) EPA will publish a notice in theannouncing the approval of any federal 7.8 psi gasoline relaxation request and its effective date.

(e) Upon the effective date for the relaxation of the federal 7.8 psi RVP standard in a subject area (or portion of a subject area) included in an approved request, such geographic area will no longer be considered a federal 7.8 psi gasoline area.

(f) EPA will periodically publish a final rule revising the list of areas subject to the federal 7.8 psi RVP standard in ยง 1090.215(a)(2).
