
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart G - Exemptions, Hardships, and Special Provisions
###### ยง 1090.610 Temporary research, development, and testing exemptions.
####### Information required to be submitted.

(c)To aid in demonstrating each of the elements in paragraph (b) of this section, the person requesting an exemption must include, at a minimum, all the following information:

(1) A concise statement of the purpose of the program demonstrating that the program has an appropriate R&D purpose.

(2) An explanation of why the stated purpose of the program is unable to be achieved in a practicable manner without meeting the requirements of this part.

(3) A demonstration of the reasonableness of the scope of the program, including all the following:

(i) An estimate of the program's duration in time (including beginning and ending dates).

(ii) An estimate of the maximum number of vehicles, engines, and equipment involved in the program, and the number of miles and engine hours that will be accumulated on each.

(iii) The manner in which the information on vehicles, engines, or equipment used in the program will be recorded and made available to EPA upon request.

(iv) The quantity of the fuel that does not comply with the requirements of this part, as applicable.

(v) The specific applicable standard(s) of this part that would apply to the fuel expected to be used in the program.

(4) With regard to control, a demonstration that the program affords EPA a monitoring capability, including all the following:

(i) A description of the technical and operational aspects of the program.

(ii) The site(s) of the program (including facility name, street address, city, county, state, and ZIP code).

(iii) The manner in which information on vehicles, engines, and equipment used in the program will be recorded and made available to EPA upon request.

(iv) The manner in which information on the fuel used in the program (including quantity, fuel properties, name, address, telephone number, and contact person of the supplier, and the date received from the supplier) will be recorded and made available to EPA upon request.

(v) The manner in which the party will ensure that the fuel will be segregated from fuel that meets the requirements of subparts C and D of this part, as applicable, and how fuel dispensers will be labeled to ensure that the fuel is not dispensed for use in motor vehicles or nonroad engines, vehicles, or equipment, including locomotive or marine engines, that are part of the R&D test program.

(vi) The name, business address, telephone number, and title of the person(s) in the organization requesting an exemption from whom further information on the application may be obtained.

(vii) The name, business address, telephone number, and title of the person(s) in the organization requesting an exemption who is responsible for recording and making available the information specified in this paragraph (c), and the location where such information will be maintained.

(viii) Any other information requested by EPA to determine whether the test program satisfies the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section.
