
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading Provisions
###### ยง 1090.700 Compliance with average standards.
####### Inclusions.

(d)A gasoline manufacturer must include the following products that they produced or imported during the compliance period in their compliance calculations:

(1) CG.

(2) RFG.

(3) BOB.

(4) Added gasoline volume resulting from the production of gasoline from PCG as follows:

(i) For PCG by subtraction under ยง 1090.1320(a)(1), include the PCG batch as a batch with a negative volume, positive sulfur content, and positive benzene content and include the new batch of gasoline as a batch with a positive volume, positive sulfur content, and positive benzene content in compliance calculations under this section. Any negative compliance sulfur value or compliance benzene value must be reported as zero and not as a negative result.

(ii) For PCG by addition under ยง 1090.1320(a)(2), include only the blendstock added to make the new batch of gasoline as a batch with a positive volume, positive sulfur content, and positive benzene content in compliance calculations under this section. Do not include any test results or volumes for the PCG or new batch of gasoline in these calculations.

(5)(i) Inclusion of a particular batch of gasoline for compliance calculations for a compliance period is based on the date the batch is produced, not shipped. For example, a batch produced on December 30, 2021, but shipped on January 2, 2022, would be included in the compliance calculations for the 2021 compliance period. The volume included in the 2021 compliance period for that batch would be the entire batch volume, even though the shipment of all or some of the batch did not occur until 2022.

(ii) For PCG by subtraction under ยง 1090.1320(a)(1), include PCG in the compliance period in which it was blended with blendstock. This may necessitate reporting a portion of the volume of PCG received in one compliance period as a separate PCG batch in the following compliance period.
