
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 22 - CONSOLIDATED RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING THE ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND THE REVOCATION/TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMITS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 22.4 Powers and duties of the Environmental Appeals Board, Regional Judicial Officer and Presiding Officer; disqualification, withdrawal, and reassignment.
####### Disqualification, withdrawal and reassignment.

(d)(1) The Administrator, the Regional Administrator, the members of the Environmental Appeals Board, the Regional Judicial Officer, or the Administrative Law Judge may not perform functions provided for in these Consolidated Rules of Practice regarding any matter in which they have a financial interest or have any relationship with a party or with the subject matter which would make it inappropriate for them to act. Any party may at any time by motion to the Administrator, Regional Administrator, a member of the Environmental Appeals Board, the Regional Judicial Officer or the Administrative Law Judge request that he or she disqualify himself or herself from the proceeding. If such a motion to disqualify the Regional Administrator, Regional Judicial Officer or Administrative Law Judge is denied, a party may appeal that ruling to the Environmental Appeals Board. If a motion to disqualify a member of the Environmental Appeals Board is denied, a party may appeal that ruling to the Administrator. There shall be no interlocutory appeal of the ruling on a motion for disqualification. The Administrator, the Regional Administrator, a member of the Environmental Appeals Board, the Regional Judicial Officer, or the Administrative Law Judge may at any time withdraw from any proceeding in which he deems himself disqualified or unable to act for any reason.

(2) If the Administrator, the Regional Administrator, the Regional Judicial Officer, or the Administrative Law Judge is disqualified or withdraws from the proceeding, a qualified individual who has none of the infirmities listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be assigned as a replacement. The Administrator shall assign a replacement for a Regional Administrator who withdraws or is disqualified. Should the Administrator withdraw or be disqualified, the Regional Administrator from the Region where the case originated shall replace the Administrator. If that Regional Administrator would be disqualified, the Administrator shall assign a Regional Administrator from another Region to replace the Administrator. The Regional Administrator shall assign a new Regional Judicial Officer if the original Regional Judicial Officer withdraws or is disqualified. The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall assign a new Administrative Law Judge if the original Administrative Law Judge withdraws or is disqualified.

(3) The Chief Administrative Law Judge, at any stage in the proceeding, may reassign the case to an Administrative Law Judge other than the one originally assigned in the event of the unavailability of the Administrative Law Judge or where reassignment will result in efficiency in the scheduling of hearings and would not prejudice the parties.
