
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart I - Registration
###### ยง 1090.815 Deactivation (involuntary cancellation) of registration.
####### Criteria for deactivation.

(a)EPA may deactivate the registration of any party, or any of a party's facilities, required to register under this part, using the process specified in paragraph (b) of this section, if any of the following criteria are met:

(1) The party has not accessed their account or engaged in any registration or reporting activity within the most recent 24 months.

(2) The party has failed to comply with the registration requirements of this subpart.

(3) The party has failed to submit any required notification or report within 30 days of the required submission date.

(4) Any required attest engagement has not been received within 30 days of the required submission date.

(5) The party fails to pay a penalty or to perform any requirement under the terms of a court order, administrative order, consent decree, or administrative settlement between the party and EPA.

(6) The party submits false or incomplete information.

(7) The party denies EPA access or prevents EPA from completing authorized activities under section 114 or 208 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7414 or 7542) despite presenting a warrant or court order. This includes a failure to provide reasonable assistance.

(8) The party fails to keep or provide the records required under subpart M of this part.

(9) The party otherwise circumvents the intent of the Clean Air Act or of this part.
