
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart G - Exemptions, Hardships, and Special Provisions
###### ยง 1090.625 Exemptions for California gasoline and diesel fuel.
####### California gasoline and diesel fuel requirements.

(b)(1) Each batch of California gasoline or diesel fuel must be designated as such by its fuel manufacturer.

(2) Designated California gasoline or diesel fuel must be segregated from fuel that is not California gasoline or diesel fuel at all points in the distribution system.

(3) Except for as specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, designated California gasoline or diesel fuel must ultimately be used only in the state of California.

(4) Transferors and transferees of California gasoline or diesel fuel produced outside the state of California must meet the PTD requirements of subpart L of this part.

(5) Each transferor and transferee of California gasoline or diesel fuel produced outside the state of California must maintain copies of the PTDs as specified in subpart M of this part.

(6) California gasoline or diesel fuel must not be used in any part of the United States outside of the state of California unless the manufacturer or distributor recertifies or redesignates the batch of California gasoline or diesel fuel as specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.
