
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart G - Exemptions, Hardships, and Special Provisions
###### ยง 1090.650 Distillate global marine fuel exemption.

(a) The standards of subpart D of this part do not apply to distillate global marine fuel that is produced, imported, sold, offered for sale, supplied, offered for supply, stored, dispensed, or transported for use in steamships or Category 3 marine vessels when operating outside of ECA boundaries.

(b) Exempt distillate global marine fuel under paragraph (a) of this section must meet all the following requirements:

(1) The fuel must not exceed 0.50 weight percent sulfur (5,000 ppm).

(2) The fuel must be accompanied by PTDs as specified in ยง 1090.1115.

(3) The fuel must be designated as specified in ยง 1090.1015.

(4) The fuel must be segregated from non-exempt fuel at all points in the distribution system.

(5) The fuel must not be used in vehicles, engines, or equipment other than those referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c)(1) Fuel that does not meet the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section is subject to the standards, requirements, and prohibitions that apply for ULSD under this part.

(2) Any person who produces, imports, sells, offers for sale, supplies, offers for supply, stores, dispenses, or transports distillate global marine fuel without meeting the applicable recordkeeping requirements in subpart M of this part must not claim the fuel is exempt from the standards, requirements, and prohibitions that apply for ULSD under this part.
