
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart J - Reporting
###### § 1090.905 Annual, batch, and credit transaction reporting for gasoline manufacturers.
####### Batch reporting.

(c)A gasoline manufacturer must report the following information for each of their facilities on a per-batch basis for gasoline and gasoline regulated blendstocks:

(1) For all gasoline for which the gasoline manufacturer has not accounted for oxygenate added downstream under § 1090.710:

(i) The EPA-issued company and facility identifiers.

(ii) The batch number.

(iii) The date the batch was produced or imported.

(iv) The batch volume, in gallons.

(v) The designation of the gasoline as RFG, CG, RFG "Intended for Oxygenate Blending", or CG "Intended for Oxygenate Blending".

(vi) The tested sulfur content of the batch separately for per-gallon and average compliance, in ppm, and the test method used to measure the sulfur content.

(vii) The tested benzene content of the batch, as a volume percentage, and the test method used to measure the benzene content.

(viii) For all batches of summer gasoline:

(A) The applicable RVP standard, as specified in § 1090.215.

(B) The tested RVP of the batch, in psi, and the test method used to measure the RVP. If the gasoline is Summer RFG that is designated as "Intended for Oxygenate Blending" under § 1090.1010(a)(4), report the tested RVP for the hand blend.

(ix) If the gasoline contains oxygenate, the type and tested content of each oxygenate, as a volume percentage, and the test method used to measure the content of each oxygenate.

(2) For BOB for which the gasoline manufacturer has accounted for oxygenate added downstream under § 1090.710:

(i) The EPA-issued company and facility identifiers.

(ii) The batch identification.

(iii) The date the batch of BOB was produced or imported.

(iv) The batch volume, in gallons. This volume is the sum of the produced or imported BOB volume plus the anticipated volume from the addition of oxygenate downstream that the gasoline manufacturer specified to be blended with the BOB.

(v) The designation of the BOB (CBOB or RBOB) used to prepare the hand blend of BOB and oxygenate under § 1090.1340.

(vi) The tested sulfur content for both the BOB and the hand blend of BOB and oxygenate prepared under § 1090.1340, and the test method used to measure the sulfur content.

(vii) The tested benzene content for the hand blend of BOB and oxygenate prepared under § 1090.1340, and the test method used to measure the benzene content.

(viii) For all batches of summer BOB:

(A) The applicable RVP standard, as specified in § 1090.215, for the neat CBOB, or hand blend of RBOB and oxygenate prepared under § 1090.1340.

(B) The tested RVP for the neat CBOB or hand blend of RBOB and oxygenate prepared under § 1090.1340, in psi, and the test method used to measure the RVP.

(ix) The type and content of each oxygenate, as a volume percentage, in the hand blend of BOB and oxygenate prepared under § 1090.1340, and, if measured, the test method used for each oxygenate.

(3) For blendstock added to PCG by a gasoline manufacturer complying by subtraction under § 1090.1320(a)(1):

(i) For the PCG prior to the addition of blendstock:

(A) The EPA-issued company and facility identifiers for the facility at which the PCG is blended to produce a new batch.

(B) The batch number assigned by the facility at which the PCG is blended to produce a new batch.

(C) The date the batch was received or, for PCG that was not received from another company, the date the PCG was designated to be used to produce a new batch of gasoline.

(D) The batch volume, including the volume of any oxygenate that would have been added to the PCG, as a negative number in gallons.

(E) The designation of the PCG.

(F) The tested sulfur content of the batch, in ppm, and the test method used to measure the sulfur content. If the PCG is a BOB, report the tested sulfur content of the hand blend prepared under § 1090.1340.

(G) The tested benzene content of the batch, as a volume percentage, and the test method used to measure the benzene content. If the PCG is a BOB, report the tested benzene content of the hand blend prepared under § 1090.1340.

(H) For all batches of summer gasoline or BOB:
