
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart K - Batch Certification and Designation
###### § 1090.1010 Designation requirements for gasoline and regulated blendstocks.
####### Designation requirements for gasoline distributors and certain gasoline blending manufacturers.

(b)A gasoline distributor, certified butane blender, certified pentane blender, or party that recertifies BOB under § 1090.740 must accurately and clearly designate each batch or portion of a batch of gasoline for which they transfer custody to another facility as follows:

(1) A distributor must accurately and clearly classify each batch or portion of a batch of gasoline as specified by the gasoline manufacturer in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section, a distributor, certified butane blender, certified pentane blender, or party that recertifies BOB under § 1090.740 may redesignate a batch or portion of a batch of gasoline without recertifying the batch or portion of a batch as follows:

(i) Winter RFG or Winter RBOB may be redesignated as either Winter CG or Winter CBOB.

(ii) Winter CG or Winter CBOB may be redesignated as either Winter RFG or Winter RBOB.

(iii) Summer RFG, Summer RBOB, Summer CG, or Summer CBOB may be redesignated without recertification to a less stringent RVP designation. For example, a distributor could redesignate without recertification a portion of a batch of Summer RFG to 7.8 psi Summer CG or 9.0 psi Summer CG.

(iv) Summer RFG, Summer RBOB, Summer CG, or Summer CBOB may be redesignated without recertification as either Winter RFG, Winter RBOB, Winter CG, or Winter CBOB.

(v) Summer CG, Summer CBOB, or any winter gasoline may be redesignated to either Summer RFG or Summer RBOB, provided the RVP is determined using the applicable procedures specified in subpart N of this part and the new batch meets the RFG RVP standard specified in § 1090.215(a)(3).

(vi)(A) California gasoline may be redesignated as RFG or CG, with appropriate season designation and RVP designation under paragraph (a) of this section, if the requirements specified in § 1090.625(d) are met.

(B) California gasoline that is not redesignated under paragraph (b)(2)(vi)(A) of this section may instead be recertified as gasoline under § 1090.1000(b).

(vii) CG or RFG must not be redesignated as BOB.

(3) A distributor, certified butane blender, certified pentane blender, or party that recertifies BOB under § 1090.740 that redesignates a batch or portion of a batch of gasoline under paragraph (b)(2) of this section must accurately and clearly designate the batch or portion of the batch of gasoline as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
