
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart J - Reporting
###### ยง 1090.905 Annual, batch, and credit transaction reporting for gasoline manufacturers.
####### e.g.,

(E) For a new batch of gasoline (a blended gasoline containing certified butane and PCG) that is summer gasoline or summer BOB, the tested RVP of the batch, in psi, and the test method used to measure the RVP.

(6) For gasoline produced by adding any blendstocks to TGP:

(i) For each batch of gasoline produced with TGP, the sulfur content and for summer gasoline, RVP, of the batch.

(ii) For blendstocks added to TGP, a transmix processor or blending manufacturer must treat the TGP like PCG and report one of the following:

(A) The information specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(B) The information specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(7) For GTAB:

(i) The EPA-issued company and facility identifiers.

(ii) The batch number.

(iii) The date the batch was imported.

(iv) The batch volume, in gallons.

(v) The designation of the product as GTAB.

(8) For each batch of gasoline produced by a transmix processor or blending manufacturer from only TGP or both TGP and PCG under ยง 1090.505:

(i) The EPA-issued company and facility identifiers.

(ii) The batch number.

(iii) The date the batch was produced.

(iv) The batch volume, in gallons.

(v) The designation of the gasoline.

(vi) The tested sulfur content of the batch, in ppm, and the test method used to measure the sulfur content.

(vii) For summer gasoline:

(A) The applicable RVP standard in ยง 1090.215.

(B) The tested RVP of the batch, in psi, and the test method used to measure the RVP.

(9) Any other information as EPA may require in order to administer reporting systems.
