
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 22 - CONSOLIDATED RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING THE ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND THE REVOCATION/TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMITS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 22.5 Filing, service by the parties, and form of all filed documents; business confidentiality claims.
####### Filing of documents.

(a)(1) The original and one copy of each document intended to be part of the record shall be filed with the Headquarters or Regional Hearing Clerk, as appropriate, when the proceeding is before the Presiding Officer, or filed with the Clerk of the Board when the proceeding is before the Environmental Appeals Board. A document is filed when it is received by the appropriate Clerk. When a document is required to be filed with the Environmental Appeals Board, the document shall be sent to the Clerk of the Board by U.S. Mail, delivered by hand or courier (including delivery by U.S. Express Mail or by a commercial delivery service), or transmitted by the Environmental Appeal Board's electronic filing system, according to the procedures specified in 40 CFR 124.19 (i)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii). The Presiding Officer or the Environmental Appeals Board may by order authorize or require filing by facsimile or an electronic filing system, subject to any appropriate conditions and limitations.

(2) When the Presiding Officer corresponds directly with the parties, the original of the correspondence shall be filed with the Regional Hearing Clerk. Parties who correspond directly with the Presiding Officer shall file a copy of the correspondence with the Regional Hearing Clerk.

(3) A certificate of service shall accompany each document filed or served in the proceeding.
