
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart K - Batch Certification and Designation
###### ยง 1090.1010 Designation requirements for gasoline and regulated blendstocks.
####### Designation requirements for gasoline manufacturers.

(a)A gasoline manufacturer must accurately and clearly designate each batch of gasoline as follows:

(1) A gasoline manufacturer must designate each batch of gasoline as one of the following fuel types:

(i) Winter RFG.

(ii) Summer RFG.

(iii) Winter RBOB.

(iv) Summer RBOB.

(v) Winter CG.

(vi) Summer CG.

(vii) Winter CBOB.

(viii) Summer CBOB.

(ix) Exempt gasoline under subpart G of this part (including additional identifying information).

(x) California gasoline.

(2) A gasoline manufacturer must further designate gasoline designated as Summer CG or Summer CBOB as follows:

(i) 7.8 psi Summer CG or Summer CBOB, respectively.

(ii) 9.0 psi Summer CG or Summer CBOB, respectively.

(iii) SIP-controlled Summer CG or Summer CBOB, respectively.

(3) A CBOB or RBOB manufacturer must further designate the CBOB or RBOB with the type(s) and amount(s) of oxygenate specified to be blended with the CBOB or RBOB as specified in ยง 1090.710(a)(5).

(4) In addition to any other applicable designation in this paragraph (a), gasoline designed for downstream oxygenate blending for which the gasoline manufacturer has not accounted for oxygenate added downstream under ยง 1090.710 must be designated as "Intended for Oxygenate Blending", along with a designation indicating the type(s) and amount(s) of oxygenate to be blended with the gasoline.
