
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart M - Recordkeeping
###### ยง 1090.1210 Recordkeeping requirements for gasoline manufacturers.
####### ABT.

(g)A gasoline manufacturer must keep records of the following information related to their ABT activities under subpart H of this part, as applicable:

(1) Compliance sulfur values and compliance benzene values under ยง 1090.700, and the calculations used to determine those values.

(2) The number of valid credits in possession of the gasoline manufacturer at the beginning of each compliance period, separately by facility and compliance period of generation.

(3) The number of credits generated by the gasoline manufacturer under ยง 1090.725, separately by facility and compliance period of generation.

(4) If any credits were obtained from or transferred to other parties, all the following for each other party:

(i) The party's name.

(ii) The party's EPA company registration numbers.

(iii) The number of credits obtained from or transferred to the party.

(5) The number of credits that expired at the end of each compliance period, separately by facility and compliance period of generation.

(6) The number of credits that will be carried over into the next compliance period, separately by facility and compliance period of generation.

(7) The number of credits used, separately by facility and compliance period of generation.

(8) Contracts or other commercial documents that establish each transfer of credits from the transferor to the transferee.
