
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart J - Reporting
###### ยง 1090.925 Reports by independent surveyors.
####### NSTOP quarterly reporting.

(d)An independent surveyor conducting the NSTOP under ยง 1090.1450 must submit the following information quarterly, as applicable:

(1) For each gasoline manufacturing facility sampled by the independent surveyor:

(i) The EPA-issued company and facility identifiers for the gasoline manufacturer and the gasoline manufacturing facility.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) For each gasoline sample collected by the independent surveyor:

(i) The designation of the gasoline.

(ii) The date and time the independent surveyor collected the sample.

(iii) The batch number or the sample identification number as assigned by the independent surveyor in a consistent manner and as specified in the survey plan.

(iv) A description of any instance in which the gasoline manufacturer did not follow the applicable sampling procedures.

(v) The test results for the sample, and the test methods used, as determined by the independent surveyor, including the following parameters:

(A) The sulfur content, in ppm.

(B) The benzene content, in volume percent.

(C) The RVP in psi, if tested.

(vi) The test results for the sample, and the test methods used, as determined by the gasoline manufacturer, including the following parameters:

(A) The sulfur content, in ppm.

(B) The benzene content, in volume percent.

(C) The RVP in psi, if tested.

(vii) If available, the test results for the sample, and the test methods used, as determined by EPA's National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions Laboratory, including the following parameters:

(A) The sulfur content, in ppm.

(B) The benzene content, in volume percent.

(C) The RVP in psi, if tested.

(viii) The determined site precision under ยง 1090.1450(c)(10)(i) and the test performance index under ยง 1090.1450(c)(10)(ii) for each method and instrument that the gasoline manufacturer used to test the sample.

(ix) The reproducibility of each method that the gasoline manufacturer used to test the sample.

(x) Any applicable correlation equations used to compare the gasoline manufacturer's test results to the independent surveyor's test results.

(3) Any other information as EPA may require in order to administer reporting systems.
