
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart M - Recordkeeping
###### § 1090.1205 Recordkeeping requirements for all regulated parties.
####### Sampling and testing.

(c)Any party that performs any sampling and testing on any fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock must keep records of the following information:

(1) The location, date, time, and storage tank or truck, rail car, or vessel identification for each sample collected.

(2) The identification of the person(s) who collected the sample and the person(s) who performed the testing.

(3) The results of all tests as originally printed by the testing apparatus, or where no printed result is produced, the results as originally recorded by the person or apparatus that performed the test. Where more than one test is performed, all the results must be retained.

(4) The methodology used for any testing under this part.

(5) Records related to performance-based measurement and statistical quality control under §§ 1090.1360 through 1090.1375.

(6) Records related to gasoline deposit control testing under § 1090.1395.

(7) Records demonstrating the actions taken to stop the sale of any fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock that is found not to be in compliance with applicable standards under this part, and the actions taken to identify the cause of any noncompliance and prevent future instances of noncompliance.
