
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart K - Batch Certification and Designation
###### ยง 1090.1000 Batch certification requirements.
####### General provisions.

(a)(1) A fuel manufacturer, fuel additive manufacturer, or regulated blendstock producer must certify batches of fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock as specified in this section.

(2) A fuel manufacturer, fuel additive manufacturer, or regulated blendstock producer does not need to certify fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock that is exempt under subpart G of this part.

(3)(i) For purposes of this part, the volume of a batch is one of the following:

(A) The sum of all shipments or transfers of fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock out of the tank or vessel in which the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock was certified.

(B) The entire volume of a tank or vessel may be certified as a single batch. In such cases, any heel left in the tank or vessel after shipments of the batch becomes PCG.

(ii) If a volume of fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock is placed in a tank, certified (if not previously certified), and is not altered in any manner, then it is considered to be the same batch even if several shipments or transfers are made out of that tank.

(iii) Batch volumes must be temperature-corrected in accordance with ยง 1090.1350(d).

(4) For fuel produced at a facility that has an in-line blending waiver under ยง 1090.1315, the volume of the batch is the volume of product that is homogeneous under the requirements in ยง 1090.1337 and is produced during a period not to exceed 10 days.

(5) A fuel manufacturer must certify each batch of fuel at the facility where the fuel is produced or at a facility that is under the complete control of the fuel manufacturer before they transfer custody or title of the fuel to any other person.

(6) No person may sell, offer for sale, distribute, offer to distribute, supply, offer for supply, dispense, store, transport, or introduce into commerce gasoline, diesel fuel, or ECA marine fuel that is not certified under this section.
