
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart K - Batch Certification and Designation
###### § 1090.1000 Batch certification requirements.
####### Gasoline.

(b)(1) A gasoline manufacturer must certify gasoline as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section prior to introduction into commerce.

(2) To certify batches of gasoline, a gasoline manufacturer must comply with all the following:

(i) Register with EPA as a refiner, blending manufacturer, importer, transmix processor, certified butane blender, or certified pentane blender under subpart I of this part, as applicable, prior to producing gasoline.

(ii) Ensure that each batch of gasoline meets the applicable requirements of subpart C of this part using the applicable procedures specified in subpart N of this part. A transmix processor must also meet all applicable requirements in subpart F of this part to ensure that each batch of gasoline meets the applicable requirements in subpart C of this part.

(iii) Assign batch numbers as specified in § 1090.1020.

(iv) Designate batches of gasoline as specified in § 1090.1010.

(3) PCG may be mixed with other PCG without re-certification if the resultant mixture complies with the applicable standards in subpart C of this part and is accurately and clearly designated under § 1090.1010. Resultant mixtures of PCG are not new batches and should not be assigned new batch numbers.

(4) Any person that mixes summer gasoline with summer or winter gasoline that has a different designation must comply with one of the following:

(i) Designate the resultant mixture as meeting the least stringent RVP designation of any batch that is mixed. For example, a distributor that mixes Summer RFG with 7.8 psi Summer CG must designate the mixture as 7.8 psi Summer CG.

(ii) Determine the RVP of the mixture using the procedures specified in subpart N of this part and designate the new batch under § 1090.1010 to reflect the RVP of the resultant mixture.

(5) Any person that mixes summer gasoline with winter gasoline to transition any storage tank from winter to summer gasoline is exempt from the requirement in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section but must ensure that the gasoline meets the applicable RVP standard in § 1090.215.
