
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart M - Recordkeeping
###### ยง 1090.1210 Recordkeeping requirements for gasoline manufacturers.
####### PCG and TGP.

(d)For new batches of gasoline produced by adding blendstock to PCG or TGP, a gasoline manufacturer must keep records of the following information:

(1) Records that reflect the storage and movement of the PCG or TGP and blendstock within the fuel manufacturing facility to the point such PCG or TGP is used to produce gasoline or BOB.

(2) For new batches of gasoline produced by adding blendstock to PCG or TGP under ยง 1090.1320(a)(1) or ยง 1090.1325, respectively, keep records of the following additional information:

(i) The results of tests to determine the sulfur content, benzene content, oxygenate(s) content, and in the summer, RVP, for the PCG or TGP and volume of the PCG or TGP when received at the fuel manufacturing facility.

(ii) Records demonstrating which specific batches of PCG or TGP were used in each new batch of gasoline.

(iii) Records demonstrating which blendstocks were used in each new batch of gasoline.

(iv) Records of the test results for sulfur content, benzene content, oxygenate(s) content, distillation parameters, and in the summer, RVP, for each new batch of gasoline.

(3) For new batches of gasoline produced by adding blendstock to PCG or TGP under ยง 1090.1320(a)(2), keep records of the following additional information:

(i) Records of the test results for sulfur content, benzene content, oxygenate(s) content, and in the summer, RVP, of each blendstock used to produce the new batch of gasoline.

(ii) Records of the test results for sulfur content and in the summer, RVP, of each new batch of gasoline.

(iii) Records demonstrating which blendstocks were used in each new batch of gasoline.
