
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart J - Reporting
###### ยง 1090.905 Annual, batch, and credit transaction reporting for gasoline manufacturers.
####### 2

() The tested RVP of the batch, in psi, and the test method used to measure the RVP.

(I) If the PCG contains oxygenate, the type and tested content of each oxygenate, as a volume percentage, and the test method used to measure the content of each oxygenate.

(J) Identification of the batch as PCG.

(ii) For the batch of gasoline or BOB produced using PCG and blendstock:

(A) For batches of finished gasoline or neat BOB, all the information specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(B) For batches of BOB in which the oxygenate to be blended with the BOB is included in the gasoline manufacturer's compliance calculations, all the information specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(4) For blendstock(s) added to PCG by a gasoline manufacturer complying by addition under ยง 1090.1320(a)(2), report each blendstock as a separate batch and all the following:

(i) For the blendstock, the sulfur content and benzene content of the batch.

(ii) For batches produced by adding blendstock to PCG, the sulfur content, oxygenate type and amount (unless not required under ยง 1090.1310(e)), and for summer gasoline, RVP, of the batch.

(5) For certified butane blended by a certified butane blender or certified pentane blended by a certified pentane blender:

(i) For the certified butane or certified pentane batch:

(A) The batch number.

(B) The date the batch was received by the blender.

(C) The volume of certified butane or certified pentane blended, in gallons.

(D) The designation of the batch (certified butane or certified pentane).

(E) The volume percentage of butane in butane batches, or pentane in pentane batches, provided by the certified butane or certified pentane supplier.

(F) The sulfur content of the batch, in ppm, provided by the certified butane or certified pentane supplier.

(G) The benzene content of the batch, in volume percent, provided by the certified butane or certified pentane supplier.
