
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart J - Reporting
###### § 1090.905 Annual, batch, and credit transaction reporting for gasoline manufacturers.
####### Facility-level reporting.

(2)For each fuel manufacturing facility or importer, as applicable:

(i) The EPA-issued company and facility identifiers.

(ii) The compliance benzene value, per § 1090.700(b)(1)(i), in benzene gallons.

(iii) The total volume of gasoline produced or imported, in gallons.

(iv) The average benzene concentration, per § 1090.700(b)(3), in percent volume. For an importer, report the average benzene concentration for each aggregated import facility.

(v) The net average benzene concentration, per § 1090.745(d), in percent volume.

(vi) Provide information for benzene credits, and separately by compliance period of creation, as follows:

(A) The number of benzene credits generated during the compliance period.

(B) The number of benzene credits retired during the compliance period.

(C) The benzene credit deficit that was carried over from the previous compliance period

(D) The benzene credit deficit that will be carried over into the next compliance period.

(E) The total benzene deficit from downstream BOB recertification, per § 1090.740(b)(4).

(vii) Any other information as EPA may require in order to administer reporting systems.
