
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart N - Sampling, Testing, and Retention
###### Scope of Testing
####### § 1090.1315 In-line blending.

A fuel manufacturer using in-line blending equipment may qualify for a waiver from the requirement in § 1090.1310(b) to test every batch of fuel before the fuel leaves the fuel manufacturing facility as follows:

(a) Submit a request signed by the RCO to EPA with the following information:

(1) Describe the location of your in-line blending operation, how long it has been in operation, and how much of each type and grade of fuel you have blended over the preceding 3 years (or since starting the in-line blending operation if it is less than 3 years). Describe the physical layout of the blending operation and how you move the blended fuel into distribution. Also describe how your automated system monitors and controls blending proportions and the properties of the blended fuel. For new installations, describe these as a planned operation with projected volumes by type and grade. Describe clearly which portions of your blending operation are the subject of your waiver request.

(2) Describe how you collect and test composite fuel samples in a way that is equivalent to measuring the fuel properties of a batch of blended fuel as specified in this subpart. Also describe how your procedures conform to the sampling specifications in ASTM D4177 and the composite calculations in ASTM D5854 (both incorporated by reference in § 1090.95).

(3) Describe any expectation or plan for you or another party to perform additional downstream testing for the same fuel parameters.

(4) Describe your quality assurance procedures. Explain how you will ensure that all fuel will meet all applicable per-gallon standards. Describe any experiences from the previous 3 years where these quality assurance procedures led you to make corrections to your in-line blending operation. Describe how you will deal with release of fuel that fails to meet a per-gallon standard.

(5) Describe any times from the previous 3 years that you modified fuel after it left your facility. Describe how you modified the fuel and why that was necessary.

(6) Describe how you will meet the auditing requirements specified in § 1090.1850 and any additional, facility-specific considerations that relate to those auditing requirements.

(b) You must arrange for an audit of your blending operation each calendar year as specified in § 1090.1850. The audit must review procedures and documents to determine whether measured and calculated values properly represent the aggregate fuel properties for the blended fuel.

(c) You must submit an updated in-line blending waiver request to EPA 60 days before making any material change to your in-line blending process. Examples of material changes include changing analyzer hardware or programming, changing the location of the analyzer, changing the piping configuration, changing the mixing control hardware or programming logic, changing sample compositors or compositor settings, or expanding fuel blending capacity. Changing the name of the company or business unit is an example of a change that is not material.

(d) If EPA approves your request for a waiver under this section, you may need to update your procedures for more effective control and documentation of measured fuel parameters based on audit results, development of improved practices, or other information.
