
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart O - Survey Provisions
###### § 1090.1410 Independent surveyor requirements.

The independent surveyor conducting the NFSP must meet all the following requirements:

(a) Submit a proposed survey program plan under § 1090.1415 to EPA for approval for each calendar year.

(b)(1) Obtain samples representative of the gasoline and diesel fuel (including diesel fuel made available at retail to nonroad vehicles, engines, and equipment) offered for sale separately from all gasoline and diesel retail outlets in accordance with the survey program plan approved by EPA, or immediately notify EPA of any refusal of a retailer to allow samples to be taken.

(2) Obtain the number of samples representative of the number of gasoline retail outlets offering E15.

(3) Collect samples of gasoline produced at blender pump using "method 1" specified in NIST Handbook 158 (incorporated by reference, see § 1090.95). All other samples of gasoline and diesel fuel must be collected using the methods specified in subpart N of this part.

(4) Samples must be shipped via ground service to an EPA-approved laboratory within 2 business days of being collected.

(c) Test, or arrange to be tested, the collected samples, as follows:

(1) Gasoline samples must be analyzed for oxygenate content, sulfur content, and benzene content. Gasoline samples collected from June 1 through September 15 must also be analyzed for RVP.

(2) A subset of gasoline samples, as determined under § 1090.1415(e)(3), must also be analyzed for aromatics content, olefins content, and distillation parameters.

(3) Diesel samples must be analyzed for sulfur content.

(4) All samples must be tested by an EPA-approved laboratory using the test methods specified in subpart N of this part.

(5) All testing must be completed by the EPA-approved laboratory within 10 business days after receipt of the sample.

(d) Verify E15 labeling requirements at gasoline retail outlets that offer E15 for sale.

(e) Using procedures specified in an EPA-approved plan under § 1090.1415, notify EPA, the retailer, and the branded fuel manufacturer (if applicable) within 24 hours after the EPA-approved laboratory has completed analysis when any of the following occur:

(1) A test result for a gasoline sample yields a sulfur content result that exceeds the downstream sulfur per-gallon standard in § 1090.205(c).

(2) A test result for a gasoline sample yields an RVP result that exceeds the applicable RVP standard in § 1090.215.

(3) A test result for a diesel sample yields a sulfur content result that exceeds the sulfur standard in § 1090.305(b).

(4) A test result for a gasoline sample identified as "E15" yields an ethanol content result that exceeds 15 volume percent.

(5) A test result for a gasoline sample not identified as "E15" yields an ethanol content of more than 10 volume percent ethanol.

(f) Provide quarterly and annual summary reports that include the information specified in § 1090.925(b) and (c), respectively.

(g) Keep records related to the NFSP as specified in § 1090.1245(b)(1).

(h) Submit contracts to EPA as specified in § 1090.1400(b).

(i) Permit any representative of EPA to monitor at any time the conducting of the survey, including sample collection, transportation, storage, and analysis.
