
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart N - Sampling, Testing, and Retention
###### Handling and Preparing Samples
####### ยง 1090.1335 Collecting, preparing, and testing samples.
######## Automatic sampling.

(c)(1) For in-line blending waivers under ยง 1090.1315, follow all specifications for automatic sampling as specified in EPA's approval letter instead of or in addition to the specifications in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Automatic sampling is also appropriate for a configuration involving a pipeline filling a tank that will be certified as compliant before it leaves the fuel manufacturing facility gate.

(2) Perform automatic sampling as specified in ASTM D4177 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1090.95), with the following additional specifications:

(i) Configure the system to ensure a well-mixed stream at the sampling point. Align the start and end of sampling with the start and end of creating the batch.

(ii) The default sampling frequency must follow the recommended approach of at least 9,604 samples to represent a batch. Less frequent sampling is acceptable as long as the interval between samples does not exceed 20 seconds throughout the batch.

(iii) Collect three samples for individual measurements in addition to the composite sample. Draw head, middle, and tail samples after flowing 15, 50, and 85 percent of the estimated batch volume, respectively.

(iv) EPA may approve a different sampling strategy under an approved in-line blending waiver under ยง 1090.1315 if it is appropriate for a given facility or for a small-volume batch.
