
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart O - Survey Provisions
###### § 1090.1420 Additional requirements for E15 misfueling mitigation surveying.
####### Survey Option 1.

(b)The gasoline manufacturer, oxygenate blender, or oxygenate producer must properly conduct a survey program in accordance with a survey program plan that has been approved by EPA in all areas that may be reasonably expected to be supplied with their gasoline, BOB, DFE, or gasoline-ethanol blended fuel. Such approval must be based on a survey program plan that meets all the following requirements:

(1) The survey program must consist of at least quarterly surveys that occur during the following time periods in every year during which the gasoline manufacturer, oxygenate blender, or oxygenate producer introduces E15 into commerce:

(i) One survey during the period of January 1 through March 31.

(ii) One survey during the period of April 1 through June 30.

(iii) One survey during the period of July 1 through September 30.

(iv) One survey during the period of October 1 through December 31.

(2) The survey program plan must meet all the requirements of this subpart, except for §§ 1090.1405(a) and (b)(2), 1090.1410(c)(2) and (3), and 1090.1415(b), (d)(1), (2), and (4), and (e). In lieu of meeting these sections, the survey program plan must specify the sampling strata, clusters, and area(s) to be surveyed, and the number of samples to be included in the survey.
