
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart Q - Importer and Exporter Provisions
###### ยง 1090.1610 Importation by rail or truck.
####### Certify in a storage tank.

(2)The importer may transfer the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock imported by rail or truck into storage tanks that also contain the same product if the importer meets the following requirements:

(i) For gasoline, the importer transfers gasoline into one or more empty tanks or tanks containing PCG that the importer owns.

(A) If the importer transfers gasoline into one or more empty tanks, they must sample and test the sulfur content, benzene content, and for summer gasoline, RVP, of each tank into which the gasoline was transferred.

(B) If the importer transfers gasoline into one or more tanks containing PCG, they must sample the PCG already in the tank prior to transferring gasoline from the truck or train, test the sulfur content and benzene content, and report this PCG as a negative batch as specified in ยง 1090.905(c)(3)(i). After transferring the gasoline into the tanks, the importer must sample and test the sulfur content, benzene content, and for summer gasoline, RVP, of each tank into which the gasoline was transferred and report the volume, sulfur content, and benzene content as a positive batch.

(C) Include the PCG in the tank before transferring and the volume and properties after transferring in compliance calculations as specified in ยง 1090.700(d)(4)(i).

(D) The sample retention requirements in ยง 1090.1345 apply to the samples taken prior to transferring and those taken after transferring.

(ii) For all other fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock, the importer must sample and test the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock in each tank into which it was transferred. The importer must ensure that all applicable per-gallon standards are met before the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock is shipped from the tank.

(b) If an importer that elects to comply with paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section fails to meet the applicable requirements, they must meet the sampling and testing requirements of subpart N of this part for each compartment of the truck or railcar until EPA determines that the importer has adequately addressed the cause of the failure.
