
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart O - Survey Provisions
###### § 1090.1450 National sampling and testing oversight program.
####### i.e.,

(C) The observed sample does not need to represent a batch of certified gasoline (the independent surveyor may observe the collection of a simulated sample if the gasoline manufacturer does not have a batch of certified gasoline available).

(iii) The independent surveyor must immediately notify EPA of any refusal of a gasoline manufacturer to allow samples to be taken. A gasoline manufacturer that refuses to allow the independent surveyor to take portions of collected samples is no longer considered by EPA to be participating in the NSTOP and must not account for oxygenate added downstream under § 1090.710.

(iv) Samples must be retained by the independent surveyor as specified in § 1090.1345(a)(1).

(v) Samples collected must be shipped via ground service within 2 business days from when the samples are collected to an EPA-approved laboratory as established in an approved plan under this section. A random subset of collected samples must also be shipped to the EPA National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions Laboratory as established in an approved plan under this section.

(3) Test, or arrange to be tested, samples collected under paragraph (c)(2) of this section as follows:

(i) Winter gasoline samples must be analyzed for oxygenate content, sulfur content, benzene content, distillation parameters, aromatics, and olefins.

(ii) Summer gasoline samples must be analyzed for oxygenate content, sulfur content, benzene content, distillation parameters, aromatics, olefins, and RVP.

(iii) All samples must be tested by an EPA-approved laboratory using test methods specified in subpart N of this part.

(iv) All analyses must be completed by the EPA-approved laboratory within 10 business days after receipt of the sample.

(v) A gasoline manufacturer must analyze gasoline samples for sulfur content, benzene content, and for summer gasoline, RVP.

(4) Using procedures specified in the EPA-approved plan under this section, notify EPA and the gasoline manufacturer within 24 hours after the EPA-approved laboratory has completed analysis when any of the following occur:

(i) A test result for a gasoline sample yields a sulfur content that exceeds the fuel manufacturing facility gate sulfur per-gallon standard in § 1090.205(b).

(ii) A test result for a gasoline sample yields an RVP that exceeds the applicable RVP standard in § 1090.215.

(5) Make the test results available to EPA and the gasoline manufacturer for all analyses specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section within 5 business days of completion of the analysis.

(6) Compare test results of all samples collected under paragraph (c)(2) of this section and all test results obtained from the gasoline manufacturer from the same samples as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and notify EPA and the gasoline manufacturer if the test result for any parameter tested under paragraph (c)(3) of this section is greater than the reproducibility of the applicable method specified in subpart N of this part.

(7) Provide quarterly reports to EPA that include the information specified in § 1090.925(d).

(8) Keep records related to the NSTOP as specified in § 1090.1245(b)(3).

(9) Submit contracts to EPA as specified in § 1090.1400(b).

(10) Review the test performance index and precision ratio for each method and instrument the laboratory used to test the gasoline samples collected under this section as follows:

(i) For each test method and instrument, the surveyor must obtain the relevant records from the gasoline manufacturer to determine the site precision, either from an inter-laboratory crosscheck program or from ASTM D6299 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95).

(ii) Using relevant information obtained from the gasoline manufacturers, the surveyor must determine the appropriate Test Performance Index (TPI) and Precision Ratio (PR) from Table 2 Guidelines for Action Based on TPI in ASTM D6792 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95).

(iii) A gasoline manufacturer must supply copies of the necessary information to the independent surveyor to review the TPI and PR for each method and instrument used to test the gasoline samples collected under this section.

(11) Permit any representative of EPA to monitor at any time the conducting of the NSTOP, including sample collection, transportation, storage, and analysis.
