
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart O - Survey Provisions
###### ยง 1090.1450 National sampling and testing oversight program.
####### Independent surveyor requirements.

(c)The independent surveyor conducting the NSTOP must meet all the following requirements:

(1) Submit a proposed NSTOP plan that meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section to EPA for approval each calendar year.

(2)(i) Obtain at least one sample representing summer gasoline and one sample representing winter gasoline for each participating gasoline manufacturing facility. If the fuel manufacturer only produces fuel during either the summer or winter season, obtain at least one sample during the season that the fuel manufacturer produces fuel.

(ii)(A) Observe the gasoline manufacturer collect at least one sample representing each gasoline required under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section for each participating gasoline manufacturing facility and evaluate whether the gasoline manufacturer collected representative sample(s) in accordance with applicable sampling procedures specified in ยง 1090.1335. Immediately notify EPA and the gasoline manufacturer if the applicable sampling procedures are not followed.

(B) The independent surveyor must also obtain a portion of the sample collected by the gasoline manufacturer and ship the sample as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section.
