
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart N - Sampling, Testing, and Retention
###### Scope of Testing
####### § 1090.1320 Adding blendstock to PCG.
######## Compliance by subtraction.

(1)(i) Determine the sulfur content, benzene content, and oxygenate content of the PCG before blending blendstocks to produce a new batch of gasoline as follows:

(A) Sample and test the sulfur content, benzene content, and oxygenate content of each batch of PCG. The blending manufacturer does not need to test PCG for oxygenate content if they can demonstrate that the PCG does not contain oxygenates as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(C) of this section or § 1090.1310(e)(1).

(B) If the PCG is a BOB, prepare a hand blend under § 1090.1340 and test the hand blend for sulfur content and benzene content.

(C) The blending manufacturer may use the PCG manufacturer's certification test results if the PCG was received directly from the PCG manufacturer by an in-tank transfer or tank-to-tank transfer within the same terminal as long as the results are from the PCG that is being transferred.

(ii) Determine the volume of PCG that was blended with blendstock to produce a new batch of gasoline. Report the PCG as a negative batch as specified in § 1090.905(c)(3)(i).

(iii) After adding blendstock to PCG, sample and test the sulfur content, benzene content, and for summer gasoline, RVP, of the new batch of gasoline.

(iv) Determine the volume of the new batch of gasoline. Report the new batch of gasoline as a positive batch as specified in § 1090.905(c)(3)(ii).

(v) Include the PCG batch and the new batch of gasoline in compliance calculations as specified in § 1090.700(d)(4)(i).

(vi) The sample retention requirements in § 1090.1345 apply for both the new batch of gasoline and the associated PCG.
