
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart N - Sampling, Testing, and Retention
###### Handling and Preparing Samples
####### ยง 1090.1335 Collecting, preparing, and testing samples.
######## Testing to demonstrate compliance with standards.

(e)(1) Perform testing as specified in this subpart.

(2) For parameters subject to per-gallon standards, report the highest measured value (or the lowest measured value for testing related to cetane index or other parameters that are subject to a standard representing a minimum value). This applies for repeat tests on a given sample and for testing multiple samples (including head, middle, and tail samples from automatic sampling). A batch is noncompliant if any tested sample does not meet all applicable per-gallon standards.

(3) In the case of automatic sampling for parameters subject to average standards, report the result from the composite sample to represent the batch for demonstrating compliance with the average standard. For any repeat testing with the composite sample, calculate the arithmetic average from all tests to represent the batch.

(4) In the case of manual sampling for parameters subject to average standards, determine the value representing the batch as follows:

(i) For testing with only a single sample, report that value to represent the batch. If there are repeat tests with that sample, report the arithmetic average from all tests to represent the sample.

(ii) For testing with more than one sample, report the arithmetic average from all tested samples to represent the batch. If there are repeat tests for any sample, calculate the arithmetic average of those repeat tests to determine a single value to represent that sample before calculating the average value to represent the batch.
