
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart N - Sampling, Testing, and Retention
###### ยง 1090.1300 General provisions.

(a) This subpart is organized as follows:

(1) Sections 1090.1310 through 1090.1330 specify the scope of required testing, including special provisions that apply in several unique circumstances.

(2) Sections 1090.1335 through 1090.1345 specify handling procedures for collecting and retaining samples. Sections 1090.1350 through 1090.1375 specify the procedures for measuring the specified parameters. These procedures apply to anyone who performs testing under this subpart.

(3) Section 1090.1390 specifies the requirements for calibrating automated detergent blending equipment.

(4) Section 1090.1395 specifies the procedures for testing related to gasoline deposit control test procedure.

(b) If you need to meet requirements for a quality assurance program at a minimum frequency, your first batch of product triggers the testing requirement. The specified frequency serves as a deadline for performing the required testing, and as a starting point for the next testing period. The following examples illustrate the requirements for testing based on sampling the more frequent of every 90 days or 500,000 gallons of certified butane you received from a supplier:

(1) If your testing period starts on March 1 and you use less than 500,000 gallons of butane from March 1 through May 29 (90 days), you must perform testing under a quality assurance program sometime between March 1 and May 29. Your next test period starts with the use of butane on May 30 and again ends after 90 days or after you use 500,000 gallons of butane, whichever occurs first.

(2) If your testing period starts on March 1 and you use 500,000 gallons of butane for the testing period on April 29 (60 days), you must perform testing under a quality assurance program sometime between March 1 and April 29. Your next testing period starts with the use of butane on April 30 and again ends after 90 days or after you use 500,000 gallons of butane, whichever occurs first.

(c) Anyone acting on behalf of a regulated party to demonstrate compliance with requirements under this part must meet the requirements of this subpart in the same way that the party needs to meet those requirements for its own testing. The regulated party and the third party will both be liable for any violations arising from the third party's failure to meet the requirements of this subpart.

(d) Anyone performing tests under this subpart must apply good laboratory practices for all sampling, measurement, and calculations related to testing required under this part. This requires performing these procedures in a way that is consistent with generally accepted scientific and engineering principles and properly accounting for all available relevant information.

(e) Subpart Q of this part has provisions related to importation, including additional provisions that specify how to meet the sampling and testing requirements of this subpart.
