
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart N - Sampling, Testing, and Retention
###### Measurement Procedures
####### ยง 1090.1375 Quality control procedures.
######## General provisions.

(a)You must perform testing to show that your laboratory meets specified precision and accuracy criteria as follows:

(1) The testing requirement applies for the referee procedures in ยง 1090.1360(d) and for alternate procedures that are qualified or approved under ยง 1090.1365. The testing requirements apply separately for each test instrument at each laboratory.

(2) If you fail to conduct specified testing, your test instrument is not qualified for measuring fuel parameters to demonstrate compliance with the standards and other specifications of this part until you perform this testing. Similarly, if your test instrument fails to meet the specified criteria, it is not qualified for measuring fuel parameters to demonstrate compliance with the standards and other specifications of this part until you make the necessary changes to your test instrument and perform testing to show that the test instrument again meets the specified criteria.

(3) If you perform major maintenance such as overhauling an instrument, confirm that the instrument still meets precision and accuracy criteria before you start testing again based on the procedures specified in ASTM D6299 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1090.95).

(4) Keep records to document your testing under this section for 5 years.
