
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart O - Survey Provisions
###### ยง 1090.1415 Survey program plan design requirements.
####### Gasoline and diesel retail outlet selection.

(d)(1) Gasoline and diesel retail outlets to be sampled in a sampling area must be selected from among all gasoline retail outlets in the United States that sell gasoline with the probability of selection proportionate to the volume of gasoline sold at the retail outlet. The sample of retail outlets must also include gasoline retail outlets with different brand names as well as those gasoline retail outlets that are unbranded.

(2) For any gasoline or diesel retail outlet from which a sample of gasoline or diesel was collected during a survey and was reported to EPA under ยง 1090.1410(e), that gasoline or diesel retail outlet must be included in the subsequent survey.

(3) At least one sample of a product dispensed as E15 must be collected at each gasoline retail outlet when E15 is present, and separate samples must be taken that represent the gasoline contained in each storage tank at the gasoline retail outlet unless collection of separate samples is not practicable.

(4) At least one sample of a product dispensed as diesel fuel must be collected at each diesel fuel retail outlet when diesel fuel is present. Samples of diesel fuel may be collected at retail outlets that sell gasoline.
