
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart N - Sampling, Testing, and Retention
###### Testing Related to Gasoline Deposit Control
####### § 1090.1395 Gasoline deposit control test procedures.
######## Top Tier-Based Test Method.

(a)Use the procedures specified in ASTM D6201 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95), as follows:

(1) Use a base fuel that conforms to the specifications for gasoline-alcohol blends in ASTM D4814 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95). Blendstocks used to formulate the test fuel must be derived from conversion units downstream of distillation, with all processes representing normal fuel manufacturing facility operations. Blendstocks must not come from chemical grade streams. Butane and pentane may be added to adjust vapor pressure. The base fuel should include any nondetergent additives typical of commercially available fuel if they may positively or negatively affect deposit formation. In addition, the base fuel must have the following properties:

(i) 8.0-10.0 volume percent DFE that meets the requirements in § 1090.270 and conforms to the specifications of ASTM D4806 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95).

(ii) At least 8.0 volume percent olefins.

(iii) At least 15 volume percent aromatics.

(iv) No more than 80 ppm sulfur.

(v) T90 distillation temperature at or above 143 &#xB0;C.

(vi) No detergent-active substance. A base fuel with typical nondetergent additives, such as antioxidants, corrosion inhibitors, and metal deactivators, may be used.

(2) Perform the 100-hour test for intake valve deposits with the base fuel to demonstrate that the intake valves accumulate at least 500 mg on average. If the test engine fails to accumulate enough deposits, make any necessary adjustments and repeat the test. This demonstration is valid for any further detergent testing with the same base fuel.

(3) Repeat the test on the same engine with a specific concentration of detergent added to the base fuel. If the test results in less than 50 mg average per intake valve, the tested detergent concentration is the LAC for the detergent.
