
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart M - Recordkeeping
###### ยง 1090.1240 Recordkeeping requirements for gasoline detergent blenders.
####### 2

() Other comparable metered measurements.

(B) For a facility that uses a gauge to measure the inventory of the detergent storage tank, the total volume of detergent must be calculated as follows:

(C) The value of each variable in the equation in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section must be separately recorded. Recorded volumes of detergent must be expressed to the nearest gallon (or smaller units), except that detergent volumes of five gallons or less must be expressed to the nearest tenth of a gallon (or smaller units). However, if the blender's equipment is unable to accurately measure to the nearest tenth of a gallon, then such volumes must be rounded downward to the next lower gallon.

(iii) The total volume of gasoline to which detergent has been added, together with supporting data that includes one of the following:

(A) The beginning and ending meter measurements for each meter being measured.

(B) The metered batch volume measurements for each meter being measured.

(C) Other comparable metered measurements.

(iv) The actual detergent concentration, calculated as the total volume of detergent added (as determined under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section) divided by the total volume of gasoline (as determined under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section). The concentration must be calculated and recorded to four digits and rounded as specified in ยง 1090.50.

(v) The initial detergent concentration rate, together with the date and description of each adjustment to any initially set concentration.

(vi) If the detergent injector is set below the applicable LAC, or adjusted by more than 10 percent above the concentration initially set in the VAR Period, documentation establishing that the purpose of the change is to correct a batch misadditization prior to the end of the VAR Period and prior to the transfer of the batch to another party or to correct an equipment malfunction and the date and adjustments of the correction.

(vii) Documentation reflecting the performance and results of the calibration of detergent equipment under ยง 1090.1390.

(3) For a non-automated detergent blending facility, keep records of the following information:

(i) The date of additization.

(ii) The volume of detergent added.

(iii) The volume of gasoline to which the detergent was added.

(iv) The actual detergent concentration, calculated as the volume of detergent added (per paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section) divided by the volume of gasoline (per paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section). The concentration must be calculated and recorded to four digits and rounded as specified in ยง 1090.50.
