
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart N - Sampling, Testing, and Retention
###### Handling and Preparing Samples
####### ยง 1090.1335 Collecting, preparing, and testing samples.
######## Manual sampling.

(b)Perform manual sampling using one of the methods specified in ASTM D4057 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1090.95) to demonstrate compliance with standards as follows:

(1) Collect a "running" or "all-levels" sample from the top of the tank. Drawing a sample from a standpipe is acceptable only if it is slotted or perforated to ensure that the drawn sample properly represents the whole batch of fuel.

(2)(i) Use tap sampling or spot sampling to collect upper, middle, and lower samples if a running or all-levels sample is impractical for a given storage configuration. Collect samples that most closely match the recommendations in Table 5 of ASTM D4057. Adjust spot sampling for partially filled tanks as shown in Table 1 or Table 5 of ASTM D4057, as applicable.

(ii) Spot sampling must not be used for certification testing unless the tank contains less than 10 feet of product.

(3) If the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section are impractical for a given storage configuration, you may use alternative sampling procedures as specified in ASTM D4057. This applies primarily for sampling with trucks, railcars, retail stations, and other downstream locations.

(4) Test results with manual sampling are valid only after you demonstrate homogeneity as specified in ยง 1090.1337.

(5) Except as specified for marine vessels in ยง 1090.1605, you must not do certification testing with a composite sample from manual sampling.
