
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart N - Sampling, Testing, and Retention
###### Measurement Procedures
####### § 1090.1370 Qualifying criteria for reference installations.

(a) A reference installation refers to a laboratory that uses the referee procedure specified in § 1090.1360(d) to evaluate the accuracy of alternative procedures for method-defined parameters, by comparing measured values to companion tests using one of the referee procedures in § 1090.1360(d). This evaluation may result in an equation to correlate results between the two procedures. Once a laboratory qualifies as a reference installation, that qualification is valid for five years from the qualifying date, consistent with good laboratory practices.

(b) You may qualify a reference installation for VCSB procedures by participating in an interlaboratory crosscheck program with at least 16 separate measurements that are not identified as outliers. This presumes that the results for the candidate reference installation are not outliers.

(c) You may qualify a reference installation for VCSB or non-VCSB procedures based on the following measurement protocol:

(1) Use the precision testing procedure specified in § 1090.1365(b) to show that your standard deviation for tests using the reference test method is at or below 0.3 times the reproducibility for a given fuel parameter.

(2) You must correlate your test results for a given fuel parameter against the accepted reference values from a monthly crosscheck program based on Section 6.2.2.1 and Note 7 of ASTM D6299 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95) as follows:

(i) If there are multiple fuels available from the crosscheck program, select the fuel that has the closest value to the standard. If there is no standard for a given fuel parameter, select the fuel with values for the fuel parameter that best represent typical values for fuels you test.

(ii) Measure the fuel parameter for the crosscheck fuel at your laboratory using the appropriate referee procedure. Calculate a mean value that includes all your repeat measurements.

(iii) Determine the mean value from the crosscheck program and calculate the difference between this value and the mean value from your testing. Express this difference as a certain number of standard deviations relative to the data set from the crosscheck program.

(iv) The calculated monthly difference between the mean values from § 1090.1365(c)(3)(ii) for 5 consecutive months must fall within the central 50 percent of the distribution of data at least 3 times. The central 50 percent of the distribution corresponds to 0.68 standard deviations.

(v) Calculate the mean value of the differences from § 1090.1365(c)(3)(ii) for all 5 months. This mean value must fall within the central 50 percent of the distribution of data from the crosscheck program. For example, if the difference was 0.5 standard deviations for two months, 0.6 for one month, and 0.7 for two months, the mean value of the difference is 0.6 standards deviations, and the reference installation meets the requirements of this paragraph.

(3) You must demonstrate that the reference installation is in statistical quality control for at least 5 months with the designated procedure as specified in ASTM D6299. If at any point the reference installation is not in statistical quality control, you must make any necessary changes and restart testing toward meeting the requirement to achieve statistical quality control for at least 5 months, except as follows:

(i) Do not consider measurements you perform as part of regular maintenance or recalibration for evaluating statistical quality control.

(ii) If you find that the reference installation is not in statistical quality control during an initial 5-month period and you are able to identify the problem and make the necessary changes to again achieve statistical quality control before the end of the 5-month demonstration period, you may consider the reference installation as meeting the requirement to be in statistical quality control for at least 5 months.
