
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart P - Retailer and Wholesale Purchaser-Consumer Provisions
###### Labeling
####### ยง 1090.1515 Diesel sulfur labeling provisions.

A retailer or WPC dispensing heating oil, 500 ppm LM diesel fuel, or ECA marine fuel must apply labels to fuel dispensers as follows:

(a) Labels must be in a prominent location where the consumer will select or dispense either the corresponding fuel or heating oil. The label content must be in block letters of no less than 24-point bold type, printed in a color contrasting with the background.

(b) Labels must include the following statements, or equivalent alternative statements approved by EPA:

(1) For dispensing heating oil along with any kind of diesel fuel for any kind of engine, vehicle, or equipment, apply the following label:

Federal law prohibits use in highway vehicles or engines, or in nonroad, locomotive, or marine diesel engines.

Its use may damage these diesel engines.

(2) For dispensing 500 ppm LM diesel fuel, apply the following label:

Federal law prohibits use in nonroad engines or in highway vehicles or engines.

(3) For dispensing ECA marine fuel, apply the following label:

For use in Category 3 (C3) marine vessels only.

Federal law prohibits use in any engine that is not installed in a C3 marine vessel; use of fuel oil with a sulfur content greater than 1,000 ppm in an ECA is prohibited except as allowed by 40 CFR part 1043.

Note: If a pump dispensing 500 ppm LM diesel fuel is labeled with the "LOW SULFUR LOCOMOTIVE AND MARINE DIESEL FUEL (500 ppm Sulfur Maximum)" label, the retailer or WPC does not need to replace this label.
