
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart N - Sampling, Testing, and Retention
###### Measurement Procedures
####### ยง 1090.1375 Quality control procedures.
######## Accuracy demonstration.

(c)For absolute fuel parameters (VCSB and non-VCSB) and for method-defined fuel parameters using non-VCSB methods, you must show that you meet accuracy criteria as specified in this paragraph (c). For method-defined VCSB procedures, you may meet accuracy requirements as specified in this paragraph (c) or by comparing your results to the accepted reference value in an inter-laboratory crosscheck program sponsored by ASTM International or another VCSB at least 3 times per year.

(1) Meeting the accuracy criteria of this paragraph (c) qualifies your test instrument for 130 days.

(2) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, test every instrument using a check standard meeting the specifications of ASTM D6299. Select a fuel sample with an ARV that is at or slightly below the standard that applies. If there are both average and batch standards, use the average standard. If there is no standard, select a fuel sample representing fuel that is typical for your testing.

(3) The following provisions apply for method-defined non-VCSB alternative procedures with high sensitivity to sample-specific bias:

(i) Procedures have high sensitivity if the closeness sum of squares (CSS) statistic exceeds the 95th percentile value, as specified in ASTM D6708 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1090.95).

(ii) Create a check standard from production fuel representing the fuel you will routinely analyze. Determine the ARV of your check standard using the protocol in ASTM D6299 at a reference installation as specified in ยง 1090.1370.

(iii) You must send EPA a fuel sample from every twentieth batch of gasoline or diesel fuel and identify the procedures and corresponding test results from your testing. EPA may return one of your samples to you for further testing; if this occurs, you must repeat your measurement and report your results within 180 days of receiving the fuel sample.

(4) You meet accuracy requirements under this section if the difference between your measured value for the check standard and the ARV is less than the value from the following equation:
