
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart N - Sampling, Testing, and Retention
###### Scope of Testing
####### § 1090.1310 Testing to demonstrate compliance with standards.
######## e.g.,

(2) A gasoline manufacturer producing gasoline for which oxygenate added downstream is not accounted for under § 1090.710 (E0 or so-called suboctane gasoline) must perform the following measurements:

(i) Measure the sulfur content of the gasoline.

(ii) Except as specified in § 1090.1325(c), measure the benzene content of the gasoline.

(iii) For Summer CG and Summer RFG, measure the RVP of the gasoline.

(iv) For Summer RFG that is designated as "Intended for Oxygenate Blending" under § 1090.1010(a)(4), create a hand blend as specified in § 1090.1340 and measure the RVP of the hand blend.

(v) For gasoline blended with oxygenate, measure the oxygenate content of the gasoline.

(3) An oxygenate producer must measure the sulfur content of each batch of oxygenate, except that a DFE producer may meet the alternative requirements in § 1090.1330.

(4) An ethanol denaturant producer that certifies denaturant under § 1090.1330 must measure the sulfur content of each batch of denaturant.

(5) A certified butane or certified pentane producer must perform sampling and testing to demonstrate compliance with purity specifications and sulfur and benzene standards as specified in § 1090.1320.

(6) A transmix processor producing gasoline from TGP must test each batch of gasoline for parameters required to demonstrate compliance with § 1090.505 as specified in § 1090.1325.

(d) A blending manufacturer producing gasoline by adding blendstock to PCG must comply with § 1090.1320.
