
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart N - Sampling, Testing, and Retention
###### Measurement Procedures
####### § 1090.1350 Overview of test procedures.

A fuel manufacturer, fuel additive manufacturer, regulated blendstock producer, or independent surveyor meets the requirements of this subpart based on laboratory measurements of the specified fuel parameters. Test procedures for these measurements apply as follows:

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the Performance-based Measurement System specified in §§ 1090.1360 through 1090.1375 applies for all testing specified in this subpart for the following fuels and fuel parameters:

(1) Sulfur content of diesel fuel.

(2) Sulfur content of ECA marine fuel.

(3) RVP, sulfur content, benzene content, and oxygenate content of gasoline. The procedures for measuring sulfur in gasoline in this subpart also apply for testing sulfur in certified ethanol denaturant; however, demonstrating compliance for alternative procedures in § 1090.1365 and statistical quality control in § 1090.1375 do not apply for sulfur concentration above 80 ppm.

(4) Sulfur content of butane.

(b) Specific test procedures apply for measuring other fuel parameters, as follows:

(1) Determine the cetane index of diesel fuel as specified in ASTM D976 or ASTM D4737 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95). There is no cetane-related test requirement for biodiesel that meets ASTM D6751 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95).

(2) Measure aromatic content of diesel fuel as specified in ASTM D1319 or ASTM D5186 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95). You may use an alternative procedure if you correlate your test results with ASTM D1319 or ASTM D5186. There is no aromatics-related test requirement for biodiesel that meets ASTM D6751.

(3) Measure the purity of butane as specified in ASTM D2163 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95). Measure the purity of pentane as specified in ASTM D2163 or ASTM D5134 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95).

(4) Measure the benzene content of butane and pentane as specified in ASTM D2163, ASTM D5134, ASTM D6729, or ASTM D6730 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95).

(5) Measure the sulfur content of pentane as specified in ASTM D5453 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95).

(6) Measure distillation parameters as specified in ASTM D86 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95). You may use an alternative procedure if you correlate your test results with ASTM D86.

(7) Measure the sulfur content of neat ethanol as specified in ASTM D5453. You may use an alternative procedure if you adequately correlate your test results with ASTM D5453.

(8) Measure the phosphorus content of gasoline as specified in ASTM D3231 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95).

(9) Measure the lead content of gasoline as specified in ASTM D3237 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95).

(10) Measure the sulfur content of gasoline additives and diesel fuel additives as specified in ASTM D2622 (incorporated by reference in § 1090.95).

(11) Use referee procedures specified in § 1090.1360(d) and the following additional methods to measure gasoline fuel parameters to meet the survey requirements of subpart O of this part:

(12) Updated versions of the test procedures specified in this section are acceptable as alternative procedures if both repeatability and reproducibility are the same or better than the values specified in the earlier version.

(c) Record measured values with the following precision, with rounding in accordance with § 1090.50:

(1) Record sulfur content to the nearest whole ppm.

(2) Record benzene to the nearest 0.01 volume percent.

(3) Record RVP to the nearest 0.01 psi.

(4) Record oxygenate content to the nearest 0.01 mass percent for each calibrated oxygenate.

(5) Record diesel aromatic content to the nearest 0.1 volume percent, or record cetane index to the nearest whole number.

(6) Record gasoline aromatic and olefin content to the nearest 0.1 volume percent.

(7) Record distillation parameters to the nearest whole degree.

(d) For any measurement or calculation that depends on the volume of the test sample, correct the volume of the sample to a reference temperature of 15.56 &#xB0;C. Use a correction equation that is appropriate for each tested compound. This applies for all fuels, blendstocks, and additives, except butane.
