
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart S - Attestation Engagements
###### ยง 1090.1850 Procedures related to in-line blending waivers.

In addition to any other procedure required under this subpart, an auditor must perform the procedures specified in this section for a gasoline manufacturer that relies on an in-line blending waiver under ยง 1090.1315.

(a) Obtain a copy of the gasoline manufacturer's in-line blending waiver submission and EPA's approval letter.

(b) Confirm that the sampling procedures and composite calculations conform to specifications as specified in ยง 1090.1315(a)(2).

(c) Review the gasoline manufacturer's procedure for defining a batch for compliance purposes. Review available test data demonstrating that the test results from in-line blending correctly characterize the fuel parameters for the designated batch.

(d) Confirm that the gasoline manufacturer corrected their operations because of previous audits, if applicable.

(e) Confirm that the equipment and procedures are not materially changed from the gasoline manufacturer's in-line blending waiver. In cases of material change in equipment or procedure, confirm that the gasoline manufacturer updated their in-line blending waiver and report any exceptions.

(f) Perform any additional procedures unique to the blending operation, as specified in the in-line blending waiver, and report any findings, variances, or exceptions, as applicable.

(g) Confirm that the gasoline manufacturer has complied with all provisions related to their in-line blending waiver and report any exceptions.
