
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart R - Compliance and Enforcement Provisions
###### ยง 1090.1710 Penalties.

(a) Any person liable for a violation under this part is subject to civil penalties as specified in 42 U.S.C. 7524 and 7545 for each day of such violation and the amount of economic benefit or savings resulting from the violation.

(b)(1) Any person liable for the violation of an average standard under this part is subject to a separate day of violation for each day in the compliance period.

(2) Any person liable under this part for a failure to fulfill any requirement for credit generation, transfer, use, banking, or deficit correction is subject to a separate day of violation for each day in any compliance period in which invalid credits are generated, transferred, used, or made available for use.

(c)(1) Any person liable under this part for a violation of a per-gallon standard, or for causing another party to violate a per-gallon standard, is subject to a separate day of violation for each day the non-complying fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock remains any place in the distribution system.

(2) For the purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the length of time the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock that violates a per-gallon standard remained in the distribution system is deemed to be 25 days, unless a person subject to liability or EPA demonstrates by reasonably specific showings, by direct or circumstantial evidence, that the non-complying fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock remained in the distribution system for fewer than or more than 25 days.

(d) Any person liable for failure to meet, or causing a failure to meet, any other provision of this part is liable for a separate day of violation for each day such provision remains unfulfilled.

(e) Failure to meet separate requirements of this part count as separate violations.

(f) Violation of any misfueling prohibition under this part counts as a separate violation for each day the noncompliant fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock remains in any engine, vehicle, or equipment.

(g) The presumed values of fuel parameters in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) of this section apply for cases in which any person fails to comply with the sampling or testing requirements and must be reported, unless EPA, in its sole discretion, approves a different value. EPA may consider any relevant information to determine whether a different value is appropriate.

(1) For gasoline: 339 ppm sulfur, 1.64 volume percent benzene, and 11 psi RVP.

(2) For diesel fuel: 1,000 ppm sulfur.

(3) For ECA marine fuel: 5,000 ppm sulfur.

(4) For the PCG portion for PCG by subtraction under ยง 1090.1320(a)(1): 0 ppm sulfur and 0 volume percent benzene.

(5) For fuel additives: 339 ppm sulfur.

(6) For regulated blendstocks: 339 ppm sulfur and 1.64 volume percent benzene.
