
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart S - Attestation Engagements
###### ยง 1090.1815 General procedures for gasoline importers.
####### Additional procedures for certain gasoline imported by rail or truck.

(i)An auditor must perform the following additional procedures for an importer that imports gasoline into the United States by rail or truck under ยง 1090.1610:

(1) Select a representative sample from the listing of batches obtained under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and perform the following for each selected batch:

(i) Identify the point of sampling and testing associated with each selected batch in the tank activity records from the supplier.

(ii) Confirm that the sampling and testing occurred after the most recent delivery into the supplier's storage tank and before transferring product to the railcar or truck.

(2)(i) Obtain a detailed listing of the importer's quality assurance program sampling and testing results.

(ii) Determine whether the frequency of the sampling and testing meets the requirements in ยง 1090.1610(a)(2).

(iii) Select a representative sample from the importer's sampling and testing records under the quality assurance program and perform the following for each selected batch:

(A) Obtain the corresponding laboratory analysis.

(B) Determine whether the importer analyzed the test sample, and whether they performed the analysis using the methods specified in subpart N of this part.

(C) Review the terminal test results corresponding to the time of collecting the quality assurance test samples. Compare the terminal test results with the test results from the quality assurance program, noting any parameters with differences that are greater than the reproducibility of the applicable method specified in subpart N of this part.
