
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 22 - CONSOLIDATED RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING THE ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND THE REVOCATION/TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMITS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 22.5 Filing, service by the parties, and form of all filed documents; business confidentiality claims.
####### Service of complaint.

(1)(i) Complainant shall serve on respondent, or a representative authorized to receive service on respondent's behalf, a copy of the signed original of the complaint, together with a copy of these Consolidated Rules of Practice. Service shall be made personally, by certified mail with return receipt requested, or by any reliable commercial delivery service that provides written verification of delivery.

(ii)(A) Where respondent is a domestic or foreign corporation, a partnership, or an unincorporated association which is subject to suit under a common name, complainant shall serve an officer, partner, a managing or general agent, or any other person authorized by appointment or by Federal or State law to receive service of process.

(B) Where respondent is an agency of the United States complainant shall serve that agency as provided by that agency's regulations, or in the absence of controlling regulation, as otherwise permitted by law. Complainant should also provide a copy of the complaint to the senior executive official having responsibility for the overall operations of the geographical unit where the alleged violations arose. If the agency is a corporation, the complaint shall be served as prescribed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.

(C) Where respondent is a State or local unit of government, agency, department, corporation or other instrumentality, complainant shall serve the chief executive officer thereof, or as otherwise permitted by law. Where respondent is a State or local officer, complainant shall serve such officer.

(iii) Proof of service of the complaint shall be made by affidavit of the person making personal service, or by properly executed receipt. Such proof of service shall be filed with the Regional Hearing Clerk immediately upon completion of service.
