
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart S - Attestation Engagements
###### § 1090.1840 Additional procedures related to compliance with gasoline average standards.
####### Annual compliance demonstration review.

(a)An auditor must review annual compliance demonstrations as follows:

(1) Obtain the annual compliance reports for sulfur and benzene and associated batch reports submitted under subpart J of this part.

(2)(i) For a gasoline refiner or blending manufacturer, compare the gasoline production volume from the annual compliance report to the inventory reconciliation analysis under § 1090.1810(b) and report any variances.

(ii) For a gasoline importer, compare the gasoline import volume from the annual compliance report to the corresponding volume from the listing of imports under § 1090.1815(b) and report any variances.

(3) For each facility, recalculate the following and report in the attestation report the recalculated values:

(i) Compliance sulfur value, per § 1090.700(a)(1), and compliance benzene value, per § 1090.700(b)(1)(i).

(ii) Unadjusted average sulfur concentration, per § 1090.745(b), and average benzene concentration, per § 1090.700(b)(3).

(iii) Number of credits generated during the compliance period, or number of banked or traded credits needed to meet standards for the compliance period.

(iv) Number of credits from the preceding compliance period that are expired or otherwise no longer available for the compliance period being reviewed.

(v) Net average sulfur concentration, per § 1090.745(c), and net average benzene concentration, per § 1090.745(d).

(4) Compare the recalculated values in paragraph (a)(3) of this section to the reported values in the annual compliance reports and report any exceptions.

(5) Report in the attestation report whether the gasoline manufacturer had a deficit for both the compliance period being reviewed and the preceding compliance period.
