
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart Q - Importer and Exporter Provisions
###### ยง 1090.1650 General provisions for exporters.

Except as specified in this section and in subpart G of this part, fuel produced, imported, distributed, or offered for sale in the United States is subject to the standards and requirements of this part.

(a) Fuel designated for export by a fuel manufacturer is not subject to the standards in this part, provided all the requirements in ยง 1090.645 are met.

(b) Fuel not designated for export may be exported without restriction. However, the fuel remains subject to the provisions of this part while in the United States. For example, fuel designated as ULSD must meet the applicable sulfur standards under this part even if it will later be exported.

(c) Fuel that has been classified as American Goods Returned to the United States by the U.S. Customs Service under 19 CFR part 10 is not considered to be imported for purposes of this part, provided all the following requirements are met:

(1) The fuel was produced at a fuel manufacturing facility located within the United States and has not been mixed with fuel produced at a fuel manufacturing facility located outside the United States.

(2) The fuel must be included in compliance calculations by the producing fuel manufacturer.

(3) All the fuel that was exported must ultimately be classified as American Goods Returned to the United States and none may be used in a foreign country.

(4) No fuel classified as American Goods Returned to the United States may be combined with any fuel produced at a foreign fuel manufacturing facility prior to reentry into the United States.
