
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart R - Compliance and Enforcement Provisions
###### ยง 1090.1720 Affirmative defense provisions.

(a) Any person liable for a violation under ยง 1090.1715(e) or (f) will not be deemed in violation if the person demonstrates all the following:

(1) The violation was not caused by the person or the person's employee or agent.

(2) If PTD requirements of this part apply, the PTDs account for the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock found to be in violation and indicate that the violating fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock was in compliance with the applicable requirements while in that person's control.

(3) The person conducted a quality assurance program, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(i) A carrier may rely on the quality assurance program carried out by another party, including the party that owns the fuel in question, provided that the quality assurance program is carried out properly.

(ii) A retailer or WPC is not required to conduct sampling and testing of fuel as part of their quality assurance program.

(b) For a violation found at a facility operating under the corporate, trade, or brand name of a fuel manufacturer, or a fuel manufacturer's marketing subsidiary, the fuel manufacturer must show, in addition to the defense elements required under paragraph (a) of this section, that the violation was caused by one of the following:

(1) An act in violation of law (other than the Clean Air Act or this part), or an act of sabotage or vandalism.

(2) The action of any retailer, distributor, reseller, oxygenate blender, carrier, retailer, or WPC in violation of a contractual agreement between the branded fuel manufacturer and the person designed to prevent such action, and despite periodic sampling and testing by the branded fuel manufacturer to ensure compliance with such contractual obligation.

(3) The action of any carrier or other distributor not subject to a contract with the fuel manufacturer, but engaged for transportation of fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock despite specifications or inspections of procedures and equipment that are reasonably calculated to prevent such action.

(c) For any person to show under paragraph (a) of this section that a violation was not caused by that person, or to show under paragraph (b) of this section that a violation was caused by any of the specified actions, the person must demonstrate by reasonably specific showings, through direct or circumstantial evidence, that the violation was caused or must have been caused by another person and that the person asserting the defense did not contribute to that other person's causation.

(d) To demonstrate an acceptable quality assurance program under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, a person must present evidence of all the following:

(1)(i) A periodic sampling and testing program adequately designed to ensure the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock the person sold, dispensed, supplied, stored, or transported meets the applicable per-gallon standard. A person may meet this requirement by participating in the NFSP under ยง 1090.1405 that was in effect at the time of the violation.

(ii) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, a gasoline manufacturer must also participate in the NSTOP specified in ยง 1090.1450 at the time of the violation.

(2) On each occasion when a fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock is found to be in noncompliance with the applicable per-gallon standard, the person does all the following:

(i) Immediately ceases selling, offering for sale, dispensing, supplying, offering for supply, storing, or transporting the non-complying fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock.
