
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1090 - REGULATION OF FUELS, FUEL ADDITIVES, AND REGULATED BLENDSTOCKS
##### Subpart R - Compliance and Enforcement Provisions
###### ยง 1090.1715 Liability provisions.

(a) Any person who violates any prohibited act or requirement in this part is liable for the violation.

(b) Any person who causes someone to commit a prohibited act under this subpart is liable for violating that prohibition.

(c) Any parent corporation is liable for any violation committed by any of its wholly-owned subsidiaries.

(d) Each partner to a joint venture, or each owner of a facility owned by two or more owners, is jointly and severally liable for any violation of this subpart that occurs at the joint venture facility or facility owned by the joint owners, or any violation of this part that is committed by the joint venture operation or any of the joint owners of the facility.

(e)(1) Any person that produced, imported, sold, offered for sale, dispensed, supplied, offered for supply, stored, transported, caused the transportation or storage of, or introduced into commerce fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock that is in the storage tank containing fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock that is found to be in violation of a per-gallon standard is liable for the violation.

(2) In order for a carrier to be liable under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, EPA must demonstrate by reasonably specific showing, by direct or circumstantial evidence, that the carrier caused the violation.

(f) If a fuel manufacturer's corporate, trade, or brand name is displayed at a facility where a violation occurs, the fuel manufacturer is liable for the violation. This also applies where the displayed corporate, trade, or brand name is from the fuel manufacturer's marketing subsidiary.
