
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter V - Council on Environmental Quality
### Subchapter B - Administrative Procedures and Operations
#### PART 1517 - PUBLIC MEETING PROCEDURES OF THE COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
##### ยง 1517.7 Records of closed meetings.

(a) A record of each meeting or portion thereof which is closed to the public shall be made and retained for two years or for one year after the conclusion of any Council proceeding involved in the meeting whichever occurs later. The record of any portion of a meeting closed to the public shall be a verbatim transcript or electronic recording. In lieu of a transcript or recording, a comprehensive set of minutes may be produced if the closure decision was made pursuant to ยง 1517.4(a) (8) or (10).

(b) If minutes are produced, such minutes shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed, provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken and the reasons expressed therefor, and include a description of each of the views expressed on any item. The minutes shall also reflect the vote of each member of the Council on any roll call vote taken during the proceedings and identify all documents produced at the meeting.

(c) The following documents shall be retained by the Council as part of the transcript, recording, or minutes of the meeting:

(1) Certification by the General Counsel that the meeting may properly be closed; and

(2) Statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the date, time, and place of the meeting and listing the persons present.

(d) The Council shall make promptly available to the public at its offices at 722 Jackson Place, NW., Washington, DC the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes maintained as a record of a closed meeting, except for such information as may be withheld under one of the provisions of ยง 1517.5. Copies of such transcript, minutes, or transcription of an electronic recording, disclosing the identity of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) Requests to review or obtain copies of records other than transcripts, electronic recordings or minutes of a meeting will be processed under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) or, where applicable, the Privacy Act of 1974. (5 U.S.C. 552a). Nothing in these regulations authorizes the Council to withhold from any individual any record, including the transcripts or electronic recordings described in ยง 1517.8, to which the individual may have access under the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a).
