
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter V - Council on Environmental Quality
### Subchapter B - Administrative Procedures and Operations
#### PART 1518 - OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT FUND
##### ยง 1518.3 Policy.

(a) All studies and projects financed through the OEQ Management Fund shall be consistent with the purposes and goals of the National Environmental Policy Act and/or the Environmental Quality Improvement Act.

(b) Agency funds accepted by the Director for transfer into the OEQ Management Fund shall specify the purposes permissible under the source appropriation and any restrictions relating thereto.

(c) The Director may authorize expenditures to support OEQ Management Fund studies and projects, including:

(1) Leasing office space and providing utilities;

(2) Leasing or purchasing equipment;

(3) Funding travel;

(4) Contracting for goods and services; and

(5) Funding consultants and personnel costs for task force employees.

(d) In carrying out the purposes of the OEQ Management Fund, the Director is authorized to contract with public or private agencies, institutions, organizations and individuals, by negotiation, without regard to 31 U.S.C. 3324(a) and (b) 41 U.S.C. 5, and 42 U.S.C. 4372(e). All such contracting activities shall be accomplished through the Office of Administration, Executive Office of the President. The Director may, by interagency agreement with another federal agency or agencies and with the concurrence of the Office of Administration's Financial Management Division, obtain specific administrative services (including contracting activities) in support of OEQ Management Fund studies or projects.

(e) Task forces and projects funded by the OEQ Management Fund are permitted to make expenditures for all project and study activities, except for compensation or benefits for full-time OEQ employees or to reimburse OEQ or CEQ for ordinarily appropriated expenses, such as salaries, benefits, rent, telephone and supplies.
