
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter V - Council on Environmental Quality
### Subchapter B - Administrative Procedures and Operations
#### PART 1518 - OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT FUND
##### ยง 1518.4 Procedures.
###### Finances and accounting:

(b)(1) Annual budget estimates shall be prepared for the OEQ Management Fund.

(2) An operating budget for each project or study shall be submitted to the Financial Management Division of the Office of Administration, Executive Office of the President.

(3) All contributions from other agencies to the OEQ Management Fund for a joint study or project shall be accomplished by interagency agreements, which shall provide for full payment of funds on an advance basis. 42 U.S.C. 4375(a).

(4) All contributions by the Office of Environmental Quality or the Council on Environmental Quality to the OEQ Management Fund for a joint study or project shall be accomplished by a letter of transmittal which specifies the particular study or project to be funded. A copy of this transmittal letter shall be provided to the Financial Management Division of the Office of Administration, Executive Office of the President.

(5) The OEQ Management Fund is a no-year appropriations account, which can accept one-year or multiple-year funds, and is available until the objectives for which the authority was made available are attained. Funds transferred into the Management Fund are individually accounted for and expire under the terms of their appropriation.

(6) Any agency, including the Office of Environmental Quality and the Council on Environmental Quality, may provide technical expertise, physical resources, facilities, equipment, or other assets; perform support or administrative services; or assign detailees or agency representatives to an OEQ Management Fund project or study. These contributions may be in addition to funding.

(7) Subaccounts shall be established within OEQ Management Fund for each project or study. All expenditures for a particular project or study must be matched with the source contribution and approved by the Director or the Project Officer.

(8) The Director may transfer Management Fund resources for any study or project to other federal accounts or other OEQ subaccounts provided that the transfer:

(i) Is approved in writing by the source agency that provided the portion of the funds being transferred;

(ii) Promotes the statutory mission of OEQ; and

(iii) Is justified by the Director as being in the best interests of the government.

(9) Financial transactions shall be classified under each Management Funds subaccount in sufficient detail to satisfy management planning, control requirements and financial audit requirements.

(10) All fund expenditures must comport with the purposes of the Management Fund and follow CEQ approval procedures. Any fund expenditures pursuant to interagency agreement for the provision of administrative services shall comport with the CEQ approval procedures specified in the interagency agreement.
