
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter VI - Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
### PART 1603 - RULES IMPLEMENTING THE GOVERNMENT IN THE SUNSHINE ACT
#### § 1603.5 Assurance of compliance.

(a) The General Counsel or another attorney designated by the General Counsel will attend and monitor all briefings described in § 1603.3(c)(3) and (c)(4) and all informal preliminary discussions described in § 1603.3(c)(5), to assure that those gatherings do not proceed to the point of becoming deliberations and meetings for Sunshine Act purposes.

(b) The General Counsel or the designated attorney will inform the Board Members if developing discussions at a briefing or gathering should be deferred until a notice of an open or closed meeting can be published in theand a meeting conducted pursuant to the Sunshine Act and this part.

(c) For each briefing described in § 1603.3(c)(3) or (c)(4) and each informal preliminary discussion described in § 1603.3(c)(5), the General Counsel is hereby authorized to designate a CSB employee, other than the attorney referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, to serve as a reporter. An employee may be designated as reporter for a single briefing or informal discussion or for a series of briefings or discussions. The reporter shall attend and prepare a written summary of each briefing(s) or informal discussion(s) for which he/she has been designated. The reporter must prepare the summary of a particular briefing or informal discussion within five business days after the date of that briefing or discussion. The reporter must then submit the summary to the General Counsel or the designated attorney who attended the briefing or informal discussion that is the subject of the summary for review and approval as a fair and accurate summary of that briefing or discussion. The written summaries of briefings and informal discussions shall be maintained in the Office of General Counsel.
