
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter VI - Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
### PART 1620 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS ARISING UNDER THE FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT
#### ยง 1620.3 Administrative claim; who may file.

(a) A claim for damage to or loss of property may be presented by the owner of the property, or his or her authorized agent, attorney, or other legal representative.

(b) A claim for personal injury may be presented by the injured person, or his or her authorized agent, attorney or other legal representative.

(c) A claim based on death may be presented by the executor or administrator of the decedent's estate, or by any other person legally entitled to assert a claim under the applicable State law, provided that the basis for the representation is documented in writing.

(d) A claim for loss totally compensated by an insurer with the rights to subrogate may be presented by the insurer. A claim for loss partially compensated by an insurer with the rights to subrogate may be presented by the insurer or the insured individually as their respective interests appear, or jointly. When an insurer presents a claim asserting the rights to subrogate the insurer must present appropriate evidence that it has the rights to subrogate.

(e) A claim presented by an agent or legal representative must be presented in the name of the claimant, be signed by the agent, attorney, or other legal representative, show the title or legal capacity of the person signing, and be accompanied by evidence of his or her authority to present a claim on behalf of the claimant as agent, attorney, executor, administrator, parent, guardian, conservator, or other legal representative.
