
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter VII - Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces
### PART 1700 - UNIFORM NATIONAL DISCHARGE STANDARDS FOR VESSELS OF THE ARMED FORCES
#### Subpart D - Marine Pollution Control Device (MPCD) Performance Standards
##### ยง 1700.36 Surface vessel bilgewater/oil-water separator effluent.
###### e.g.,

(iii) Contain an oil content above 15 ppm as measured by EPA Method 1664a (as defined at 40 CFR 136.3) or other appropriate method for determination of oil content as accepted by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) (ISO Method 9377) or U.S. Coast Guard; or

(iv) Otherwise are harmful to the public health or welfare of the United States.

(2) Must not contain dispersants, detergents, emulsifiers, chemicals, or other substances added for the purposes of removing the appearance of a visible sheen. This performance standard does not prohibit the use of these materials in machinery spaces for the purposes of cleaning and maintenance activities associated with vessel equipment and structures.

(3) Must only contain substances that are produced in the normal operation of a vessel. Oil solidifiers, flocculants or other additives (excluding any dispersants or surfactants) may be used to enhance oil-water separation during processing in an oil-water separator only if such solidifiers, flocculants, or other additives are minimized in the discharge and do not alter the chemical make-up of the oils being discharged. Solidifiers, flocculants, or other additives must not be directly added, or otherwise combined with, the water in the bilge.

(4) Must not occur in port if the vessel has the capability to collect and transfer oil-water separator effluent to an onshore facility.

(5) Must be minimized within one mile of shore.

(6) Must occur while sailing at speeds greater than six knots, if the vessel is underway.

(7) Must be minimized in federally-protected waters.
