
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter VII - Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces
### PART 1700 - UNIFORM NATIONAL DISCHARGE STANDARDS FOR VESSELS OF THE ARMED FORCES
#### Subpart B - Discharge Determinations
##### ยง 1700.5 Discharges not requiring control.

For the following discharges incidental to the normal operation of Armed Forces vessels, the Administrator and the Secretary have determined that it is not reasonable or practicable to require use of a Marine Pollution Control Device to mitigate adverse impacts on the marine environment:

(a) Boiler Blowdown: the water and steam discharged when a steam boiler is blown down, or when a steam safety valve is tested.

(b) Catapult Wet Accumulator Discharge: the water discharged from a catapult wet accumulator, which stores a steam/water mixture for launching aircraft from an aircraft carrier.

(c) Cathodic Protection: the constituents released into surrounding water from sacrificial anode or impressed current cathodic hull corrosion protection systems.

(d) Freshwater Lay-up: the potable water that is discharged from the seawater cooling system while the vessel is in port, and the cooling system is in lay-up mode (a standby mode where seawater in the system is replaced with potable water for corrosion protection).

(e) Mine Countermeasures Equipment Lubrication: the constituents released into the surrounding seawater by erosion or dissolution from lubricated mine countermeasures equipment when the equipment is deployed and towed.

(f) Portable Damage Control Drain Pump Discharge: the seawater pumped through the portable damage control drain pump and discharged overboard during testing, maintenance, and training activities.

(g) Portable Damage Control Drain Pump Wet Exhaust: the seawater mixed and discharged with portable damage control drain pump exhaust to cool the exhaust and quiet the engine.

(h) Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Condensate: the drainage of condensed moisture from air conditioning units, refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerated spaces.

(i) Rudder Bearing Lubrication: the oil or grease released by the erosion or dissolution from lubricated bearings that support the rudder and allow it to turn freely.

(j) Steam Condensate: the condensed steam discharged from a vessel in port, where the steam originates from port facilities.

(k) Stern Tube Seals and Underwater Bearing Lubrication: the seawater pumped through stern tube seals and underwater bearings to lubricate and cool them during normal operation.

(l) Submarine Acoustic Countermeasures Launcher Discharge: the seawater that is mixed with acoustic countermeasure device propulsion gas following a countermeasure launch that is then exchanged with surrounding seawater, or partially drained when the launch assembly is removed from the submarine for maintenance.

(m) Submarine Emergency Diesel Engine Wet Exhaust: the seawater that is mixed and discharged with submarine emergency diesel engine exhaust to cool the exhaust and quiet the engine.

(n) Submarine Outboard Equipment Grease and External Hydraulics: the grease released into the surrounding seawater by erosion or dissolution from submarine equipment exposed to seawater.
