
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter VII - Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces
### PART 1700 - UNIFORM NATIONAL DISCHARGE STANDARDS FOR VESSELS OF THE ARMED FORCES
#### Subpart C - Effect on States
##### No-Discharge Zones
###### ยง 1700.10 No-discharge zones by EPA prohibition.

(a) A State requesting EPA to establish a no-discharge zone must send to the Administrator an application containing the following information:

(1) The discharge from ยง 1700.4 or ยง 1700.5 to be prohibited within the no-discharge zone.

(2) A detailed description of the waterbody, or portions thereof, to be included in the prohibition. The description must include a map, preferably a USGS topographic quadrant map, clearly marking the zone boundaries by latitude and longitude.

(3) A technical analysis showing why protection and enhancement of the waters described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section require a prohibition of the discharge. The analysis must provide specific information on why the discharge adversely impacts the zone and how prohibition will protect the zone. In addition, the analysis should characterize any sensitive areas, such as aquatic sanctuaries, fish-spawning and nursery areas, pristine areas, areas not meeting water quality standards, drinking water intakes, and recreational areas.

(4) A complete description of the facilities reasonably available for collecting the discharge including:

(i) A map showing their location(s) and a written location description.

(ii) A demonstration that the facilities have the capacity and capability to provide safe and sanitary removal of the volume of discharge being prohibited in terms of both vessel berthing and discharge reception.

(iii) The schedule of operating hours of the facilities.

(iv) The draft requirements of the vessel(s) that will be required to use the facilities and the available water depth at the facilities.

(v) Information showing that handling of the discharge at the facilities is in conformance with Federal law.

(5) Information on whether vessels other than those of the Armed Forces are subject to the same type of prohibition. If the State is not applying a prohibition to other vessels in the area, the State must demonstrate the technical or environmental basis for applying a prohibition only to Armed Forces vessels. The following information must be included in the technical or environmental basis for treating Armed Forces vessels differently:

(i) An analysis showing the relative contributions of the discharge from Armed Forces and non-Armed Forces vessels.

(ii) A description of State efforts to control the discharge from non-Armed Forces vessels.

(b) The information provided under paragraph (a) of this section must be sufficient to enable EPA to make the three determinations listed below. Prior to making these determinations, EPA will consult with the Secretary on the adequacy of the facilities and the operational impact of the prohibition on Armed Forces vessels.

(1) The protection and enhancement of the specified waters require a prohibition of the discharge.

(2) Adequate facilities for the safe and sanitary removal of the discharge are reasonably available for the specified waters.

(3) The prohibition will not have the effect of discriminating against vessels of the Armed Forces by reason of the ownership or operation by the Federal Government, or the military function, or the vessels.

(c) If the three conditions in paragraph (b) of this section are met, EPA will by regulation establish the no-discharge zone. If the conditions in paragraphs (b) (1) and (3) of this section are met, but the condition in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is not met, EPA may establish the no-discharge zone if it determines that the significance of the waters and the potential impact of the discharge are of sufficient magnitude to warrant any resulting constraints on Armed Forces vessels.

(d) EPA will notify the State of its decision on the no-discharge zone application in writing. If EPA approves the no-discharge zone application, EPA will by regulation establish the no-discharge zone by modification to this part. A no-discharge zone established by EPA prohibition will not go into effect until the effective date of the regulation.
