
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter VI - Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
### PART 1620 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS ARISING UNDER THE FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT
#### ยง 1620.5 Administrative claim; evidence and information to be submitted.
##### Death.

(a)In support of a claim based on death, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:

(1) An authenticated death certificate or other competent evidence showing cause of death, date of death, and age of the decedent.

(2) Decedent's employment or occupation at time of death, including his or her monthly or yearly salary or earnings (if any), and the duration of his or her last employment or occupation.

(3) Full names, addresses, birth date, kinship and marital status of the decedent's survivors, including identification of those survivors who were dependent on support provided by the decedent at the time of death.

(4) Degree of support afforded by the decedent to each survivor dependent on him or her for support at the time of death.

(5) Decedent's general physical and mental condition before death.

(6) Itemized bills for medical and burial expenses incurred by reason of the incident causing death, or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.

(7) If damages for pain and suffering before death are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, any drugs administered for pain, and the decedent's physical condition in the interval between injuries and death.

(8) True and correct copies of relevant medical treatment records, laboratory and other tests, including X-Rays, MRI, CT scans and other objective evidence of medical evaluation and diagnosis, treatment of injury/illness, and prognosis, if any had been made.

(9) Any other evidence or information that may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the death or the amount of damages claimed.
