
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter VI - Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
### PART 1620 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS ARISING UNDER THE FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT
#### ยง 1620.5 Administrative claim; evidence and information to be submitted.
##### Personal injury.

(b)In support of a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:

(1) A written report by the attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injury, nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability, the prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity. If damages for pain and suffering are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the duration of pain and suffering, a listing of drugs administered for pain, and the claimant's general physical condition.

(2) True and correct copies of relevant medical treatment records, laboratory and other tests including X-Rays, MRI, CT scans and other objective evidence of medical evaluation and diagnosis, treatment injury/illness and prognosis.

(3) The claimant may be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed by CSB or another Federal agency. On written request, CSB will make available to the claimant a copy of the report of the examining physician employed by the United States, provided the claimant has furnished CSB with the information noted in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. In addition, the claimant must have made or agrees to make available to CSB all other physicians' reports previously or thereafter made of the physical or mental condition that is subject matter of his or her claim.

(4) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred, and/or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.

(5) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement of the expected treatment and the expected expense for such treatment.

(6) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from his or her employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether he or she is a full-time or part-time employee, and wages or salary actually lost.

(7) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings actually lost.

(8) Any other evidence or information that may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
