
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter VIII - Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
### PART 1850 - AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS
#### Subpart A - Production or Disclosure Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 1850.2 Definitions.
###### Representative of the news media, or news media requester,

(q)means any person or entity organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public that actively gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes the work to an audience. Examples of news-media entities are television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large, and publishers of periodicals that disseminate "news" and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public including news organizations that disseminate solely on the Internet. To be in this category, a requester must not be seeking the requested records for a commercial use. A request for records that supports the news-dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be for a commercial use. A "freelance journalist" shall be regarded as working for a news-media entity if the journalist can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that entity, whether or not the journalist is actually employed by the entity. A publication contract would be the clearest proof, but the Council shall also look to the past publication record of a requester in making this determination. The Council's decision to grant a requester media status will be made on a case-by-case basis based upon the requester's intended use of the material.
