
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter VIII - Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
### PART 1850 - AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS
#### Subpart A - Production or Disclosure Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 1850.10 Fees.
###### Waiver or reduction of fees.

(j)To seek a waiver, a requester shall include the request for waiver or reduction of fees, and the justification for such based on the factors set forth in this paragraph, with the request for records to which it pertains. If a requester requests a waiver or reduction and has not indicated in writing an agreement to pay the applicable fees, the time for responding to the request for Council records shall not begin until the Records Management Officer makes a determination regarding the request for a waiver or reduction of fees.

(1) Records responsive to a request shall be furnished without charge, or at a reduced rate below that established in paragraph (b) of this section, where the Council determines, after consideration of all available information, that the requester has demonstrated that:

(i) Disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government; and

(ii) Disclosure of the information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.

(2) In deciding whether disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government, the Council will consider the following factors:

(i) The subject of the request: Whether the subject of the requested records concerns the operations or activities of the Government. The subject of the requested records must concern identifiable operations or activities of the Federal government, with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated.

(ii) The informative value of the information to be disclosed: Whether the disclosure is "likely to contribute" to an understanding of Government operations or activities. The disclosable portions of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities in order to be "likely to contribute" to an increased public understanding of those operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either the same or a substantially identical form, would not be likely to contribute to such an understanding.

(iii) The contribution to an understanding of the subject by the public: Whether disclosure of the requested information will contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area as well as his or her ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public shall be considered. It shall be presumed that a representative of the news media will satisfy this consideration. Merely providing information to media sources is insufficient to satisfy this consideration.

(iv) The significance of the contribution to public understanding: Whether the disclosure is likely to contribute "significantly" to public understanding of Government operations or activities. The public's understanding of the subject in question prior to disclosure must be significantly enhanced by the disclosure.

(3) To determine whether disclosure of the requested information is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, the Council will consider the following factors:

(i) The existence and magnitude of a commercial interest: Whether the requester has a commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. The Council shall consider any commercial interest of the requester (with reference to the definition of "commercial use request" in ยง 1850.2(b)), or of any person on whose behalf the requester may be acting, that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. Requesters shall be given an opportunity to provide explanatory information regarding this consideration.

(ii) The primary interest in disclosure: Whether any identified commercial interest of the requester is sufficiently great, in comparison with the public interest in disclosure, that disclosure if "primarily in the commercial interest of the requester." A fee waiver or reduction is justified if the public interest standard (paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section) is satisfied and the public interest is greater than any identified commercial interest in disclosure. The Council shall presume that if a news media requester has satisfied the public interest standard, the public interest is the primary interest served by disclosure to that requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market Government information for direct economic return shall not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.

(4) A request for a waiver or reduction of fees shall include a clear statement of how the request satisfies the criteria set forth in paragraphs (j)(2) and (3) of this section, insofar as they apply to each request. The burden shall be on the requester to present evidence or information in support of a request for a waiver or reduction of fees.

(5) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a fee waiver, a waiver shall be granted for those records.

(6) The Records Management Officer shall make a determination on the request for a waiver or reduction of fees and shall notify the requester accordingly. A denial may be appealed to the General Counsel in accordance with ยง 1850.7.
