
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter VIII - Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
### PART 1850 - AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS
#### Subpart A - Production or Disclosure Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 1850.10 Fees.
###### Limitations on charging fees.

(5)(i) The Council will not charge a search fee for requests from educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media.

(ii) The Council will not charge a search fee or review fee for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.

(iii) The Council will not charge a fee to a requester whenever the total fee calculated under this paragraph is $25 or less for the request.

(iv) Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use, the Council will provide without charge the first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent) and the first two hours of search.

(v) The provisions of paragraphs (b)(5)(iii) and (iv) of this section work together. This means that for requesters other than those seeking records for a commercial use, no fee shall be charged unless the cost of search is in excess of two hours plus the cost of duplication in excess of 100 pages totals more than $25.

(vi) No search fees shall be charged to a requester when the Council does not comply with the statutory time limits at 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6) in which to respond to a request, unless unusual or exceptional circumstances (as those terms are defined by the FOIA) apply to the processing of the request.

(vii) No duplication fees shall be charged to requesters in the fee category of a representative of the news media or an educational or noncommercial scientific institution when the Council does not comply with the statutory time limits at 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6) in which to respond to a request, unless unusual or exceptional circumstances (as those terms are defined by the FOIA) apply to the processing of the request.
