
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter VIII - Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
### PART 1850 - AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS
#### Subpart B - Production or Disclosure Under the Privacy Act
##### ยง 1850.35 Disclosure of requested information to individuals.

(a) Upon receipt of request for notification as to whether the Council maintains a record about an individual and/or request for access to such record:

(1) The appropriate Council official shall acknowledge such request in writing within 10 working days of receipt of the request. Wherever practicable, the acknowledgement should contain the notification and/or determination required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) The appropriate Council official shall provide, within 30 working days of receipt of the request, written notification to the requester as to the existence of the records and/or a determination as to whether or not access will be granted. In some cases, such as where records have to be recalled from the Federal Records Center, notification and/or a determination of access may be delayed. In the event of such a delay, the Council official shall inform the requester of this fact, the reasons for the delay, and an estimate of the date on which notification and/or a determination will be forthcoming.

(3) If access to a record is granted, the determination shall indicate when and where the record will be available for personal inspection. If a copy of the record has been requested, the Council official shall mail that copy or retain it at the Council to present to the individual, upon receipt of a check or money order in an amount computed pursuant to ยง 1850.41.

(4) When access to a record is to be granted, the appropriate Council official will normally provide access within 30 working days of receipt of the request unless, for good cause shown, he or she is unable to do so, in which case the requester shall be informed within 30 working days of receipt of the request as to those reasons and when it is anticipated that access will be granted.

(5) The Council shall not deny any request under ยง 1850.33 concerning the existence of records about the requester in any system of records it maintains, or any request for access to such records, unless that system is exempted from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a.

(6) If the Council receives a request pursuant to ยง 1850.33 for access to records in a system of records it maintains which is so exempt, the appropriate Council official shall deny the request.

(b) Upon request, the appropriate Council official shall make available an accounting of disclosures pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), unless that system is exempted from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
