
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 22 - CONSOLIDATED RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING THE ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND THE REVOCATION/TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMITS
##### Subpart C - Prehearing Procedures
###### ยง 22.18 Quick resolution; settlement; alternative dispute resolution.
####### Alternative means of dispute resolution.,et seq.,

(d)(1) The parties may engage in any process within the scope of the Alternative Dispute Resolution Act ("ADRA"), 5 U.S.C. 581which may facilitate voluntary settlement efforts. Such process shall be subject to the confidentiality provisions of the ADRA.

(2) Dispute resolution under this paragraph (d) does not divest the Presiding Officer of jurisdiction and does not automatically stay the proceeding. All provisions of these Consolidated Rules of Practice remain in effect notwithstanding any dispute resolution proceeding.

(3) The parties may choose any person to act as a neutral, or may move for the appointment of a neutral. If the Presiding Officer grants a motion for the appointment of a neutral, the Presiding Officer shall forward the motion to the Chief Administrative Law Judge, except in proceedings under subpart I of this part, in which the Presiding Officer shall forward the motion to the Regional Administrator. The Chief Administrative Law Judge or Regional Administrator, as appropriate, shall designate a qualified neutral.
