
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.222 Negative declarations.

(a) The following air pollution control districts submitted negative declarations for volatile organic compound source categories to satisfy the requirements of section 182 of the Clean Air Act, as amended. The following negative declarations are approved as additional information to the State Implementation Plan.

(1) Mojave Desert Air Quality Management District.

(i) Natural Gas and Gasoline Processing Equipment and Chemical Processing and Manufacturing were submitted on July 13, 1994 and adopted on May 25, 1994.

(ii) Asphalt Air Blowing was submitted on December 20, 1994 and adopted on October 26, 1994.

(iii) Vacuum Producing Devices or Systems was submitted on December 29, 1994 and adopted on December 21, 1994.

(iv) Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry (SOCMI) Distillation, SOCMI Reactors, SOCMI Batch Processing, Offset Lithography, Industrial Wastewater, Plastic Parts Coating (Business Machines), Plastic Parts (Other), and Ship Building were submitted on August 7, 1995 and adopted on June 28, 1995.

(v) Pneumatic Rubber Tire Manufacturing, Large Petroleum Dry Cleaners, Surface Coating of Cans, Surface Coating of Coils, Surface Coating Fabrics, Surface Coating Operations at Automotive and Light Duty Truck Assembly Plants, Surface of Coating of Large Appliances, Surface of Coating of Magnet Wire, Vacuum Producing Devices or Systems, Leaks From Petroleum Refinery Equipment, Process Unit Turnarounds, Equipment Leaks From Natural Gas/Gasoline Processing Plants, Synthesized Pharmaceutical Products, Air Oxidation Process-SOCMI, Polymer Manufacturing SOCMI and Polymer Manufacturing Equipment Leaks, Reactor Processes and Distillation Operations in SOCMI, and Synthetic Organic Chemical Polymer and Resin Manufacturing were submitted on July 11, 2007 and adopted January 22, 2007.

(vi) Petroleum Refinery Equipment, Manufacture of High-Density Polyethylene, Polypropylene, and Polystyrene Resins, and Fugitive Emissions from Synthetic Organic Chemical Polymer and Resin Manufacturing Equipment were submitted on October 22, 2010 and adopted on August 23, 2010.

(vii) The following negative declarations for the 2008 ozone NAAQS were adopted by the District on February 23, 2015 and submitted to EPA on September 9, 2015.

(viii) The following negative declarations for the 2008 ozone standard were adopted by the District on April 23, 2018 and submitted to EPA on July 16, 2018: Miscellaneous Metal and Plastic Parts Coatings (EPA-453/R-08-003), Table 3-Plastic Parts and Products, and Table 4-Automotive/Transportation and Business Machine Plastic Parts.

(ix) The following negative declaration for the 2008 ozone standard was adopted by the District on October 22, 2018, and submitted to EPA on December 7, 2018: Miscellaneous Metal and Plastic Parts Coatings (EPA-453/R-08-003), Table 6-Motor Vehicle Materials.

(2) Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District.

(i) Plastic Parts Coating: Business Machines and Plastic Parts Coating: Other were submitted on June 6, 1996 and adopted on May 2, 1996.

(ii) Coating Operations at Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Operations was submitted on January 12, 2012 and adopted on October 27, 2011.

(iii) Fiberglass and Boat Manufacturing Materials and Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Assembly Coatings were submitted on July 12, 2012 and adopted on March 22, 2012.
