
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.222 Negative declarations.
####### Negative declarations for Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District.

(iv)

(v) Negative Declaration for "Control Techniques Guidelines for Miscellaneous Metal and Plastic Parts Coatings," EPA-453/R-08-003, September 2008 (Pleasure Craft Coating Portion Only) submitted on June 11, 2018 and adopted on March 22, 2018.

(3) Santa Barbara County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Industrial Wastewater, Plastic Parts Coating: Business Machines, Plastic Parts Coating: Other, Industrial Cleaning Solvents, Offset Lithography, and Shipbuilding Coatings were submitted on July 12, 1996 and adopted on May 16, 1996.

(ii) Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry (SOCMI) Batch Processing, SOCMI Reactors, and SOCMI Distillation; and Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operations were submitted on April 9, 2002 and adopted on February 21, 2002.

(4) Placer County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Aerospace Coatings; Industrial Waste Water Treatment; Plastic Parts Coating: Business Machines; Plastic Parts Coating: Other; Shipbuilding and Repair; Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing, Batch Plants; and Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing, Reactors were submitted on February 25, 1998 and adopted on October 7, 1997.

(ii)

(iii) Submitted on April 14, 2014 and adopted on February 13, 2014.

(iv) Polyester Resin was submitted on July 18, 2014 and adopted on April 10, 2014.

(v) The following negative declaration for the 2008 ozone standard was adopted by the District on December 12, 2019, and submitted to the EPA on January 23, 2020, as an attachment to a letter dated January 21, 2020: The Control Techniques Guidelines for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (EPA 453/B-16-001).

(5) San Diego County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Synthetic organic chemical manufacturing (distillation), synthetic organic chemical manufacturing (reactors), wood furniture, plastic parts coatings (business machines), plastic parts coatings (other), offset lithography, industrial wastewater, autobody refinishing, and volatile organic liquid storage were submitted on February 25, 1998 and adopted on October 22, 1997.

(ii) The following negative declarations for the 2008 ozone NAAQS were adopted by the San Diego County Air Pollution Control District.

(iii) The following negative declarations for the 2015 ozone NAAQS were adopted by the San Diego County Air Pollution Control District.

(6) Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Motor Vehicle Assembly Line Coating Operations submitted on January 12, 1999 and adopted on November 18, 1997.

(ii) Refinery Process Turnarounds submitted on February 16, 1999 and adopted on November 18, 1997.

(iii) Marine Vessel Coating Operations, Marine Tank Vessel Operations, and Thermal Enhanced Oil Recovery Wells submitted on June 23, 1998 and adopted on January 20, 1998.

(iv) Pharmaceuticals and Cosmetic Manufacturing Operations submitted on March 28, 2000 and adopted on January 18, 2000.

(v) Metal Container, Closure and Coil Coating Operations and Magnet Wire Coating Operations submitted on June 3, 2004 and adopted on February 17, 2004.

(vi) Control of Volatile Compound Emissions from Resin Manufacturing and Surfactant Manufacturing submitted on July 19, 2004 and adopted on March 16, 2004.

(vii) Large Appliances, Surface Coating; Wood Furniture Surface Coating; Gasoline Bulk Plants, Equipment Leaks from Natural Gas/Gasoline Processing Plants; Leaks from Petroleum Refinery Equipment; Air Oxidation Processes (SOCMI); Reactor and Distillation Processes (SOCMI); Tank Truck Gasoline Loading Terminals >76,000 L; Manufacture of Synthesized Pharmaceutical Products; Manufacture of Pneumatic Rubber Tires; Manufacture of High Density Polyethylene, Polypropylene and Polystyrene; Equipment Used in Synthetic Organic Chemical Polymers and Resin Manufacturing; Refinery Vacuum-Producing Systems, Wastewater Separators and Process Unit Turnarounds; and Magnetic Wire Coating Operations submitted on January 31, 2007 and adopted on September 19, 2006.

(viii) Ship Repair Operations; Storage of Petroleum Liquids in Fixed Roof Tanks; and Petroleum Liquid Storage in External Floating Roof Tanks submitted on January 7, 2011 and adopted on October 19, 2010.

(ix) Petroleum Coke Calcining Operations-Oxides of Sulfur submitted on June 20, 2011 and adopted on January 18, 2011.

(x) The following negative declarations for the 2008 ozone NAAQS were adopted by the District on July 21, 2015 and submitted to EPA on October 23, 2015.

(xi) The following negative declarations were adopted by the District on December 20, 2016 and submitted to EPA on June 7, 2017.

(xii) The following negative declaration for the 2008 ozone standard was adopted by the District on January 21, 2020 and submitted to the EPA on May 1, 2020, as an attachment to a letter dated April 30, 2020: The Control Techniques Guidelines for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (EPA 453/B-16-001).

(7) El Dorado County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Bulk Terminal Facilities or External or Internal Floating Roof Tank Sources was submitted on May 23, 2001 and adopted on April 3, 2001.

(ii) Control of VOC Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources, Volume VI: Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products; Control of VOC Emissions from Solvent Metal Cleaning; and Control of VOC Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources, Volume VIII: Graphic Arts-Rotogravure and Flexography submitted on September 30, 2013 and adopted on December 11, 2012.

(iii) Control of VOC Emissions from Coating Operations at Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework; Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources-Volume II: Surface Coating of Cans, Coils, Paper, Fabrics, Automobiles, and Light-Duty Trucks; Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources, Volume V: Surface Coating of Large Appliances; Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources, Volume IV: Surface Coating of Insulation of Magnet Wire; Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources, Volume III: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture; 61 FR 44050 Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Operations (Surface Coating); Control of Volatile Organic emissions from Existing Stationary Sources, Volume VII: Factory Surface Coating of Flat Wood Paneling; Control of VOC Emissions from Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operations; Control of VOC Equipment Leaks from Natural Gas/Gasoline Processing Plants; Control of Refinery Vacuum Producing Systems, Wastewater Separators, and Process Unit Turnarounds; Control of VOC Leaks from Petroleum Refinery Equipment; Control of VOC Emissions from Air Oxidation Processes in Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry; Control of VOC Emissions from Reactor Processes and Distillation Operations in SOCMI; Control of VOC Emissions from Storage of Petroleum Liquids in Fixed Roof Tanks; Control of VOC Emissions from Petroleum Liquid Storage in External Floating Roof Tanks; Control of VOC Emissions from Large Petroleum Dry Cleaners; Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Manufacture of Synthesized Pharmaceutical Products; Control of VOC Emissions from Manufacture of High-Density Polyethylene, Polypropylene, and Polystyrene Resins; Control of VOC Fugitive Emissions from Synthetic Organic Chemical Polymer and Resin Manufacturing Equipment; and Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Manufacture of Pneumatic Rubber Tires were submitted on July 11, 2007 and adopted on February 6, 2007.

(iv) The following negative declarations for the 2008 NAAQS were adopted by the El Dorado County Air Quality Management District on January 3, 2017, and submitted to the EPA on January 4, 2017.

(8) San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Synthesized Pharmaceutical Products Manufacturing and Coating Operations at Shipbuilding/Ship Repair Facilities submitted on June 18, 2009 and adopted on April 16, 2009.

(ii) Rubber Tire Manufacturing submitted on June 20, 2011 and adopted on September 20, 2010.

(iii) The following negative declarations for the 2008 NAAQS were adopted by the San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District on June 21, 2018, and submitted to the EPA on June 29, 2018.

(9) Northern Sierra Air Quality Management District.

(i) The following negative declarations for the 1997 ozone NAAQS were adopted by the Northern Sierra Air Quality Management District.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) The following negative declarations for the 2008 ozone NAAQS were adopted by the Northern Sierra Air Quality Management District.

(v) The following negative declarations for the 2015 ozone NAAQS were adopted by the Northern Sierra Air Quality Management District.

(10) Ventura County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) EPA-453/R06-004 Control Techniques Guidelines for Flat Wood Paneling Coatings; EPA-453/R-07-004 Control Techniques Guidelines for Large Appliance Coatings; EPA-453/R-07-003 Control Techniques Guidelines for Paper, Film, and Foil Coatings; EPA-452/R-08-006 Control Techniques Guidelines for Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Assembly Coatings; EPA 453/R-08-005 Control Techniques Guidelines for Miscellaneous Industrial Adhesives; EPA 453/R-06-003 Control Techniques Guidelines for Flexible Package Printing; EPA 453/R-07-005 Control Techniques Guidelines for Metal Furniture Coatings; and EPA 453/R-08-004 Control Techniques Guidelines for Fiberglass Boat Manufacturing Materials were submitted on November 17, 2009 and adopted on September 15, 2009.

(ii) Negative declarations for the 2008 8-hour ozone standard: EPA-453/R-97-004 Aerospace CTG and MACT; EPA-450/2-77-008 Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources-Volume II: Surface Coating of Cans, Coils, Paper, Fabrics, Automobiles, and Light-Duty Trucks; EPA 453/R-08-006 Control Techniques Guidelines for Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Assembly Coatings; EPA-450/2-78-032, Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources-Volume VII: Factory Surface Coating of Flat Wood Paneling; EPA-453/R-06-004, Control Techniques Guidelines for Flat Wood Paneling Coatings; EPA-453/R-06-003 Control Techniques Guidelines for Flexible Package Printing; EPA-450/2-77-034 Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources-Volume V: Surface Coating of Large Appliances; EPA 453/R-07-004 Control Techniques Guidelines for Large Appliance Coatings; EPA-450/2-77-033 Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources-Volume IV: Surface Coating of Insulation of Magnet Wire; EPA-450/2-77-032 Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources-Volume III: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture; EPA 453/R-07-005 Control Techniques Guidelines for Metal Furniture Coatings; EPA 453/R-07-003 Control Techniques Guidelines for Paper, Film, and Foil Coatings; EPA-450/2-77-025 Control of Refinery Vacuum Producing Systems, Wastewater Separators, and Process Unit Turnarounds; EPA-450/2-78-036 Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from Petroleum Refinery Equipment; EPA 453/R-08-004 Control Techniques Guidelines for Fiberglass Boat Manufacturing Materials; EPA 453/R-08-005 Control Techniques Guidelines for Miscellaneous Industrial Adhesives; EPA-450/2-78-029 Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Manufacture of Synthesized Pharmaceutical Products; EPA-450/2-78-030 Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Manufacture of Pneumatic Rubber Tires; EPA-450/3-83-008 Control of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Manufacture of High-Density Polyethylene, Polypropylene, and Polystyrene Resins; EPA-450/3-83-006 Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from Synthetic Organic Chemical Polymer and Resin Manufacturing Equipment; EPA-450/3-84-015 Control of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Air Oxidation Processes in Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry; EPA-450/4-91-031 Control of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Reactor Processes and Distillation Operations in Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry; EPA-450/3-82-009 Control of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Large Petroleum Dry Cleaners were submitted on July 18, 2014 and adopted on June 10, 2014.

(11) Feather River Air Quality Management District.

(i) Negative declarations for Feather River Air Quality Management District.

(ii) A negative declaration for the Control Techniques Guidelines for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry, EPA 453/B-16-001, was submitted on December 7, 2018, as an attachment to a letter dated December 2, 2018, and adopted on August 6, 2018, titled: "Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) State Implementation Plan (SIP) Revision for the South Sutter County Portion of the Sacramento Metropolitan Nonattainment Area for 8-Hour ozone-Negative Declaration for Control Techniques Guidelines for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry."

(12) Imperial County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Submitted on December 21, 2010 and adopted on July 13, 2010.

(ii) The following negative declarations for the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS were adopted by the Imperial County Air Pollution Control District on September 12, 2017, and submitted to the EPA on November 14, 2017.

(13) South Coast Air Quality Management District.

(i) Negative declarations for the 2008 ozone standard: Control Techniques Guidelines for Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Operations (Surface Coating) including (published on August 27, 1996) and EPA 453/R-94-032 Alternative Control Techniques Document: Surface Coating Operations at Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Facilities; paper coating portion of EPA 453/R-07-003 Control Techniques Guidelines for Paper, Film, and Foil Coatings.

(ii) [Reserved]

(14) Yolo-Solano Air Quality Management District.

(i) The following negative declarations are for the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS.

(ii) The following negative declarations are for the 1997 and 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS and were adopted by the District on September 13, 2017 and submitted as part of Yolo-Solano AQMD's RACT SIP on November 13, 2017.

(15) Mariposa County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) The following negative declaration for the 2008 ozone standard was adopted by the District on March 10, 2020, and submitted to the EPA on May 1, 2020, as an attachment to a letter dated April 30, 2020: The Control Techniques Guidelines for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (EPA 453/B-16-001).

(ii) [Reserved]

(16) Eastern Kern Air Pollution Control District.

(i) The following negative declarations for the 2008 ozone standard were adopted by the District on May 11, 2017 and submitted to the EPA on August 9, 2017:

(ii) [Reserved]

(b) The following air pollution control districts submitted negative declarations for oxides of nitrogen source categories to satisfy the requirements of section 182 of the Clean Air Act, as amended. The following negative declarations are approved as additional information to the State Implementation Plan.

(1) Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District.

(i) Nitric and Adipic Acid Manufacturing Plants, Utility Boilers, Cement Manufacturing Plants, Glass Manufacturing Plants, and Iron and Steel Manufacturing Plants were submitted on March 4, 1996, and adopted on August 3, 1995.

(2) San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Nitric and Adipic Acid Manufacturing Plants, Cement Manufacturing Plants, Asphalt Batch Plants, Iron and Steel Manufacturing Plants, and Driers were submitted on October 17, 1994 and adopted on September 14, 1994.

(3) Placer County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Nitric and Adipic Acid Manufacturing Plants, Utility Boilers, Cement Manufacturing Plants, Glass Manufacturing Plants, and Iron and Steel Manufacturing Plants were submitted on February 25, 1998 and adopted on October 9, 1997.

(4) Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Boilers and Process Heaters In Petroleum Refineries submitted on May 13, 1999 and adopted on April 21, 1998.

(ii) Cement Kilns and Glass Melting Furnaces submitted on July 23, 1999 and adopted on March 16, 1999.

(iii) Nitric Acid Units submitted on March 28, 2000 and adopted on January 18, 2000.
