
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.228 Regulations: Particulate matter, Southeast Desert Intrastate Region.

(a) The following regulations are disapproved since they are not part of the approved control strategy and do not provide for the degree of control needed for the attainment and maintenance of the national standards for particulate matter in the Southeast Desert Intrastate Region.

(1) Imperial County Air Pollution Control District:

(i) Rule 114A.

(ii) Rule 116B.

(2) Los Angeles County Air Pollution Control District:

(i) Regulation IV, Rule 68.1.

(3) Riverside County Air Pollution Control District:

(i) Regulation IV, Rule 54 for process sources with a process weight rate in excess of 160,000 lbs. per hour. Rule 54 is approved for process sources with a process weight of 160,000 lbs. per hour or less.

(b) The following regulatory changes represent a relaxation of previously submitted regulations, and an adequate control strategy has not been submitted showing that the relaxation will not interfere with the attainment and maintenance of the national ambient air quality standards for particulate matter:

(1) Southeast Desert Intrastate Region:

(i) Imperial County APCD.

(A) Rule 406, Disposal of Solid and Liquid Wastes submitted on November 4, 1977 is disapproved; and Rule 116 C, Specific Contaminants submitted on June 30, 1972 and previously approved under 40 CFR 52.223 is retained.

(ii) Los Angeles County Air Pollution Control District.

(A) Regulation IV, Rule 404 Particulate Matter-Concentration, and Rule 473, Disposal of Solid and Liquid Wastes, submitted on June 6, 1977 are disapproved. Rules 52 and 58, titled as above, respectively, and submitted on June 30, 1972 and previously approved under 40 CFR 52.223 are retained.

(iii) Riverside County Air Pollution Control District.

(A) Regulation IV, Rules 404 Particulate Matter-Concentration, 405 Particulate Matter-Weight, and Rule 473, Disposal of Solid and Liquid Wastes, submitted on June 6, 1977 are disapproved. Rules 52, Particulate Matter-Weight, 54, Dust and Fumes, and 58, Disposal of Solid and Liquid Wastes, submitted in 1972 and approved under 40 CFR 52.223, are retained.
