
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.227 Control strategy and regulations: Particulate matter, Metropolitan Los Angeles Intrastate Region.

(a) The requirements of Subpart G of this chapter are not met since the plan does not provide for attainment and maintenance of the secondary standards for particulate matter in the Metropolitan Los Angeles Intrastate Region.

(b) The following regulations are disapproved since they are not part of the approved control strategy and do not provide for the degree of control needed for the attainment and maintenance of the primary standards for particulate matter in the Metropolitan Los Angeles Intrastate Region.

(1) Los Angeles County Air Pollution Control District:

(i) Regulation IV, Rule 68.1.

(2) Riverside County Air Pollution Control District:

(i) Regulation IV, Rule 54 for process sources with a process weight rate in excess of 62,000 lbs. per hour. Rule 54 is approved for process sources with a process weight of 62,000 lbs. per hour or less.

(3) Southern California APCD:

(i) Regulation IV, Rule 404 Particulate Matter-Concentration, submitted on August 2, 1976.

(ii) Regulation IV, Rule 473 Disposal of Solid and Liquid Wastes, submitted on August 2, 1976.

(4) South Coast AQMD.

(i) Rule 401(b) submitted on August 15, 1980.

(c) The rescission by the Southern California APCD of the following rules, which were previously approved in the May 31, 1972 (37 FR 10850) and September 22, 1972 (37 FR 19813)issues, is disapproved since adequate replacement rules have not been submitted and no analysis has been presented to show that this rescission will not interfere with the attainment and maintenance of the NAAQS for particulate matter as required by section 110 of the Clean Air Act. In addition, the following rules, as submitted in June 1972 and approved for the SIP, remain federally enforceable:

(1) Los Angeles County APCD.

(i) Regulation IV, Rule 52 Particulate Matter-Concentration.

(ii) Regulation IV, Rule 58 Disposal of Solid and Liquid Wastes.

(2) San Bernardino County APCD.

(i) Regulation IV, Rule 52A Particulate Matter-Concentration.

(ii) Regulation IV, Rule 58A Disposal of Solid and Liquid Wastes.

(3) Riverside County APCD.

(i) Regulation IV, Rule 52 Particulate Matter-Concentration.

(ii) Regulation IV, Rule 58 Disposal of Solid and Liquid Wastes.

(4) Orange County APCD.

(i) Regulation IV, Rule 52 Particulate Matter-Concentration.

(ii) Regulation IV, Rule 58 Disposal of Solid and Liquid Wastes.
