
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.233 Review of new sources and modifications.
####### Standards for Permit to Construct,

(i) Subparagraph B.5. of Rule 207,submitted March 17, 1980.

(3) South Coast AQMD.

(i) In Rule 1306(a)(i), submitted on April 3, 1980, sentence 3 is disapproved.

(ii) In Rule 1306(d)(1)(B)(ii), submitted on April 3, 1980, the following portion of the rule is disapproved: "Which have occurred during the highest three years of the last five year period, divided by three, provided the applicant demonstrates that such permit units have been operated at least 90 days during each of such three years."

(iii) In Rule 1307(a) submitted on April 3, 1980, the following portion of the rule is disapproved: "Greater than 68 kilograms (150 pounds) per day except carbon monoxide, for which the value is an increase greater than 340 kilograms (750 pounds) per day."

(4) Kern County APCD.

(i) Those portions of paragraph (3)(E) of Rule 210.1, submitted on April 15, 1980, which allow new sources and modifications to be exempt from LAER.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) The requirements of ยง 51.160(a) of this chapter are not met in the following Air Pollution Control Districts since the regulations of the APCD's do not provide the means to prevent construction of sources which would violate applicable portions of the control strategy or would interfere with the attainment or maintenance of a national standard.

(1) Mariposa County APCD.

(2) Santa Barbara County APCD.

(d) The requirements of ยง 51.160(a) of this chapter are not met in the following Air Pollution Control Districts since the regulations of the APCD's do not include a means to prevent construction or modification if such construction or modification would interfere with the attainment or maintenance of a national standard.

(1) Amador County APCD.

(2) Calaveras County APCD.

(3) El Dorado County APCD (Mountain Counties Intrastate portion).

(4) [Reserved]

(5) Glenn County APCD.

(6) Humboldt County APCD.

(7)-(8) [Reserved]

(9) Lake County APCD.

(10) Lassen County APCD.

(11) [Reserved]

(12) [Reserved]

(13) [Reserved]

(14) Modoc County APCD.

(15) Monterey Bay Unified APCD.

(16) Nevada County APCD.

(17) [Reserved]

(18) [Reserved]

(19) Plumas County APCD.

(20) [Reserved]

(21) Shasta County APCD.

(22) Sierra County APCD.

(23) Siskiyou County APCD.

(24) [Reserved]

(25) Sutter County APCD.

(26) [Reserved]

(27) Tuolumne County APCD.

(e) [Reserved]
