
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.233 Review of new sources and modifications.
####### c

() Notify the public, by prominent advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in each region in which the proposed source would be constructed, of the opportunity for written public comment on the information submitted by the owner or operator and the Administrator's preliminary determination on the approvability of the source.

(iii) A copy of the notice required pursuant to this paragraph shall be sent to the applicant and to state and local air pollution control agencies, having cognizance over the location where the source will be situated.

(iv) Public comments submitted in writing within thirty (30) days after the date such information is made available shall be considered by the Administrator in making his final decision on the application. No later than ten (10) days after the close of the public comment period, the applicant may submit a written response to any comment submitted by the public. The Administrator shall consider the applicant's response in making his final decision. All comments shall be made available for public inspection in at least one location in the region in which the source would be located.

(v) The Administrator shall take final action on the application within thirty (30) days after the close of the public comment period. The Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing of his approval, conditional approval, or denial of the application, and shall set forth his reasons for conditional approval or denial. Such notification shall be made available for public inspection in at least one location in the region in which the source would be located.

(vi) The Administrator may extend each of the time periods specified in paragraph (f)(4)(ii), (iv) or (v) of this section by no more than 30 days, or such other period as agreed to by the applicant and the Administrator.

(5) The Administrator may impose any reasonable conditions upon an approval, including conditions requiring the source to be provided with:

(i) Sampling ports of a size, number, and location as the Administrator may require,

(ii) Safe access to each port,

(iii) Instrumentation to monitor and record emission data, and

(iv) Any other sampling and testing facilities.

(6) The Administrator may cancel an approval if the construction is not begun within 2 years from the date of issuance, or if during the construction, work is suspended for 1 year.

(7) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this regulation shall furnish the Administrator written notification as follows:

(i) A notification of the anticipated date or initial startup of the source not more than 60 days or less than 30 days prior to such date.

(ii) A notification of the actual date of initial startup of the source within 15 days after such date.

(8) Within 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the source will be operated but not later than 180 days after initial startup of such source the owner or operator of such source shall conduct a performance test(s) in accordance with methods and under operating conditions approved by the Administrator and furnish the Administrator a written report of the results of such performance test.

(i) Such test shall be at the expense of the owner or operator.

(ii) The Administrator may monitor such test and may also conduct performance tests.

(iii) The owner or operator of a source shall provide the Administrator 15 days prior notice of the performance test to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.

(iv) The Administrator may waive the requirement for performance tests if the owner or operator of a source has demonstrated by other means to the Administrator's satisfaction that the source is being operated in compliance with all local, State and Federal regulations which are part of the applicable plan.

(9) Approval to construct or modify shall not be required for:

(i) The installation or alteration of an air pollutant detector, air pollutants recorder, combustion controller, or combustion shutoff.

(ii) Air-conditioning or ventilating systems not designed to remove air pollutants generated by or released from equipment.

(iii) Fuel burning equipment, other than smokehouse generators which has a heat input of not more than 250 MBtu/h (62.5 billion g-cal/h) and burns only gaseous fuel containing not more than 0.5 grain HS per 100 stdft(5.7 g/100 stdm); has a heat input of not more than 1 MBtu/h (250 Mg-cal/h) and burns only distillate oil; or has a heat input of not more than 350,000 Btu/h (88.2 Mg-cal/h) and burns any other fuel.

(iv) Mobile internal combustion engines.

(v) Laboratory equipment used exclusively for chemical or physical analyses.

(vi) Other sources of minor significance specified by the Administrator.

(10) Approval to construct or modify shall not relieve any person of the responsibility to comply with any local, State, or Federal regulation which is part of the applicable plan.

(11) Any owner or operator who constructs, modifies, or operates a stationary source not in accordance with the application, as approved and conditioned by the Administrator, or any owner or operator of a stationary source subject to this paragraph who commences construction or modification without applying for any receiving approval hereunder, shall be subject to enforcement action under section 113 of the Act.
