
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.233 Review of new sources and modifications.
####### Conditions on steam production.

(k)(1) Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in the California State Implementation Plan, the Watson petroleum refinery owned by Atlantic Richfield Company, located at 1801 East Sepulveda Boulevard, Carson, California, shall operate under the following conditions listed in paragraphs (k)(2) through (6) of this section.

(2) The total steam load comprised of the steam purchased from Watson Energy Systems and the amount generated by boilers #31, #32, #33, #42, #51, and #52 at the ARCO Watson Refinery shall not exceed 1,355,000 pounds per hour at 680 &#xB0;F, 600 psig.

(3) Continuous written records of steam purchased from Watson Energy Systems and of the steam produced by boilers #31, #32, #42, #51, or #52 at the ARCO Watson Refinery, during receipt of steam from Watson Energy Systems, shall be maintained and made available for inspection by the EPA and the South Coast Air Quality Management District. These records shall be kept in terms of pounds per hour of steam at 680 &#xB0;F, 600 psig.

(4) The steam purchased from the Watson Energy Systems facility shall be used as a "first-on, last-off" source of steam for the ARCO Watson Refinery, except for steam produced by waste heat or as part of the refining process, or as required to maintain fired boilers in service for emergency use.

(5) Any proposed changes in equipment or fuel that would increase the oil fired steam generating capacity or decrease oil fired steam generating efficiency of boilers #31, #32, #33, #42, #51, and #52 at the ARCO Watson Refinery must be reviewed and approved by the EPA prior to implementation of the proposed changes.

(6) ARCO shall maintain written records of oil consumption at boilers #31, #32, #33, #42, #51, and #52 during receipt of steam from Watson Energy Systems. These records shall be available for inspection by the South Coast Air Quality Management District and the EPA. The total oil consumption of these boilers shall not exceed a monthly average of 226,000 gallons per day when receiving steam from the Watson Energy systems plant at a rate of 350,000 pounds per hour. When receiving steam at a lower rate, ARCO shall be allowed to increase its boiler fuel oil consumption to achieve a total steam load not to exceed the limit of condition two (2).

(l) The following rules and regulations are disapproved because they do not meet the requirements of sections 110, 172, and 173 of the Clean Air Act, since they exempt certain source categories from the offset requirements of the Act:

(1) South Coast Air Quality Management District.

(i) Rule 1304(e), Resource Conservation and Energy Projects, submitted on April 3, 1980, but only with respect to projects whose application for a permit is complete after January 1, 1986,

(ii) Rule 1304(b)(2), Resource and Energy Conservation Projects, submitted on November 8, 1982, but only with respect to projects whose application for a permit is complete after January 1, 1986,

(m) Revised South Coast Regulation XIII, submitted on November 8, 1982, is not approved inasmuch as action on it is temporarily deferred.
