
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.234 Source surveillance.
####### Regulation for source recordkeeping and reporting.

(d)(1) The owner or operator of any stationary source in the State of California, except for those APCD's specified in paragraph (a) of this section, shall, upon notification from the Administrator, maintain records of the nature and amounts of emissions from such source and/or any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Administrator to determine whether such source is in compliance with applicable emission limitations or other control measures.

(2) The information recorded shall be summarized and reported to the Administrator, on forms furnished by the Administrator, and shall be submitted within 45 days after the end of the reporting period. Reporting periods are January 1 to June 30 and July 1 to December 31, except that the initial reporting period shall commence on the date the Administrator issues notification of the recordkeeping requirements.

(3) Information recorded by the owner or operator and copies of the summarizing reports submitted to the Administrator shall be retained by the owner or operator for 2 years after the date on which the pertinent report is submitted.

(e) The requirements of ยง 51.214 of this chapter are not met in the following air pollution control districts (APCD's) since all of the applicable requirements of Appendix P of part 51 are not included in the district regulations.

(1) Amador County APCD.

(2) Bay Area AQMD

(3) Calaveras County APCD.

(4) El Dorado County APCD.

(5) Imperial County APCD.

(6) Kern County APCD.

(7) Kings County APCD.

(8) Los Angeles County APCD.

(9) Mariposa County APCD.

(10) Monterey Bay Unified APCD.

(11) Nevada County APCD.

(12) Placer County APCD.

(13) Plumas County APCD.

(14) San Bernardino County Desert APCD.

(15) San Diego County APCD.

(16) San Joaquin County APCD.

(17) San Luis Obispo County APCD.

(18) Santa Barbara County APCD.

(19) Sierra County APCD.

(20) South Coast AQMD.

(21) Stanislaus County APCD.

(22) Tulare County APCD.

(23) Ventura County APCD.
