
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.237 Part D disapproval.

(a) The following portions of the California SIP are disapproved because they do not meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act.

(1) The ozone and CO attainment demonstrations for the South Coast Air Basin. No major stationary source, or major modification of a stationary source, of carbon monoxide or volatile organic compounds may be constructed in the South Coast Air Basin unless the construction permit application is complete on or before August 30, 1988.

(2) The ozone attainment demonstration for Ventura County. No major stationary source, or major modification of a stationary source, of volatile organic compounds may be constructed in the Ventura County nonattainment area unless the construction permit application is complete on or before November 4, 1988.

(3) The ozone attainment demonstration for the Sacramento AQMA. No major stationary source, or major modification of a stationary source, of volatile organic compounds may be constructed in the Sacramento nonattainment area unless the construction permit application is complete on or before January 3, 1989.

(4) The ozone attainment demonstration for the Fresno County APCD.

(5) The ozone attainment demonstration for the Kern County APCD.

(6) The attainment assessment, motor vehicle emissions budgets, and Reasonably Available Control Measure (RACM) portions of the San Francisco Bay Area Ozone Attainment Plan for the 1-Hour National Ozone Standard, June 1999.

(7) [Reserved]

(8) The contingency measure portion of the 2008 PMPlan for attainment of the 1997 PMstandards in the San Joaquin Valley (June 2013).

(9) The contingency measure portion of the 2016 Moderate Area Plan for the 2012 PMStandard ("2016 PMPlan"), adopted September 15, 2016, as modified by the 2018 Plan for the 1997, 2006, and 2012 PMStandards ("2018 PMPlan"), adopted November 15, 2018, for San Joaquin Valley as a Moderate nonattainment area with respect to the 2012 PMNAAQS.

(10) The contingency measure portion of the 2018 Plan for the 1997, 2006, and 2012 PMStandards ("2018 PMPlan"), adopted November 15, 2018, for San Joaquin Valley with respect to the 2006 PMNAAQS.

(11) The following portions of the "2018 Plan for the 1997, 2006, and 2012 PMStandards" as they pertain to the 1997 annual PMstandards in the San Joaquin Valley are disapproved because they do not meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act: Comprehensive precursor demonstration, five percent annual emissions reductions, best available control measures/best available control technology demonstration, attainment demonstration, reasonable further progress demonstration, quantitative milestones, motor vehicle emissions budgets, and contingency measures.

(12) The contingency measures portion of the 2018 Plan for the 1997, 2006, and 2012 PMStandards ("2018 PMPlan"), adopted November 15, 2018, for San Joaquin Valley with respect to the 1997 24-hour PMNAAQS.

(13) The contingency measures element of the "2016 Ozone Plan for 2008 8-Hour Ozone Standard," adopted June 16, 2016, as modified by the "2018 Updates to the California State Implementation Plan," adopted October 25, 2018, for San Joaquin Valley with respect to the 2008 ozone NAAQS, with the exception of CARB's Enhanced Enforcement Activities Program measure.

(b) The following Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) determinations are disapproved because they do not meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act.

(1) Sacramento Air Quality Management District.

(i) RACT Determinations for the Pharmaceutical Products Manufacturing Source Category and the Kiefer Landfill (volatile organic compounds only), in the submittal titled "Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) as Applicable to the 8-Hour Ozone Standard," dated October 26, 2006, as adopted on October 26, 2006 and submitted on July 11, 2007.

(ii) RACT Determinations for the source category Control Techniques Guidelines for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (EPA-453/B-16-001) for the 2008 and 2015 ozone NAAQS, as contained in the submittal titled "California Greenhouse Gas Emission Standards for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities," dated December 4, 2018, as adopted March 23, 2017 and submitted on December 11, 2018.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District.

(i) RACT Determinations for the source category Control Techniques Guidelines for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (EPA-453/B-16-001) for the 2008 and 2015 ozone NAAQS, as contained in the submittal titled "California Greenhouse Gas Emission Standards for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities," dated December 4, 2018, as adopted March 23, 2017 and submitted on December 11, 2018.

(ii) [Reserved]

(4) South Coast Air Quality Management District.

(i) RACT Determinations for the source category Control Techniques Guidelines for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (EPA-453/B-16-001) for the 2008 and 2015 ozone NAAQS, as contained in the submittal titled "California Greenhouse Gas Emission Standards for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities," dated December 4, 2018, as adopted March 23, 2017 and submitted on December 11, 2018.

(ii) [Reserved]

(5) Ventura County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) RACT Determinations for the source category Control Techniques Guidelines for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (EPA-453/B-16-001) for the 2008 and 2015 ozone NAAQS, as contained in the submittal titled "California Greenhouse Gas Emission Standards for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities," dated December 4, 2018, as adopted March 23, 2017 and submitted on December 11, 2018.

(ii) [Reserved]

(6) Yolo-Solano Air Quality Management District.

(i) RACT Determinations for the source category Control Techniques Guidelines for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (EPA-453/B-16-001) for the 2008 and 2015 ozone NAAQS, as contained in the submittal titled "California Greenhouse Gas Emission Standards for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities," dated December 4, 2018, as adopted March 23, 2017 and submitted on December 11, 2018.

(ii) [Reserved]

(c) The following Clean Air Act section 185 fee rules, and the section 185 program plan element for the specified NAAQS, are disapproved because they do not meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act.

(1) Antelope Valley Air Quality Management District.

(i) Rule 315, "Federal Clean Air Act Section 185 Penalty," amended on October 18, 2011, and submitted on December 14, 2011, for the 1979 1-hour ozone NAAQS.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) Mojave Desert Air Quality Management District.

(i) Rule 315, "Federal Clean Air Act Section 185 Penalty," amended on October 24, 2011, and submitted on December 14, 2011, for the 1979 1-hour ozone NAAQS.

(ii) [Reserved]
