
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.244 Motor vehicle emissions budgets.

(a) Approval of the motor vehicle emissions budgets for the following ozone rate-of-progress and attainment SIPs will apply for transportation conformity purposes only until new budgets based on updated planning data and models have been submitted and EPA has found the budgets to be adequate for conformity purposes.

(1) Antelope Valley, approved January 8, 1997;

(2) Coachella, approved January 8, 1997;

(3) Kern, approved January 8, 1997;

(4) Mojave, approved January 8, 1997;

(5) Sacramento, approved January 8, 1997;

(6) South Coast, approved April 10, 2000;

(7) Ventura, approved January 8, 1997.

(8) South Coast, approved October 31, 2019.

(9) Ventura County, approved March 30, 2020.

(10) Imperial, approved March 30, 2020.

(11) Coachella Valley, approved October 16, 2020.

(12) Nevada County (Western part), approved June 21, 2021.

(13) West Mojave Desert, approved October 27, 2021.

(b) Approval of the motor vehicle emissions budgets for the following ozone maintenance SIP will apply for transportation conformity purposes only until new budgets based on updated planning data and models have been submitted and EPA has found the budgets to be adequate for conformity purposes.

(1) Monterey, approved January 17, 1997.

(2) [Reserved]

(c) Approval of the motor vehicle emissions budgets for the following carbon monoxide maintenance SIPs will apply for transportation conformity purposes only until new budgets based on updated planning data and models have been submitted and EPA has found the budgets to be adequate for conformity purposes.

(1) Bakersfield, approved March 31, 1998;

(2) Chico, approved March 31, 1998;

(3) Fresno, approved March 31, 1998;

(4) Lake Tahoe-North, approved March 31, 1998;

(5) Lake Tahoe-South, approved March 31, 1998;

(6) Modesto, approved March 31, 1998;

(7) Sacramento, approved March 31, 1998;

(8) San Diego, approved March 31, 1998;

(9) San Francisco Bay Area, approved March 31, 1998;

(10) Stockton, approved March 31, 1998.

(d) Approval of the motor vehicle emissions budgets for the following nitrogen dioxide maintenance SIP will apply for transportation conformity purposes only until new budgets based on updated planning data and models have been submitted and EPA has found the budgets to be adequate for conformity purposes.

(1) South Coast, approved on July 24, 1998.

(2) [Reserved]

(e) Approval of the motor vehicle emissions budgets for the following PM-10 reasonable further progress and attainment SIPs will apply for transportation conformity purposes only until new budgets based on updated planning data and models have been submitted and EPA has found the budgets to be adequate for conformity purposes.

(1) South Coast, approved April 18, 2003.

(2) Coachella Valley, approved April 18, 2003.

(f) Approval of the motor vehicle emissions budgets for the following PMreasonable further progress or attainment SIPs will apply for transportation conformity purposes only until new budgets based on updated planning data and models have been submitted and EPA has found the budgets to be adequate for conformity purposes.

(1) San Joaquin Valley, for the 2006 PMNAAQS only (but excluding 2026 budgets), approved August 21, 2020.

(2) San Joaquin Valley, for the 2012 PMNAAQS only (Year 2022 budgets only), approved December 27, 2021.

(3) San Joaquin Valley, for the 1997 24-hour PMNAAQS only (years 2017 and 2020 budgets only), approved February 28, 2022.
