
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.253 Metal surface coating thinner and reducer.

(a) All terms defined in ยง 52.254 are used herein with the meanings so defined.

(b) This section is applicable in the Metropolitan Los Angeles, San Diego, Sacramento Valley, San Joaquin Valley, and San Francisco Bay Area Intrastate Air Quality Control Regions (the "Regions"), as described in 40 CFR part 81, dated July 1, 1979, except as follows:

(1) In the following portions of the Sacramento Valley Intrastate Region, this section is either fully rescinded or partially rescinded subject to the conditions specified as follows:

(i) Sacramento County APCD.

(ii) Placer County APCD (Mountain Counties Air Basin portion).

(iii) This section is rescinded for metal parts and products coaters which are subject to and in full compliance with Yolo-Solano County Rule 2.25 submitted on February 25, 1980.

(iv) Yuba County APCD.

(v) Sutter County APCD.

(2) In the following portions of the Metropolitan Los Angeles Intrastate Region, this section is either fully rescinded or partially rescinded subject to the conditions specified as follows:

(i) This section is fully rescinded for the Ventura County APCD.

(ii) This section is rescinded for magnet wire insulators, can and coil coaters, metal parts coaters, and auto assembly line coaters which are subject to and in full compliance with Rules 1107, 1115, 1125, and 1126 in the South Coast AQMD.

(iii) This section is rescinded for metal parts coaters that are subject to and in full compliance with Rule 330 submitted on October 18, 1979, in the Santa Barbara County APCD.

(3) In the following portions of the San Joaquin Valley Intrastate Region, this section is rescinded for certain sources subject to the conditions specified:

(i) This section is rescinded for metal parts and products coaters which are subject to and in full compliance with Kern County Rule 410.4, submitted on October 15, 1979.

(ii) This section is rescinded for metal parts and products coaters which are subject to and in full compliance with Madera County APCD's Rule 410.4 submitted on October 10, 1980.

(iii) This section is rescinded for metal parts and products coaters which are subject to and in full compliance with Merced County Rule 409.4 submitted on October 10, 1980.

(iv) This section is rescinded for metal parts and products coaters which are subject to and in full compliance with San Joaquin County Rule 409.4 submitted on October 10, 1980.

(v) This section is rescinded for metal parts and products coaters which are subject to and in full compliance with Stanislaus County Rule 410.4 submitted on October 10, 1980.

(vi) This section is rescinded for metal parts and products coaters which are subject to and in full compliance with Tulare County Rule 410.4 submitted on October 10, 1980.

(vii) This section is rescinded for metal parts and products coaters which are subject to and in full compliance with Kings County Rule 410.4 submitted on October 10, 1980.

(viii) This section is rescinded for metal parts and products coaters which are subject to and in full compliance with Fresno County Rule 409.4 submitted on October 15, 1979.

(4) In the San Francisco Bay Area Intrastate Region this section is rescinded for certain operations, subject to the conditions specified below:

(i) This section is rescinded for metal container, closure and coil coating operations, light and medium-duty motor vehicle assembly plants, large appliance and metal furniture coaters, and miscellaneous metal parts and products coating operations, which are subject to and in full compliance with Rules 11, 13, 14, and 19 of Regulation 8 in the Bay Area AQMD.

(5) In the San Diego Intrastate Region, this section is rescinded:

(i) This section is rescinded for metal parts and products coaters which are subject to and in full compliance with San Diego APCD Rule 67.3, submitted on October 25, 1979.

(c) The composition of the organics in all metal surface coating thinners and reducers that are manufactured after January 1, 1975, and are used in the Regions, shall conform to paragraph (k) of ยง 52.254 so as to be defined as a nonphotochemically reactive solvent.

(d) After July 1975, the composition of the organics in all metal surface coating thinners and reducers that are used in the Regions, shall conform to paragraph (k) of ยง 52.254 so as to be defined as a non-photochemically reactive solvent.

(e) If there is an inadequate supply of necessary solvent ingredients needed in the manufacture of metal surface coating thinners and reducers for the purpose of meeting the composition requirements of this section in the time constraint required by this section; then evidence of such a supply inadequacy must be presented to the Administrator by the manufacturers of the metal surface coating thinners and reducers, so that the Administrator may grant to the industry an appropriate implementation time extension for meeting the requirements of this section, if and as warranted by the evidence presented.
