
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.254 Organic solvent usage.
####### Compliance schedule.

(o)(1) Except where other final compliance dates are provided in this section, the owner or operator of any stationary source subject to this section shall comply with this section on or before March 31, 1974. In any event:

(i) Any owner or operator in compliance with this section on the effective date of this section shall certify such compliance to the Administrator no later than 120 days following the effective date of this section.

(ii) Any owner or operator who achieves compliance with this section after the effective date of this section shall certify such compliance to the Administrator within 5 days of the date compliance is achieved.

(p) Any owner or operator of a stationary source subject to paragraph (o)(1) of this section may, not later than 120 days following the effective date of this section, submit to the Administrator for approval a proposed compliance schedule that demonstrates compliance with the provisions in paragraph (o)(1) of this section as expeditiously as practicable but no later than July 31, 1975. The compliance schedule shall provide for increments of progress toward compliance. The dates for achievement of such increments of progress shall be specified. Increments of progress shall include, but not be limited to:

(q) Any owner or operator who submits a compliance schedule pursuant to this section shall, within 5 days after the deadline for each increment of progress, certify to the Administrator whether or not the required increment of the approved compliance schedule has been met.
