
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.248 Identification of plan - conditional approval.
####### Transfer and Storage of Gasoline

(i) The EPA is conditionally approving a portion of the California SIP revision submitted on November 14, 2017 demonstrating that control measures in the Imperial County Air Pollution Control District implement RACT for the 2008 8-hour National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The conditional approval is based on a commitment from the state to submit new or revised rules that will correct deficiencies in Rule 415,to establish RACT-level controls for sources covered by the Control Techniques Guidelines source category Control of Hydrocarbons from Tank Truck Gasoline Loading Terminals (EPA-450/2-77-026). If the State fails to meet it commitment by one year from the date of this conditional approval, the conditional approval is treated as a disapproval.

(j)-(k) [Reserved]

(l) The EPA is conditionally approving the California State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Nevada County (Western part) for the 2008 ozone NAAQS with respect to the contingency measures requirements of CAA sections 172(c)(9) and 182(c)(9). The conditional approval is based on a commitment from the Northern Sierra Air Quality Management District (District) in a letter dated October 26, 2020, to adopt a specific rule revision, and a commitment from the California Air Resources Board (CARB) dated November 16, 2020, to submit the amended District rule to the EPA within 12 months of the effective date of the final conditional approval. If the District or CARB fail to meet their commitments within one year of the effective date of the final conditional approval, the conditional approval is treated as a disapproval.

(m) The EPA is conditionally approving the California State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Eastern Kern for the 2008 ozone NAAQS with respect to the contingency measures requirements of CAA sections 172(c)(9) and 182(c)(9). The conditional approval is based on a commitment from the Eastern Kern Air Pollution Control District (District) in a letter dated September 1, 2020, to adopt a specific rule revision or revisions, and a commitment from the California Air Resources Board (CARB) dated September 18, 2020, to submit the amended District rule or rules to the EPA within 12 months of the final conditional approval. If the District or CARB fail to meet their commitments within one year of the final conditional approval, the conditional approval is treated as a disapproval.
