
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.269 Control strategy and regulations: Photochemical oxidants (hydrocarbons) and carbon monoxide.

(a) The requirements of subpart G of this chapter are not met because the plan does not provide for attainment and maintenance of the national standards for photochemical oxidants (hydrocarbons) and carbon monoxide in the San Francisco Bay Area, San Diego, Sacramento Valley, San Joaquin Valley, and Southeast Desert Intrastate Regions by May 31, 1975.

(b) The following regulatory changes represent a relaxation of previously submitted regulations, and an adequate control strategy demonstration has not been submitted showing that the relaxation would not interfere with the attainment and maintenance of the national standards for photochemical oxidants.

(1) Mountain Counties Intrastate Region.

(i) Calaveras County APCD.

(A) The revocation of Rule 412, Organic Liquid Loading, is disapproved. Rule 412 submitted on June 30, 1972 and previously approved in 40 CFR 52.223 is retained.

(B) The revocation of Rule 413, Effluent Oil Water Separators, is disapproved; and Rule 413 submitted on June 30, 1972 and previously approved in 40 CFR 52.223 is retained.

(ii) Tuolumne County APCD.

(A) The revocation of Rule 413, Organic Liquid Loading, is disapproved; and Rule 413 submitted on June 30, 1972 and previously approved in 40 CFR 52.223 is retained.

(B) The revocation of Rule 414, Effluent Oil Water Separators, is disapproved; and Rule 414 submitted on June 30, 1972 and previously approved in 40 CFR 52.223 is retained.

(C) The revocation of Rule 413, Organic Liquid Loadings, submitted February 10, 1977, is disapproved; and the previously approved Rule 413 submitted on June 30, 1972 remains in effect.

(D) The revocation of Rule 414, Effluent Oil Water Separators, submitted on February 10, 1977, is disapproved; and the previously approved Rule 414 submitted on June 30, 1972, remains in effect.

(1-1) San Joaquin Valley Intrastate Region.

(i) Stanislaus County APCD.

(A) Rule 411.1, submitted on November 4, 1977, is disapproved. Rule 411.1 submitted on April 21, 1976 remains in effect.

(ii) Merced County APCD.

(A) Rule 411.1, submitted on November 4, 1977, is disapproved. Rule 411.1, submitted on August 2, 1976, remains in effect.

(iii) Fresno County APCD.

(A) Rules 411.1, Gasoline Transfer Into Vehicle Fuel Tanks, submitted on November 4, 1977, is disapproved; and Rule 411.1 submitted on April 21, 1976, and previously approved under 40 CFR 52.223, is retained.

(iv) Tulare County APCD.

(A) Section 412.1, Transfer of Gasoline Into Vehicle Fuel Tanks, submitted on October 13, 1977, is disapproved; and Section 412.1, submitted on April 21, 1976, and previously approved under 40 CFR 52.223, is retained.

(v) Madera County APCD.

(A) Rule 412.1, Transfer of Gasoline Into Stationary Storage Containers, submitted on October 13, 1977, is disapproved; and Rules 411, Gasoline Storage and 411.1, Transfer of Gasoline Into Stationary Storage Containers, submitted on June 30, 1972, and April 10, 1976, respectively, and previously approved under 40 CFR 52.223 are retained.

(vi) San Joaquin County APCD.

(A) Rule 411.2, Transfer of Gasoline Into Vehicle Fuel Tanks, submitted on November 4, 1977, is disapproved; and rule 411.2, submitted on February 10, 1976 and previously approved under 40 CFR 52.223, is retained.

(2) Sacramento Valley intrastate region:

(i) Sacramento County APCD.

(A) Rule 13 submitted on November 4, 1977, is disapproved.

(ii) Placer County APCD.

(A) Rule 218, Architectural Coatings, adopted on May 20, 1985 and submitted to EPA on February 10, 1986 is disapproved. The version of this rule by the same number and title submitted on July 19, 1983 and approved by EPA on May 3, 1984 is retained.

(iii) Sutter County APCD.

(A) Rule 3.15, Architectural Coatings, adopted on October 15, 1985 and submitted to EPA on February 10, 1986 is disapproved. The version of this rule by the same number and title submitted on January 1, 1981 and approved by EPA on May 3, 1982 is retained.

(3) Southeast Desert Intrastate AQCR.

(i) Los Angeles County APCD.

(A) Regulation IV, rule 465, Vacuum Producing Devices or Systems, submitted on June 6, 1977, is disapproved. Rule 74 with the same title, submitted on June 6, 1977, is disapproved. Rule 69 with the same title, submitted on June 30, 1972 and approved under 40 CFR 52.223, is retained.

(ii) Riverside County APCD.

(A) Regulation IV, rule 465, Vacuum Producing Devices or Systems, submitted on June 6, 1977, is disapproved. Rule 74 with the same title, submitted on June 30, 1972 and approved under 40 CFR 52.223, is retained.

(B) Rule 461, Gasoline Transfer and Dispensing, submitted November 4, 1977, is disapproved. The version of this rule submitted on April 21, 1977 (same number and title), which was previously approved in 40 CFR 52.223, is retained.

(iii) Antelope Valley APCD.

(A) Rule 461, Gasoline Transfer and Dispensing, submitted on May 13, 1999, is disapproved. The version of this rule submitted on January 31, 1996 (same title and number), which was previously approved in 40 CFR 52.220, is retained.

(4) Great Basin Valleys Intrastate Region.

(i) Great Basin Unified APCD.

(A) Rule 418 submitted on November 4, 1977, is disapproved. Rule 418 submitted on April 21, 1976 remains in effect.

(B) Rule 419, Gasoline Loading into Stationary Tanks, submitted on June 22, 1978, is disapproved, and rule 419, submitted April 21, 1976, and previously approved in 40 CFR 52.223, is retained.

(c) The following rules and regulations are disapproved because they represent a relaxation of promulgated EPA regulations, and an adequate control strategy demonstration has not been submitted showing that the relaxation would not interfere with the attainment and maintenance of the national standards for photochemical oxidants:

(1) Sacramento Valley Intrastate AQCR.

(i) Yolo-Solano APCD.

(A) Rules 2.21(b)(1), 2.21(b)(2), 2.21(b)(4), 2.21(b)(5) and 2.21(b)(6), submitted on June 6, 1977.

(d) Imperial County APCD Rule 415, Gasoline Loading from Tank Trucks and Trailers, submitted by the State on November 4, 1977 is approved as applicable to facilities installed after July 1, 1977. District Rule 125, Gasoline Loading into Tank Trucks and Trailers and Rule 129, Gasoline loading into Tanks, submitted on February 21, 1972 and previously approved under 40 CFR 52.223 are retained as part of the State implementation plan, as applicable to facilities installed prior to July 1, 1977.

(e) The emission reduction credits for the following control measures contained in Ventura County's 1982 Ozone nonattainment area plan, submitted by the Governor's designee on December 31, 1982, are disapproved since the control measures are of an intermittent and voluntary nature and are therefore not approvable under Sections 110(a)(2)(F)(v) and 123 of the Clean Air Act: R-38/N-16, "No Use Day"; R-39/N-17, "No Drive Day"; R-40, "No Spray Day"; R-41/N-18 "Stationary Source Curtailments."
