
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### § 52.270 Significant deterioration of air quality.
####### District PSD Plans.

(b)(1) The PSD rules for Sacramento County Air Pollution Control District are approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. However, EPA is retaining authority to apply § 52.21 in certain cases. The provisions of § 52.21 except paragraph (a)(1) are therefore incorporated and made a part of the State plan for California for the Sacramento County Air Pollution Control District for:

(i) Those cogeneration and resource recovery projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would cause violations of PSD increments.

(ii) Those projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would either have stacks taller than 65 meters or would use "dispersion techniques" as defined in § 51.1.

(iii) Sources for which EPA has issued permits under § 52.21, including the following permit and any others for which applications are received by June 19, 1985.

(2) The PSD rules for North Coast Unified Air Quality Management District are approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. However, EPA is retaining authority to apply § 52.21 in certain cases. The provisions of § 52.21 except paragraph (a)(1) are therefore incorporated and made a part of the State plan for California for the North Coast Unified Air Quality Management District for:

(i) Those cogeneration and resource recovery projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would cause violations of PSD increments.

(ii) Those projects which are major stationary sources of major modifications under § 52.21 and which would either have stacks taller than 65 meters or would use "dispersion techniques" as defined in § 51.1.

(iii) Sources for which EPA has issued permits under § 52.21, including the following permits and any others for which applications are received by July 31, 1985;

(A) Arcata Lumber Co. (NC 78-01; November 8, 1979),

(B) Northcoast Paving (NC 79-03; July 5, 1979),

(C) PG&E Buhne Pt. (NC 77-05).

(iv) Those projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications for nitrogen oxides as precursors to ozone under § 52.21.

(v) Those projects that are major stationary sources or major modifications for emissions of PMor its precursors under § 52.21, and those projects that are major stationary sources under § 52.21 with the potential to emit PMor its precursors at a rate that would meet or exceed the rates specified at § 52.21(b)(23)(i).

(3) The PSD program for Mendocino County Air Quality Management District, as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(489) and (c)(555) is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. However, EPA is retaining authority to apply § 52.21 in certain cases. The provisions of § 52.21 except for paragraph (a)(1) are therefore incorporated and made a part of the State plan for California for the Mendocino County Air Quality Management District for:

(i) Those cogeneration and resource recovery projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would cause violations of PSD increments.

(ii) Those projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would either have stacks taller than 65 meters or would use "dispersion techniques" as defined in § 51.1.

(iii) Any sources for which EPA has issued permits under § 52.21, including any permits for which applications are received by July 31, 1985.

(4) The PSD program for Northern Sonoma County Air Pollution Control District, as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(481) is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. The provisions of § 52.21 except paragraph (a)(1) are therefore incorporated and made a part of the State plan for California for the Northern Sonoma County Air Pollution Control District for:

(i) Those cogeneration and resource recovery projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would cause violations of PSD increments.

(ii) Those projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would either have stacks taller than 65 meters or would use "dispersion techniques" as defined in § 51.1.

(iii) Any sources for which EPA has issued permits under § 52.21, including any permits for which applications are received by July 31, 1985.

(5) Rule 2410, "Prevention of Significant Deterioration," adopted on June 16, 2011, for the San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District (SJVUAPCD) is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act, based, in part, on the clarifications provided in a May 18, 2012 letter from the San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District described in § 52.220(c)(415). For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the SJVUAPCD, this approval includes the authority for the SJVUAPCD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits, except for:

(i) Those specific sources within the SJVUAPCD that have submitted PSD permit applications to EPA and for which EPA has issued a proposed PSD permit decision, but for which final agency action and/or the exhaustion of all administrative and judicial appeals processes (including any associated remand actions) have not yet been concluded or completed by November 26, 2012. The SJVUAPCD will assume full responsibility for the administration and implementation of such PSD permits immediately upon notification from EPA to the SJVUAPCD that any and all administrative and judicial appeals processes (and any associated remand actions) have been completed or concluded for any such permit decision. Prior to the date of such notification, EPA is retaining authority to apply § 52.21 for such permit decisions, and the provisions of § 52.21, except paragraph (a)(1), are therefore incorporated and made a part of the State plan for California for the SJVUAPCD for such permit decisions during the identified time period.

(ii) [Reserved]
