
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### § 52.255 Gasoline transfer vapor control.

(a) "Gasoline" means any petroleum distillate having a Reid vapor pressure of 4 pounds or greater.

(b) This section is applicable in the Metropolitan Los Angeles and Sacramento Valley Intrastate Air Quality Control Regions, as described in 40 CFR part 81, dated July 1, 1979, with the following exceptions:

(1) The control requirements of this section are limited to facilities with a total throughput less than 20,000 gallons per day, the refilling of delivery vessels at these facilities, and storage containers serviced by these facilities for those air pollution control districts identified below.

(i) Ventura County APCD.

(2) The control requirements of this section are rescinded in the following air pollution control districts.

(i) South Coast AQMD.

(ii) Santa Barbara County APCD.

(iii) Placer County APCD (Mountain Counties Air Basin portion).

(iv) Sacramento County APCD.

(v) Yolo-Solano County APCD.

(vi) Butte County APCD.

(vii) Glenn County APCD.

(viii) El Dorado County APCD (Mountain Counties Air Basin portion).

(3) The control requirements of this section are rescinded in the following air pollution control districts:

(i) South Coast AQMD.

(ii)-(viii) [Reserved]

(ix) Santa Barbara County APCD.

(x) Placer County APCD (Mountain Counties Air Basin portion).

(xi) Sacramento County APCD.

(xii) Yolo-Solano County APCD.

(xiii) Butte County APCD.

(xiv) Glenn County APCD.

(c) No person shall transfer gasoline from any delivery vessel into any stationary storage container with a capacity greater than 250 gallons unless such container is equipped with a submerged fill pipe and unless the displaced vapors from the storage container are processed by a system that prevents release to the atmosphere of no less than 90 percent by weight of organic compounds in said vapors displaced from the stationary container location.

(1) The vapor recovery portion of the system shall include one or more of the following:

(i) A vapor-tight return line from the storage container to the delivery vessel and a system that will ensure that the vapor return line is connected before gasoline can be transferred into the container.

(ii) Refrigeration-condensation system or equivalent designed to recover no less than 90 percent by weight of the organic compounds in the displaced vapor.

(2) If a "vapor-tight vapor return" system is used to meet the requirements of this section, the system shall be so constructed as to be readily adapted to retrofit with an adsorption system, refrigeration-condensation system, or equivalent vapor removal system, and so constructed as to anticipate compliance with § 52.256.

(3) The vapor-laden delivery vessel shall be subject to the following conditions:

(i) The delivery vessel must be so designed and maintained as to be vapor-tight at all times.

(ii) The vapor-laden delivery vessel may be refilled only at facilities equipped with a vapor recovery system or the equivalent, which can recover at least 90 percent by weight of the organic compounds in the vapors displaced from the delivery vessel during refilling.

(iii) Facilities that do not have more than a 20,000 gallon per day throughput, and distribute less than 10% of daily volume to delivery vehicles that in turn service storage tanks that are required to have a vapor return or balance system, will not be required to comply with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section before May 31, 1977. Facilities that service delivery vehicles that in turn deliver not more than 500,000 gallons per year to storage tanks that are required to comply with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section will not be required to comply with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section before January 1, 1977. Facilities that exclusively service storage tanks that do not have a required vapor return or balance system, will not be required to have a vapor recovery system.

(iv) Gasoline storage compartments of 1,000 gallons or less in gasoline delivery vehicles presently in use on the promulgation date of this regulation will not be required to be retrofitted with a vapor return system until May 31, 1977.

(v) Storage containers served by delivery vessels filled at distribution facilities with extended compliance dates will not be required to comply with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section until May 31, 1977.

(d) The provisions of paragraph (c) of this section shall not apply to the following:

(1) Storage containers used primarily for the fueling of implements of husbandry, if such container is equipped by May 31, 1977 with a permanent submerged fill pipe, or at the time of installation for containers installed after this date.

(2) Any storage container having a capacity of 2,000 gallons or less and installed prior to July 1, 1975, if such container is equipped with a permanent submerged fill pipe by May 31, 1977.

(3) Transfer made to storage tanks equipped with floating roofs or their equivalent.

(4) Storage containers installed after July 1, 1975 in Kings County.

(5) Storage containers installed after January 1, 1975 in Madera County.

(e) Compliance schedule:

(1) June 1, 1974-Submit to the Administrator a final control plan, which describes at a minimum the steps that will be taken by the source to achieve compliance with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) March 1, 1975-Negotiate and sign all necessary contracts for emission control systems, or issue orders for the purchase of component parts to accomplish emission control.

(3) May 1, 1975-Initiate on-site construction or installation of emission control equipment.

(4) February 1, 1976-Complete on-site construction or installation of emission control equipment.

(5) July 1, 1976-Assure final compliance with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.

(6) Any owner or operator of sources subject to the compliance schedule in this paragraph shall certify to the Administrator, within 5 days after the deadline for each increment of progress, whether or not the required increment of progress has been met.

(f) Paragraph (e) of this section shall not apply:

(1) To a source which is presently in compliance with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section and which has certified such compliance to the Administrator by June 1, 1974. The Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary for proper certification.

(2) To a source for which a compliance schedule is adopted by the State and approved by the Administrator.

(3) To a source whose owner or operator submits to the Administrator, by June 1, 1974, a proposed alternative schedule. No such schedule may provide for compliance after March 1, 1976. If promulgated by the Administrator, such schedule shall satisfy the requirements of this section for the affected source.

(g) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Administrator from promulgating a separate schedule for any source to which the application of the compliance schedule in paragraph (e) of this section fails to satisfy the requirements of §§ 51.261 and 51.262(a) of this chapter.

(h) Any gasoline-dispensing facility subject to this section that installs a storage tank after the effective date of this section shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section by March 1, 1976 and prior to that date shall comply with paragraph (e) of this section as far as possible. Any facility subject to this section that installs a storage tank after March 1, 1976, shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section at the time of installation.
