
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### § 52.270 Significant deterioration of air quality.
####### 2

(6) The PSD program for the Placer County Air Pollution Control District (PCAPCD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(497)(i)(B)(), is approved under part C, subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the PCAPCD, this approval includes the authority for the PCAPCD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.

(7) The PSD program for the Imperial County Air Pollution Control District, as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(411), is approved under part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act.

(8) The PSD program for the Eastern Kern Air Pollution Control District (EKAPCD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(419), is approved under part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the EKAPCD, this approval includes the authority for the EKAPCD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.

(9) The PSD program for the Yolo-Solano Air Quality Management District, as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(420), is approved under part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act.

(10) The PSD program for greenhouse gases (GHGs) in Rule 1714 for the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(421), is approved under part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. This approval is limited to sources subject to the PSD program for GHGs. The provisions of § 52.21 (except paragraph (a)(1)) continue to apply to the SCAQMD for all pollutants subject to regulation, as defined in § 52.21, except for GHGs.

(11) The PSD program for the Great Basin Unified Air Pollution Control District (GBUAPCD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(428), is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the GBUAPCD, this approval includes the authority for the GBUAPCD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.

(12) The PSD program for the Butte County Air Quality Management District (BCAQMD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(428), is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the BCAQMD, this approval includes the authority for the BCAQMD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.

(13) The PSD program for the Feather River Air Quality Management District (FRAQMD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(429), is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the FRAQMD, this approval includes the authority for the FRAQMD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.

(14) The PSD program for the San Luis Obispo County Air Pollution Control District (SLOAPCD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(441), is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act.

(15) The PSD program for the Santa Barbara County Air Pollution Control District (SBAPCD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(442), is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the SBAPCD, this approval includes the authority for the SBAPCD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.
