
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.272 Research operations exemptions.

(a) The requirements of ยง 51.281 of this chapter are not met because the following regulations allow exemptions to be granted from the applicable emission limitations, thereby potentially rendering the applicable limitations unenforceable. Furthermore, the regulations are inconsistent with the Clean Air Act, because the regulations could permit violations of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards under some circumstances. Therefore, the following regulations are disapproved:

(1) Bay Area APCD.

(i) Regulation 2, Division 1, sections 1214 to 1214.3, submitted on July 25, 1973.

(ii) Regulation 3, Division 1, sections 1205 to 1205.3, submitted on July 25, 1973.

(2) El Dorado County APCD.

(i) Rule 203(D), submitted on November 4, 1977.

(3) Great Basin Unified APCD.

(i) Rule 423, submitted on November 4, 1977.

(4) Los Angeles County APCD.

(i) Rule 441, submitted on June 6, 1977.

(5) Placer County APCD.

(i) Rule 203(D), submitted on October 13, 1977.

(6) Riverside County APCD.

(i) Rule 441, submitted on June 6, 1977.

(7) Sacramento County APCD.

(i) Rule 30, submitted on January 22, 1974.

(8) San Bernardino County APCD.

(i) Rule 441, submitted on June 6, 1977.

(9) Southern California APCD.

(i) Rule 441, submitted on August 2, 1976.
