
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.274 California air pollution emergency plan.
####### 2

() By employees commuting from home to the place of business on a normal weekday and on a major national holiday.

(C) The number of parking spaces used on a normal weekday and on a major national holiday.

(D) The minimum number of motor vehicles to be operated that are necessary to protect public health or safety.

(E) The actions to inform employees of the procedures to be taken in the event of an episode declaration.

(F) The name and telephone numbers of the facility's episode action coordinator and alternate, who are responsible for implementation of the plan.

(G) For stage 1 episodes, the methods by which employers will encourage the utilization of car pools or otherwise reduce employee motor vehicle travel.

(H) For stage 2 and 3 episodes, the measures within the reasonable control of the employer to reduce the number of vehicle miles driven by employees in commuting to and from work.

(I) An estimate of the reduction in vehicle miles traveled as a result of the measures in this paragraph.

(v) Each owner or operator required to submit a plan by this paragraph shall submit to the Administrator such plan within 60 days of the effective date of this paragraph.

(vi) The plans submitted in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph shall be approved or disapproved by the Administrator according to the following schedule:

(A) For sources with emissions of air contaminants greater than or equal to 454 metric tons (500 tons) per year, or for establishments employing 400 or more employees per shift, within 45 days after receipt.

(B) For sources with emissions of air contaminants greater than or equal to 91 metric tons (100 tons) per year and less than 454 metric tons (500 tons) per year, or for establishments employing more than 200 and less than 400 employees per shift, within 90 days after receipt.

(C) For sources with emissions of air contaminants less than 91 metric tons (100 tons) per year, or for establishments employing 100 to 200 employees per shift, within 180 days after receipt.

(vii) The owner or operator required to submit a plan by this paragraph shall be notified by the Administrator within 30 days after the plan has been evaluated if the plan is disapproved. Any plan disapproved by the Administrator shall be modified to

(viii) A copy of the plan approved in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph shall be on file and readily available on the premises to any person authorized to enforce the provisions of this section.

(9) The following actions shall be taken in the source and receptor areas upon declaration of a stage 1 episode:

(i) The notifications required by paragraph (d)(6) of this section.

(ii) The Administrator shall advise the public that those individuals with special health problems should follow the precautions recommended by their physicians and health officials.

(iii) The Administrator shall advise school officials to cancel, postpone, or reschedule programs which require outdoor physical activity.

(iv) The Administrator shall request the public to stop all unnecessary driving.

(v) The Administrator shall request the public to operate all privately owned vehicles on a pool basis.

(vi) Persons operating any facility or activity named in paragraph (d)(8) of this section shall implement the appropriate plans specified in paragraph (8) for the declared stage 1 episode and air contaminant(s).

(10) The following actions shall be taken in the source and receptor areas upon declaration of a stage 2 episode:

(i) The actions described in paragraphs (d)(9) (i) through (v) of this section.

(ii) The Administrator shall request suspension of programs that involve physical exertion by participants using public parks or public recreational facilities located in receptor areas.

(iii) The burning of combustible refuse shall be postponed until the episode has been terminated.

(iv) The Administrator shall request the public to reduce the use of electricity by 10 percent.

(v) Persons operating any facility or activity named in paragraph (d)(8) of this section shall implement the appropriate plans specified in paragraph (d)(8) of this section for the declared stage 2 episode and air contaminant(s).

(11) The following actions shall be taken in the source and receptor areas upon declaration of a stage 3 episode:

(i) The actions described in paragraphs (d)(10) (i) through (iii) of this section.

(ii) The Administrator shall request the public to reduce the use of electricity by 40 percent.

(iii) Persons operating any facility or activity named in paragraph (d)(8) of this section shall implement the appropriate plans specified in paragraph (d)(8) of this section for the declared stage 3 episode and air contaminant(s).

(iv) For nitrogen dioxide, the general public, schools, industrial, business, commercial, and governmental activities throughout the District shall operate as though the day were a major national holiday.

(v) For particulate matter and/or sulfur dioxide and particulate matter combined, the Administrator shall request the public to reduce as much as possible activities causing dust emissions including agricultural operations, off-road vehicle use, and driving on unpaved roads. Construction and demolition operation shall be postponed until the episode has been terminated.

(12) In the event specific sources or source areas within the SCAQMD are determined to significantly contribute to a declared air pollution episode in a nearby Air Pollution Control District, emission control actions specified in this paragraph for that declared episode stage shall be taken in the SCAQMD to abate that episode.

(13) A source inspection plan shall be implemented by the Administrator upon the declaration of any episode stage.

(14) The Administrator shall provide for daily acquisition of forecasts of atmospheric stagnation conditions during any episode stage and updating of such forecasts at least every 12 hours.

(15) Any source that violates any requirement of this section shall be subject to enforcement action under section 113 of the Act.

(16) All submittals or notifications required to be submitted to the Administrator by this section shall be sent to:

(e) The requirements of subpart H of this chapter are met in the Sacramento County Air Pollution Control District with the following exceptions: There are no episode criteria levels, declaration procedures, notification procedures, source inspections, emission control actions or episode termination procedures for carbon monoxide episodes based on 4- and 8-hour averaging times; communication procedures for transmitting status reports and orders as to emission control actions to be taken during an episode stage are not provided for; there are no provisions for the inspection of those sources covered under Rule 122; there is no time schedule for the Air Pollution Control Officer to initiate the call for the submittal of individual abatement plans; the requirements for the content of the abatement plans are not sufficiently specific to ensure that adequate plans are submitted; no provisions exist for the daily acquisition of atmospheric stagnation conditions; a Priority II particulate matter episode contingency plan is not provided for in the regulation.

(f) Regulation for prevention of air pollution emergency episodes-4- and 8-hour carbon monoxide criteria levels, public announcement, source inspections, preplanned abatement strategies, acquisition of atmospheric stagnation forecasts.

(1) The requirements of this paragraph are applicable in the Sacramento County Air Pollution Control District.

(2) For the purposes of this regulation the following definitions apply:

(i) "Administrator" means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency or his authorized representative.

(ii) "ppm" means parts per million by volume.

(iii) "ug/m" means micrograms per cubic meter.

(3) For the purposes of this paragraph, the following episode criteria shall apply:

(4) The provisions of the Sacramento County Air Pollution Control District's Regulation IX, as submitted on November 4, 1977, relating to carbon monoxide episodes averaged over 1 hour shall apply to carbon monoxide episodes averaged over 4 and 8 hours except that the Administrator shall insure that declaration, notification, source inspections, and termination of such episodes will occur.

(5) Stationary source curtailment plans shall be prepared by business, commercial, industrial, and governmental establishments as follows:

(i) The owner or operator of any business, commercial, industrial, or governmental facility or activity listed below shall submit to the Administrator plans to curtail or cease operations causing stationary source air contaminants in such activity:

(A) Stationary sources which can be expected to emit 100 tons or more per year of hydrocarbons or carbon monoxide.

(ii) The plans required by paragraph (f)(5)(i)(A) of this section shall include the following information:

(A) The information requested by Regulation IX, Rule 125, section d, as submitted to the EPA on November 4, 1977.

(B) The total number of employees at the facility during each shift on a normal weekday.

(C) The amount of energy (gas, fuel oil, and electricity) used on a normal weekday.

(D) For first-stage episodes, the measures to voluntarily curtail equipment emitting air pollutants.

(E) For second-stage episodes:
