
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.274 California air pollution emergency plan.
####### 3

() The minimum number of motor vehicles to be operated that are necessary to protect public health or safety.

(6) A copy of the stationary source curtailment and/or traffic abatement plans approved in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph shall be on file and readily available on the premises to any person authorized to enforce the provisions of this paragraph.

(7) The owner or operator of any governmental, business, commercial, or industrial activity or facility listed in paragraph (r)(5) of this section shall submit a stationary source curtailment plan and/or traffic abatement plan to the Administrator within 60 days after promulgation of final rulemaking.

(8) The plans submitted pursuant to the requirements of this paragraph shall be reviewed by the Administrator for approval or disapproval according to the following schedule:

(i) For sources with emissions of hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, or particulate matter greater than or equal to 454 metric tons (500 tons) per year, or for establishments employing 400 or more employees per shift, within 45 days after receipt.

(ii) For sources with emissions of hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, or particulate matter greater than or equal to 91 metric tons (100 tons) per year and less than 454 metric tons (500 tons) per year, or for establishments employing more than 200 and less than 400 employees per shift, within 90 days after receipt.

(iii) For establishments employing 100 to 200 employees per shift, within 180 days after receipt.

(9) The owner or operator of any industrial, business, governmental or commercial establishment required to submit a plan by this paragraph shall be notified by the Administrator within 30 days after the plan has been evaluated as to whether the plan has been approved or disapproved. Any plan disapproved by the Administrator shall be modified to overcome the disapproval and resubmitted to the Administrator within 30 days of receipt of the notice of disapproval.

(10) Any source that violates any requirement of this regulation shall be subject to enforcement action under section 113 of the Act.

(11) All submittals or notifications required to be submitted to the Administrator by this regulation shall be sent to:

(12) For the purposes of this regulation the following episode criteria shall apply to particulate matter episodes and Stage 3 photochemical oxidants episodes:

(13) The Fresno County Air Pollution Control District's Regulation VI, as submitted on October 23, 1974, relating to episodes for carbon monoxide and photochemical oxidants averaged over 1 hour, shall apply to particular matter episodes averaged over 24 hours, except that the Administrator shall insure that declaration procedures, notification procedures, source inspections, and termination of such episodes occur.

(14) The Administrator shall insure that the following actions will be taken in the source and receptor areas on the declaration of a Stage 1, Stage 2 or Stage 3 episode:

(i) For a Stage 1 or Stage 2 episode:

(A) Persons operating any facility or activity named in paragraph (r)(5) of this section shall implement the appropriate plans submitted in accordance with subparagraph (5) of the declared Stage 1 or Stage 2 episode for the appropriate air contaminant(s).

(ii) For a Stage 3 episode:

(A) The general public, schools, industrial, business, commercial, and governmental activities throughout Fresno County shall operate as though the day were a major national holiday.
