
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.280 Fuel burning equipment.

(a) The following rules and regulations are disapproved because they relax the control on emissions from fuel burning equipment without any accompanying analyses demonstrating that these relaxations will not interfere with the attainment and maintenance of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards.

(1) Mountain Counties Intrastate AQCR:

(i) Amador County APCD.

(A) Rules 209, submitted on April 21, 1976 and October 15, 1979, are disapproved; and Regulation V, Rule 19, previously approved in the June 30, 1972 submittal, is retained.

(B) Rule 210(B)(1), submitted on October 15, 1979, is disapproved; and Rules 11 and 210, previously approved in the June 30, 1972 and April 21, 1976 submittals, are retained.

(ii) Calaveras County APCD.

(A) Rule 209, Fossil Fuel-Steam Generator Facility, submitted on October 13, 1977, is disapproved; and Rule 408, Fuel Burning Equipment, previously approved in the June 30, 1972, submittal, is retained and shall remain in effect for Federal enforcement purposes.

(iii) Tuolumne County APCD.

(A) Rule 210, submitted on October 15, 1979, is disapproved; and Rule 407, previously approved in the June 30, 1972 submittal, is retained.

(iv) Placer County APCD.

(A) Rule 210, submitted on October 15, 1979, is disapproved, and Rule 210, previously approved in the October 13, 1977 submittal, is retained.

(2) Sacramento Valley Intrastate AQCR:

(i) Yolo-Solano APCD.
