
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.281 Visibility protection.

(a) The requirements of section 169A of the Clean Air Act are not met, because the plan does not include approvable procedures for protection of visibility in mandatory Class I Federal areas.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) Regulations for visibility new source review. The provisions of ยง 52.27 are hereby incorporated and made part of the applicable plan for the State of California only with respect to:

(1) Mendocino County air pollution control district,

(2) Monterey County air pollution control district,

(3) North Coast Unified air quality management district,

(4) Northern Sonoma County air pollution control district, and

(5) Sacramento County air pollution control district.

(d) The provisions of ยง 52.28 are hereby incorporated and made part of the applicable plan for the State of California, except for the air pollution control districts listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section. The provisions of ยง 52.28 remain the applicable plan for any Indian reservation lands, and any other area of Indian country where the EPA or an Indian tribe has demonstrated that a tribe has jurisdiction, located within the State of California, including any such areas located in the air pollution control districts listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Monterey County Air Pollution Control District.

(2) Sacramento County Air Pollution Control District.

(3) Calaveras County Air Pollution Control District.

(4) Mariposa County Air Pollution Control District.

(5) Northern Sierra Air Pollution Control District.

(6) San Diego County Air Pollution Control District.

(7) Eastern Kern Air Pollution Control District.

(8) Tuolumne County Air Pollution Control District.

(e) [Reserved]
