
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.332 Control strategy: Particulate matter.
####### Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan,

(p)PM10 Revised Maintenance Plan for Denver, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 15, 2005, State effective on March 2, 2006, and submitted by the Governor's designee on September 25, 2006. The revised maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(q) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, PMRevised Maintenance Plan for Ca&#xF1;on City, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on November 20, 2008, State effective on December 30, 2008, and submitted by the Governor's designee on June 18, 2009. The revised maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(r) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, PMRevised Maintenance Plan for Aspen, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 16, 2010, State effective on March 1, 2011, and submitted by the Governor's designee on May 25, 2011. The revised maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(s) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, PMRevised Maintenance Plan for Telluride, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on November 19, 2009, State effective on December 30, 2009, and submitted by the Governor's designee on March 31, 2010. The revised maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(t) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, Final Revised PMMaintenance Plan for the Pagosa Springs Attainment/Maintenance Area, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on November 19, 2009, and submitted by the Governor's designee on March 31, 2010. The revised maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(u) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, PMRevised Maintenance Plan for Steamboat Springs, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 15, 2011, State effective on January 30, 2012, and submitted by the Governor's designee on May 11, 2012. The revised maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.
