
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.332 Control strategy: Particulate matter.
####### Determination

(k)-EPA has determined that the Steamboat Springs PM"moderate" nonattainment area attained the PMnational ambient air quality standard by December 31, 2000. This determination is based on air quality monitoring data from 1998, 1999, and 2000.

(l) On July 30, 2001, the State of Colorado submitted a maintenance plan for the Denver PMnonattainment area ("PM-10 Redesignation Request and Maintenance Plan For the Denver Metropolitan Area," Chapter 4: "Maintenance Plan," adopted April 19, 2001 by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission and effective April 19, 2001) and requested that the area be redesignated to attainment for the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(m) On November 9, 2001, the State of Colorado submitted a maintenance plan for the Aspen PMnonattainment area and requested that this area be redesignated to attainment for the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(n) On July 31, 2002, the State of Colorado submitted a maintenance plan for the Steamboat Springs PMnonattainment area and requested that this area be redesignated to attainment for the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(o) On July 31, 2002, the State of Colorado submitted a maintenance plan for the Lamar PMnonattainment area and requested that this area be redesignated to attainment for the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.
