
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.349 Control strategy: Carbon monoxide.
####### Determination.

(f)EPA has determined that the Denver carbon monoxide "serious" nonattainment area attained the carbon monoxide national ambient air quality standard by December 31, 2000. This determination is based on air quality monitoring data from 1998, 1999, and 2000.

(g) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, carbon monoxide NAAQS Redesignation Request and Maintenance Plan for Denver entitled "Carbon Monoxide Redesignation Request and Maintenance Plan for the Denver Metropolitan Area, "excluding Chapter 1, Chapter 2, and Appendix C, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on January 10, 2000, State effective March 1, 2000, and submitted by the Governor on May 10, 2000.

(h) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, carbon monoxide NAAQS Redesignation Request and Maintenance Plan for Fort Collins entitled "Carbon Monoxide Redesignation Request and Maintenance Plan for the Fort Collins Area," excluding Part I-Chapter 1 and Part I-Chapter 2, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on July 18, 2002, State effective September 30, 2002, and submitted by the Governor on August 9, 2002.

(i) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, revised Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Plan for Denver, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on June 19, 2003, State effective on August 30, 2003, and submitted by the Governor on October 15, 2003.

(j) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, carbon monoxide NAAQS, revised maintenance plan for Colorado Springs entitled "Revised Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Plan for the Colorado Springs Attainment/Maintenance Area", as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 18, 2003, State effective March 1, 2004, and submitted by the Governor on April 12, 2004.

(k) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, carbon monoxide NAAQS, revised maintenance plan for Longmont entitled "Revised Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Plan for the Longmont Attainment/Maintenance Area", as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 18, 2003, State effective March 1, 2004, and submitted by the Governor on April 12, 2004.

(l) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan entitled "Revised Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Plan for the Greeley Attainment/Maintenance Area," as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 19, 2002, and submitted by the Governor on June 20, 2003.

(m) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, revised Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Plan for Denver, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 15, 2005, State effective on March 2, 2006, and submitted by the Governor's designee on September 25, 2006.

(n) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, revised Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Plan for Longmont, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 15, 2005, State effective on March 2, 2006, and submitted by the Governor's designee on September 25, 2006.

(o) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, revised Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Plan for Colorado Springs, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 17, 2009 and submitted by the Governor's designee on March 31, 2010.

(p) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, revised Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Plan for Greeley, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 17, 2009 and submitted by the Governor's designee on March 31, 2010.

(q) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, revised Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Plan for Fort Collins, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 16, 2010 and submitted by the Governor's designee on May 25, 2011.
