
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.332 Control strategy: Particulate matter.

(a) On April 9, 1992, the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PM-10 nonattainment area plan for the Canon City area. The submittal was made to satisfy those moderate PM-10 nonattainment area SIP requirements which were due for Canon City on November 15, 1991.

(b)(1) On February 24, 1992, and December 9, 1993, the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PM-10 nonattainment area plan for the Pagosa Springs area. The submittal was made to satisfy those moderate PM-10 nonattainment area SIP requirements which were due for Pagosa Springs on November 15, 1991.

(2) On August 2, 1996, the Governor of Colorado submitted minor revisions to the Pagosa Springs Element of the Colorado PM-10 SIP.

(c) On May 27, 1993, the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PM-10 nonattainment area plan for the Lamar area. The submittal was made to satisfy those moderate PM-10 nonattainment area SIP requirements which were due for Lamar on November 15, 1991.

(d) On December 9, 1993, the Governor of Colorado submitted PMcontingency measures for the moderate PMnonattainment areas of Canon City, Lamar, and Pagosa Springs. The submittal was made to satisfy the moderate PMnonattainment area requirements for contingency measures due for Canon City, Lamar, and Pagosa Springs on November 15, 1993.

(e)(1) On January 15, 1992, March 17, 1993, and December 9, 1993, the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PM-10 nonattainment area plan for the Aspen area. The submittals were made to satisfy those moderate PM-10 nonattainment area SIP requirements which were due for Aspen on November 15, 1991. The December 9, 1993 submittal was also made to satisfy the PM-10 contingency measure requirements which were due for Aspen on November 15, 1993.

(2) On March 13, 1995, the Governor of Colorado submitted minor revisions to the Aspen Element of the Colorado PM-10 SIP.

(f) On March 30, 1995, and November 17, 1995, the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PMnonattainment area plan for the Denver area. The March 30, 1995 submittal was made to satisfy those moderate PMnonattainment area SIP requirements due for the Denver PMnonattainment area on November 15, 1991. The November 17, 1995 submittal was also made to satisfy the PMcontingency measure requirements which were due for Denver on November 15, 1993.

(g) On March 17, 1993, December 9, 1993, and April 22, 1996, the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PMnonattainment area plan for Telluride. The submittals were made to satisfy those moderate PMnonattainment area SIP requirements which were due for Telluride on November 15, 1991. The December 9, 1993 submittal was also made to satisfy the PMcontingency measure requirements which were due for Telluride on November 15, 1993.

(h) On September 16, 1997 the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PMnonattainment area plan for Steamboat Springs. The submittal was made to satisfy those moderate PMnonattainment area SIP requirements which were due for Steamboat Springs on July 20, 1995.

(i) On September 22, 1997, the State of Colorado submitted a maintenance plan for the Canon City PM10 nonattainment area and requested that the area be redesignated to attainment for the PM10 National Ambient Air Quality Standards. An April 24, 2000 letter from Margie Perkins, Director, Colorado Air Pollution Control Division, to Richard Long, Director, EPA Region VIII Air and Radiation Program, was sent to clarify the requirements of the contingency plan section of the Canon City maintenance plan. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(j) On May 10, 2000, the State of Colorado submitted maintenance plans for the Telluride and Pagosa Springs PMnonattainment areas and requested that these areas be redesignated to attainment for the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation requests and maintenance plans satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.
