
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Implementation Plan for the State of Colorado" and all revisions submitted by Colorado that were federally approved prior to June 1, 2015.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 26, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Request for legal authority submitted February 14, 1972, by the Governor.

(2) Request for 110(e) extensions submitted March 20, 1972, by the Governor.

(3) Statements by State Air Pollution Control Commission (APCC) related to public inspection of emission data, emergency episodes, and transportation control submitted May 1, 1972, by the APCC. (Non-regulatory)

(4) List of sources under compliance schedules submitted May 1, 1972, by the State Department of Health.

(5) Transportation Control Plans submitted June 4, 1973, by the Governor.

(6) Statements relating to transportation control plans submitted July 16, 1973, by the Governor. (Non-regulatory)

(7) Plan revisions submitted November 21, 1973, by the Governor which delete Section III of Regulation No. 1 only as it relates to existing sources in Appendix P concerning SO.

(8) On June 7, 1974, the Governor submitted five Air Quality Maintenance Area designations.

(9) Supplemental information about the Air Quality Maintenance Areas was submitted by the Governor on January 29, 1975.

(10) Procedural rules for all proceedings before the Air Pollution Control Commission, submitted May 5, 1977, by the Governor.

(11) On January 2, 1979, the Governor submitted the nonattainment area plan for all areas designated nonattainment as of March 3, 1978. EPA is taking no action on areas for which the Governor has requested redesignations (Larimer-Weld TSP and ozone; El Paso County ozone).

(i) Regulation 9, "Trip Reduction," previously approved on October 5, 1979, and now deleted without replacement.

(12) Extension request for attainment of CO and Owas submitted by the Governor on January 5, 1979.

(13) On July 5, 1979, the governor submitted the Air Pollution Control Commission's final comment on our May 11, 1979, proposal. This included a clarification that the "No-Drive Day" was not part of the State Implementation Plan and transportation control measures schedules for Larimer-Weld.

(14) On July 18, 1979, the Commission committed to revising Regulation 7.

(15) On July 23, 1979, the Governor submitted House Bill 1090 and Senate Bill 1 as part of the plan.

(16) On July 27, 1979, the Governor submitted the Denver Regional Council of Governments schedules for implementing the transportation control strategies, and clarified that the Transportation Development Plan was part of the plan.

(17) On March 4, 1980, the Governor submitted a plan revision to meet the requirements of Air Quality Monitoring 40 CFR part 58, subpart C, ยง 58.20.

(18) On May 29, 1980, the Governor submitted written evidence of the State's legal authority to implement and enforce an automobile emissions control program as well as schedules for implementing that program and a demonstration that it will achieve a 25% reduction in exhaust emissions by 1987.

(19) On January 22 and February 6, 1980 the Governor submitted schedules for the implementation of transportation control measures for Denver and Larimer-Weld elements of the State Implementation Plan, respectively.

(20) On April 21, 1980, the Governor submitted a plan revision to meet the data reporting requirements of section 127 of the Clean Air Act.

(21) On June 22, 1980, the Governor submitted the following amended rules:

(22) On June 5, 1980, the Governor submitted the following rules:

(23) On August 25, 1980, the Governor of Colorado submitted a site specific revision to the State Implementation Plan for Coors Container Corporation, Paper Packaging Division, in regard to alternative volatile organic compound emissions reduction for its printing presses.

(24) Provisions to meet the requirements of sections 110 and 172 of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, regarding control of Group II VOC sources were submitted on January 6, 1981, and the supplemental information received on August 20, 1981.

(25) On December 29, 1980, the Governor submitted the following rule: Regulation No. 11, covering procedures for garage licensing (including mechanic testing and licensing), equipment requirements (including standards and specifications for exhaust gas analyzers), requirements for inspections, and emission standards as part of the Colorado motor vehicle inspection program.

(26) On March 23, 1981, the Governor submitted revised regulations limiting sulfur dioxide emissions from certain oil shale production facilities.

(27) On April 12, 1982, the Governor submitted the plan revisions to show attainment of the lead National Ambient Air Quality Standard.

(28) Regulation Number 7 is part of the plan.

(29) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act for carbon monoxide in Colorado Springs, Fort Collins, and Greeley and ozone in Denver were submitted on June 24, 1982, and supplemented by information submitted on May 4, 1983,by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission.

(30) Revisions to Air Pollution Control Commission Regulation No. 1 related to fugitive particulate emissions, were submitted by the Governor on June 22, 1982; on December 6, 1982; and on March 23, 1983, with a technical clarification dated August 5, 1982. Included is approval of requirements for continuous emission monitoring (CEM) of sulfur dioxide on fossil fuel fired steam generator with greater than 250 million BTU per hour heat input. Also addressed is the reinstatement of the 40% opacity limitation for wigwam waste-wood burners into Regulation No. 1. With this is the addition of operation and maintenance (O&M) requirements to promote improved operation of the wigwam burners.
