
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Air Quality Control Commission Common Provisions Regulation, Section I.C. and Section I.G., definitions of "adverse environmental effect," "air pollutant," "best available control technology," "federal act," "federally enforceable," "hazardous air pollutant," paragraph h. in "net emissions increase," "ozone depleting compound," and "significant;" revised 11/19/92, effective 12/30/92.

(B) Air Quality Control Commission Regulation No. 3 Air Contaminant Emission Notices, Sections I.B.1., I.B.2.c-e., I.B.3.e-f., IV.B.3-5, IV.D.2.a.(iii), IV.D.2.c., IV.D.3., IV.D.4., IV.E., IV.F., IV.H., V.E.9., VI.B.1., VI.B.4., VI.B.5., VI.C., VII.C., VIII.A., VIII.C.1., XI.A., and XIII.A. and B.; revised 11/19/92, effective 12/30/92.

(C) Air Quality Control Commission Regulation No. 7 Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds, Section II.B.; revised 11/19/92, effective 12/30/92.

(67) On November 27, 1992, the Governor of Colorado, submitted a revision to the Colorado SIP. This revision replaces previous versions of Regulation No. 13 with the amended Regulation No. 13 (oxygenated gasoline program) adopted September 17, 1992. Regulation No. 13 requires the oxygenated gasoline programs to be implemented in the Fort Collins-Loveland, Colorado Springs, and Boulder-Denver Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA) as required by Section 211(m) of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990.
