
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Revisions to Regulation No. 4, "Regulation on the Sale of New Woodstoves and the Use of Certain Woodburning Appliances During High Pollution Days," as adopted by the Air Quality Control Commission on June 24, 1993, effective August 30, 1993, as follows: insert new Section VIII and recodification of References Section. This revision pertains to local jurisdiction implementation and enforcement of ordinances and resolutions restricting wood burning on high pollution days.

(B) Regulation No. 16, "Concerning Material Specifications for, Use of, and Clean-up of Street Sanding Material," as adopted by the Air Quality Control Commission on June 24, 1993, effective August 30, 1993, as follows: recodification of Regulation and addition of Sections II and III, which regulate emissions from street sanding and sweeping in the Denver PMnonattainment area.

(C) Revisions to Regulation No. 1, "Emission Control Regulations for Particulates, Smokes, Carbon Monoxide, and Sulfur Oxides for the State of Colorado," as adopted by the Air Quality Control Commission on August 19, 1993, effective October 30, 1993, as follows: insert new Sections VII and VIII and recodification of the two following Sections, "Emission Regulations Concerning Areas Which are Nonattainment for Carbon Monoxide-Refinery Fluid Bed Catalytic Cracking Units", and "Statements of Basis and Purpose" Sections. The revisions pertain to restrictions on the use of oil as a back-up fuel for certain sources and set new emission limits at the following Public Service Company Power Plants: Cherokee, Arapahoe, and Valmont.

(D) Coors Glass Plant allowable emission limitations on three furnaces.

1. Permit 92JE129-1, effective date January 19, 1993, regulating emissions at the KTG glass melting furnace #1.

2. Permit 92JE129-2, effective date January 19, 1993, regulating emissions at the KTG glass melting furnace #2.

3. Permit 92JE129-3, effective date January 19, 1993, regulating emissions at the KTG glass melting furnace #3.

(E) Conoco Refinery allowable emission limitations from the refinery.

1. Permit 90AD524, effective date March 20, 1991, regulating a Tulsa natural gas fired 20MMbtu/hour heater equipped with low-Nox burners.

2. Permit 90AD053, effective date March 20, 1991, regulating process heaters H-10, H-11 and H-27 and process boilers B4, B6, and B8 all burning fuel gas only.

3. Permit 91AD180-3, effective December 28, 1992, regulating the three stage Claus sulfur recovery unit with tail gas recovery unit.
