
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Common Provisions Regulation, 5 CCR 1001-2, Section I.G., definitions of "baseline area" and "reconstruction;" adopted 10/17/91, effective 11/30/91.

(B) Common Provisions Regulation, 5 CCR 1001-2, Section I.G., definitions of "net emissions increase" and "stationary source;" adopted 8/20/92, effective 9/30/92.

(C) Common Provisions Regulation, 5 CCR 1001-2, Section I.A. and Section I.G., definitions of "emission control regulation" and "volatile organic compound;" adopted 11/19/92, effective 12/30/92.

(D) Regulation No. 3, Air Contaminant Emissions Notices, 5 CCR 1001-5, revisions adopted 8/18/94, effective 9/30/94, as follows: Part A (with the exception of the last sentence in the definition of "Federally enforceable" in Section I.B.22 and with the exception of Section IV.C.) and Part B (with the exception of Sections V.B. and VII.A.5.). This version of Regulation No. 3, as incorporated by reference here, supersedes and replaces all versions of Regulation No. 3 approved by EPA in previous actions.

(E) Regulation No. 3, Air Contaminant Emissions Notices, 5 CCR 1001-5, revisions adopted on 3/16/95, effective 5/30/95, as follows: Part A: Sections I.B.12., I.B.31., I.B.32., I.B.35.B., I.B.36., I.B.37., I.B.41., I.B.50., I.B.57., I.B.66., II.D.5.c., II.D.5.d., V.B., V.C.6., V.C.10., V.E.1.c., V.E.1.d., V.H.4. through V.H.8., V.I.1., VI.C.1.f., and VII.A.; Part B: Sections III.D.2., III.D.3., IV.B.4., IV.C.1., IV.D.1.a., IV.D.2.c.(i)(E), IV.D.4.a., and IV.J.

(F) Previously approved in paragraph (c)(72)(i)(D) under Regulation No. 3, Air Contaminant Emissions Notices, 5 CCR 1001-5. These sections are now deleted without replacement: II.B.7., II.B.8., II.B.9., II.B.10., and II.D.7, effective October 30, 2006.

(G) 1001-5, Colorado Regulation No. 3, Air Contaminant Emissions Notices, Part A, Concerning General Provisions Applicable to Reporting and Permitting, Sections II.D.1.m, II.D.1.ee, II.D.1.uu, II.D.1.ddd, and II.D.1.eeee, previously approved in paragraph (c)(72)(i)(D) of this section, were repealed by the State of Colorado effective January 30, 2009 and are removed without replacement.
