
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Revisions to Regulation No. 3, 5 CCR 1001-5, sections V.A. (Purpose), V.C.1 , V.C.3, V.C.5 (Definitions), V.D.6, V.D.7, V.D.9 (Procedure for Certification of Emissions Reductions and Approval of Transactions), V.E. (Criteria for Certification of Emissions Reductions), V.F., V.F.5, V.F.7, V.F.8.l, V.F.14, and V.F.15 (Criteria for Approval of all Transactions) and Revisions to Regulation No. 7, 5 CCR 1001-9, section II.D.1.a (Alternative Control Plans and Test Methods) became effective on December 30, 1994. The new section IX.L.2.c through IX.L.2.c.xv (Manufactured Metal Parts and Metal Products) to Regulation No. 7, 5 CCR 1001-9, applicable to Pioneer Metal Finishing Inc., became effective on April 30, 1995. The new section IX.A.12 through IX.A.12.a.(xi) (General Provisions) to Regulation No. 7, 5 CCR 1001-9, applicable to Lexmark International Inc., became effective July 30, 1995.

(79) On August 23, 1996, the Governor of Colorado submitted a revision to the long-term strategy portion of Colorado's State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Class I Visibility Protection. The revision was made to incorporate into the SIP, among other things, emissions reduction requirements for the Hayden Station (a coal-fired steam generating plant located near the town of Hayden, Colorado) that are based on a consent decree addressing numerous air pollution violations at the plant. This SIP revision replaces the previous existing impairment portion of the long-term strategy as it relates to the Mt. Zirkel Wilderness Area.
