
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Common Provisions Regulation, 5 CCR 1001-2, Section I.G., definition of "negligibly reactive VOCs (NRVOCs)" and subsection h. of the definition of "net emissions increase," adopted 12/21/95, effective 3/1/96.

(B) Regulation No. 3, "Air Contaminant Emission Notices," 5 CCR 1001-5, adopted 12/21/95, effective 3/1/96, as follows: Part A, subsection h. of the definition of "net emissions increase" in Section I.B.37.; and Part B, Section IV.D.4.

(C) Regulation No. 7, "Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds," 5 CCR 1001-9, Section II.B., adopted 12/21/95, effective 3/1/96.

(D) Regulation No. 3, "Air Contaminant Emission Notices," 5 CCR 1001-5, adopted 6/20/96, effective 8/30/96, as follows: Part A, definition of "applicable requirement" in Section I.B.9., definition of "major source (for the purposes of Part C-operating permits)" in Section I.B.59., and Section V.C.12; and Part B, Section III.D.2.

(E) Common Provisions Regulation, 5 CCR 1001-2, Section I.G., definition of "negligibly reactive VOCs (NRVOCs)" adopted 11/21/96, effective 1/30/97.

(F) Regulation No. 7, "Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds," 5 CCR 1001-9, Section XII., adopted 11/21/96, effective 1/30/97.

(88) On April 26, 1996, the Governor of Colorado submitted revisions to Regulation No. 3 to allow a source to voluntarily request a permit to limit potential to emit and to require that such permits be subject to public participation.
