
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Colorado Air Quality Control Commission, "Ambient Air Quality Standards" regulation 5CCR 1001-14, Section A.1. Budgets for the Denver Nonattainment Area (Modeling Domain) PM10, Sections A.2. and A.3., and Sections B and C, adopted on February 16, 1995, effective April 30, 1995, as amended by the Colorado General Assembly through enactment of Colorado Senate Bill 95-110, which Bill was enacted on May 5, 1995 and signed by the Governor of Colorado on May 31, 1995. (See paragraph (c)(84)(i)(B) of this section).

(B) Colo. Rev. Stat. section 25-7-105(1)(a)(III), enacted by the Colorado General Assembly on May 5, 1995 as part of Colorado Senate Bill 95-110 and signed by the Governor of Colorado on May 31, 1995.

(C) Colorado Air Quality Control Commission "Ambient Air Quality Standards" regulation 5CCR 1001-14, Section A.1. Budgets for the Denver Nonattainment Area (Modeling Domain) Nitrogen Oxides, as adopted June 15, 1995, effective August 30, 1995.

(85) On September 16, 1997, the Governor of Colorado submitted revisions to Regulation No. 10 "Criteria for Analysis of Conformity" that incorporate the General Conformity requirements of 40 CFR part 51, Subpart W into State regulation.
