
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### United States,Conoco Inc.,

(G) Complaint and Consent Decree inv.entered by the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas on April 29, 2002.

(H) July 31, 2002 memorandum from Cindy Rosenberg, EPA Region 8, to the Denver PMRedesignation and Maintenance Plan Docket, regarding the August 16, 2001 version of Regulation No. 1, "Emission Control for Particulates, Smokes, Carbon Monoxide, & Sulfur Oxides."

(I) Letter dated July 31, 2002 from Frank R. Johnson, Assistant Attorney General, Colorado Department of Law, to Jonah Staller, EPA Region 8, explaining a clerical error in the version of Regulation No. 1 referenced in paragraph (c)(95)(i)(A) of this section, assuring the continued enforceability of section VIII.A of Regulation No. 1 regardless of the air quality classification of the Denver area, and indicating that the clerical error will be promptly remedied.

(96) On May 10, 2000, the Governor of Colorado submitted SIP revisions to Colorado's Regulation No. 11 "Motor Vehicle Emissions Inspection Program" that supersede and replace all earlier versions of the Regulation (except Appendices A and B of Regulation No. 11 as approved in paragraph (c)(80)) and make several changes to the motor vehicle inspection and maintenance requirements including the implementation of a remote sensing device (RSD) program for the Denver metropolitan area. On May 10, 2000, the Governor also submitted SIP revisions to Colorado's Regulation No. 13 : "Oxygenated Fuels Program" that supersede and replace all earlier versions of the Regulation and modify the oxygenated fuel requirements for the Denver metropolitan area.
