
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Part B, section III. D.1.f of Regulation No. 3 "Air Contaminant Emissions Notices", 5 CCR 1001-5, as adopted on March 21, 1996, effective May 30, 1996.

(B) Section I.A.1 of Regulation No. 7 "Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds", 5 CCR 1001-9, as adopted on March 21, 1996, effective May 30, 1996.

(95) On July 30, 2001, the State of Colorado submitted a maintenance plan for the Denver PMnonattainment area and requested that the area be redesignated to attainment for the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards. The maintenance plan deletes from the SIP Regulation No. 12, "Diesel Inspection/Maintenance Program" and permits for six stationary sources incorporated by reference in paragraphs (c)(91)(i)(A) and (c)(82)(i)(E) through (J), of this section respectively. In conjunction with the maintenance plan, Colorado revised previously approved regulations and requirements to control particulate matter (Regulation No. 1 and Regulation No. 16.) Among other changes, the revision to Regulation No. 1 includes the deletion of section VII.B of Regulation No. 1 from the SIP. Among other changes, the revision to Regulation No. 16 includes the deletion of sections III and IV of Regulation No. 16 from the SIP. The redesignation request, maintenance plan, and revisions to Regulations Nos. 1 and 16 satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.
