
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Additional material.

(ii)(A) Letter dated September 5, 2001 from Casey Shpall, Colorado Office of the Attorney General to Cindy Rosenberg, EPA Region 8, clarifying that public notice was given of the proposed changes and transmitting the appropriate documentation.

(B) Fax dated September 6, 2001 from Doug Lempke, Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, to Cindy Rosenberg, EPA Region 8, submitting Colorado Attorney General's opinion concerning revisions to Regulation No. 16.

(C) Letter dated September 10, 2001 from Kevin Briggs, Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, to Kevin Golden, EPA Region 8, transmitting model input files for maintenance demonstration.

(D) Letter dated September 13, 2001 from Casey Shpall, Colorado Office of the Attorney General to Cindy Rosenberg, EPA Region 8, explaining that an error occurred in the publication of Colorado Regulation No. 1.

(E) Letter dated November 27, 2001 from Margie Perkins, Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, to Richard Long, EPA Region 8, transmitting the justification for the revised street sweeping credits used in the PMmaintenance plan.

(F) Letter dated April 5, 2002 from Margie Perkins, Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, to Richard Long, EPA Region 8, transmitting a supplement to the Technical Support Documentation correcting the emission rates used in the PMmaintenance plan for Conoco and Ultramar Diamond Shamrock.
