
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Colorado Regulation No. 1, section II, subsection D effective September 30, 1998.

(99) On August 9, 2002, the Governor of Colorado submitted SIP revisions to Colorado's Regulation No. 11 "Motor Vehicle Emissions Inspection Program" that eliminate the requirement in the SIP for the implementation of a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program in Larimer County (which includes the Fort Collins area) after January 1, 2004. On August 9, 2002, the Governor also submitted SIP revisions to Colorado's Regulation No. 13 "Oxygenated Fuels Program" that eliminate the oxygenated fuel requirements for Larimer County (which includes the Fort Collins area) after January 1, 2004, and make changes to sections I.D., II.A., II.B., II.C., II.D., II.E., II.F., II.G., and II.H. On August 9, 2002, the Governor also submitted SIP revisions to Colorado's State Implementation Plan Specific Regulations for Nonattainment and Attainment/Maintenance Areas (Local Elements) that eliminate Clean Air Act section 172(c)(9) carbon monoxide contingency measures for the Fort Collins area. We originally approved these contingency measures on December 23, 1997, and our approval was codified in paragraph (c)(71) of this section.
