
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Additional material.

(ii)(A) Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, "Natural Events Action Plan for High Wind Events, Lamar, Colorado," submitted to EPA on February 9, 1998 and subsequently approved by EPA, June 5, 1998 and Lamar's revised 2003 "Natural Events Action Plan for High Wind Events, Lamar, Colorado," submitted to EPA on April 16, 2003 and subsequently approved by EPA, February 9, 2004.

(107) On July 21, 2004, the Governor submitted revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan for Colorado's Common Provisions Regulation that contained a definition for condensate. On July 21, 2004, and on March 24, 2005, the Governor also submitted revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan for Colorado's Regulation No. 7 "Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds" that made several changes and additions to sections I.A., I.B., II.A and added new sections XII and XVI. The March 24, 2005 version of Regulation No. 7 superseded and replaced portions of the July 21, 2004 version of Regulation No. 7. On June 20, 2003, April 12 2004, and July 21, 2004, the Governor of Colorado submitted revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan for Colorado's Regulation No. 11 "Motor Vehicle Emissions Inspection Program."
