
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### 2

() The submittal revises Section II.E by removing language which provided an exemption for excess emissions during upset conditions and breakdowns and replacing it with an affirmative defense provision for source owners and operators for excess emissions during malfunctions.

(114) On August 1, 2007, the State of Colorado submitted revisions to Colorado Regulation Number 1 to be incorporated into the Colorado SIP. The submittal revised Section III.B.2. by adding "and air curtain destructors subject to 40 CFR 60" to the first sentence of Section III.B.2.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) 5 CCR 1001-3, Code of Colorado Regulations, Regulation Number 1, Emission Control for Particulates, Smokes, Carbon Monoxide and Sulfur Oxides, PARTICULATE MATTER, Section III.B.2, "Incinerators," effective on November 30, 2006, published in Colorado Register, Volume 29, Number 11.

(115) On July 31, 2003, the State of Colorado submitted revisions to Colorado's 5 CCR 1001-3, Regulation 1, that deleted Sections II.A.6, A.7, A.9 and C.3, regarding, respectively, alfalfa dehydrating plant drum dryers, wigwam burners, the static firing of Pershing missiles and a notice regarding waste materials. The State also deleted emission limitations for alfalfa plant drum dyers by removing Section III.C.2. Colorado's deletion of Sections II. A6, A.7 and A.9 and Section III.C.2 will cause a numbering change of subsequent paragraphs within Sections II.A and III.C. EPA is adopting the new numbering scheme for sections II.A. and III C. Section II.C.2.d. regarding agricultural open burning is modified to include the burning of diseased animal carcasses to prevent a public health emergency. Section III.A.1.d is modified for incorporation of new State's method for calculating emissions from multiple fuel burning units ducted to a common stack. Section V is added regarding emission standards for electric arc furnaces, except for the director's discretion provision provided for in Section V.A.2. Sections VI.A.3.e, VI.A.3.f, VI.B.4.e, and VI.B.4.g(ii) are modified regarding the methods used for the averaging of emissions over a 24 hour period.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) 5 CCR 1001-3, Regulation 1, Emission Control for Particulates, Smokes, Carbon Monoxide and Sulfur Oxides, Section II, Smoke and Opacity, Section II.C.2.d, effective March 2, 2002.

(B) 5 CCR 1001-3, Regulation 1, Emission Control for Particulates, Smokes, Carbon Monoxide and Sulfur Oxides, Section III, Particulate Matter, Fuel Burning Equipment, Section III.A.1.d, effective September 30, 2001.

(C) 5 CCR 1001-3, Regulation 1, Emission Control for Particulates, Smokes, Carbon Monoxide and Sulfur Oxides, Section V, Emission Standard for Existing Iron and Steel Plant Operations, effective September 30, 2001.
