
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### 1

() Sections VI.B.4.e and VI.B.4.g(ii) list an emission rate of 0.7 lbs. sulfur dioxide, for the sum of all SOemissions from a given refinery per barrel of oil processed, per day. This emission rate is disapproved. The emission rate remains unchanged at 0.3 lbs. All remaining language within Sections VI.B.4.e and VI.B.4.g(ii) is approved.

(116) On June 20, 2003, the State of Colorado submitted revisions to Colorado's Regulation 3 Regulation, 5 CCR 1001-5, that place restrictions on increment consumption, add innovative control technology as an alternative to BACT requirements, and changed or deleted numerous definitions in Part A. The State in Part B revised construction permit review requirements regarding RACT for minor sources in attainment/maintenance areas. The State made the restrictions on maximum allowable increases of sulfur dioxide concentrations over baseline concentrations in Class I areas also applicable to certain Class II areas, such as certain National Monuments that are not Class I areas. Increment consumption restrictions were added to limit major stationary sources from consuming more than 75 percent of an applicable increment. The State added the use of innovative control technology by a source in lieu of BACT requirements in order to encourage the use of such technology. The revisions to both Parts and B also included minor changes designed to fix ambiguous language, to make the definitions more readable or to delete obsolete or duplicative definitions. On April 12, 2004, the State of Colorado submitted a minor revision to Part A, Section I.A regarding the availability of material incorporated by reference.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Regulation 3, 5 CCR 1001-5, AIR CONTAMINANT EMISSIONS NOTICES, Part A, Concerning General Provisions Applicable to Construction Permits and Operating Permits, effective December 2002 and April 2003 with the following exceptions:
