
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Stationary Source Permitting and Air Pollutant Emission Notice Requirements,,Concerning Major Stationary Source New Source Review and Prevention of Significant Deterioration,,Long Term Strategy,

(C) Colorado Air Quality Control Commission, Regulation Number 3, 5 CCR 1001-5,Part D,Section XIV.F,subsection XIV.F.1. introductory text and XIV.F.1.c; adopted January 7, 2011; effective February 14, 2011.

(109) A revision to the State Implementation Plan was submitted by the State of Colorado on July 31, 2002. The submittal revises the Common Provisions regulation by adding affirmative defense provisions for source owners and operators for excess emissions during periods of startup and shutdown.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Common Provisions Regulation, 5 CCR 1001-2, sections II.J.1 through II.J.4, adopted August 16, 2001, effective September 30, 2001.

(110) A Revision to the State Implementation Plan was submitted by the State of Colorado on April 12, 2004. The revision corrects a clerical error in Section VIII.A of Regulation No. 1.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Colorado Regulation No. 1, 5CCR 1001-3, Section VIII.A, adopted June 19, 2003, effective August 31, 2003.

(111) On August 8, 2006, the Governor of Colorado submitted SIP revisions to Colorado's Regulation No. 11 "Motor Vehicle Emissions Inspection Program" that repeals the basic vehicle emissions inspection program in the Fort Collins and Greeley areas.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Regulation No. 11 "Motor Vehicle Emissions Inspection Program," 5CCR1001-13, Part A.1 and Part A.IV, as adopted on November 17, 2005, and effective January 30, 2006.

(112) On August 3, 2007, the Governor of Colorado submitted revisions to the Colorado's Regulation No. 7 "Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds" that made several changes and additions to Section XII, "Volatile Organic Compound Emissions From Oil and Gas Operations."

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Regulation No. 7 "Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds," 5 CCR 1001-9, Section XII, "Volatile Organic Compound Emissions From Oil and Gas Operations," effective on March 4, 2007.

(113) On August 1, 2007, the State of Colorado submitted revisions to Colorado's Common Provisions Regulation, 5 CCR 1001-2, that made changes and additions to Section I, "Definitions, Statement of Intent, and General Provisions Applicable to All Emission Control Regulations Adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission," and Section II, "General."

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Common Provisions Regulation, 5 CCR 1001-2, Section I.G, "Definitions," effective on March 4, 2007.
