
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)

(A) 5 CCR 1001-5, Colorado Regulation No. 3, "Air Contaminant Emissions Notices," Part A, "Concerning General Provisions Applicable to Reporting and Permitting," Sections II.D.1.m, II.D.1.ee, II.D.1.uu, II.D.1.ccc, II.D.1.ddd, II.D.1.uuu, and II.D.1.eeee, effective January 30, 2009.

(B) 5 CCR 1001-5, Colorado Regulation No. 3, "Air Contaminant Emissions Notices," Part B, "Concerning Construction Permits," Sections II.D.1.k, l, m, and n, effective January 30, 2009.

(C) Letter dated November 18, 2009 from the Office of the Colorado Attorney General, signed by Jerry Goad, to Candy Herring, Office of the Colorado Secretary of State, regarding clerical errors in Regulation No. 7, and those portions of 5 CCR 1001-9, Colorado Regulation No. 7, "Control of Ozone Via Ozone Precursors (Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds and Nitrogen Oxides)," Section II.C.1 that accompanied such letter, except for the following: the parenthetical phrase "(State Only: Located in any Ozone Nonattainment Area or Attainment Maintenance Area)" at II.C.1; Section II.C.1.a.(v); Section II.C.1.c; and Section II.C.1.d.

(D) 5 CCR 1001-9, Colorado Regulation No. 7, "Control of Ozone Via Ozone Precursors (Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds and Nitrogen Oxides)," Sections I through XI and XIII through XVI, effective January 30, 2009, except for the following: Section I.A.1.b; Section I.B.1.b; Section I.B.2.b; Section I.B.2.d; Section II.A.12; Section II.C.1; and the repeal of Section II.D.

(118) On June 20, 2003, the State of Colorado submitted revisions to Colorado's Common Provisions Regulation, 5 CCR 1001-2, that revised the definitions of continuous monitoring system, emergency power generator, enforceable, federally enforceable, manufacturing process or process equipment, and volatile organic compounds. Deleted definitions included but were not limited to actual emissions, Best Available Control Technology (BACT), Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER), and what conditions determine the modification of a source. These definitions were deleted in the Common Provisions because they appear in Colorado's Regulation 3. The State clarified that fuel burning equipment emissions are considered a part of the manufacturing process emissions when the emissions are vented through a common stack.

However, fuel burning equipment emissions vented from a separate stack are subject to regulations unique to fuel burning equipment. In addition, the State deleted and reserved Section III of the Common Provisions regarding smoking gasoline powered motor vehicles. The provisions regarding smoking gasoline powered motor vehicles were considered by the State to be obsolete. The revisions to the Common Provisions also included minor changes designed to fix ambiguous language, to make the definitions more readable or to delete obsolete or duplicative definitions.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) 5 CCR 1001-2, COMMON PROVISIONS REGULATION, Section 1., Definitions, Statement of Intent, and General Provisions Applicable to all Emission Control Regulations Adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission, except I.G, the definitions for "Construction" and "Day"; Section II, General, except II.E, II.I, and II.J; effective on September 30, 2002.

(119) The State of Colorado submitted revisions on September 16, 1997, June 20, 2003, July 11, 2005, August 8, 2006 and August 1, 2007 to Colorado's 5 CCR 1001-5 Regulation Number 3, Part A, Section II. The August 1, 2007 submittal included a renumbering of sections in II.B and II.D. The incorporation by reference in (c)(119)(i)(A) reflects the renumbered provisions as of the August 1, 2007 submittal. Additionally, the State of Colorado deleted sections II.B.7., II.B.8., II.B.9., II.B.10., and II.D.7. without replacement. The deletion of these provisions has been incorporated by reference at (c)(72)(i)(F) of this section, the paragraph containing the original incorporation by reference of the provisions.

(i) Incorporation by reference.
