
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### 2

() Section IV.B.2, Application for a Construction Permit, and Section IV.H.8, Application for a Final Permit, regarding operating and maintenance plans and recordkeeping formats.

(117) On June 18, 2009, the State of Colorado submitted an 8-Hour Ozone Attainment Plan for the Denver Metro Area/North Front Range area to meet the requirements of 40 CFR 81.300(e)(3)(ii)(D) for the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS. On the same date, the State of Colorado also submitted revisions to portions of Part A, "Concerning General Provisions Applicable to Reporting and Permitting," and Part B, "Concerning Construction Permits," of Colorado's Regulation No. 3, "Air Contaminant Emissions Notices," and to Sections I through XVI of Colorado's Regulation No. 7, "Control of Ozone Via Ozone Precursors (Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds and Nitrogen Oxides)." EPA is approving the Ozone Attainment Plan except for the last paragraph on page IV-1 and the first paragraph on page IV-2, the words "federally enforceable" in the second to last paragraph on page V-6, and the reference to Attachment A in the Table of Contents and on page IV-3. EPA is disapproving the excepted language from the Ozone Attainment Plan. EPA is approving the revisions to portions of Parts A and B of Colorado's Regulation No. 3. For purposes of this action, Colorado Regulation No. 3, Part B, Sections II.D.1.k, l, m, and n, as incorporated below, should be considered an addition to and as immediately following Colorado Regulation Number 3, Part B, Sections III.D.1.a through j, as previously approved by EPA. EPA is approving the revisions to Sections I through XI and XIII through XVI of Colorado's Regulation No. 7, except for Colorado's repeal of section II.D. EPA is disapproving Colorado's repeal of Section II.D and Colorado's revisions to Section XII of Regulation No. 7. EPA is not acting on the provisions in Regulation No. 7 that are designated "State Only."
