
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Colorado
###### ยง 52.354 Original identification of plan.
####### Stationary Source Permitting and Air Pollutant Emission Notice Requirements,,Concerning Major Stationary Source New Source Review and Prevention of Significant Deterioration,,Definitions;

(B) Regulation 3,Part D,Section II,Sections II.A; II.A.22.a; II.A.24.d; II.A.38.c; II.A.42.a; adopted August 17, 2006 and effective October 30, 2006.

(121) On August 8, 2006, the State of Colorado submitted revisions to Colorado's 5 CCR 1001-3, Regulation 1, that allows for the use of obscurants during military exercises at the Fort Carson Military Base and Pin&#xF3;n Canyon Maneuver Site in Colorado while precautionary steps are taken during the exercise to maintain air quality. The State modified the equipment requirements and work practices (abatement and control measures) in Regulation 1 intended to control the emissions of particulates, smokes and SOfrom new and existing stationary sources. Consistent with its use of the term elsewhere, the State added the attainment/maintenance nomenclature. The revision also provides a new numbering scheme for each section of the regulation.

The State adopted EPA test method 9 (part 60 of this title, Appendix A-4) as it is applied to Standards of Performance for Steel Plants (ยง 60.275a of this title). The State revised manufacturing process emission rates, to clarify that the applicability of the section is to process equipment with a design rate of 30 tons per hour or less. The averaging time for emission standards of all existing sources of SOshall be a three hour rolling average. New sources of SOnot specifically regulated within Regulation 1 are limited to two tons per day and are subject to BACT.

(i) Incorporation by reference.
