
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.370 Identification of plan.

(a) Title of plan: "State of Connecticut Air Implementation Plan."

(b) The plan was officially submitted on March 3, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Miscellaneous non-regulatory addition to the plan and addition of amendment to Chapter 360 of General Statutes which provides authority for delegation of enforcement authority submitted on March 21, 1972, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.

(2) Miscellaneous non-regulatory additions to the plan submitted on April 6, 1972, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.

(3) Attainment dates submitted on August 10, 1972, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.

(4) Regulation 19-508-100 requiring a review of indirect sources submitted on January 9, 1974, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.

(5) AQMA identification material submitted on April 15, 1974, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.

(6) Indirect Source Review Regulation 19-508-100 resubmitted on August 26, 1974, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.

(7) [Reserved]

(8) Revision to Chapter 8, Air Quality Surveillance, submitted on June 30, 1977, by the Governor.

(9) Revision to Indirect Source Review Regulation 19-508-100 submitted on June 13, 1977, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.

(10) A revision to Regulation 19-508-19(a)(2)(i) submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on April 16, 1979, granting a variance until April 1, 1981, to Northeast Utilities.

(11) State Implementation Plan revisions to meet the requirements of part D of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, were submitted on June 22, 1979, and received on June 27, 1979; submitted on December 18, 1979 and received on December 28, 1979; submitted on January 28, 1980, and received on February 1, 1980; submitted and received on May 1, 1980; submitted and received on June 5, 1980; submitted on September 2, 1980, and received on September 8, 1980; and submitted and received on November 12, 1980. Included are plans to attain: The primary TSP standard in Greenwich and Waterbury and the carbon monoxide and ozone standards statewide. A program was also submitted for the review of construction and operation of new and modified major stationary sources of pollution in non-attainment areas. Certain miscellaneous provisions are also included.

(12) A revision to Regulation 19-508-19(a)(2)(i), submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on September 8, 1980, granting a variance until March 27, 1983, to the Federal Paperboard Company, Inc.

(13) A comprehensive air quality monitoring plan, intended to meet requirements of 40 CFR part 58, was submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Commission on June 9, 1980, and November 17, 1980.

(14) Non-regulatory additions to the plan which were submitted on December 19, 1980, and amended on March 11, 1981, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection amending the sulfur control strategy to include an "Air Pollution Control/Energy Trade Option" except for submittal attachments #1 and #2, "Sulfur Dioxide" and "Transport of Sulfur Dioxide" and the section of attachment #3 "Control of Sulfur Oxides" entitled "Sample Analysis of a Btu Bubble Application".
