
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.370 Identification of plan.
####### New Source Ambient Impact Analysis Guideline,

(15) Non-regulatory addition to the plan of the statefor use in State program actions, submitted on December 19, 1980, and amended on March 11, 1981, and July 15, 1981.

(16) Revisions to regulation 19-508-4 (source monitoring requirements) and regulation 19-508-5 (stack emissions testing) submitted on November 7, 1977, by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.

(17) A revision to Regulation 19-508-19(a)(2)(i), submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on June 23, 1981, granting a temporary variance to Uniroyal Chemical, Division of Uniroyal, Inc.

(18) Revisions to Regulation 19-508-19 (Control of Sulfur Compound Emissions), Regulation 19-508-24 (Connecticut Primary and Secondary Standards), and accompanying narrative submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on October 23, 1981, and November 4, 1981.

(19) Revisions submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on November 16, 1981. These provisions supersede portions of the revisions identified under paragraph (c)(18).

(20) Revisions to meet the requirements of part D and certain other sections of the Clean Air Act, as amended, were submitted on December 15, 1980, May 29, 1981, and May 5, 1982. Included are changes to the State Ozone Control Plan involving adoption of Regulation 19-508-20(k) controlling the use of cutback asphalt, the approval of the RFP demonstration for ozone attainment, a refined inventory of miscellaneous stationary sources of Volatile Organic Compounds, changes to Regulation 19-508-3(1) dealing with review of new and modified stationary sources, and an amendment to the State's Smoke and Opacity monitoring requirements.

(21) [Reserved]

(22) Revisions to the narrative and State Regulation 19-508-18, subparts (d), f(1), f(2), and part of f(3), governing total suspended particulate emissions, submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on April 8, 1982.

(23) Regulation 19-508-20(cc), Alternative Emission Reductions as it applies to Regulation 19-508-20: (m), can coating; (n), coil coating; (o), fabric and vinyl coating; (p), metal furniture coating; (q), paper coating; (r), wire coating; (s), miscellaneous metal parts; (t), manufacture of synthesized pharmaceutical products and (v), graphic arts-rotogravure and flexography, was submitted on December 15, 1980, and January 11, 1982, by the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection.

(24) Revision for Sikorsky Aircraft Division of United Technologies received from the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on June 2 and July 16, 1982. This provision supersedes a portion of the revisions identified under (c)(18).

(25) Revisions to meet ozone attainment requirements of Part D (Group II CTG regulations), the adoption of a lead standard and the revision of the ozone standard, submitted on December 15, 1980, are approved as follows: Regulations 19-508-20 (s), (t), (v), (w), (aa), (bb), and (dd), Regulation 19-508-8 and Regulation 19-508-24(i)(l).

(26) Revision for Dow Chemical U.S.A. in Gale's Ferry submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 20, 1982, including state order 7002B signed on May 27, 1982. This provision supersedes a portion of the revisions identified under paragraph (c)(18).

(27) Revision for Lydall and Foulds Division of Lydall, Inc., submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 17, 1982, and January 5, 1983, allowing the facility to burn higher sulfur oil under the State Energy Trade Program.

(28) Revision for Simkins Industries, Inc., in New Haven submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 19, 1983, allowing the facility to burn higher sulfur oil under the Sulfur Energy Trade Program.
