
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.370 Identification of plan.
####### 1

(29) Attainment plan revisions to meet the requirements of Part D for ozone were submitted by the Department of Environmental Protection on December 10, 1982, and May 19, 1983. These revisions control volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions from solvent metal cleaners through emission limitations contained in Regulation 19-508-20() and supporting narrative committing the DEP to implement an educational program for automobile repair facilities. Approval of these revisions allowed EPA to rescind the moratorium on construction and modification of major sources of VOCs which had been in effect since October 1982.

(30) Revision for Loomis Institute in Windsor, submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on March 30 and July 13, 1983, allowing the facility to burn 2.0 percent sulfur oil under the Sulfur Energy Trade Program.

(31) Revisions demonstrating the attainment and maintenance of the lead standard were submitted on October 18, 1983.

(32) Attainment plan revisions to meet the requirements of part D for ozone and carbon monoxide were submitted by the Department of Environmental Protection on December 10, 1982, January 7, 1983, January 21, 1983, May 19, 1983, June 15, 1983, September 19, 1983, and December 15, 1983. The revisions control volatile organic compound (VOC) and carbon monoxide emissions through a mix of stationary and mobile source controls. EPA approval includes the following regulatory provisions:

(i) Regulation 22a-174-20(ee) limiting emissions from major nonCTG source categories, and

(ii) Regulations 22a-174-27 and 14-164c describing the requirements for Connecticut's motor vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program.

(33) Revision to Regulation 19-508-20(cc), "Alternative Emission Reductions" [made part of the SIP under paragraph (c)(23) of this section] to add Regulation 19-508-20(ee) to the list of VOC regulations that may be met by bubbling under Connecticut's generic rule after source-specific RACT determinations have been made part of the SIP. Revisions requiring sources subject to Regulation 19-508-20(ee) to comply with 19-508-20 (aa), (bb), and (dd). These revisions were submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on September 20, 1983.

(34) Revisions to the Ozone Attainment Plan were submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on April 22, 1985.
