
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.370 Identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated March 24, 1994 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.

(B) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated May 20, 1994 submitting a supplemental revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.

(C) State Order No. 8073: State of Connecticut vs. City of New Haven (effective September 24, 1993) and attached plan titled "Remedial Action Plan for Prevention of Airborne Particulate Matter and Fugitive Discharge of Visible Emissions in the Alabama Street/East Shore Parkway Area of New Haven."

(D) State Order No. 8074: State of Connecticut vs. Waterfront Enterprises, Inc. (effective November 5, 1993) and attached plan titled "Proposed Operation Plan in Response to Unilateral Order (September 20, 1993)."

(E) State Order No. 8075: State of Connecticut vs. Laydon Construction, (effective September 21, 1993) and attached plan titled "Plan for Control of Fugitive Emissions of PM10 (September 21, 1993)."

(F) State Order No. 8076: State of Connecticut vs. United Illuminating Company (effective December 2, 1993) and attached plan titled "Remediation Plan for Fugitive Emissions: Alabama Street and Connecticut Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut (November 19, 1993)."

(G) State Order No. 8076c: State of Connecticut vs. M. J. Metals, Inc. (effective June 18, 1993).

(H) State Order No. 8078: State of Connecticut vs. New Haven Terminal, Inc. (effective November 15, 1993) and attached plan titled "Fugitive Dust Control Plan (Revised January 19, 1994)."

(I) State Order No. 8079: State of Connecticut vs. Yankee Gas Services Company (effective September 24, 1993) and attached plan titled "Revised Compliance Plan for Consent Order No. 8079 (August 31, 1993)."

(J) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated March 4, 1994 (received March 16, 1995) submitting two amendments to the Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies concerning abatement of air pollution: amended Sections 22a-174-24(f) and -24(g) "Connecticut primary and secondary ambient air quality standards for particulate matter" and amended Sections 22a-174-6(a) and -6(b) " 'Air Pollution' emergency episode procedures" (both effective July 7, 1993).

(K) Amended Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies: amended Sections 22a-174-24(f) and -24(g) "Connecticut primary and secondary ambient air quality standards for particulate matter" and amended Sections 22a-174-6(a) and -6(b) " 'Air Pollution' emergency episode procedures" (both effective July 7, 1993).
