
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.370 Identification of plan.
####### Additional materials.

(ii)(A) Letter, dated June 18, 1996, from Carmine DiBattista, Chief of the Bureau of Air Management for the Connecticut DEP, to Susan Studlien, Deputy Director of the Office of Ecosystem Protection at U.S. EPA, Region I.

(B) SIP narrative materials, dated May 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8092 for United Illuminating Company's Station #3 in New Haven.

(C) SIP narrative materials, dated August 3, 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8095 for American Ref-Fuel Company of Southeastern Connecticut in Preston.

(D) SIP narrative materials, dated December 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8093 issued to Pfizer, Inc., in Groton.

(E) SIP narrative materials, dated November 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8096 issued to Food Ingredients Company in New Milford.

(F) SIP narrative materials, dated November 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8106 issued to Connecticut Light and Power Company in Middletown.

(G) SIP narrative materials, dated November 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8107 issued to Northeast Nuclear Energy Company in Waterford.

(H) SIP narrative materials, dated October 6, 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8105 issued to Electric Boat Division of General Dynamics in Groton.

(I) SIP narrative materials, dated September 29, 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8100 issued to Bridgeport RESCO Company in Bridgeport.

(J) SIP narrative materials, dated December 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8102 issued to United Illuminating's auxiliary boiler in New Haven.

(K) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1996, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8103 issued to United Illuminating Company's Station #4 in Bridgeport.

(L) SIP narrative materials, dated May 31, 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8119 issued to the City of Norwich, Department of Public Utilities.

(M) SIP narrative materials, dated May 31, 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8118 issued to South Norwalk Electric Works, South Norwalk.

(N) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8101 issued to the State of Connecticut Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services.

(O) SIP narrative materials, dated May 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8110 issued to Yale University.

(P) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8132 issued to Bridgeport Hospital.

(Q) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 1494 issued to Connecticut Light and Power, involving Branford, Cos Cob, Devon, Franklin Drive, Montville, Middletown, South Meadow, Torrington, Tunnel Road, and Norwalk Harbor Stations.

(R) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8130 issued to the State of Connecticut Department of Public Works.

(S) SIP narrative materials, dated February 1996, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8115 issued to the University of Connecticut in Storrs.

(T) SIP narrative materials, dated May 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8113 issued to Simkins Industries.

(U) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8135 issued to Bridgeport Hydraulic Company.

(V) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8141 issued to the Town of Wallingford Department of Public Utilities.

(W) SIP narrative materials, dated April 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8123 issued to the Algonquin Gas Transmission Company.

(X) SIP narrative materials, dated April 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8116 issued to the Connecticut Resource Recovery Authority.

(73) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on June 3, 1996.
