
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.370 Identification of plan.
####### Additional materials.

(ii)(A) Letter from Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated September 30, 1999 submitting Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies, Section 22a-174-22b and associated administrative materials as a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.

(B) The SIP narrative "Connecticut State Implementation Plan Revision to Implement the NOSIP Call," dated September 30, 1999.

(C) Letter from Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated August 1, 2002.

(D) The SIP narrative "Connecticut State Implementation Plan Revision to Revise the State's NOEmissions Budget," dated July 22, 2002.

(iii) Section 22a-174-22b, State of Connecticut Regulation of Department of Environmental Protection Concerning The Post-2002 Nitrogen Oxides (NO) Budget Program, is fully enforceable up to and including April 30, 2010. As of May 1, 2010, Section 22a-174-22b is superseded and shall have no prospective effect. Violations of Section 22a-174-22b that occur prior to May 1, 2010 shall be subject to enforcement, including on or after May 1, 2010, in accordance with applicable law.

(87) [Reserved]

(88) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on May 19, 2000.
