
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.370 Identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8177 issued to Wisvest Bridgeport Harbor's Unit No. 3 in Bridgeport on May 31, 2000.

(B) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8187 issued to Wisvest Bridgeport Harbor's Unit No. 2 on January 12, 2000.

(C) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8094, Modification No. 2, issued to Ogden Martin Systems of Bristol, Inc. on May 22, 2000.

(D) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8095, Modification No. 2, issued to American Ref-Fuel Company of Southeastern Connecticut in Preston on May 22, 2000.

(E) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8100, Modification No. 2, issued to Bridgeport Resco Company, Limited Partnership in Bridgeport on May 22, 2000.

(F) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8116, Modification No. 2, issued to the Connecticut Resources Recovery Authority in Hartford on May 22, 2000.

(G) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8178 issued to Wisvest's New Haven Harbor's auxiliary boiler in New Haven on May 22, 2000.

(H) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8179 issued to Wisvest's Bridgeport Harbor's Unit No. 4 on May 22, 2000.

(I) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8176, issued to Wisvest's New Haven Harbor Station's Unit No. 1 in New Haven on May 31, 2000.
