
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.370 Identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) State of Connecticut Regulation, Section 22a-174-20(k), Restrictions on VOC Emissions from Cutback and Emulsified Asphalt (excluding the text that appears in brackets), effective in the state of Connecticut on January 1, 2009.

(B) A letter from Barbara Sladeck, RLS Assistant Coordinator, Office of the Secretary of the State, State of Connecticut, to Hon. Gina McCarthy, Commissioner, Department of Environmental Protection, dated July 26, 2007, stating that the effective date of the Amendment of Section 22a-174-20(l), Metal Cleaning, and Adoption of Section 22a-174-41, pertaining to Architectural and Industrial Maintenance Products, is July 26, 2007.

(C) State of Connecticut Regulation, Section 22a-174-20(l), Metal Cleaning, effective in the state of Connecticut on July 26, 2007, revisions to the following provisions (including the text that appears in underline and excluding the text that appears in brackets): Sections 22a-174-20(l)(1)(A) through (C) and(J) through (L), Sections 22-a-174-20(l)(3), (A) through (D), (F) through (H), and (J) through (L), Sections 22a-174-20(l)(5) introductory text, (B), (E), and (M), and Section 22a-174-20(l)(6); and addition of Sections 22a-174-20(l)(7) through (9).

(D) State of Connecticut Regulation, Section 22a-174-41, Architectural and Industrial Maintenance Products, effective in the state of Connecticut on July 26, 2007.

(101) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on July 20, 2007, consisting of orders establishing reasonably available control technology for volatile organic compound emissions for Sumitomo Bakelite North America, Cyro Industries, and Curtis Packaging.
