
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.370 Identification of plan.
####### Additional materials.

(ii)(A) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, "Adequacy Determination of the Connecticut State Implementation Plan with Regard to Clean Air Act Section 110(a)(1) and (2) for the 8-Hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard Program Infrastructure," Final, December 28, 2007.

(B) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, "Adequacy Determination of the Connecticut State Implementation Plan for Clean Air Act Section 110(a) Infrastructure Elements: 1997 National Ambient Air Quality Standard for Fine Particulate Matter," Final, September 4, 2008.

(C) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, "Adequacy Determination of the Connecticut State Implementation Plan with Regard to Clean Air Act Section 110(a)(1) and (2) for the 2006 Fine Particulate Matter National Ambient Air Quality Standard," Final, September 18, 2009.

(D) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, "Request to Withdraw a Portion of Connecticut's PMInfrastructure Adequacy Determination," January 7, 2011.

(E) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, "Addendum to the CAA ยง 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) Portion of Connecticut's Infrastructure Submittal for the 2006 PMNAAQS," August 19, 2011.

(F) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, "Adequacy Determination of the Connecticut State Implementation Plan with Regard to Clean Air Act Section 110(a)(1) and

(2) for the 2008 Lead National Ambient Air Quality Standard," Final, October 13, 2011.

(G) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, "Update to Connecticut PMInfrastructure Submittals," June 15, 2012.

(H) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, "Connecticut State Implementation Plan with Regard to the Infrastructure Requirements of Clean Air Act Section 110(a)(1) and 110(s)(2) for the 2008 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards, Final, December 28, 2012.

(I) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, "Connecticut State Implementation Plan with Regard to the Infrastructure Requirements of Clean Air Act Section 110(a)(1) and 110(a)(2) for the 2010 Nitrogen Dioxide National Ambient Air Quality Standards, Final, January 2, 2013.

(J) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, "Connecticut State Implementation Plan for Clean Air Act Section 110(a) Infrastructure Elements: 2010 Sulfur Dioxide National Ambient Air Quality Standard, Final, May 30, 2013.

(K) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection letter, "Supplement to Infrastructure State Implementation Plan (SIP) Revisions," August 5, 2015.

(113) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on November 19, 2012 and December 14, 2015.
