
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.370 Identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) State of Connecticut vs. Mallace Industries Corporation, Consent Order No. 8258, issued as a final order on September 13, 2005.

(B) State of Connecticut vs. Hamilton Sundstrand, a United Technologies Company, Order No. 8029A, issued as a final order on September 3, 2009.

(C) State Order No. 8011, and attached Compliance Timetable and Appendix A (allowable limits by product classification) for Dow Chemical, U.S.A. in Gales Ferry, Connecticut, issued as State Order No. 8011, effective on October 27, 1988, and approved in paragraph (c)(48(i)(B) is removed without replacement.

(D) State Order No. 8014, and attached Compliance Timetable for Pratt & Whitney Division of United Technologies Corporation in East Hartford, Connecticut, issued as State Order No. 8014, effective on March 22, 1989, and approved in paragraph (c)(51)(i)(B) is removed without replacement.

(E) State Order No. 8021, and attached Compliance Timetable, and Appendix A (allowable limits on small, uncontrolled vents and allowable outlet gas temperatures for surface condensers) for Pfizer, Incorporated in Groton, Connecticut, issued as State Order No. 8021, effective on December 2, 1988, and approved in paragraph (c)(52)(i)B) is removed without replacement.

(F) State Order No. 8009, and attached Compliance Timetable, Appendix A, Appendix B, and Appendix C for Uniroyal Chemical Company, Inc. in Naugatuck, Connecticut, issued as State Order No. 8009, effective on September 5, 1989, and approved in paragraph (c)(53)(i)(B), is removed without replacement.

(G) State Order No. 8032, and attached Compliance Timetable for the Heminway & Bartlett Manufacturing Company in Watertown, Connecticut, issued as State Order No. 8032, effective on November 29, 1989, and approved in paragraph (c)(55)(i)(B), is removed without replacement.

(H) State Order No. 8010, for Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation, effective on January 29, 1990, as well as Addendum A and Addendum B to Order No. 8010, effective on February 7, 1996 and September 29, 1995, respectively, issued as State Order No. 8010, and two addenda, define and impose RACT on certain VOC emissions at Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation in Stratford, Connecticut, and approved in paragraph (c)(60)(i)(B) is removed without replacement.

(I) State Order No. 8200, issued by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection to Watson Laboratories, Inc., effective October 3, 2002, and approved in paragraph (c)(96)(i)(C) is removed without replacement.
