
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.377 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### see

(f) Determination of Attainment. Effective September 30, 2010, EPA is determining that the Greater Connecticut 8-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. Under the provisions of EPA's ozone implementation rule (40 CFR 51.918), this determination suspends the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act for as long as the area does not monitor any violations of the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. If a violation of the 1997 ozone NAAQS is monitored in the Greater Connecticut 8-hour ozone nonattainment area, this determination shall no longer apply. In addition, this area met its June 15, 2010 attainment deadline for the 1997 ozone standard.

(g) Approval-Submittal from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, dated December 28, 2007, to address the Clean Air Act (CAA) infrastructure requirements for the 1997 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). This submittal satisfies the requirements of CAA sections 110(a)(2)(A), (B), (C), (E), (F), (G), (H), (J), (K), (L), and (M).

(h) Conditional Approval-Submittal from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, dated December 28, 2007, to address the Clean Air Act (CAA) infrastructure requirements for the 1997 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). On May 2, 2011, the State of Connecticut supplemented this submittal with a commitment to address the requirements of section 110(a)(2)(D)(ii) of the CAA that requires notification of affected states for Prevention of Significant Deterioration purposes. EPA is conditionally approving Connecticut's submittal with respect to CAA section 110(a)(2)(D)(ii).

(i) Determination of Attainment for the One-Hour Ozone Standard. Effective April 16, 2012, EPA is determining that the Greater Connecticut one-hour ozone nonattainment area did not meet its applicable one-hour ozone attainment date of November 15, 2007, based on 2005-2007 complete, quality-assured ozone monitoring data. Separate from and independent of this determination, EPA is determining that the Greater Connecticut one-hour ozone nonattainment area met the one-hour ozone standard, based on 2008-2010 complete, quality-assured ozone monitoring data at all monitoring sites in the area. EPA's review of the ozone data shows that the area began attaining the one-hour ozone standard during the 2006-2008 monitoring period, and has continued attaining the one-hour standard through the 2007-2009 and 2008-2010 monitoring periods.

(j) Determination of Attainment for the One-Hour Ozone Standard. Effective July 18, 2012, EPA is determining that the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island (NY-NJ-CT) one-hour ozone nonattainment area did not meet its applicable one-hour ozone attainment date of November 15, 2007, based on 2005-2007 complete, quality-assured and certified ozone monitoring data. Separate from and independent of this determination, EPA is determining that the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island (NY-NJ-CT) one-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the one-hour ozone standard, based on 2008-2010 complete, quality-assured and certified ozone monitoring data at all monitoring sites in the area and data showing the area continued to attain through 2011.

(k) Determination of Attainment for the Eight-Hour Ozone Standard. Effective July 18, 2012 EPA is determining, that complete, quality-assured and certified ozone monitoring data for 2007-2009 show the NY-NJ-CT eight-hour ozone nonattainment area attained the 1997 eight-hour ozone standard by its June 15, 2010 attainment deadline. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2)(A) to determine, based on the area's air quality data as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the NY-NJ-CT nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date under section 181(b)(2)(A). EPA is also determining that the NY-NJ-CT eight-hour ozone nonattainment area currently continues to attain the eight-hour ozone NAAQS, based on complete, quality-assured and certified data for 2008-2010 and data through 2011. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.918, suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual eight-hour ozone NAAQS.

(l) Approval-Revisions to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan (SIP) submitted on December 8, 2006. The SIP revision satisfies the requirement to implement reasonably available control technology (RACT) for sources of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and oxides of nitrogen (NO) for purposes of the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. Specifically, the following sections of the Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies are approved for this purpose: For VOC RACT, 22a-174-20, Control of Organic Compound Emissions, 22a-174-30, Dispensing of Gasoline/Stage I and Stage II Vapor Recovery, and 22a-174-32, RACT for Organic Compounds; for NORACT, 22a-174-22, Control of Nitrogen Oxide Emissions, and 22a-174-38, Municipal Waste Combustors.
