
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.377 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Rescission of clean data determination for the 1997 eight-hour ozone standard.,see

(p)Effective June 3, 2016, the EPA is determining that complete quality-assured and certified ozone monitoring data for 2012-2014 show the NY-NJ-CT 1997 eight-hour ozone nonattainment area did not meet 1997 eight-hour ozone standard. Therefore, the EPA is rescinding the clean data determination for the 1997 eight-hour ozone standard only. The prior determination (paragraph k of this section) is in accordance with 40 CFR 51.918. The prior determination suspended the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual eight-hour ozone NAAQS. This rescission of the clean data determination will result in a SIP Call for a new ozone attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard, for this area only. If the revised plan is approved by the EPA as demonstrating reasonable further progress and attainment for the more stringent 2008 NAAQS by the Moderate area attainment date, and is approved by the EPA as containing adequate contingency measures for the 2008 NAAQS, then the plan would be deemed to have also satisfied requirements of the SIP Call associated with violations for the 1997 NAAQS.

(q) Approval-Revisions to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan (SIP) submitted on July 18, 2014. The SIP revision satisfies the requirement to implement reasonably available control technology (RACT) for sources of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and oxides of nitrogen (NO) for purposes of the 2008 ozone standard. Specifically, the following sections of the Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies are approved for this purpose: For VOC RACT, 22a-174-20, Control of Organic Compound Emissions, 22a-174-30, Dispensing of Gasoline/Stage I and Stage II Vapor Recovery, and 22a-174-32, RACT for Organic Compounds; for NORACT, 22a-174-22, Control of nitrogen oxide emissions, 22a-174-22e, Control of nitrogen oxide emissions from fuel burning equipment at major sources, 22a-174-22f, High daily NOemitting units at non-major sources of nitrogen oxides, and 22a-174-38, Municipal Waste Combustors.
