
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.375 Certification of no sources.

The State of Connecticut has certified to the satisfaction of EPA that no sources are located in the state which are covered by the following Control Technique Guidelines:

(a) Large Petroleum Dry Cleaners.

(b) In its December 8, 2006 submittal to EPA pertaining to reasonably available control technology requirements for the 1997 8-hour ozone standard, the State of Connecticut certified to the satisfaction of EPA that no sources are located in the state that are covered by the following Control Technique Guidelines:

(1) Automobile Coatings;

(2) Large Petroleum Dry Cleaners;

(3) Large Appliance Coating;

(4) Natural Gas and Gas Processing Plants;

(5) Flat Wood Paneling Coatings; and

(6) Control of VOC Leaks from Petroleum Refineries.

(c) Air Oxidation Processes/SOCMI.

(d) Manufacturers of High-density Polyethylene and Polypropylene Resins.

(e) Synthetic organic chemical manufacturing industry (SOCMI) distillation.

(f) Synthetic organic chemical manufacturing industry (SOCMI) reactor vessels.

(g) In its April 29, 2010 submittal to EPA pertaining to reasonably available control technology requirements for the 1997 8-hour ozone standard, the State of Connecticut certified to the satisfaction of EPA that no sources are located in the state that are covered by the following Control Technique Guidelines:

(1) Flat wood paneling coating;

(2) Fiberglass boat manufacturing; and

(3) Automobile and light duty truck assembly coating.

(h) In its July 18, 2014 submittal to EPA pertaining to reasonably available control technology requirements for the 2008 8-hour ozone standard, the State of Connecticut certified to the satisfaction of EPA that no sources are located in the state that are covered by the following Control Technique Guidelines:

(1) Automobile coatings;

(2) Large petroleum dry cleaners;

(3) Fiberglass boat manufacturing;

(4) Equipment leaks from natural gas and gasoline processing plants;

(5) Petroleum refineries;

(6) Control of refinery vacuum producing systems;

(7) Wastewater separators and process unit turnarounds; and

(8) Flatwood paneling coatings.

(i) In its December 21, 2020, submittal to EPA pertaining to reasonably available control technology requirements as a serious area for the 2008 ozone standard and for the 2015 ozone standard as a state containing a moderate nonattainment area and a marginal nonattainment area that is part of the Ozone Transport Region, the State of Connecticut certified to the satisfaction of EPA that no sources located in the State are covered by the following Control Technique Guidelines:

(1) Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Assembly Coatings.

(2) Control of VOC Emissions from Large Petroleum Dry Cleaners.

(3) Fiberglass Boat Manufacturing Materials.

(4) Control of VOC Equipment Leaks from Natural Gas/Gasoline Processing Plants.

(5) Control of Refinery Vacuum Producing Systems, Wastewater Separators, and Process Unit Turnarounds.

(6) Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from Petroleum Refinery Equipment.

(7) Flatwood Paneling Coatings.

(8) The Oil and Natural Gas Industry.
