
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### § 52.377 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Approval
############# § 52.378 Control strategy: PM.

(a) Approval-On June 23, 2005, the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection submitted a request to redesignate the City of New Haven PMnonattainment area to attainment for PM. The redesignation request and the initial ten-year maintenance plan (2006-2015) meet the redesignation requirements in sections 107(d)(3)(E) and 175A of the Act as amended in 1990, respectively.

(b) Approval-On June 23, 2005, the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection (CT DEP) submitted a request to establish a Limited Maintenance Plan (LMP) for the City of New Haven PMattainment area for the area's initial ten-year maintenance plan (2006-2015). The State of Connecticut has committed to: maintain a PMmonitoring network in the New Haven PMmaintenance area; implement contingency measures in the event of an exceedance of the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) in the maintenance area; coordinate with EPA in the event the PMdesign value in the maintenance area exceeds 98 µgm/mfor the 24-hour PMNAAQS or 40 µgm/mfor the annual PMNAAQS; and to verify the validity of the data and, if warranted based on the data review, develop a full maintenance plan for the maintenance area. The LMP satisfies all applicable requirements of section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Approval of the LMP is conditioned on maintaining levels of ambient PMbelow a PMdesign value criteria of 98 µgm/mfor the 24-hour PMNAAQS and 40 µgm/mfor the annual PMNAAQS. For the Criscuolo Park site, Connecticut still qualifies for the LMP option if, based on five years of site data, the average design values (ADVs) of the continuous PMmonitor are less than the site-specific critical design value (CDV). If the LMP criteria are no longer satisfied, Connecticut must develop a full maintenance plan to meet Clean Air Act requirements.
