
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.377 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Approval
######## Determination of Attainment.

(g)EPA has determined, as of December 31, 2012, that the New York-N. New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT fine particle (PM) nonattainment area has attained the 2006 PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard. This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 2006 PMNAAQS.

(h) Approval-EPA is approving a request to redesignate the Connecticut portion of the New York-N. New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT fine particle (PM) area (i.e., New Haven and Fairfield Counties or the Southwestern CT Area) from nonattainment to attainment for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PMstandards. Connecticut submitted this request on June 22, 2012. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175A maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision as required by the Clean Air Act. The PMmaintenance plan also establishes 2017 and 2025 Motor Vehicle Emission Budgets (MVEBs) for the Area. Connecticut is establishing 2017 MVEBs of 575.8 tons per year (tpy) for direct PMand 12,791.8 tpy for NO, and 2025 MVEBs of 516 tpy for direct PMand 9,728.1 tpy for NO, for the Southwestern CT Area for maintenance of the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PMstandards. The 2017 and 2025 MVEBs were prepared with the MOVES model. Previously SIP-approved 2009 MVEBs prepared with MOBILE6.2 are being withdrawn. Finally, EPA is also approving a comprehensive 2007 emission inventory for this Area.
