
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.377 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Approval
######## Determination of Attainment.

(b)EPA has determined, as of December 15, 2010, that the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT fine particle (PM) nonattainment area has attained the 1997 PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 1997 PMNAAQS.

(c) Approval-Submittal from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, dated September 4, 2008, to address the Clean Air Act (CAA) infrastructure requirements for the 1997 PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). This submittal is approved as meeting the requirements of sections 110(a)(2)(B), (C) (enforcement program only), (E)(i), (E)(iii), (F), (G), (H), (J) (consultation and public notification only), (K), (L), and (M).

(d) Conditional Approval-Submittal from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, dated September 4, 2008, to address the Clean Air Act (CAA) infrastructure requirements for the 1997 PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). EPA is conditionally approving Connecticut's submittal with respect to CAA sections 110(a)(2)(A), (C) only as it related to the PSD program, (D)(ii), (E)(ii), and (J) only as it relates to the PSD program. This conditional approval is contingent upon Connecticut taking actions to meet requirements of these elements within one year of conditional approval, as committed to in letters from the state to EPA Region 1 dated June 15, 2012, and July 11, 2012.

(e) Approval-Submittal from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, dated September 18, 2009, with supplements submitted on January 7, 2011, and August 19, 2011, to address the Clean Air Act (CAA) infrastructure requirements for the 2006 PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). This submittal is approved as meeting the requirements of sections 110(a)(2)(B), (C) (enforcement program only), (E)(i), (E)(iii), (F), (G), (H), (J) (consultation and public notification only), (K), (L), and (M).

(f) Conditional Approval-Submittal from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, dated September 18, 2009, with supplements submitted on January 7, 2011, and August 19, 2011, to address the Clean Air Act (CAA) infrastructure requirements for the 2006 PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). EPA is conditionally approving Connecticut's submittal with respect to CAA sections 110(a)(2)(A), (C) only as it related to the PSD program, (D)(ii), (E)(ii), and (J) only as it relates to the PSD program. This conditional approval is contingent upon Connecticut taking actions to meet requirements of these elements within one year of conditional approval, as committed to in letters from the state to EPA Region 1 dated June 15, 2012, and July 11, 2012.
