
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.384 Emission inventories.

(a) The Governor's designee for the State of Connecticut submitted the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Connecticut portion of the New York-New Jersey-Connecticut severe ozone nonattainment area and the Greater Hartford serious ozone nonattainment area on January 13, 1994 as revisions to the State's SIP. Revisions to the inventories were submitted on February 3, 1994, February 16, 1995, and December 30, 1997. The 1990 base year emission inventory requirement of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, has been satisfied for these areas.

(b) The inventories are for the ozone precursors which are volatile organic compounds, nitrogen oxides, and carbon monoxide. The inventories covers point, area, non-road mobile, on-road mobile, and biogenic sources.

(c) Taken together, the Connecticut portion of the New York-New Jersey-Connecticut severe nonattainment area and the Hartford serious nonattainment area encompass the entire geographic area of the State.

(d) The state of Connecticut submitted base year emission inventories representing emissions for calendar year 2002 from the Connecticut portion of the NY-NJ-CT moderate 8-hour ozone nonattainment area and the Greater Connecticut moderate 8-hour ozone nonattainment area on February 1, 2008 as revisions to the State's SIP. The 2002 base year emission inventory requirement of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, has been satisfied for these areas. The inventories consist of emission estimates of volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides, and cover point, area, non-road mobile, on-road mobile and biogenic sources. The inventories were submitted as revisions to the SIP in partial fulfillment of obligations for nonattainment areas under EPA's 1997 8-hour ozone standard.

(e) The State of Connecticut submitted base year emission inventories representing emissions for calendar year 2011 from the Connecticut portion of the NY-NJ-CT moderate 8-hour ozone nonattainment area and the Greater Connecticut moderate 8-hour ozone nonattainment area on March 9, 2016, as revisions to the State's SIP. The 2011 base year emission inventory requirement of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, has been satisfied for these areas. The inventories consist of emission estimates of volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides, and cover point, area, non-road mobile, on-road mobile and biogenic sources. The inventories were submitted as revisions to the SIP in partial fulfillment of obligations for nonattainment areas under EPA's 2008 8-hour ozone standard.
