
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
###### ยง 52.386 Section 110(a)(2) infrastructure requirements.

(a) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection submitted the following infrastructure SIPs on these dates: 2008 Pb NAAQS-October 13, 2011; 2008 ozone NAAQS-December 28, 2012; 2010 NONAAQS-January 2, 2013; and 2010 SONAAQS-May 30, 2013. These infrastructure SIPs are approved, with the exception of certain elements within 110(a)(2)(C)(ii), D(i)(II), and J(iii), which are conditionally approved. Connecticut submitted infrastructure SIPs for the 1997 and 2006 PMNAAQS on September 4, 2008, and September 18, 2009, respectively, and elements 110(a)(2)(A), D(ii), and E(ii), which were previously conditionally approved, are now approved. Also with respect to the 1997 and 2006 PMNAAQS, elements related to PSD, which include 110(a)(2)C(ii), D(i)(II), and J(iii) are newly conditionally approved. Connecticut also submitted an Infrastructure SIP for the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS on December 28, 2007, and element 110(a)(2)(D)(ii), which was previously conditionally approved, is now approved.

(b) On May 30, 2013, the State of Connecticut submitted a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision addressing the Section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) interstate transport requirements of the Clean Air Act for the 2010 SONational Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). EPA has found that Connecticut's May 30, 2013 submittal meets the requirements of Section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) for the 2010 SONAAQS.

(c) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection submitted the following infrastructure SIPs on these dates: 2006 PMNAAQS-August 19, 2011 (CAA section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) transport provisions), and 2012 PMNAAQS-December 14, 2015. These infrastructure SIPs are approved. Also with respect to the 1997 and 2006 PM, 1997 and 2008 ozone, 2008 lead, 2010 nitrogen dioxide, and 2010 sulfur dioxide NAAQS, elements related to PSD, which are in CAA section 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), and (J) and were previously conditionally approved, are now approved.

(d) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection submitted the following infrastructure SIP on this date: 2008 ozone NAAQS-June 15, 2015 (CAA section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) transport provisions). This infrastructure SIP is approved.

(e) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection submitted an infrastructure SIP for the 2015 ozone NAAQS on September 7, 2018. This infrastructure SIP is approved, with the exception of section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I), which will be addressed in a future rulemaking, and sections 110(a)(2)(K) and the PSD-related requirements of sections 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(II), 110(a)(2)(C), and 110(a)(2)(J), which are conditionally approved.

(f) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection submitted the following infrastructure SIP on this date: 2015 ozone NAAQS-December 6, 2018 (CAA ยง 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) transport provisions). This infrastructure SIP is approved.
