
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart I - Delaware
###### ยง 52.426 Control strategy plans for attainment and rate-of-progress: ozone.

(a) EPA fully approves, as a revision to the Delaware State Implementation Plan, the 15 Percent Rate of Progress Plan for the Delaware portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe ozone nonattainment, namely Kent and New Castle Counties, submitted by the Secretary of Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on February 17, 1995.

(b)(1) EPA approves revisions to the Delaware State Implementation Plan consisting of the Post 1996 ROP plans for milestone years 1999, 2002, and 2005 for the Delaware portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe ozone nonattainment area, namely Kent and New Castle Counties. These revisions were submitted by the Secretary of Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on December 29, 1997, and revised on June 17, 1999, February 3, 2000, and December 20, 2000.

(2) EPA approves Delaware's contingency plans for failure to meet ROP in the Delaware portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe ozone nonattainment area, namely Kent and New Castle Counties, for milestone years 1999, 2002 and 2005. These revisions were submitted by the Secretary of Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on December 29, 1997, June 17, 1999, February 3, 2000, and December 20, 2000.

(c) EPA approves the attainment demonstration SIP for the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton area submitted by the Secretary of the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on May 22, 1998, and amended October 8, 1998, January 24, 2000, December 20, 2000, and October 9, 2001 including its RACM analysis and determination. EPA is approving the enforceable commitments made to the attainment plan for the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe ozone nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on January 24, 2000 and December 20, 2000. The enforceable commitments are to:

(1) Submit measures by October 31, 2001 for additional emission reductions as required in the attainment demonstration test, and to revise the SIP and motor vehicle emissions budgets by October 31, 2001 if the additional measures affect the motor vehicle emissions inventory,

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Perform a mid-course review by December 31, 2003.

(d) EPA is approving the following mobile budgets, explicitly quantified as sub-budgets for each of Kent and New Castle Counties, of the Post 1996 ROP Plans and the 1-Hour Ozone Attainment Demonstration Plan:

(1)-(2) [Reserved]

(e) EPA approves Delaware's revised 2005 VOC and NOmotor vehicle emission budgets for the 1-hour ozone attainment plan for the Delaware portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe ozone nonattainment area as a SIP revision. The revisions were submitted by the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on September 2, 2003. Submittal of these revised MOBILE6-based motor vehicle emissions budgets was a requirement of EPA's approval of the attainment demonstration under paragraph (c) of this section.

(f) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2003 to 2005, EPA has determined that the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area attained the 1-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of November 15, 2005. EPA also has determined that the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area is not subject to the imposition of the section 185 penalty fees.

(g) EPA approves revisions to the Delaware State Implementation Plan consisting of the 2008 reasonable further progress (RFP) plan, reasonably available control measures, and contingency measures for the Delaware portion of the Philadelphia 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on June 13, 2007.

(h) EPA approves the following 2008 RFP motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Delaware portion of the Philadelphia 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on June 13, 2007:
