
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart J - District of Columbia
###### ยง 52.479 Source-specific requirements.

(a) Approval of source-specific requirements for the Blue Plains Advanced Wastewater Treatment Plant includes EPA incorporating by reference into ยง 52.470(d) certain redacted portions of Permit No. 6372-C2/0 approved by the District of Columbia on April 20, 2018 to Construct and Operate New Biosolids Handling Facilities issued to the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority and as approved on March 25, 2020.

(1) Specifically, EPA is incorporating by reference into ยง 52.470(d) certain portions of Permit No. 6372-C2/O to Construct and Operate New Biosolids Handling Facilities issued to District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority as redacted by the District of Columbia:

(i) The first paragraph citing the pertinent permitting regulations and listing (redacted) the following significant components: One (1) Auxiliary Boiler (AB) rated at 62.52 mmBTU per hour (HHV) heat input, firing DG, One (1) Siloxane Destruction Flare (SF) rated at 6.14 MMBTU per hour heal input, firing DG; and Two (2) Emergency Flares rated at 126 mmBTU per hour heat input each, firing DG.

(ii) The NOemissions limits listed in the table found in permit condition "j." for the Auxiliary Boiler (AB), Siloxane Destruction Flare (SF) and Two (2) Emergency Flares. The hourly NOemission limits for the Auxiliary Boiler (AB), Siloxane Destruction Flare (SF) and Two (2) Emergency Flares listed in Table 2 (as redacted) found under Condition III.

(iii) Conditions III.b.1.A.; III.b.3. A. and B.; III.b.3. C.i., iii and iv.; III.b.3.D.; III.b.3.E. except that relating to carbon monoxide/CO; III.b.3.F. except "and CO"; III.b.3.G, iv. and v. except the provision "Failure to demonstrate compliance through the testing may result in enforcement action."; III.b.4.A.; III.b.4.B. iv. and v.; III.b.5. as redacted to strike "in addition to complying with Condition II(f)"; III.d., III.d.1.A; III.d.2.D; III.d.3.A. only the portion "Within 60 days of initial startup and once every five years thereafter, the Permittee shall conduct a Department- approved compliance source test at multiple loads of EF-l, EF-2, and SF in accordance with 40 CFR 60.8 or a similar protocol acceptable to the Department, to demonstrate compliance with the emissions limitations contained in Condition III(d)(1) of this permit;" III.d.3.B as redacted to exclude "though additional testing may be required at other times pursuant to Condition II(d)(2)"; III.d.3.C. (i), (iii) and (iv); III.d.3.D.; III.d.3.H.(iv); III.d.3.H.(v) except "Failure to demonstrate compliance through the test may result in enforcement action."; III.d.4.A. except "including records of visual inspections,"; III.d.4.B. (ii) except "and CO"; III.d.4.B. (iv); and, III.d.5.A. as redacted to exclude "in addition to complying with Condition II(f)".

(2) This permit was issued April 20, 2018.

(b) [Reserved]
