
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart L - Georgia
###### ยง 52.577 Determination of attainment.

(a) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007-2009, EPA determined that the Chattanooga, Alabama-Georgia-Tennessee PMnonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMNAAQS by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the Area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the Area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Chattanooga, Alabama-Georgia-Tennessee PMnonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(b) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007-2009, EPA determined that the Macon, Georgia PMnonattainment Area attained the 1997 annual PMNAAQS by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the Area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the Area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Macon, Georgia PMnonattainment Area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(c) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007-2009, EPA determined that the Rome, Georgia PMnonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMNAAQS by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the Area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the Area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Rome, Georgia PMnonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(d) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2008-2010, EPA determined that the Atlanta, Georgia, 1997 8-hour ozone nonattainment Area attained the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of June 15, 2011. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2) to determine, based on the Area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the Area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Atlanta, Georgia, 1997 8-hour ozone nonattainment Area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 181(b)(2).

(e) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2018-2020, EPA determined that the Atlanta, Georgia, 2015 8-hour ozone nonattainment area attained the 2015 8-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of August 3, 2021. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2) to determine, based on the Area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the Area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Atlanta, Georgia, 2015 8-hour ozone nonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 181(b)(2).
