
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart M - Hawaii
###### ยง 52.622 Original identification of plan.

(a) This section identified the original "State of Hawaii Air Pollution Control Implementation Plan" and all revisions submitted by the State of Hawaii that were federally approved prior to June 1, 2005.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 28, 1972.

(1) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted from the SIP without replacement Air Pollution Control Law, Hawaii Revised Statutes, chapter 322, part V, section 322-68 and Public Health Regulations, chapter 43, section 20.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Certification that the plan was adopted submitted on April 4, 1972, by the Department of Health.

(2) Telegram and letters (Non-regulatory) clarifying the plan submitted on May 8, 1972, by the Governor.

(3) Telegram (Non-regulatory) clarifying the particulate matter control strategy submitted on May 22, 1972, by the Governor.

(4) Letter (Non-regulatory) clarifying disapproval of the plan submitted on June 15, 1972, by the Governor.

(i) Previously approved on November 8, 1973 in paragraph (c)(4) of this section and now deleted from the SIP without replacement S.B. No. 1382-72, Act 100, section 7.

(ii) [Reserved]

(5) Revised regulations (in their entirety) for the State of Hawaii submitted on November 21, 1972, by the Governor.

(i) Previously approved on May 14, 1973 in paragraph (c)(5) of this section and now deleted from the SIP without replacement chapter 43, section 20.

(ii) [Reserved]

(6) Regulations establishing a permit system for agricultural burning submitted on May 15, 1973, by the Governor.

(7) Compliance schedule submitted on July 27, 1973, by the Governor.

(8) 18-month extension plan for particulate matter submitted on August 15, 1973, by the Governor.

(9) Date for attainment of the national ambient air quality standards for particulate matter submitted on April 25, 1974, by the Governor.

(10) Previously approved on April 23, 1979 and now deleted without replacement: A variance to the Hawaii Public Health Regulations, chapter 43, section 7(b)(5) submitted on September 12, 1978, by the Governor.

(11) A variance to the Hawaii Public Health Regulations, Chapter 43, Section 7(b)(5) submitted on February 22, 1979 by the Governor.

(12) The following amendments to the plan were submitted on August 21, 1980, by the Governor.

(i) XII. Air Quality Surveillance Network.

(13) A variance to the Hawaii Public Health Regulations, Chapter 43, section 8 (b)(1) submitted on November 25, 1980 by the Governor.

(14) Previously approved on September 30, 1982 and now deleted without replacement: A variance of the Hawaii Public Health Regulations, chapter 43, section 8(b)(1) submitted on April 6, 1982, by the Governor.

(15) Hawaii State Lead SIP Revision submitted on October 29, 1982, by the State.

(i) Previously approved on August 18, 1983 in paragraph (c)(15) of this section and now deleted from the SIP without replacement Hawaii Statute on Environmental Quality, Hawaii Revised Statutes, chapter 342, section 342-7.

(ii) [Reserved]

(16) The following amendments to the plan were submitted on December 20, 1982 by the State.

(i) Title 11-Department of Health, Chapter 60, Air Pollution Control.

(A) Amended sections 11-60-01 thru 11-60-29, 11-60-35 thru 11-60-38.

(B) Previously approved on August 18, 1983 and now deleted without replacement section 11-60-36.

(17) The following amendment to the plan was submitted on September 14, 1988, by the Governor's designee.
