
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart N - Idaho
###### § 52.675 Control strategy: Sulfur oxides - Eastern Idaho Intrastate Air Quality Control Region.

(a)(1) Regulation R of the Rules and Regulations for the Control of Air Pollution in Idaho, which is part of the sulfur dioxide (SO) control strategy, is disapproved since it is inconsistent with the purposes and provisions of subpart G of this chapter. These requirements are not met by Regulation R in that the SOcontrol strategy contained therein is not adequate for the attainment and maintenance of SOnational ambient air quality standards (NAAQS).

(2) Rules 1-1801 through 1-1804 (Rules for Control of Sulfur Oxide Emissions from Sulfuric Acid Plants) of the "Rules and Regulations for the Control of Air Pollution in Idaho" are inadequate to ensure attainment and maintenance of Sulfur Dioxide National Ambient Air Quality Standards in the Eastern Idaho Intrastate Air Quality Control Region. Special limits have previously been established for certain existing acid plants in this Air Quality Control Region (§§ 52.670(c)(15) and 52.675(b)). Therefore, Rules 1-1801 through 1-1804 are approved except as they apply to existing acid plants with approved or promulgated emission limits that are more stringent than the limit found in 1-1802.

(b) Regulation for control of sulfur dioxide (SO) emissions: Sulfuric Acid Plants. (1) The provisions of this paragraph shall apply to the owner(s) and operator(s) of The J. R. Simplot Company's Minerals and Chemical Division, located in Power County, Idaho, in the Eastern Idaho Intrastate Air Quality Control Region.

(2) The owner(s) and operator(s) of The J. R. Simplot Company facility shall utilize best engineering techniques in the operation of their plant to prevent fugitive SO losses. Such techniques shall include but are not limited to:

(i) Operating and maintaining all conducts, flues, and stacks in a leakfree condition.

(ii) Operating and maintaining all process equipment and gas collection systems in such a fashion that leakage of SOgases will be prevented to the maximum extent possible.

(3) The owner(s) and operator(s) of The J. R. Simplot Company facility shall limit SOemissions from their sulfuric acid plants per the following:

(i) The combined SOemissions from the designated 100 and 200 sulfric acid plants shall not exceed 2 kilograms (kg) per metric ton (4 pounds per ton) of 100 percent sulfuric acid produced.

(ii) The SOemissions from the designated 300 sulfuric acid plant and stack shall not exceed 994 kg per hour (2190 pounds per hour).

(4) (i) The owner(s) and operator(s) of The J. R. Simplot Company shall achieve compliance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section in accordance with the following schedule:

(A) Advise EPA as to status of contract(s) and construction schedules for pollution abatement projects within 30 days of the effective date of this regulation.

(B) Attain final compliance by July 31, 1976.

(ii) A performance test of the 300 acid plant shall be necessary to determine whether compliance has been achieved with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Such test must be completed within 15 days of the final compliance date specified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section. Notice must be given to the Administrator at least 10 days prior to such a test to afford him an opportunity to have an observer present.

(iii) Within 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the 100 and 200 acid plant will be operated, but not later than 180 days after initial start-up of these plants and at such other times as may be required by the Administrator under section 114 of the Clean Air Act, the owner(s) and operator(s) of the facility shall conduct performance test(s) in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 60.8.

(iv) If the owner(s) and operator(s) of the J. R. Simplot Company facility are presently in compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section or in compliance with a portion of these requirements, such compliance shall be certified to the Administrator within 15 days following the date of the publication of these requirements as a final regulation in theIf the owner(s) or operator(s) of The J. R. Simplot Company achieve compliance prior to July 31, 1976, such compliance shall be certified to the Administrator within 15 days of the date of achieving compliance. The Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary to determine the validity of the certification.

(5) (i) By no later than September 30, 1976, the owner(s) and operator(s) of The J. R. Simplot Company facility shall install, calibrate, maintain and operate measurement system(s) for:

(A) Continuously monitoring and recording SOconcentration rates in each sulfuric acid plant discharge stack per the requirements of 40 CFR 60.13 and 60.84.

(B) Continuously monitoring and recording gas volumetric flow rates in the exhaust stack of the designated 300 sulfuric acid plant.

(ii) By no later than October 30, 1976, and at such other times following that date as the Administrator may specify, the SOconcentration measurement system(s) and stack gas volumetric flow rate system(s) installed and used pursuant to this paragraph shall be demonstrated to meet the measurement system performance specifications prescribed in 40 CFR 60.13 and Appendix E to this part, respectively. The Administrator shall be notified at least 10 days prior to the start of this field test period to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.

(iii) The sampling point for monitoring the concentration of SOemissions shall be in the duct at the centroid of the cross section of the discharge stack if the cross sectional area is less than 4.65 m(50 ft) or at a point no closer to the wall than 0.91 m (3 ft) if the cross sectional area is 4.65 m(50 ft) or more. The monitor sample point shall be representative of the average concentration in the duct.

(iv) The measurement system(s) shall be maintained, operated and calibrated in accordance with the methods prescribed by the manufacturers. Records of maintenance and/or calibration shall be kept and submitted to the Administrator upon request. These records shall clearly show instrument readings before and after such calibration and/or maintenance.

(v) The owner(s) and operator(s) of The J. R. Simplot Company facility shall maintain a daily record of three hour average emission rate measurements for each sulfuric acid plant. Three hour average emission rates shall be calculated for each day beginning at midnight. For the 100 and 200 acid plants, the calculations shall be in conformance with 40 CFR 60.84. For the 300 acid plant, average SOemission rates expressed in kg SOper hour shall be calculated. The results of these calculations for each month shall be submitted to the Administrator within 15 days following the end of each month. Such submission shall identify each period of excess emissions that occurred and the nature and cause of any malfunction (if known), the corrective action taken or preventative measures adopted. The records of such measurements including strip charts and other appropriate raw data shall be retained for a minimum of two years following the date of such measurements.

(vi) The continuous monitoring and recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall become applicable September 30, 1976.

(6)(i) Compliance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall be determined using the emission rates measured by the continuous measurement system(s) installed, calibrated, maintained and operated in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(ii) At the Administrator's discretion, compliance may also be determined using the manual source test methods per 40 CFR 60.85 and Appendix A to part 60 of this title. Emission rates for each stack shall be expressed in units consistent with those in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(iii) A violation of the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall occur whenever the SOemission rates determined according to paragraph (b)(6)(i) or (b)(6)(ii) of this section exceed the corresponding SOemission rates specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(7) The owner(s) and operator(s) of The J. R. Simplot Company facility shall by September 30, 1976, install, calibrate, maintain and operate a network for continuously monitoring ground level ambient SOconcentrations and wind speed and direction.

(i) The monitoring network shall consist of at least four ambient SOmonitoring stations and one meteorological station placed at locations approved by the Administrator.

(ii) The SOmonitoring network shall be consistent with automated equivalent methods for measurement of ambient concentrations of SOas defined in part 53 of this chapter.

(iii) The monitoring network installed and used pursuant to this subparagraph shall be maintained, operated and calibrated in accordance with the methods prescribed by the manufacturers. Records of maintenance and/or calibration shall be kept and submitted to the Administrator upon request. These records shall clearly show instrument readings before and after such calibration and/or maintenance.

(iv) The owner(s) and operator(s) of The J. R. Simplot Company facility shall maintain a daily record of all measurements required by this subparagraph. Strip charts and other raw data from the monitoring network shall be retained for a minimum of two years following the date of such measurement.

(v) The owner(s) and operator(s) of The J. R. Simplot Company shall calculate hourly average ambient SOconcentrations, wind speed, and wind direction from each monitoring station and submit such values to the Administrator within 15 days following the end of each month.

(vi) The continuous monitoring and recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (b)(7) of this section shall become applicable September 30, 1976 and shall remain applicable until such time as the Administrator declares that an adequate ambient air data base has been established, which shall be no earlier than at least one calendar year.

(vii) Within 90 days of the Administrator's declaration of an adequate data base, Simplot shall submit to the Administrator a technical analysis of the degree of permanent control required on the 300 acid plant to ensure attainment and maintenance of NAAQS.

(8) Nothing in paragraph (b) of this section shall be construed to relieve the owner(s) and operator(s) of The J. R. Simplot Company to comply with any applicable requirements of part 60 of this title. In the event of conflicting requirements or interpretations between part 60 of this title and this paragraph, the more restrictive interpretation or requirement shall apply.

(9) In the event that measurement systems cannot be installed and operational by the date specified in this section, The J. R. Simplot Company shall propose the earliest possible date by which such requirements can be met. Such proposal shall include adequate justification and supporting documentation.
