
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart N - Idaho
###### ยง 52.677 Original identification of plan section.
####### Idaho Code);

(19) Revisions to the "Implementation Plan for the Control of Air Pollution in the State of Idaho" submitted by the Governor of Idaho on January 15, 1980: Chapter I "Introduction;" Chapter II "General Administration;" Chapter III "Emissions Inventory;" Chapter IV "Air Quality Monitoring;" Chapter V "Source Surveillance;" Chapter VI "Emergency Episode Plan;" Chapter VII "Approval Procedures for New and Modified Sources;" Chapter VIII "Non-Attainment Area Plans;" Chapter VIII-a "Silver Valley Non-Attainment Plan;" Chapter VIII-e "Soda Springs Non-Attainment Plan;" Appendix A.2 Legal Authority (Section 39-100,Appendix A.3, Title I, Chapter I, Rules and Regulations for the Control of Air Pollution in Idaho, except indirect source review provisions (1-1002.37, 1-1002.76 and 1-1004), variance provisions (1-1007 and 1-1904) and "Sulfur Dioxide Emission Limitations for Combined Zinc and Lead Smelters" (1-1851 through 1-1868); Appendix B "Emission Inventory, Ada County Carbon Monoxide Non-Attainment Area;" Appendix G "Permits-Silver Valley" (six permits); and Appendix K "Permits-Soda Springs" (four permits).

(20) Chapter VIII-b "Lewiston Non-Attainment Plan" submitted by the Governor of Idaho on January 15, 1980. On December 4, 1980, the Governor submitted revised pages 31-39, an operating permit for a kraft pulp and paper mill (Appendix H.1), operating permits for two grain loading terminals (Appendices H.3 and H.4), and an operating permit for an asphalt plant (Appendix H.5). On February 5, 1981 the Governor further revised the nonattainment area plan by submitting a permit for a wood products operation (Appendix H.2).

(21) Chapter VIII-d "Pocatello TSP Non-Attainment Plan" submitted by the Governor of Idaho on March 7, 1980. This submittal included operating permits for an elemental phosphorus plant (Appendix J.1), a phosphate fertilizer manufacturing plant (Appendix J.2), and a Portland cement plant (Appendix J.3). On February 5, 1981, the Governor submitted a revised Chapter VIII-d.

(22) On February 3, 1984 the State of Idaho Department of Health and Welfare submitted a revision to add a lead maintenance strategy to the Idaho Implementation Plan.

(23) On May 29, 1984, the State of Idaho Department of Health and Welfare submitted the Boise-Ada County carbon monoxide attainment plan as an official State Implementation Plan revision. The submittal was then supplemented on January 3, 1985.
