
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart N - Idaho
###### ยง 52.672 Approval of plans.
####### Visibility protection.

(g)(1) EPA approves portions of a Regional Haze SIP revision submitted by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality on October 25, 2010, as meeting the requirements of Clean Air Act section 169A and 40 CFR 51.308(e) regarding Best Available Retrofit Technology. The SIP revision also meets the requirements of 40 CFR 51.308(d)(2) and (4)(v) regarding the calculation of baseline and natural conditions for Craters of the Moon National Monument, Sawtooth Wilderness Area, and Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness Area and the statewide inventory of emissions of pollutants that are reasonably anticipated to cause or contribute to visibility impairment in any mandatory Class I Federal Area. The SIP revision also meets the requirements of Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(II) as it applies to visibility for the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS and 1997 PM2.5 NAAQS.

(2) EPA approves the remaining portions of the Regional Haze SIP revision submitted by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality on October 25, 2010, as meeting the requirements of the Clean Air Act section 169A and 169B and 40 CFR 51.308.

(3) The EPA is vacating its approval of Idaho's NOand SOBART determination for the Riley boiler at The Amalgamated Sugar Company, LLC Nampa facility, published June 22, 2011.

(4) The EPA approves a Regional Haze SIP revision submitted by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality on June 29, 2012, as meeting the requirements of Clean Air Act section 169A and 40 CFR 51.308(e) regarding Best Available Retrofit Technology for The Amalgamated Sugar Company LLC, facility located in Nampa, Idaho. The EPA is approving a revised NOBART determination and revised emission limit for NO, a revised emission limit for PM, and a SOBART Alternative for The Amalgamated Sugar Company, LLC, Nampa facility.
