
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart N - Idaho
###### ยง 52.677 Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original "Idaho Air Quality Implementation Plan" and all revisions submitted by Idaho that were federally approved prior to November 12, 2004.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 31, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Miscellaneous additions (compliance schedules and non-regulatory provisions) to the plan submitted on February 23, 1972, by the Idaho Air Pollution Control Commission.

(2) Request for delegation of legal authority submitted on March 2, 1972, by the Governor.

(3) Compliance schedules submitted on April 12, 1972, by the Governor.

(4) Request for an 18-month extension for particulate matter in all AQCR's submitted on May 5, 1972, by the Governor.

(5) Miscellaneous additions (Non-regulatory) to the plan submitted on May 26, 1972, by the Idaho Air Pollution Control Commission.

(6) Appendices D and E of the plan submitted on June 9, 1972, by the Governor.

(7) Revisions to the Rules and Regulations for the Control of Air Pollution in Idaho submitted on February 15, 1973, by the Governor.

(8) Compliance schedules submitted on July 23, 1973, by the Governor.

(9) Amendment to Chapter IX of the plan to provide for review of indirect sources and a new Chapter XIV which sets forth the control strategy for attaining secondary particulate matter standards on October 16, 1973, by the Governor.

(10) Revisions to 1972 Session Laws, Chapter 347; 1973 Session Laws, Chapter 87, 136, 137, 138, 139, and 143; Chapters 18 and 52, Idaho Code; and the accompanying Attorney General's opinion submitted August 15, 1973, by the Governor.

(11) A new section 4 of Regulation A (General Provisions) and revised Regulation T (Air Pollution Sources Permits) of the Rules and Regulations for the Control of Air Pollution in Idaho (Chapter VII of the plan), an addition to Chapter XI of the plan to include administrative procedures for indirect source review, and compliance schedules submitted on July 1, 1974, by the Governor.

(12) Air quality maintenance area designation submitted on June 11, 1974, by the Idaho Department of Environmental and Community Services.

(13) An amendment to Regulation C (Ambient Air Quality Standards) and Regulation S (Control of Sulfur Oxide Emissions from Combined Lead/Zinc Smelters) of the Rules and Regulations for the Control of Air Pollution in Idaho and revisions to Chapter IV and Appendix F of the Implementation Plan submitted on January 10, 1975, by the Governor.

(14) Revised sections 2 and 6 of Regulation A (General Provisions) of the Rules and Regulations for the Control of Air Pollution in Idaho submitted on January 24, 1975, by the Governor.

(15) Consent Order for Beker Industries submitted on July 28, 1975 by the Governor.

(16) On January 15, 1980 the Governor submitted the transportation portion of the Boise-Ada County carbon monoxide plan.

(17) On July 1, 1980 the Governor submitted a SIP revision containing a variance from the indirect source regulation for an urban renewal project located in downtown Boise, as well as an adjustment to the TCP which had been submitted to EPA in January 1980.

(18) On February 14, 1980 the State of Idaho Department of Health and Welfare submitted a plan revision to meet the requirements of Air Quality Monitoring 40 CFR part 58, subpart C, ยง 58.20.
