
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.726 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Negative Declarations-Stationary Source Categories.

(c)The State of Illinois has certified to the satisfaction of USEPA that no sources are located in the nonattainment areas of the State which are covered by the following Control Technique Guidelines:

(1) High density polyethylene and polypropylene manufacturers.

(2) Vegetable oil processing sources with volatile organic compound emissions equal to or greater than 100 tons per year.

(d) Part D Disapproval-The Administrator finds that Illinois' ozone plan for Cook, Lake, DuPage and Kane Counties, which was required to be submitted by July 1, 1982, does not satisfy all the requirements of Part D, Title I of the Clean Air Act and, thus, is disapproved. No major new stationary source, of major modification of a stationary source, or volatile organic compounds may be constructed in Cook, Lake, DuPage or Kane Counties, unless the construction permit application is complete on or before November 16, 1988. This disapproval does not affect USEPA's approval (or conditional approval) of individual parts of Illinois' ozone plan, and they remain approved.

(e) Disapproval-The Administrator finds that the following State rules have not been demonstrated to be consistent with the reasonably available control technology requirements of section 172 of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, and thus, are disapproved: subpart F, section 215.204(c); subpart F, section 215.206(b); subpart F, section 215.204(j)(4); subpart I; subpart AA; subpart PP; subpart QQ; subpart RR; subpart A, section 215.102; subpart T; subpart H, section 215.245; subpart F, section 215.207; and subpart A, section 215.107, all of title 35; Environmental Protection; subtitle B: Air Pollution; Chapter 1: Pollution Control Board of the Illinois Administrative Code (June 1989).

(f) On September 30, 1992, the State submitted rules regulating volatile organic compound emissions from gasoline dispensing facilities' motor vehicle fuel operations (Stage II vapor recovery rules) in the Chicago ozone nonattainment area. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency Bureau of Air must as part of the program conduct inspections of facilities subject to this rule to ensure compliance with the applicable rules. These inspections will be conducted on an annual basis or an alternative schedule as approved in the USEPA Fiscal Year Inspection Program Plan.

(g) Approval-The Administrator approves the incorporation of the photochemical assessment ambient monitoring system submitted by Illinois on November 4, 1993, into the Illinois State Implementation Plan. This submittal satisfies 40 CFR 58.20(f) which requires the State to provide for the establishment and maintenance of photochemical assessment monitoring stations (PAMS) by November 12, 1993.

(h) Approval-On November 12, 1993, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted an ozone redesignation request and maintenance plan for Jersey County ozone nonattainment area and requested that Jersey County be redesignated to attainment for ozone. The redesignation request and maintenance plan meet the redesignation requirements in section 107(d)(3)(d) of the Act. The redesignation meets the Federal requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act as a revision to the Illinois ozone State Implementation Plan for Jersey County.

(i) The base year (1990) ozone emission inventory requirement of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, has been satisfied for the following Illinois ozone nonattainment areas: the Chicago nonattainment area-Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, Will and McHenry Counties, Aux Sable and Gooselake Townships in Grundy County, and Oswego Township in Kendall County; the Metro-East St. Louis nonattainment area-Madison, Monroe, and St. Clair Counties; and Jersey County.

(j) Approval-On July 14, 1994, Illinois submitted two of three elements required by section 182(d)(1)(A) of the Clean Air Amendments of 1990 to be incorporated as part of the vehicle miles traveled (VMT) State Implementation Plan intended to offset any growth in emissions from a growth in vehicle miles traveled. These elements are the offsetting of growth in emissions attributable to growth in VMT which was due November 15, 1992, and, transportation control measures (TCMs) required as part of Illinois' 15 percent reasonable further progress (RFP) plan which was due November 15, 1993. Illinois satisfied the first requirement by projecting emissions from mobile sources and demonstrating that no increase in emissions would take place. Illinois satisfied the second requirement by submitting the TCMs listed in Table 1 which are now approved into the Illinois SIP.

(k) Approval-EPA is approving the section 182(f) oxides of nitrogen (NO) reasonably available control technology (RACT), new source review (NSR), vehicle inspection/maintenance (I/M), and general conformity exemptions for the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County severe ozone nonattainment area as requested by the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin in a July 13, 1994 submittal. This approval does not cover the exemption of NOtransportation conformity requirements of section 176(c) for this area. Approval of these exemptions is contingent on the results of the final ozone attainment demonstration expected to be submitted in mid-1997. The approval will be modified if the final attainment demonstration demonstrates that NOemission controls are needed in the nonattainment area to attain the ozone standard in the Lake Michigan Ozone Study modeling domain.

(l) Approval-The United States Environmental Protection Agency is approving under section 182(b)(1) of the Clean Air Act the exemption of the Chicago severe, ozone nonattainment area from the build/no-build and less than-1990 interim transportation conformity oxides of nitrogen requirements as requested by the State of Illinois in a June 20, 1995 submittal. In light of the modeling completed thus far and considering the importance of the OTAG process and attainment plan modeling efforts, USEPA grants this NOwaiver on a contingent basis. As the OTAG modeling results and control recommendations are completed in 1996, this information will be incorporated into attainment plans being developed by the LADCO States. When these attainment plans are submitted to USEPA in mid-1997, these new modeling analyses will be reviewed to determine if the NOwaiver should be continued, altered, or removed. USEPA's rulemaking action to reconsider the initial NOwaiver may occur simultaneously with rulemaking action on the attainment plans. The USEPA also reserves the right to require NOemission controls for transportation sources under section 110(a)(2)(D) of the Act if future ozone modeling demonstrates that such controls are needed to achieve the ozone standard in downwind areas. The Chicago severe ozone nonattainment area includes the Counties of Cook, DuPage, Grundy (Aux Sable and Gooselake Townships), Kane, Kendall (Oswego Township), Lake, McHenry, and Will.

(m) [Reserved]

(n) Negative declaration-Shipbuilding and ship repair industry. On October 11, 1996, the State of Illinois certified to the satisfaction of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that no major sources categorized as part of the shipbuilding and ship repair industry are located in the Chicago, Illinois ozone nonattainment area which is comprised of Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, Will Counties and Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships in Grundy County and Oswego Township in Kendall County or the Metro-East, Illinois ozone nonattainment area which is comprised of Madison, Monroe, and St. Clair Counties.

(o) Negative declaration-Aerospace manufacturing and rework industry. On October 11, 1996, the State of Illinois certified to the satisfaction of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that no major sources categorized as part of the Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Industry are located in the Chicago, Illinois ozone nonattainment area which is comprised of Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, Will Counties and Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships in Grundy County and Oswego Township in Kendall County or the Metro-East, Illinois ozone nonattainment area which is comprised of Madison, Monroe, and St. Clair Counties.

(p) Approval-On November 15, 1993, Illinois submitted 15 percent rate-of-progress and 3 percent contingency plans for the Chicago ozone nonattainment area as a requested revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan. These plans satisfy sections 182(b)(1), 172(c)(9), and 182(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990.

(q) Approval-On November 15, 1993, Illinois submitted 15 percent rate-of-progress and 3 percent contingency plans for the Metro-East St. Louis ozone nonattainment area as a requested revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan. These plans satisfy sections 182(b)(1) and 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990.

(r) Approval-On November 15, 1993, Illinois submitted the following transportation control measures as part of the 15 percent rate-of-progress and 3 percent contingency plans for the Metro-East ozone nonattainment area: Work trip reductions; transit improvements; and traffic flow improvements.

(s) On October 10, 1997, Illinois submitted a site-specific revision to the State Implementation Plan, in the form of a letter from Bharat Mathur, Chief, Bureau of Air, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. This October 10, 1997, letter requests a change in regulatory status for Riverside Laboratories, Inc.'s Kane County facility, to reflect that the Federal site-specific rule for Riverside (40 CFR 52.741(e)(10)) has been superseded by the State of Illinois regulations, including the emission limits in 35 Illinois Administrative Code 218.204(c) and the associated control requirements, test methods and recordkeeping requirements in Part 218 and the associated definitions in part 211. These State regulations shall become the federally approved regulations applicable to Riverside on August 31, 1998. The site-specific rule, applicable to Riverside, promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency on August 21, 1995 (40 CFR 52.741(e)(10)), remains in effect and is enforceable after August 31, 1998 for the period before August 31, 1998.

(t) The Illinois volatile organic compound (VOC) rules that apply to the Stepan Company Millsdale Plant for volatile organic liquid storage (35 Ill. Admin. Code Part 218, Subpart B), batch processing (35 Ill. Admin. Code Parts 218 and 219, Subpart V) and continuous reactor and distillation processes (35 Ill. Admin. Code Part 218, Subpart Q) were approved by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) on August 8, 1996, April 2, 1996, and June 17, 1997, respectively. Because these rules have been approved into the State Implementation Plan and represent reasonably available control technology for VOC, USEPA revokes the June 29, 1990 Federal Implementation Plan as it applies to Stepan and replaces it with Illinois' volatile organic liquid storage, batch process, and continuous reactor and distillation process rules.

(u) Negative declaration-Industrial wastewater category. On October 2, 1998, the State of Illinois certified to the satisfaction of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that no major sources categorized as part of the Industrial wastewater category are located in the Metro-East ozone nonattainment area (Metro-East). The Metro-East area is comprised of Madison, Monroe and St. Clair Counties which are located in southwest Illinois, adjacent to St. Louis, Missouri.

(v) Negative declaration-Industrial cleaning solvents category. On October 2, 1998, the State of Illinois certified to the satisfaction of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that no major sources categorized as part of the Industrial cleaning solvents category are located in the Metro-East ozone nonattainment area (Metro-East). The Metro-East area is comprised of Madison, Monroe and St. Clair Counties which are located in southwest Illinois, adjacent to St. Louis, Missouri.
