
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.725 Control strategy: Particulates.

(a) [Reserved]

(b) Part D-Disapproval. (1) U.S. EPA disapproves the provisions of Rule 203(f) which allow the use of an equivalent method without review and approval of that method. Any source subject to Rule 203(f) which chooses to use an equivalent method must have that equivalent method submitted to U.S. EPA and approved as a SIP revision.

(2) U.S. EPA disapproves the following portions of Rule 203(d)(5) which regulate the control of particulate matter from specific sources within the iron and steel industry: Rule 205(d)(5)(B)(ii), Rule 205(d)(5)(B)(iii), Rule 205(d)(5)(D), and Rule 205(d)(5)(K).

(3) USEPA disapproves a proposed SIP revision submitted by the State on May 12, 1982, in the form of a May 18, 1981 Consent Decree (Civil Action 81-3009) to which USEPA, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and National Steel Corporation are parties and a draft Alternative Control Strategy Permit. This submission was modified by the State, September 30, 1982, with the submission of a separate document embodying the elements of the Alternative Control Strategy. This separate document was intended to become an enforceable part of the SIP.

(c) Approval-On September 28, 1988, the State of Illinois submitted a committal SIP for particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter equal to or less than 10 micrometers (PM) for the Illinois Group II areas of concern in DuPage, Will, Rock Island, Macon, Randolph, and St. Clair Counties. The committal SIP contains all the requirements identified in the July 1, 1987, promulgation of the SIP requirements for PMat 52 FR 24681.

(d) Approval-On June 2, 1995, and January 9, 1996, the State of Illinois submitted a maintenance plan for the particulate matter nonattainment portion of LaSalle County, and requested that it be redesignated to attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for particulate matter. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(e) Approval-On March 19, 1996, and October 15, 1996, Illinois submitted requests to redesignate the Granite City Particulate Matter (PM) nonattainment area to attainment status for the PM National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS), as well as a maintenance plan for the Granite City area to ensure continued attainment of the NAAQS. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(f) On November 14, 1995, May 9, 1996, and June 14, 1996, the State of Illinois submitted State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision requests to meet commitments related to the conditional approval of Illinois' May 15, 1992, SIP submittal for the Lake Calumet (SE Chicago), McCook, and Granite City, Illinois, Particulate Matter (PM) nonattainment areas. The EPA is approving the SIP revision request as it applies to the McCook PM nonattainment area. For the McCook PM nonattainment area, all of the deficiencies of the May 15, 1992, submittal have been corrected.

(g) Approval-On May 5, 1992, November 14, 1995, May 9, 1996, June 14, 1996, February 3, 1997, October 16, 1997, October 21, 1997, February 1, 1999, and May 19, 1999, Illinois submitted SIP revision requests to meet the Part D particulate matter (PM) nonattainment plan requirements for the Lake Calumet, Granite City and McCook moderate PM nonattainment areas. The submittals include federally enforceable construction permit, application number 93040047, issued on January 11, 1999, to Acme Steel Company. The part D plans for these areas are approved.

(h) Approval-On August 2, 2005, the State of Illinois submitted a request to redesignate the Lyons Township (McCook), Cook County particulate matter nonattainment area to attainment of the NAAQS for particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to a nominal 10 micrometers (PM-10). In its submittal, the State also requested that EPA approve the maintenance plan for the area into the Illinois PM SIP. The redesignation request and maintenance plan meet the redesignation requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(i) Approval-On August 2, 2005, and as supplemented on September 8, 2005, the State of Illinois submitted a request to redesignate the Lake Calumet (Southeast Chicago), Cook County particulate matter nonattainment area to attainment of the NAAQS for particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to a nominal 10 micrometers (PM-10). In its submittal, the State also requested that EPA approve the maintenance plan for the area into the Illinois PM SIP. The redesignation request and maintenance plan meet the redesignation requirements of the Clean Air Act.
