
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.725 Control strategy: Particulates.
####### Determination of Attainment.

(j)EPA has determined, as of November 27, 2009, that the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, IL-IN PMnonattainment area has attained the 1997 PMNAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, reasonable further progress, contingency measures, and other plan elements related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 PMNAAQS.

(k) Determination of attainment. EPA has determined, as of May 23, 2011, that the St. Louis (MO-IL) metropolitan 1997 PMnonattainment area has attained the 1997 PMNAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, reasonable further progress, contingency measures, and other plan elements related to attainment of the standards for as long as the area continues to meet the 1997 PMNAAQS. In addition, based upon review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA has determined that the St. Louis (MO-IL) PMnonattainment area has attained the 1997 PMNAAQS by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010.

(l) Approval-The 1997 annual PMmaintenance plan for the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, IL-IN nonattainment area (including Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties, Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships in Grundy County, and Oswego Township in Kendall County) has been approved as submitted on October 15, 2010, and supplemented on September 16, 2011, and May 6, 2013. The maintenance plan establishes 2008 and 2025 motor vehicle emissions budgets for this area of 127,951 tons per year for NOand 5,100 tons per year for primary PMin 2008 and 44,224 tons per year for NOand 2,377 tons per year for primary PMin 2025.

(m) Illinois' 2002 NO, primary PM, SO, ammonia, and VOC emission inventories, as submitted on October 15, 2010, and supplemented on May 6, 2013, satisfy the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for the Chicago area.
