
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.726 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Approval

(y)-On December 18, 1997, Illinois submitted Transportation Control Measures (TCMs) as part of the post-1996 Rate Of Progress Plan for the Chicago ozone nonattainment area. The TCMs being approved are listed in the following documents published by the Chicago Area Transportation Study: "Transportation Control Measures Contribution to the Post-1996 Rate-Of-Progress State Implementation Plan," March 22, 1996; "Transportation Control Measures Contribution to the 9 percent Control Strategy State Implementation Plan," June 11, 1998; and "1999 Transportation Control Measures Contribution to the 9 percent Rate of Progress Control Strategy State Implementation Plan," December 9, 1999.

(z) Negative declaration-Industrial cleaning solvents category. On December 23, 1999, the State of Illinois certified to the satisfaction of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that no major sources categorized as part of the industrial cleaning solvents category are located in the Chicago ozone nonattainment area. The Chicago ozone nonattainment area includes Cook County, DuPage County, Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships in Grundy County, Kane County, Oswego Township in Kendall County, Lake County, McHenry County and Will County.

(aa) Negative declaration-Industrial wastewater category. On December 23, 1999, the State of Illinois certified to the satisfaction of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that no major sources categorized as part of the Industrial Wastewater Category are located in the Chicago ozone nonattainment area. The Chicago ozone nonattainment area includes Cook County, DuPage County, Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships in Grundy County, Kane County, Oswego Township in Kendall County, Lake County, McHenry County and Will County.

(bb) Approval-Revisions to the SIP submitted by Illinois on November 15, 1999; February 10, 2000; April 13, 2001; and April 30, 2001. The revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(c)(2)(A) of the Act for the Metro-East St. Louis area. The revision establishes an attainment date of November 15, 2004, for the St. Louis moderate ozone nonattainment area. This revision establishes MVEBs for 2004 of 26.62 TPD of VOC and 35.52 TPD of NOto be used in transportation conformity in the Metro-East St. Louis area until revised budgets pursuant to MOBILE6 are submitted and found adequate. In the revision, Illinois commits to revise its VOC and NOtransportation conformity budgets within two years of the release of MOBILE6. No conformity determinations will be made during the second year following the release of MOBILE6 unless and until the MVEBs have been recalculated using MOBILE6 and found adequate by EPA. EPA is granting a waiver for the Metro East St. Louis area to the state of Illinois from the NORACT requirements of the Act and disapproving the request for a waiver from the NONSR and NOgeneral conformity requirements. EPA is finding that the Contingency Measures identified by Illinois are adequate to meet the requirements of the Act. EPA finds that the Illinois SIP meets the requirements pertaining to RACM under the Act for the Metro-East St. Louis area.

(cc) Approval-Illinois has adopted and USEPA has approved sufficient NOemission regulations to assure that it will achieve the level of NOemissions budgeted for the State by USEPA. USEPA has made two minor budget revisions requested by Illinois, adding a boiler owned by LTV Steel and deleting a boiler owned by the University of Illinois from the inventory of large NOsources.

(dd) Chicago Ozone Attainment Demonstration Approval-On December 26, 2000, Illinois submitted a one-hour ozone attainment demonstration plan as a requested revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan. This plan includes: A modeled demonstration of attainment and associated attainment year conformity emission budgets; a plan to reduce ozone precursor emissions by 3 percent per year from 2000 to 2007 (a post-1999 rate-of-progress plan), and associated conformity emission budgets; a contingency measures plan for both the ozone attainment demonstration and the post-1999 rate-of-progress plan; a commitment to conduct a Mid-Course Review of the ozone attainment demonstration by the end of 2004; a demonstration that Illinois has implemented all reasonably available control measures; and a commitment to revise motor vehicle emission budgets within two years after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency officially releases the MOBILE6 emission factor model.

(ee) Approval of the Maintenance Plan for the Illinois Portion of the St. Louis Area-On December 30, 2002 Illinois submitted Maintenance Plan for the Illinois portion of the St. Louis Nonattainment Area. The plan includes 2014 On-Road Motor Vehicle Emission Budget of 10.13 tons per ozone season weekday of VOCs and 18.72 tons per ozone season weekday NOto be used in transportation conformity.

(ff) Approval-On April 11, 2003, Illinois submitted a revision to the ozone attainment plan for the Chicago severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area. This plan revised the 2005 and 2007 Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) recalculated using the emissions factor model MOBILE6. The approved motor vehicle emissions budgets are 151.11 tons per day VOC for 2005 and 127.42 tons per day VOC and 280.4 tons per day NOfor 2007.

(gg) Approval-On January 30, 2007, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) requested that EPA find that the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana (IL-IN) nonattainment area, attained the revoked 1-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). After review of this submission, EPA approves this finding.
