
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.726 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Approval

(1)-Illinois' 2002 emissions inventory satisfies the emissions inventory requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act for the Illinois portion of the St. Louis, MO-IL area under the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.

(2) Approval-Illinois' 2002 volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides emission inventories satisfy the emissions inventory requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act for the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana area under the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.

(nn) Approval-On July 23, 2009, and September 16, 2011, Illinois submitted a request to redesignate the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana area to attainment of the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. The Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana area includes Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and Will Counties and portions of Grundy (Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships) and Kendall (Oswego Township) Counties. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a plan for maintaining the 1997 8-hour ozone standard through 2025 in the area as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Part of the section 175A maintenance plan includes a contingency plan. The ozone maintenance plan establishes 2008 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana area of 117.23 tons per day (tpd) for volatile organic compounds (VOC) and 373.52 tpd for nitrogen oxides (NO). In addition, the maintenance plan establishes 2025 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana area of 48.13 tpd for VOC and 125.27 tpd for NO.

(oo) Approval-On March 28, 2014, the State of Illinois submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan for the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana area (the Greater Chicago Area). The submittal established new Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) for Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and Oxides of Nitrogen (NO) for the year 2025. The MVEBs for the Illinois portion of the Greater Chicago Area are: 60.13 tons/day of VOC emissions and 150.27 tons/day of NOemissions for the year 2025.

(pp) On September 3, 2014, Illinois submitted 2011 volatile organic compounds and oxides of nitrogen emission inventories for the Illinois portions of the Chicago-Naperville, Illinois-Indiana-Wisconsin and St. Louis, Missouri-Illinois nonattainment areas for the 2008 ozone national ambient air quality standard as a revision of the Illinois state implementation plan. The emission inventories are approved as a revision of the state's implementation plan.
