
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### 2

() When the method is to be used to determine the efficiency of a carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each adsorber vessel, each adsorber vessel shall be tested individually. The test for each adsorber vessel shall consist of three separate runs. Each run shall coincide with one or more complete adsorption cycles.

(B) 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 1 or 1A shall be used for sample and velocity traverses.

(C) 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 2, 2A, 2C or 2D shall be used for velocity and volumetric flow rates.

(D) 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 3 shall be used for gas analysis.

(E) 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 4 shall be used for stack gas moisture.

(F) 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Methods 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 3 and 4 shall be performed, as applicable, at least twice during each test run.

(G) Use of an adaptation to any of the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(vi) (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), and (F) of this section may be approved by the Administrator on a case-by-case basis. An owner or operator must submit sufficient documentation for the Administrator to find that the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(vi) (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), and (F) of this section will yield inaccurate results and that the proposed adaptation is appropriate.
