
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Compliance schedule.

(2)Every owner or operator of an emission source which was previously exempt from the requirements of subpart E (sections 215.182-215.184) of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 215 (incorporated by reference as specified in 40 CFR 52.742) because it satisfied the criteria in either (d)(a)(i) or (d)(2)(ii) of this section, shall comply with the requirements of subpart E (sections 215.182-215.184) of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 215 (incorporated by reference as specified in 40 CFR 52.742) on and after July 1, 1991. A source which did not satisfy the criteria in either (d)(a)(i) or (d)(2)(ii) of this section, shall comply with the requirements of subpart E (sections 215.182-215.184) of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 215 (incorporated by reference as specified in 40 CFR 52.742) upon promulgation.

(i) If emissions of VOM exceed neither 6.8 kg (15 lbs) in any one day, nor 1.4 kg (3 lbs) in any one hour, or

(ii) If the source is used exclusively for chemical or physical analysis or for determination of product quality and commercial acceptance, provided that the operation of the source is not an integral part of the production process, the emissions of VOM from the source do not exceed 363 kg (800 lbs) in any calendar month, and the exemption had been approved in writing by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
