
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Coating operations,Emission limitations for manufacturing plants.

(e)-(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, no owner or operator of a coating line shall apply at any time any coating in which the VOM content exceeds the following emission limitations for the specified coating. The following emission limitations are expressed in units of VOM per volume of coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied at each coating applicator, except where noted. Compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM should be treated as water for the purpose of calculating the "less water" part of the coating composition. Compliance with this paragraph must be demonstrated through the applicable coating analysis test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section. As an alternative to compliance with this paragraph, the owner or operator of a coating line may meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) or paragraph (e)(2) of this section. The equation presented in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section shall be used to calculate emission limitations for determining compliance by add-on controls, credits for transfer efficiency, emissions trades and cross-line averaging.
