
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Compliance schedule.

(5)Except as specified in paragraph (e)(7) of this section, every owner or operator of a coating line (of a type included within paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section) shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (e)(1),(e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section and paragraph (e)(6) of this section in accordance with the appropriate compliance schedule as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(i),(ii),(iii) or (iv) of this section.

(i) No owner or operator of a coating line which is exempt from the limitations of paragraph (e)(1) of this section because of the criteria in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section shall operate said coating line on or after July 1, 1991, unless the owner or operator has complied with, and continues to comply with, paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section. Wood furniture coating lines are not subject to paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section.

(ii) No owner or operator of a coating line complying by means of paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section shall operate said coating line on or after July 1, 1991, unless the owner or operator has complied with, and continues to comply with, paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(6)(ii) of this section.

(iii) No owner or operator of a coating line complying by means of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section shall operate said coating line on or after July 1, 1991, unless the owner or operator has complied with, and continues to comply with, paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) and (e)(6)(iii) of this section.

(iv) No owner or operator of a coating line complying by means of paragraph (e)(2) of this section shall operate said coating line on or after July 1, 1991, unless the owner or operator has complied with, and continues to comply with, paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(6)(iv) of this section.
