
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Compliance schedule for diesel electric locomotive coatings.,2,3

(7)Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, the compliance date for the emission limitations and standards for "topcoat" and "final repair coat" operations only as applied to General Motors Corporation at their diesel electric locomotive coating lines in Cook County, Illinois, codified at 40 CFR 52.741(e)(1)(i)(M) () and () is specified in this paragraph (e)(7). Compliance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(1), (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section and paragraph (e)(6) of this section must be in accordance with the appropriate compliance schedule as specified in paragraph (e)(7)(i),(ii),(iii), or (iv) of this section.

(i) No owner or operator of a coating line which is exempt from the limitations of paragraph (e)(1) of this section because of the criteria in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section shall operate said coating line on or after March 25, 1995, unless the owner or operator has complied with, and continues to comply with, paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section.

(ii) No owner or operator of a coating line complying by means of paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section shall operate said coating line on or after March 25, 1995, unless the owner or operator has complied with, and continues to comply with, paragraph (e)(1)(i) and (e)(6)(ii) of this section.

(iii) No owner or operator of a coating line complying by means of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section shall operate said coating line on or after March 25, 1995, unless the owner or operator has complied with, and continues to comply with, paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) and (e)(6)(iii) of this section.

(iv) No owner or operator of a coating line complying by means of paragraph (e)(2) of this section shall operate said coating line on or after March 25, 1995, unless the owner or operator has complied with, and continues to comply with, paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(6)(iv) of this section.

(8) The control requirements in this paragraph apply to the wood coating line, which coats wooden globe stand components, at Replogle Globes, Inc. (Replogle) Broadview facility in Cook County, Illinois, instead of the control requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section. Compliance with this paragraph must be demonstrated through the applicable coating analysis test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section.

(i) After October 6, 1991, no coatings shall at any time be applied which exceed the following emission limitations for the specified coating.

(A) 6.59 pounds (lbs) Volatile Organic Material (VOM) per gallon of stain (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied to coat wooden globe stand components. Such stain consists of #9250 Walnut NGR Stain (RGI # W06000100), #9974 Cherry NGR Stain (RGI # W06003500) and #9943 Ash NGR Stain (RGI # W06003600). The Administrator must be notified at least ten (10) days prior to the use of any replacement stains.

(B) 5.53 lbs VOM per gallon of Sanding Sealer (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied to coat wooden globe stand components. Such sealer consists of #15304 High Build Sanding Sealer (RGI # W06003700). The Administrator must be notified at least ten (10) days prior to the use of any replacement sanding sealer.

(C) 5.20 lbs VOM per gallon of lacquer (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied to coat wooden globe stand components. Such lacquer consists of #15352 High Build Lacquer (RGI # W06003300). The Administrator shall be notified at least ten (10) days prior to the use of any replacement lacquer.

(ii) After October 6, 1991, the volume of coatings used shall not exceed the following:

(A) 5,000 gallons per year total for all coatings specified in paragraph (e)(8)(i)(A) of this section. The yearly volume of coatings used are to be calculated as follows:
