
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Applicability.

(2)(i) The limitations of paragraph (h)(1) of this section apply to all flexographic and rotogravure printing lines at a subject facility. All facilities with flexographic and/or rotogravure printing lines are subject facilities unless:

(A) Total maximum theoretical emissions of VOM from all flexographic and rotogravure printing line(s) at the facility never exceed 90.7 Mg (100 tons) per calendar year before the application of capture systems and control devices, or

(B) A federally enforceable construction permit or SIP or FIP revision for all flexographic and rotogravure printing line(s) at a facility requires the owner or operator to limit production or capacity of these printing line(s) to reduce total VOM emissions from all flexographic and rotogravure printing line(s) to 90.7 Mg (100 tons) or less per calendar year before the application of capture systems and control devices.

(ii) Upon achieving compliance with paragraph (h) of this section, the emission source is not required to meet subpart K (sections 215.301 or 215.302) of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 215 (incorporated by reference as specified in 40 CFR 52.742). Emission sources exempt from paragraph (h) of this section are subject to subpart K (sections 215.301 or 215.302). Rotogravure or flexographic equipment used for both roll printing and paper coating are subject to paragraph (h) of this section.

(iii) Once subject to the limitations of paragraph (h)(1) of this section, a flexographic or rotogravure printing line is always subject to the limitations of paragraph (h)(1) of this section.

(iv) Any owner or operator of any flexographic or rotogravure printing line that is exempt from the limitations of paragraph (h)(1) of this section because of the criteria in paragraph (h)(2) of this section is subject to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section.
