
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### 2

() By the 15th of each month, add the monthly coating use for the 12 previous months (to obtain the yearly volume of coatings used).

(B) 4,000 gallons per year total for all coatings specified in paragraph (e)(8)(i)(B) of this section. The yearly volume of the coatings used are to be calculated as specified in paragraphs (e)(8)(ii)(A)(1) and (e)(8)(ii)(A)(2) of this section.

(C) 5,000 gallons per year total for all coatings specified in paragraph (e)(8)(i)(C) of this section. The yearly volume of coatings used are to be calculated as specified in paragraphs (e)(8)(ii)(A)(1) and (e)(8)(ii)(A)(2) of this section.

(iii) Beginning on October 6, 1991, the owner and operator of the Replogle Globes, Inc. plant in Broadview, Illinois shall keep the following records for each month. All records shall be retained at Replogle Globes, Inc. for three (3) years and shall be made available to the Administrator on request.

(A) the name and identification number of each coating as applied on any wood coating line.

(B) The weight of VOM per volume (determined in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section) and the volume of each coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied each month on any wood coating line.

(9) [Reserved]

(10) Until December 31, 1996, the control and recordkeeping requirements in this paragraph apply to the three solvent-based polyester paper coating lines (Lines C, D and E) at Riverside Laboratories' Kane County, Illinois facility, instead of the control requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section and the recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (e)(6) of this section. Compliance with this paragraph must be demonstrated through the applicable coating analysis test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section. The requirements in paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), and (e)(6) of this section shall apply to Riverside on and after December 31, 1996.

(i) After December 21, 1995, no coatings shall at any time be applied on Lines C, D or E which exceed 3.5 pounds (lbs.) volatile organic material (VOM) per gallon of coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM), except as provided in paragraph (e)(10)(ii) of this section.

(ii) After December 21, 1995, the following specifically identified coatings may exceed 3.5 lbs. VOM per gallon of coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) only if they are applied on Line E and they do not exceed the limits indicated below (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM):

(iii) That portion of Riverside's polyester production which is manufactured with the use of any VOC, from Lines C, D, and E, may not exceed the following levels: 35 million square feet per year during and after 1992, 29 million square feet per year during and after 1994, and 25 million square feet during 1996. Compliance with this requirement shall be determined by adding the polyester production from any 12 consecutive months during and after the years indicated, through 1996. That is, the polyester production for any 12 consecutive months starting with January 1992 cannot exceed 35 million square feet; the polyester production from any 12 consecutive months starting with January 1994 cannot exceed 29 million square feet; and the polyester production for the twelve months from January through December 1996 cannot exceed 25 million square feet. Only those square feet of polyester whose production involves the use of VOC need to be restricted by the production levels in this paragraph (e)(10)(iii) of this section.

(iv) By December 21, 1995, Riverside shall certify to the Administrator that its polyester coating operations will be in compliance with paragraphs (e)(10)(i), (e)(10)(ii), and (e)(10)(iii) of this section. Such certification shall include the following:

(A) The name and identification number of each coating as applied on coating lines C, D and E.

(B) The weight of VOM per volume of each coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied on each coating line.

(v) The Administrator must be notified at least 10 days prior to the use of any polyester coating not previously identified pursuant to paragraph (e)(10)(iv) of this section. This notification must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(10)(iv)(A) and (e)(10)(iv)(B) of this section.

(vi) On and after December 21, 1995, Riverside shall collect and record all of the following information each day for each coating and maintain the information at the facility for a period of 3 years:

(A) The name and identification number of each coating as applied.

(B) The weight of VOM per volume of each coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied each day.

(C) Any record showing a VOM content in excess of the emission limits in paragraph (e)(10)(i) or (e)(10)(ii) of this section shall be reported by sending a copy of such record to the Administrator within 30 days following its collection.

(D) Any VOM besides acetone used in any coating must be identified.

(vii) Starting with the first full month after December 21, 1995, Riverside shall collect and record the figures on polyester production (in square feet), for each month and maintain the information at the facility for a period of at least 3 years.

(viii) Regardless of any other provision of paragraph (e)(10) of this section, after August 21, 1995 no coating which contains any VOM other than acetone shall at any time be applied on Line C, D, or E which exceeds 2.9 lbs. VOM per gallon of coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM).

(f)-(g) [Reserved]
