
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Petroleum refining and related industries: asphalt materials,Monitoring program for leaks.

(j)-(1)(i) The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery subject to subpart R (section 215.445) of Ill. Adm. Code 215 (incorporated by reference as specified in 40 CFR 52.742) shall, for the purpose of detecting leaks, conduct a component monitoring program consistent with the following provisions:

(A) Test once between March 1 and June 1 of each year, by methods referenced in paragraph (a)(4)(vii) of this section, all pump seals, pipeline valves in liquid service and process drains.

(B) Test once each quarter of each calendar year, by methods referenced in paragraph (a)(4)(vii) of this section, all pressure relief valves in gaseous service, pipeline valves in gaseous service and compressor seals.

(C) Inaccessible valves may be tested once each calendar year instead of once each quarter of each calendar year.

(D) Observe visually all pump seals weekly.

(E) Test immediately any pump seal from which liquids are observed dripping,

(F) Test any relief valve within 24 hours after it has vented to the atmosphere, and

(G) Test immediately after repair any component that was found leaking.

(ii) Storage tank valves and pressure relief devices connected to an operating flare header or vapor recovery device are exempt from the monitoring requirements in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section.

(iii) The Administrator may require more frequent monitoring than would otherwise be required by paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section for components which are demonstrated to have a history of leaking.
