
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Leaks from synthetic organic chemical and polymer manufacturing equipment,Inspection program for leaks.

(i)-(1)The owner or operator of a synthetic organic chemical or polymer manufacturing plant subject to paragraph (i) and subpart Q (sections 215.430, 215.431, 215.433, 215.434, 215.435, and 215.437) of Ill. Adm. Code 215 (incorporated by reference as specified in 40 CFR 52.742) shall, for the purposes of detecting leaks, conduct a component inspection program using the test methods specified in Method 21, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, consistent with the following provisions:

(i) Test annually those components operated near extreme temperature or pressure such that they would be unsafe to routinely monitor and those components which would require the elevation of monitoring personnel higher than two meters above permanent worker access structures or surfaces.

(ii) Test quarterly all other pressure relief valves in gas service, pumps in light liquid service, valves in light liquid service and in gas service, and compressors.

(iii) If less than or equal to 2 percent of the valves in light liquid service and in gas service tested pursuant to paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section are found not to leak for five consecutive quarters, no leak tests shall be required for three consecutive quarters. Thereafter, leak tests shall resume for the next quarter. If that test shows less than or equal to 2 percent of the valves in light liquid service and in gas service are leaking, then no tests are required for the next three quarters. If more than 2 percent are leaking, then tests are required for the next five quarters.

(iv) Observe visually all pump seals weekly.

(v) Test immediately any pump seal from which liquids are observed dripping.

(vi) Test any relief valve within 24 hours after it has vented to the atmosphere.

(vii) Routine instrument monitoring of valves which are not externally regulated, flanges, and equipment in heavy liquid service, is not required. However, any valve which is not externally regulated, flange or piece of equipment in heavy liquid service that is found to be leaking on the basis of sight, smell or sound shall be repaired as soon as practicable but no later than 30 days after the leak is found.

(viii) Test immediately after repair any component that was found leaking.

(ix) Within one hour of its detection, a weatherproof, readily visible tag, in bright colors such as red or yellow, bearing an identification number and the date on which the leak was detected must be affixed on the leaking component and remain in place until the leaking component is repaired.

(x) The following components are exempt from the monitoring requirements in paragraph (i)(1) of this section:

(A) Any component that is in vacuum service, and

(B) Any pressure relief valve that is connected to an operating flare header or vapor recovery device.
