
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Compliance schedule.

(iv)Every owner or operator of a heatset-web-offset lithographic printing line shall comply with the applicable requirements of paragraphs (h)(5) (ii) and (iii) of this section in accordance with the applicable compliance schedule specified in paragraph (h)(5)(iv) (A), (B) or (C) of this section.

(A) No owner or operator of a heatset-web-offset lithographic printing line which is exempt from the limitations of paragraph (h)(5)(ii) of this section because of the criteria in paragraph (h)(5)(i) of this section shall operate said printing line on or after July 1, 1991, unless the owner or operator has complied with, and continues to comply with, paragraphs (h)(5)(iii)(A) and (h)(5)(ii)(A) of this section.

(B) No owner or operator of a heatset-web-offset lithographic printing line complying by means of paragraph (h)(5)(ii)(A) of this section shall operate said printing line on or after July 1, 1991, unless the owner or operator has complied with, and continues to comply with, paragraphs (h)(5)(iii)(B) and (h)(5)(ii)(B) of this section.

(C) No owner or operator of a heatset-web-offset lithographic printing line complying by means of paragraph (h)(5)(ii)(B) of this section shall operate said printing line on or after July 1, 1991, unless the owner or operator has complied with, and continues to comply with, paragraph (h)(5)(iii)(C) of this section.

(6) The control and recordkeeping and reporting requirements, as well as the test methods in this paragraph, apply to the rotogravure and flexographic presses at General Packaging Products, Inc.'s (GPP) plant in Chicago, Illinois, instead of the requirements in 40 CFR 52.741(h)(1) through 40 CFR 52.741(h)(5).

(i) After July 1, 1992, no inks or other volatile organic material (VOM) containing materials shall at any time be applied or used which have a higher percent VOM by weight than the following:

(A) 8 percent VOM by weight for waterbased inks as applied on GPP's presses.

(B) 82 percent VOM by weight for solvent based inks as applied on GPP's presses.

(C) 100 percent VOM by weight for all other VOM containing materials (besides inks) as used on GPP's presses.

(ii) After July 1, 1992, the weight of ink and other VOM containing materials used shall not exceed the following:

(A) 200,000 pounds per year total for all waterbased inks, as applied (including dilution material). The yearly weight of waterbased inks used is to be calculated according to the procedure in paragraph (h)(6)(iii) of this section.

(B) 100,008 pounds per year total for all solvent based inks, as applied (including dilution material). The yearly weight of solvent based inks used is to be calculated according to the procedure in paragraph (h)(6)(iii) of this section.

(C) 100,000 pounds per year total (based upon the formulation of the material as it is used on the presses) for all other VOM containing materials (besides inks). The yearly weight of other VOM containing materials is to be calculated according to the procedure in paragraph (h)(6)(iii) of this section.

(iii) The yearly weight of ink/material used is to be calculated as follows:

(A) Compute the weight of ink/material used each month by the 15th of the following month.

(B) By the 15th of each month, add the monthly ink/material usage for the 12 previous months (to obtain the yearly weight of ink/material used).

(iv) Beginning on July 1, 1992, the owner and operator of GPP's plant in Chicago, Illinois, shall keep the following records for each month. All records shall be retained at GPP for 3 years and shall be made available to the Administrator on request:

(A) The name and identification number of each waterbased ink, each solvent based ink, and each other VOM containing material as applied or used on any press.

(B) The pounds of waterbased ink as applied on all presses for each month and the percent VOM by weight for each waterbased ink as applied on any press for each month.

(C) The pounds of solvent based ink as applied on all presses for each month and the percent VOM by weight for each solvent based ink as applied on any press for each month.

(D) The pounds of other (non-ink) VOM containing material used on all presses for each month and the percent VOM by weight for each (non-ink) VOM containing material as used on any press for each month.

(v) Any record showing a violation of paragraph (h)(6)(i) or (h)(6)(ii) of this section shall be reported by sending a copy of such record to the Administrator within 30 days of the violation.

(vi) To determine compliance with paragraphs (h)(6)(i) and (h)(6)(ii) of this section and to establish the records required under paragraph (h)(6)(iv) of this section the percent VOM by weight of each ink and other VOM containing material shall be determined by the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
