
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Pharmaceutical manufacturing,Applicability.

(m)-(1)(i) The rules of paragraph (m) of this section, except for paragraphs (m)(4) through (m)(6) of this section, apply to all emission sources of VOM, including but not limited to reactors, distillation units, dryers, storage tanks for VOL, equipment for the transfer of VOL, filters, crystallizers, washers, laboratory hoods, pharmaceutical coating operations, mixing operations and centrifuges used in manufacturing, including packaging, of pharmaceuticals, and emitting more than 6.8 kg/day (15 lbs/day) and more than 2,268 kg/year (2.5 tons/year) of VOM. If an emission source emits less than 2,268 kg/year (2.5 tons/year) of VOM, the requirements of this paragraph still apply to the emission source if VOM emissions from the emission source exceed 45.4 kg/day (100 lbs/day).

(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (m)(1)(i) of this section, the air suspension coater/dryer, fluid bed dryers, tunnel dryers, and Accelacotas located in Libertyville Township, Lake County, Illinois shall be exempt from the rules of paragraph (m) of this section, except for paragraphs (m)(4) through (m)(6) of this section, if emissions of VOM not vented to air pollution control equipment do not exceed the following levels:

(A) For the air suspension coater/dryer: 2,268 kg/year (2.5 tons/year);

(B) For each fluid bed dryer: 4,535 kg/year (5.0 tons/year);

(C) For each tunnel dryer: 6,803 kg/year (7.5 tons/year); and

(D) For each Accelacota: 6,803 kg/year (7.5 tons/year).

(iii) Paragraphs (m)(4) through (m)(6) of this section apply to a plant having one or more emission sources that:

(A) Are used to manufacture pharmaceuticals, and

(B) Emit more than 6.8 kg/day (15 lbs/day) of VOM and more than 2,268 kg/year (2.5 tons/year) of VOM, or, if less than 2,268 kg/year (2.5 tons/year), these paragraphs still apply if emissions from one or more sources exceed 45.4 kg/day (100 lbs/day).

(iv) No owner or operator shall violate any condition in a permit when the condition results in exclusion of an emission source from paragraph (m) of this section.

(v) Any pharmaceutical manufacturing source that becomes subject to the provisions of paragraph (m) of this section at any time shall remain subject to the provisions of paragraph (m) of this section at all times.

(vi) Emissions subject to paragraph (m) of this section shall be controlled at all times consistent with the requirements set forth in paragraph (m) of this section.

(vii) Control devices required pursuant to paragraph (m) of this section shall be operated at all times when the source it is controlling is operated.

(viii) Determinations of daily and annual emissions for purposes of paragraph (m)(1) of this section shall be made using both data on the hourly emission rate (or the emissions per unit of throughput) and appropriate daily and annual data from records of emission source operation (or material throughput or material consumption data). In the absence of representative test data pursuant to paragraph (m)(8) of this section for the hourly emission rate (or the emissions per unit of throughput), such items shall be calculated using engineering calculations, including the methods described in appendix B of "Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Manufacturing of Synthesized Pharmaceutical Products" (EPA-450/2-78-029). (This subparagraph shall not affect the Administrator's authority to require emission tests to be performed pursuant to paragraph (m)(8) of this section.)
