
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Leaks.

(7)The owner or operator of a paint or ink manufacturing plant shall, for the purpose of detecting leaks, conduct an equipment monitoring program as set forth below:

(i) Each pump shall be checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of leaks, that is, liquids dripping from the pump seal. If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal, the pump shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected.

(ii) Any pump, valve, pressure relief valve, sampling connection, open-ended valve and flange or connector containing a fluid which is at least 10 percent VOM by weight which appears to be leaking on the basis of sight, smell or sound shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected.

(iii) A weather proof, readily visible tag, in bright colors such as red or yellow, bearing an identification number and the date on which the leak was detected shall be attached to leaking equipment. The tag may be removed upon repair, that is, when the equipment is adjusted or otherwise altered to allow operation without leaking.

(iv) When a leak is detected, the owner or operator shall record the date of detection and repair and the record shall be retained at the plant for at least two years from the date of each detection or each repair attempt. The record shall be made available to any person upon verbal or written request during business hours.
