
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Testing.

(5)Any owner or operator of a VOM emission source which is subject to paragraph (u) of this section shall demonstrate compliance with paragraph (u)(3) of this section by using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(6) The control requirements in this paragraph apply to the adhesive globe coating operations at Replogle's Broadview facility in Cook County, Illinois, instead of the control requirements in paragraph (u)(3) of this section.

(i) After October 6, 1991, no coatings shall at any time be applied which exceed the following emission limitations for the specified coating.

(A) 7.0 lbs VOM per gallon of adhesive coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied to coat globes. Such coating consists of #7879446 Methylene Chloride (RGI #01004100). The Administrator shall be notified at least ten (10) days prior to the use of any replacement adhesive for coating globes.

(B) [Reserved]

(ii) After October 6, 1991, the volume of coatings used shall not exceed the following:

(A) 572 gallons per year total for all coatings specified in paragraph (u)(6)(i)(A) of this section. The yearly volume of coatings used are to be calculated as follows:
