
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Miscellaneous fabricated product manufacturing processes,Applicability.

(u)-(1)(i) The requirements of paragraph (u) of this section shall apply to a plant's miscellaneous fabricated product manufacturing process emission sources which are not included within any of the source categories specified in subparts (B), (Q) (excluding sections 215.432 and 215.436), (R) (excluding sections 215.447, 215.450, and 215.452), (S), (V), (X), (Y) (sections 215.582, 215.583, and 215.584), or (Z) of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 215 (incorporated by reference as specified in 40 CFR 52.742), or specified in paragraph (d), (e), (h), (i), (j), or (q)(1) of this section; if the plant is subject to paragraph (u) of this section. A plant is subject to paragraph (u) of this section if it contains process emission sources, not regulated by subparts (B), (Q) (excluding sections 215.432 and 215.436), (R) (excluding sections 215.447, 215.450, and 215.452), (S), (V), (X), (Y) (sections 215.582, 215.583, 215.584), or (Z) of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 215 (incorporated by reference as specified in 40 CFR 52.742), or by paragraph (d), (e) (excluding paragraph (e)(1)(i)(L)), (h) (excluding paragraph (h)(5)), (i), (j), or (q)(1) of this section; which as a group both:

(A) Have maximum theoretical emissions of 91 Mg (100 tons) or more per calendar year of VOM if no air pollution control equipment were used, and

(B) Are not limited to less than 91 Mg (100 tons) of VOM emissions per calendar year in the absence of air pollution control equipment, through production or capacity limitations contained in a federally enforceable construction permit or a SIP or FIP revision.

(ii) If a plant ceases to fulfill the criteria of paragraph (u)(1)(i) of this section, the requirements of paragraph (u) of this section shall continue to apply to a miscellaneous fabricated products manufacturing process emission source which was ever subject to the control requirements of paragraph (u)(3) of this section.

(iii) No limits under paragraph (u) of this section shall apply to emission sources with emissions of VOM to the atmosphere less than or equal to 0.91 Mg (1.0 ton) per calendar year if the total emissions from such sources not complying with paragraph (u)(3) of this section does not exceed 4.5 Mg (5.0 tons) per calendar year.

(iv) For the purposes of paragraph (u) of this section, an emission source shall be considered regulated by a subpart (of the Illinois rules) or paragraph if it is subject to the limits of that subpart (of the Illinois rules) or paragraph. An emission source is not considered regulated by a subpart (of the Illinois rules) or paragraph if its emissions are below the applicability cutoff level or if the source is covered by an exemption.

(v) For the purposes of paragraph (u) of this section, uncontrolled VOM emissions are the emissions of VOM which would result if no air pollution control equipment were used.
