
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### 2

() By the 15th of each month, add the monthly coating use for the 12 previous months (to obtain the yearly volume of coatings used).

(B) [Reserved]

(iii) Beginning on October 6, 1991, the owner and operator of the Replogle Globes, Inc. plant in Broadview, Illinois shall keep the following records for each month. All records shall be retained at Replogle Globes, Inc. for three (3) years and shall be made available to the Administrator on request:

(A) The name and identification number of each coating as applied on any adhesive globe coating line.

(B) The weight of VOM per volume and the volume of each coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied each month on any adhesive globe coating line.

(7) The control requirements in this paragraph apply to the glass candle container coating line(s) and silk screening machines at the Candle Corporation of America (CCA), Chicago, Illinois facility, instead of the control requirements in paragraph (u)(3) of this section.

(i) After June 1, 1992, no coatings or inks shall at any time be applied, at any coating or ink applicator, which exceed the following emission limitations for the specified coating or ink.

(A) 6.04 pounds (lbs) volatile organic material (VOM) per gallon of clear lacquer/varnish (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied to coat glass candle containers. Such clear lacquer/varnish (multi-color) is identified as LP3500. The Administrator must be notified at least 10 days prior to the use of any replacement clear lacquers/varnishes.

(B) 5.23 lbs VOM per gallon of translucent coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied to coat glass candle containers. Such translucent coating (multi-color) is identified as LP3603. The Administrator must be notified at least 10 days prior to the use of any replacement translucent coatings.

(C) 5.84 lbs VOM per gallon of white lacquer (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied to coat glass candle containers. Such white lacquer is identified as LP3507. The Administrator must be notified at least 10 days prior to the use of any replacement white lacquers.

(D) 3.40 lbs VOM per gallon of fast dry enamel silk screen printing ink (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied to print onto glass candle containers.

(ii) After June 1, 1992, the volume of coating and ink used shall not exceed the following:

(A) 2,164 gallons per month total for all coatings specified in paragraph (u)(7)(i)(A) of this section.

(B) 369 gallons per month total for all coatings specified in paragraph (u)(7)(i)(B) of this section.

(C) 49 gallons per month total for all coatings specified in paragraph (u)(7)(i)(C) of this section.

(D) 50 gallons per month total for all inks specified in paragraph (u)(7)(i)(D) of this Section.

(iii) Beginning on June 1, 1992, the owner and operator of CCA's plant in Chicago, Illinois, shall keep the following records for each month. All records shall be retained at CCA for 3 years and shall be made available to the Administrator on request.

(A) The name and identification number of each coating and ink as applied on any glass candle container coating line or silk screening machine.

(B) The weight of VOM per volume and the volume of each coating and ink (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied each month on any glass candle container coating line or silk screening machine.

(iv) After June 1, 1992, no more than 100 gallons per month of cleaning solvent is allowed to be used on the glass candle container coating line(s) at CCA. The only cleaning solvents allowed for use are acetone (identified as LP3525) and methyl ethyl ketone (identified as LP3520). Beginning on June 1, 1992, CCA shall keep monthly records of the type and volume of all cleaning solvents used. All such records shall be retained at CCA for 3 years and shall be made available to the Administrator on request.

(v) After June 1, 1992, no more than 50 gallons per month of cleaning solvent is allowed to be used on the glass candle container silk screening machines at CCA. The only cleaning solvent allowed for use is petroleum naphtha (identified as light aromatic naphtha with 7.28 lbs VOM per gallon, minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM). Beginning on June 1, 1992, CCA shall keep monthly records of the type and volume and the weight of VOM per volume (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) of all cleaning solvents used on the glass candle container silk screening machines. All such records shall be retained at CCA for 3 years and shall be made available to the Administrator on request.

(8) The control, recordkeeping and reporting requirements in this paragraph apply to the cellulose food casing manufacturing operations at the Viskase Corporation plant in Bedford Park, Illinois (Cook County) instead of the requirements in paragraph (v) of this section, the other parts of paragraph (u) of this section, and the recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (y) of this section. Unless otherwise stated, the following requirements must be met by Viskase on and after November 21, 1995.

(i) VOM emissions shall never exceed 3.30 tons per day.

(ii) VOM emissions shall not exceed 2.22 tons per day, on a monthly average, during June, July, and August.

(iii) VOM emissions shall not exceed 2.44 tons per day during June, July, and August.

(iv) Compliance with the emission limits in paragraphs (u)(8) (i) through (iii) of this section, and the records in paragraph (u)(8)(v) of this section, shall be determined using an emission factor of "0.72 pounds of VOM emissions per pound of carbon disulfide consumed."

(v) Viskase must keep the following daily records:

(A) The pounds of carbon disulfide per charge for its Fibrous process. If charges with different levels of carbon disulfide per charge are used the same day, a separate record must be kept for each level of carbon disulfide per charge.

(B) The pounds of carbon disulfide per charge for its NOJAX process. If charges with different levels of carbon disulfide per charge are used the same day, a separate record must be kept for each level of carbon disulfide per charge.

(C) The number of charges per day, for each level of carbon disulfide per charge, used in Viskase's Fibrous process.

(D) The number of charges per day, for each level of carbon disulfide per charge, used in Viskase's NOJAX process.

(E) The total quantity of carbon disulfide used per day in Viskase's Fibrous process, the total quantity of carbon disulfide used per day in Viskase's NOJAX process, and the daily VOM emissions resulting from use of the carbon disulfide.

(F) The monthly use of carbon disulfide, and the monthly VOM emissions resulting from use of the carbon disulfide, during June, July, and August.

(vi) Any violation of the emission limits in paragraphs (u)(8) (i) through (iii) of this section must be reported to USEPA within 30 days of its occurrence.

(vii) In order to determine daily and monthly VOM emissions, the test methods in paragraph (a)(4) of this section may be used in addition to, and take precedence over, the emission factor cited in paragraph (u)(8)(iv) of this section. Method 15 is to be used instead of Methods 18, 25, and 25A when the test methods in paragraph (a)(4) of this section are used to determine VOM emissions from Viskase's cellulose food casing facility.
