
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### Testing.

(5)Any owner or operator of a VOM emission source which is subject to paragraph (x) of this section shall demonstrate compliance with paragraph (x)(3) of this section by using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(6) The control requirements in this paragraph apply to the varnish operations at the General Motors Corporation, Electro-Motive Division Plant (GMC Electro-Motive), LaGrange, Illinois, instead of the control requirements in paragraph (x)(3) of this section.

(i) After July 1, 1991, no coatings shall at any time be applied which exceed the following emission limitations for the specified coating.

(A) 8.0 lbs VOM per gallon of coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied at each coating applicator to coat Nomex rings. Such coating consists of Monsanto Skybond 705 Polyamide Resin (EMD P/N 9088817) and diluents. The Administrator must be notified at least 10 days prior to the use of any replacement coating(s) and/or diluents for coating Nomex rings.

(B) 6.8 lbs VOM per gallon of coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied at each coating applicator for any coatings not specified in paragraph (x)(6)(i)(A) of this section.

(ii) After July 1, 1991, the volume of coatings used shall not exceed the following:

(A) 600 gallons per year total for all coatings specified in paragraph (x)(6)(i)(A) of this section. The yearly volume of coatings used are to be calculated as follows:

(1) Compute the volume of specified coating used each month by the 15th of the following month.

(2) By the 15th of each month, add the monthly coating use for the 12 previous months (to obtain the yearly volume of coatings used).

(B) 28,500 gallons per year total for all coatings other than those specified in paragraph (x)(6)(i)(A) of this section. The yearly volume of coatings used are to be calculated as specified in paragraphs (x)(6)(ii)(A)(1) and (x)(6)(ii)(A)(2) of this section.

(iii) Beginning on July 1, 1991, the owner and operator of the General Motors Corporation Electro-Motive Division Plant in LaGrange, Illinois shall keep the following records for each month. All records shall be retained at General Motors for 3 years and shall be made available to the Administrator on request.

(A) The name and identification number of each coating as applied on any coating line within the varnish operation.

(B) The weight of VOM per volume and the volume of each coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied each month on any coating line within the varnish operation.

(7) The control, recordkeeping, and monitoring requirements in this paragraph apply to the aluminum rolling mills at the Reynolds Metals Company's McCook Sheet & Plate Plant in McCook, Illinois (Cook County) instead of the control requirements and test methods in the other parts of paragraph (x), and the recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (y) of this section. All of the following requirements must be met by Reynolds on and after July 7, 1995.

(i) Only organic lubricants with initial and final boiling points between 460 degrees F and 635 degrees F, as determined by a distillation range test using ASTM method D86-90, are allowed to be used at Reynolds' aluminum sheet cold rolling mills numbers 1 and 7. All incoming shipments of organic lubricant for the number 1 and 7 mills must be sampled and each sample must undergo a distillation range test to determine the initial and final boiling points using ASTM method D86-90. A grab rolling lubricant sample shall be taken from each operating mill on a monthly basis and each sample must undergo a distillation range test, to determine the initial and final boiling points, using ASTM method D86-90.

(ii) An oil/water emulsion, with no more than 15 percent by weight of petroleum-based oil and additives, shall be the only lubricant used at Reynolds' aluminum sheet and plate hot rolling mills, 120 inch, 96 inch, 80 inch, and 145 inch mills. A grab rolling lubricant sample shall be taken from each operating mill on a monthly basis and each sample shall be tested for the percent by weight of petroleum-based oil and additives by ASTM Method D95-83.

(iii) The temperature of the inlet supply of rolling lubricant for aluminum sheet cold rolling mills numbers 1 and 7 shall not exceed 150 &#xB0;F, as measured at or after (but prior to the lubricant nozzles) the inlet sump. The temperature of the inlet supply of rolling lubricant for the aluminum sheet and plate hot rolling mills, 120 inch, 96 inch, 80 inch, and 145 inch mills shall not exceed 200 &#xB0;F, as measured at or after (but prior to the lubricant nozzles) the inlet sump. Coolant temperatures shall be monitored at all the rolling mills by use of thermocouple probes and chart recorders or electronic data recorders.

(iv) All distillation test results for cold mill lubricants, all percent oil test results for hot mill lubricants, all coolant temperature recording charts and/or temperature data obtained from electronic data recorders, and all oil/water emulsion formulation records, shall be kept on file, and be available for inspection by USEPA, for three years.

(8) The control and recordkeeping requirements in this paragraph apply to the silk screen presses and associated ovens, cleaning operations and laminators at Parisian's Novelty Company (Parisian), Chicago, Illinois, facility, instead of the control requirements in paragraphs (x)(8) (u)(3) and (x)(3) of this section and the recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (x)(8)(y) of this section.

(i) After March 1, 1993, no coatings or inks shall at any time be applied, at any coating or ink applicator, which exceed the following emission limitations for the specified coating or ink.

(A) 6.65 pounds (lbs) volatile organic material (VOM) per gallon of ink (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied on Parisian's silk screen presses.

(B) 6.4 lbs VOM per gallon of adhesive coating (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied on Parisian's laminators. Such adhesive is identified as MIX #963.

(ii) After March 1, 1993, the volume of coating and ink used shall not exceed the following:

(A) 2,556 gallons per year total for all inks. The yearly volume of inks used is to be calculated as follows:
