
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.741 Control strategy: Ozone control measures for Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties.
####### 2,1,10

() The vapor pressure of each organic compound in each component at each location specified in paragraphs (x)(11)(i)(A) () through () of this section.

(B) [Reserved]

(12) The control and recordkeeping and reporting requirements, as well as the test methods in this paragraph, apply to the gravure and screen press operations at the Meyercord Corporation (Meyercord) in Carol Stream, Illinois, instead of the requirements in paragraphs (x)(1) through (x)(5) of this section.

(i) After July 1, 1991, no materials which contain volatile organic material (VOM), including coatings, inks, and cleaning material, may be used at any gravure or screen press unless the total VOM emissions remain below 100 tons of VOM for every consecutive 365-day period, or fraction thereof, starting on July 1, 1991. A new 365-day period starts on each day. The VOM emissions, which are to be calculated on a daily basis, are to be added to the VOM emissions for the prior 364 days (but not including any day prior to July 1, 1991). VOM emissions are based upon the VOM content of the material and the volume of material used. The effect of add-on control equipment is not considered in calculating VOM emissions; that is, the VOM emissions are to be determined as if the press(es) do(es) not have add-on control equipment. The applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section are to be used in determining daily VOM emissions.

(ii) The VOM content of each coating, ink, and cleaning solution shall be determined by the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section to establish the records required under paragraph (x)(12)(ii) of this section. Beginning on July 1, 1991, the owner or operator of the subject presses shall collect and record all of the following information each day and maintain the information at the facility for 3 years:

(A) The name and identification number of each coating, ink, and cleaning solution as applied on any press.

(B) The pounds (lbs) of VOM per gallon of each coating, ink, and cleaning solution (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied on any press.

(C) The total gallons of each coating, ink, and cleaning solution (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) used per day.

(D) The total lbs of VOM contained in the volume of each coating, ink, and cleaning solution used per day on any press. The lbs of VOM per day is to be calculated by multiplying the lbs of VOM per gallon (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) times the gallons (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) used per day.

(E) The total lbs of VOM per day from all coatings, inks, and cleaning solutions used on all presses. The total lbs of VOM per day is to be obtained by adding the lbs of VOM per day contained in all coatings, inks, and cleaning solutions.

(F) Within 7 days after each 365-day period, the VOM emissions (as calculated in paragraph (x)(12)(ii)(E)) of this section before add-on control, from the 365-day period, are to be determined.

Starting on July 7, 1992, VOM emissions are to be determined for the 365 days ending 7 days earlier. Each day concludes a new 365-day period. However, no VOM emissions are to be included for any days prior to July 1, 1991. For example, on July 17, 1991, the emissions from July 1, through July 10, 1991, are to be included, whereas on January 7, 1994, the emissions from January 1, 1993, through December 31, 1993, are to be included.

(13) The control and recordkeeping and reporting requirements, as well as the test methods in this paragraph, apply to the sheet fed cold set presses and web heatset presses at the Wallace Computer Services, Inc. (Wallace) printing and binding plant in Hillside, Illinois, instead of the requirements in 40 CFR 52.741(h) and 40 CFR 52.741(x)(1) through 40 CFR 52.741(x)(5).

(i) After July 1, 1991, no inks shall at any time be applied, at the presses indicated below, which exceed the pounds (lbs) volatile organic material (VOM) per gallon of ink (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) limit established for each press. After July 1, 1991, the yearly volume of ink used at each press, in gallons of ink (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) per year, shall not exceed the gallons per year limit established below for each press. The yearly volume of ink used per press is to be calculated according to the procedure in paragraph (x)(13)(iii) of this section.

(ii) After July 1, 1991, no materials (other than those inks subject to the limits in paragraph (x)(13)(i)) of this section, shall at any time be applied or used, at the presses indicated below, which exceed the lbs VOM per gallon of material (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) limit established for each press. After July 1, 1991, the yearly volume of material (excluding ink and water) used at each press, in gallons of material (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) per year, shall not exceed the gallons per year limit established for each press. The yearly volume of material (excluding ink and water) used per press is to be calculated according to the procedure in paragraph (x)(13)(iii) of this section.

(iii) The yearly volume of ink/material used is to be calculated as follows:

(A) Compute the volume of ink/material used each month per press by the 15th of the following month.

(B) By the 15th of each month, add the monthly ink/material usage per press for the 12 previous months (to obtain the yearly volume of ink used).

(iv) Beginning on July 1, 1991, the owner and operator of Wallace's plant in Hillside, Illinois, shall keep the following records for each press for each month. All records shall be retained by Wallace for 3 years and shall be made available to the Administrator on request:

(A) The name and identification number of each ink, fountain solution, fountain solution additive, cleaning solvent, and other VOM containing material as applied or used.

(B) The weight of VOM per volume of each ink, fountain solution, fountain solution additive, cleaning solvent, and each other VOM containing material (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied or used each month.

(C) The volume of ink (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM) as applied each month.

(D) The total volume of miscellaneous VOM containing materials (minus water and any compounds which are specifically exempted from the definition of VOM), other than inks, that are used each month.

(v) Any record showing a violation of paragraph (x)(13)(i) or (x)(13)(ii) of this section shall be reported by sending a copy of such record to the Administrator within 30 days of the violation.

(vi) To determine compliance with paragraphs (x)(13)(i) and (x)(13)(ii) of this section and to establish the records required under paragraph (x)(13)(iv) of this section the VOM content of each ink and miscellaneous VOM containing material shall be determined by the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(14) The control and recordkeeping and reporting requirements, as well as the test methods in this paragraph, apply to the power-operated silk screen presses, the hand screen presses, the screen adhesive printing lines, the Andreotti rotogravure press, the Halley Rotogravure press, and the Viking press at the American Decal and Manufacturing Company's plant in Chicago, Illinois, instead of the requirements in paragraphs (h) and (x)(1) through (x)(5) of this section. The emissions from the sources listed above (in paragraph (x)(14) of this section) are to be included in the calculation of "maximum theoretical emissions" for determining applicability for any other sources (for which applicability is based on the quantity of maximum theoretical emissions) at American Decal and Manufacturing Company's Chicago plant not included in paragraph (x)(14) of this section.

(i) After July 24, 1992, no inks, coatings, thinner, clean-up material or other VOC-containing material shall at any time be applied, at the presses/printing lines listed above (in paragraph (x)(14) of this section), which exceed the VOC content (in percent by weight VOC) limit established below. After July 24, 1992, the yearly usage (in weight of material applied) of ink, coating, thinner, clean-up material, and other VOC-containing material, shall not exceed the applicable pounds per year limit established below. The yearly weight of ink, coating, thinner, clean-up material, and other VOC-containing material is to be calculated according to the procedure in paragraph (x)(14)(ii) of this section.

(ii) The yearly weight of material used is to be calculated as follows:

(A) Compute the weight of each ink, coating, thinner, clean-up material, and other VOC-containing material used each month by the 15th of the following month.

(B) By the 15th of each month, add the monthly usage (in pounds) for each ink, coating, thinner, clean-up material, and other VOC-containing material for the twelve previous months (to obtain the yearly weight of each ink, coating, thinner, clean-up material used). A comparison of these yearly usage levels (in pounds) with purchase records must be made to ensure the accuracy of the monthly usage levels (in pounds) obtained to satisfy paragraph (x)(14)(ii)(A) of this section.

(iii) Beginning on August 1, 1992, the owner and operator of the American Decal and Manufacturing Company plant in Chicago, Illinois, shall keep the following records for each ink, coating, thinner, clean-up material, and other VOC-containing material for each month. All records shall be kept by the American Decal and Manufacturing Company for 3 years and shall be made available to the Administrator on request:

(A) The name and identification number of each ink, coating, thinner, clean-up material, and other VOC-containing material as applied or used.

(B) The weight percent VOC of each ink, coating, thinner, clean-up material, and each other VOC-containing material as applied or used each month.

(C) The as applied weight of each ink, coating, thinner, clean-up material, and other VOC-containing material used each month.

(iv) Any record showing a violation of paragraph (x)(14)(i) of this section after October 20, 1995 shall be reported by sending a copy of such record to the Administrator within 30 days of the violation.

(v) To determine compliance with paragraph (x)(14)(i) of this section and to establish the records required under paragraph (x)(14)(iii) of this section, the weight percent VOC of each ink, coating, thinner, clean-up material, and other VOC-containing material shall be determined by the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. Any material reported to be 100 percent VOC does not have to be tested for weight percent VOC.
