
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identified the original "Air Quality Implementation Plan for the State of Illinois" and all revisions submitted by Illinois that were Federally-approved prior to June 1, 2017.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 31, 1972.

(c) The plan revision listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) The role of the City of Chicago as a local agent was defined in a letter from the State Environmental Protection Agency on March 13, 1972.

(2) Copies of the Illinois Pollution Control Board Regulations, Chapter 2, Parts I, II and III were submitted May 4, 1972, by the Governor.

(3) A document describing the role of the Chicago Department of Environmental Control was submitted July 28, 1972, by the State Environmental Protection Agency.

(4) Copies of the revisions to the State air episode regulations were submitted on August 29, 1972, by the Governor.

(5) Compliance schedules submitted on March 13, 1973, by the Pollution Control Board.

(6) Compliance schedules submitted on April 3, 1973, by the Pollution Control Board.

(7) Transportation control plan submitted on April 17, 1973, by the Pollution Control Board.

(8) Compliance schedules submitted on May 3, 1973, by the Pollution Control Board.

(9) Compliance schedules submitted on June 15, 1973, by the Pollution Control Board.

(10) Compliance schedules submitted on August 7, 1973, by the Pollution Control Board.

(11) Information concerning the coal ban in the Chicago area was submitted on October 22, 1973, by Governor Walker.

(12) On July 22, 1976, the Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted revised emergency episode regulations.

(13) On November 29, 1977, the Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted grain handling and drying emission limitations as revisions to Rule 203.

(14) Revision consisting of an Illinois Pollution Control Board Order issued on July 20, 1978 to Commonwealth Edison Company, Christian County, Illinois and submitted on August 14, 1978 by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.

(15) Revision consisting of an Illinois Pollution Control Board Order issued to Shell Oil Company's Wood River refinery on December 14, 1978 by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.

(16) On April 4, 1979, the State submitted its draft nonattainment area plan for all areas designated nonattainment as of March 3, 1978 and as revised on October 5, 1978. This submittal contained a request for extensions of the statutory attainment deadline for CO and 03. The submittal also included a vehicle emission inspection and maintenance program and a new source review plan. Although the State submittal also included the following provisions, U.S. EPA is taking no action to include them in the federally approved SIP at this time: the portions of Rules 101, 103 and 105 relating to the provisions addressing malfunctions, general requirements of the Clean Air Act which are not Part D requirements, and the provisions covering open burning, mobile source emission standards, diesel locomotive emission standards, sulfur dioxide emissions for certain fuel combustion sources located outside major metropolitan areas, compliance dates for organic emission limitations, particulate emissions from low carbon waste incinerators, and adoption of Federal New Source Performance Standards. In addition, U.S. EPA is not rulemaking at this time on those portions of the following rules which contain specified changes made between the publication of the notice of proposed rulemaking and the final rulemaking action:

(i)-(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) The new materials in Section 4.11 of the Rules for Issuance of Permits to New or Modified Air Pollution Sources;

(v) The addition of a definition of "reconstruction" in Section 4.7 of the Rules for Issuance of Permits;

(vi) The procedure allowing external offsets contained in Section 10 of the Rules for Issuance of Permits.

(17) On August 29, 1979, the State submitted additional information and clarification for the nonattainment area plan in response to USEPA's July 2, 1979 notice of proposed rulemaking.

(18) On September 20, 1979, the State submitted a summary of public hearing comments on the plan.

(19) On October 30, 1979, the State submitted copies of Illinois Pollution Control Board final orders for control of VOC emissions from stationary sources (Rule 205), sources of fugitive particulate (Rule 203(f)), and particulate emissions from iron and steel sources (Rule 203(d)).

(20) On December 20, 1979, the State submitted a letter containing the dates that most of the regulatory and nonregulatory portions of the nonattainment area plans were finally adopted by the Illinois Pollution Control Board. Rule 205 containing RACT controls for stationary sources of VOC was effective in the State on July 18, 1979. Rule 203(f) governing fugitive dust emissions was effective in the State on September 18, 1979.

(21) On January 25, 1980, the State submitted a copy of finally enacted "Rules for the Issuance of Permits to New or Modified Air Pollution Sources Affecting Nonattainment Areas." Sections 5.1(a)(2)(ii) and 5.1(a)(2)(iii) of these rules were reserved by the State. The effective date of these Rules was January 16, 1980.

(22) On March 21, 1979, the State of Illinois submitted to the USEPA revised regulations for control of sulfur dioxide emissions. On September 19, 1979, the State submitted additional information on these revised regulations to the USEPA.

(23) On January 17, 1980 and on February 7, 1980 the State submitted further information and clarifications to Rule 204.

(24) On September 19, 1979, the State of Illinois submitted a revision to Rule 204(e)(1) for the Commonwealth Edison Company. The revision approves an emission limitation of 105,162 lbs SO/hour for the Kincaid Generating Station in Christian County, Illinois.

(25) On April 30, 1980, the State submitted revisions to the transportation control plan for northeast Illinois (Chicago).

(26) On December 20, 1979, the State of Illinois submitted a revision to provide for modification of the existing air quality surveillance network.

(27) On January 8, 1980, the State submitted an Opinion and Final Order of the Pollution Control Board (dated November 19, 1979) which deletes Rule 206(d) of Chapter 2 from the Illinois Air Pollution Control Regulations.

(28) On September 18, 1979, the State submitted a Final Order of the Pollution Control Board (dated April 12, 1979) which amended Rule 205(g)(1) of Chapter 2 of the Illinois Air Pollution Control Regulations.

(29) On July 21, 1981, the State submitted Volume 9 Lead, of the Illinois State Implementation Plan for Air Pollution Control for incorporation in the Illinois State Implementation Plan. This plan covers all areas in Illinois except for Granite City in the St. Louis Interstate AQCR.

(30) On July 29, 1980, the State submitted a May 29, 1980, Opinion and Order of the Illinois Pollution Control Board granting a variance from the requirements Rule 203(d)(8)(B) of Chapter 2 of the Air Pollution Control Regulations to Continental Grain Company's grain elevator located in Crossville, White County, Illinois. This variance expired July 1, 1980.

(31) On April 4, 1980, the State submitted a November 29, 1979, Opinion and Order of the Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB) and Supplementary IPCB Orders dated January 24, 1980, and February 7, 1980. These Orders grant 13 Caterpillar Tractor Company boilers a variance from the requirements of IPCB (A), Rule 203(g)(1)(C)(i) and/or Rule 203(g)(1)(D) which regulate particulate emissions from new and existing sources. No action is taken at this time on variance provisions for Mapleton facility boilers #2, 3, 4, and 5. This variance expired on October 8, 1981.

(32) On August 31, 1981, the State of Illinois submitted a revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan in the form of a July 9, 1981, Order of the Illinois Pollution Control Board (R-77-15). This Order creates Rule 204(c)(1)(E) which establishes sulfur dioxide (SO) emission limitations of 5.5 lbs/SO/MMBTU for solid fuel combustion sources having actual heat input not greater than 250 million BTU's per hour owned or operated by Bemis Company, Inc., Celotex Corporation or Sherex Corporation. On November 17, 1981, the State submitted additional information in support of this revision.

(33) On August 20, 1980, and March 20, 1981, the State submitted additional information on the transportation control plans for the Northeast Illinois (Chicago) Area.

(34) On October 15, 1980, the State submitted additional information on the transportation control plans for the Peoria Metropolitan Area.

(35) On April 1, 1981, the State submitted additional information on the transportation control plans for the St. Louis Metropolitan (Illinois) Area.

(36) On December 10, 1980, the State submitted a July 24, 1980, Opinion and Order of the Illinois Pollution Control Board and a September 18, 1980, Order of the Board granting Bunge Corporation's Cairo, Illinois soybean processing plant and grain elevator variance from Illinois Pollution Control Board's particulate emission standards under Rules 203(g)(1)(D) and 103(b)(1) of Chapter 2 of the Air Pollution Control Regulations through October 15, 1981.

(37) On July 17, 1980, the State submitted an April 3, 1980, Opinion and Order of the Illinois Pollution Control Board adopting a December 13, 1979, Proposed Opinion and Order of the Board which exempted certain small explosive waste incinerators from the requirements of Rule 203(e) Particulate Emission Standards and Limitations for incinerators and Rule 206(b) Carbon Monoxide Emissions Standards and Limitations for incinerators.

(38) On May 10, 1982, the State submitted a February 4, 1982, Illinois Pollution Control Board Opinion and Order (PCB 81-184) granting a variance from the requirements of Rules 205(m)(1)(B) and 204(n)(1)(G) of Chapter 2 of the Air Pollution Control Regulations to the Lyon Metal Products, Incorporated, Montgomery, Illinois facility. This variance expires on May 31, 1985.

(39) On October 1, 1981, the State submitted a report in satisfaction of the Total Suspended Particulate Control Strategy approval condition in which the State agreed to conduct an analysis of the potential air quality impact from storage piles with uncontrolled emissions of less than 50 tons per year, to submit the results of any analysis to EPA, to submit any necessary regulations to the Illinois Pollution Control Board, and promulgate and submit any necessary regulations to EPA. This report concluded that no further regulations were needed.

(40) EPA Study Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Solvent Cleaning Operations in the State of Illinois (EPA 905/4-80-008) was prepared to satisfy the Ozone Control Strategy approval condition in which the State agreed to conduct a study to demonstrate that the three pound per hour, 15 pound per day exemption for solvent metal cleaners contained in Rule 205(k) represents RACT, to submit the results of the study to EPA, to submit the necessary regulations to the Illinois Pollution Control Board and promulgate and submit any necessary regulations to EPA. The State reviewed this report and in a February 11, 1981, letter to EPA noted their agreement with the findings of the report and indicated that because there was no need for further regulations, this condition is satisfied.

(41) On December 7, 1981, the State submitted a October 8, 1981, Illinois Pollution Control Board Final Order (R79-11). This Final Order amends Rule 203(g)(1) by adding subsection (E).

(42) On January 4, 1983, the State submitted a revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan in the form of an October 27, 1982, Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB) Opinion and Order (PCB 82-88). This Opinion and Order grants a variance from the requirements of Rule 203(a) of Chapter 2 of the Air Pollution Control Regulations to a proposed fluidized bed combustion boiler at B.F. Goodrich's Henry County, Illinois facility. This variance continues until October 1, 1987, or until the facility is no longer subject to Rule 206(a), whichever comes first.

(43) On July 29, 1982, the State submitted a revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan in the form of a May 28, 1981, Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB) Final Opinion of the Board (R78-17). This Final Opinion deletes Rule 204(c)(1)(D) and the reference to it in Rule 204(h) from the IPCB Air Pollution Control Regulations.

(44) On March 17, 1983, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) submitted a revision to its ozone SIP for Chrysler's Belvidere facility. The revision request contains an alternative compliance time schedule with interim emission limitations which is in the form of a variance for prime coating and prime surface coating operations. Final compliance is changed from December 31, 1982 to December 31, 1987.

(45) On August 19, 1983, the State of Illinois submitted a revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan in the form of a July 26, 1983, Order of the Illinois Pollution Control Board (R82-12). This Order creates Rule 313 which establishes 1.5 micrograms per cubic meter, maximum arithmetic mean, averaged over a calendar quarter as the State's ambient air quality standard for lead. The Board also adopted, as part of Rule 313, a measurement method for determining compliance with the standard.

(46) On August 15, 1983, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted a May 19, 1983, Opinion and Order (PCB-82-147) of the Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB) granting Del Monte Corporation's Can Manufacturing Plant No. 115 located in Rochelle, Ogle County, Illinois, a variance from the IPCB volatile organic compound emission standards under Rule 205(n)(1)(B)(i) and Rule 205(n)(1)(B)(vi) of Chapter 2: Air Pollution Regulations. The variance expires on December 31, 1984.

(47) On March 24, 1983, and May 3, 1983, the State submitted information that indicated that a February 21, 1980 (45 FR 11472), conditional approval of the incorporation of a revised Part D sulfur dioxide control strategy into the Illinois State Implementation Plan has been satisfied for Cincinnati, Pekin and Elm Grove Townships in Tazewell County and for Logan and Limestone Townships in Peoria County. This approval condition required that the SIP include a reanalysis of the Pekin, Illinois area; a submittal of the analysis results to USEPA; the proposal of any necessary regulations to the Illinois Pollution Control Board necessary to insure attainment and maintenance of the sulfur dioxide standard; and the promulgation of any necessary regulations. Any promulgated regulations must be submitted to USEPA.

(48)-(49) [Reserved]

(50) On May 3, 1983, the State requested that USEPA incorporate IPCB Rule 204 (f)(2) into the Illinois SIP. Rule 204(f)(2) was adopted by Illinois as part of a February 24, 1983, Order of the Board (R80-22). USEPA approves the incorporation of Rule 204(f)(2) as it pertains to Pekin Energy, a source in the Peoria major metropolitan area.

(51) On January 30, 1984, the State submitted Rule 204(f) as contained in a February 24, 1983, Order of the IPCB (R80-22) as it applies to sources in the Peoria Major Metropolitan area for incorporation in the SIP. USEPA approves the incorporation of Rule 204(f) into the SIP as it applies to all sources in Peoria and Tazewell Counties except Caterpillar Tractor Mapleton and East Peoria Plants. No action is taken on Rule 204(f) as it applies to the Chicago or St. Louis (Illinois-portion) Major Metropolitan Areas or on Rule 204(f) (1) and (2).

(52) [Reserved]
