
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### § 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution Chapter 1: Pollution Control Board Part 214 Sulfur Limitations, Subpart C: Existing Solid Fuel Combustion Emission Sources, § 214.141 Sources Located in Metropolitan Areas, paragraphs b), c) and d), and Subpart X: Utilities, § 214.560 Scope and § 214.561 E.D. Edwards Electric Generating Station effective May 20, 1986.

(89) On March 17, 1989, and August 28, 1990, the State of Illinois submitted a revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan. The revision is contained in subpart J, § 201.281 and subpart L, §§ 201.401-.408 of part 210 of title 35 of the Illinois Administrative Code. This revision provides a legally enforceable procedure for continuously monitoring and recording emissions to determine the status of compliance of certain stationary source categories and complies with 40 CFR 51.214 and part 51, appendix P. The rules were adopted by the Illinois Pollution Control Board on December 15, 1988, published (13 Ill. Reg. 2066) and became effective February 3, 1989. The rules were corrected for an omission, published on November 15, 1989, (13 Ill Reg. 19444), and became effective December 5, 1989. In a November 18, 1991, letter from Bharat Mathur, then Manager, Division of Air Pollution Control, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) to Stephen Rothblatt, Chief, Regulation Development Branch, Region 5, USEPA, Illinois committed to notify USEPA of any pending construction or operating permit application during the 30 day public comment period which is part of Illinois' permit issuance process (Section 203.150). This commitment is part of the administrative record of USEPA's approval of the Illinois' operating permit program for the purpose of issuing federally enforceable operating permits at 40 CFR 52.720 (c) (84) and 52.737 on December 17, 1992 (57 FR 59928). USEPA may deem a permit not federally enforceable if monitoring provisions do not comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 51.214, part 51, appendix P or § 51.165.
