
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Other material.

(ii)(A) Program description.

(B) May 4, 1992, Interagency Agreement between DCCA and IEPA defining the responsibilities of each agency in developing and implementing the program.

(97) On October 12, 1992, and June 2, 1993, the State of Illinois submitted a requested revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan (SIP) intended to satisfy the requirements of section 182(a)(3)(B) of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990. Included were State rules establishing procedures for the annual reporting of emissions of volatile organic material (VOM) and oxides of nitrogen (NO) as well as other regulated air pollutants by stationary sources in ozone nonattainment areas. Also included was a June 2, 1993, commitment letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) to fulfill the reporting requirements of the United States Environmental Protection Agency by performing the following tasks:

(i) Update the AIRS Facility Subsystem using the annual emissions report data. The 1992 data will be updated by December 31, 1993, and subsequent updates will be made by July 1st of each year.

(ii) Retain annual emissions reports for at least three (3) years.

(iii) Develop and submit Emissions Statement Status Reports (ESSR) on a quarterly basis each year until all applicable sources have submitted the required annual emissions reports. The report will show the total number of facilities from which emission statement data was requested, the number of facilities that met the provisions, and the number of facilities that failed to meet the provisions. Sources that are delinquent in submitting their emissions statements will be individually listed if they emit 500 tons per year or more of VOM or 2500 tons per year or more of NO. The report will also contain the emission data requested in Appendix F of the July 6, 1992, Draft Guidance on the Implementation of an Emission Statement Program.

(iv) All sources subject to the emission statement requirements must report, at a minimum, the information specified under subpart C of part 254 of chapter II of subtitle B of title 35 of the Illinois Administrative Code.

(A) Incorporation by reference. Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter II: Environmental Protection Agency, Part 254: Annual Emissions Report, adopted at 17 Illinois Register 7782, effective May 14, 1993.
