
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Illinois Administrative Code; Title 35 Environmental Protection; Subtitle B: Air Pollution; Chapter I: Pollution Control Board; Subchapter C: Emission Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources; P 216: Carbon Monoxide Emissions; Subpart O: Primary and Fabricated Metal Products; Section 216.382 Exception, General Motors Ferris Foundry in Vermilion County. Added at 16 Illinois Register 18075, effective November 13, 1992.

(104) [Reserved]

(105) On February 7, 1994, the State submitted revisions intended to create a permit program for small sources. The purpose of these revisions is to lessen the permitting burden on small sources and the permitting authority by reducing the frequency and/or the requirement of operating permit renewal for sources emitting a total of less than 25 tons per year of regulated air pollutants. A permit obtained through these procedures is intended to continue as a legally binding State document until the source modifies its operations, withdraws its permit or becomes subject to a new applicable requirement. At that time, the State will determine whether the small source procedures continue to be appropriate and issue a revised small source permit or direct the source in following the correct permit procedures. Since small source permits are not subject to a public comment period or review by USEPA, they are not federally enforceable and cannot be used to limit sources' potential to emit and thereby exempt them from the requirements of the title v operating permit program.
