
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter c: Emissions Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources.

(A) Part 218: Organic Material Emission Standards and Limitations for the Chicago Area, Subpart V; Air Oxidation Processes, Sections 218.520 Emission Limitations for Air Oxidation Processes, 218.522 Savings Clause, 218.523 Compliance, 218.524 Determination of Applicability, and 218.525 Emission Limitations for Air Oxidation Processes (Renumbered) at 18 Ill. Reg. 16972, effective November 15, 1994.

(B) Part 219: Organic Material Emissions Standards and Limitations for the Metro-East Area, Subpart V; Air Oxidation Processes, Sections 219.520 Emission Limitations for Air Oxidation Processes, 219.522 Savings Clause, 219.523 Compliance, 219.524 Determination of Applicability, and 219.525 Emission Limitations for Air Oxidation Processes (Renumbered) at 18 Ill. Reg. 17001, effective November 15, 1994.

(115) On May 5, 1995, and May 26, 1995, the State submitted an amended coating rule which consisted of a tightened applicability cut-off level for wood furniture coating operations to the Ozone Control Plan for the Chicago and Metro-East St. Louis areas.
