
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter c: Emission Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources.

(A) Part 218: Organic Material Emission Standards and Limitations for the Chicago Area, Subpart A: General Provisions, Section 218.106; Subpart T: Pharmaceutical Manufacturing, Section 218.480; Subpart DD: Aerosol Can Filling, Section 218.686; Subpart RR: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Process, Section 218.966; Subpart TT: Other Emission Units, Section 218.980. Amended at 19 Ill. Reg. 6848; effective May 9, 1995.

(B) Part 219: Organic Material Emission Standards and Limitations for the Metro East Area, Subpart T: Pharmaceutical Manufacturing, Section 219.480; Subpart TT: Other Emission Units, Section 219.980. Amended at 19 Ill. Reg. 6958, effective May 9, 1995.

(124) The State of Illinois requested a revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan (SIP). This revision is for the purpose of establishing and implementing a Clean-Fuel Fleet Program in the Chicago ozone nonattainment area, which includes Cook, DuPage, Grundy (Aux Sable and Goose Lake townships only), Kane, Kendall (Oswego township only), Lake, McHenry, and Will counties, to satisfy the federal requirements for a Clean Fuel Fleet Program to be part of the SIP for Illinois.
