
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Additional materials.

(ii)(A) February 29, 1996, Request-For-Proposals submitted on April 22, 1996.

(B) April 22, 1996, letter of commitment and attachments from IEPA's Bureau of Air Chief to the USEPA's Regional Air and Radiation Division Director.

(131) On January 10, 1996, the State of Illinois submitted a site-specific State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision request for ozone, which extends the required deadline for the Rexam Medical Packaging Inc. facility in Mundelein, Lake County, Illinois (Rexam), to comply with 35 Illinois Administrative Code, part 218, subpart H, as it applies to its Inline Press Number No.105, Inline Press No. 111, Offline 32-inch Press, Offline 36-inch Press, and Offline 42-inch press. The compliance date is extended from March 15, 1995, until June 15, 1996, or upon submittal of the "certificate of compliance" required under section 218.404 of subpart H, whichever occurs first. The variance includes a compliance plan requiring the installation and use of a catalytic oxidizer to control emissions from Inline Press No. 105, Inline Press No. 111, Offline 32-inch Press, and Offline 42-inch Press. The Offline 36-inch Press is required to convert to water-based ink, or be controlled by the oxidizer if the press is not converted by March 1, 1996. The variance is contingent upon certain compliance milestone conditions.
