
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter c: Emissions Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources.

(A) Part 211: Definitions and General Provisions, Subpart B: Definitions, Section 211.1885, amended at 21 Ill. 7695, effective June 9, 1997.

(B) Part 218: Organic Material Emission Standards and Limitations for the Chicago Area, Subpart E: Solvent Cleaning, Section 218.182, amended at 21 Ill. 7708, effective June 9, 1997.

(C) Part 219: Organic Material Emissions Standards and Limitations for the Metro-East Area, Subpart E: Solvent Cleaning, Section 219.182, amended at 21 Ill. 7721, effective June 9, 1997.

(140) On March 5, 1998, the State of Illinois submitted amended rules for the control of volatile organic material emissions from wood furniture coating operations in the Chicago and Metro-East (East St. Louis) ozone nonattainment areas, as a requested revision to the ozone State Implementation Plan. This plan was submitted to meet the Clean Air Act requirement for States to adopt Reasonably Available Control Technology rules for sources that are covered by Control Techniques Guideline documents.
