
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter c: Emissions Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources.

(A) Part 215: Organic Material Emission Standards and Limitations; Subpart A: General Provisions, 215.104 Definitions, 215.109 Monitoring for Negligibly-Reactive Compounds; Subpart F: Coating Operations, 215.204 Emission Limitations for Manufacturing Plants, 215.205 Alternative Emission Limitations, 215.206 Exemptions from Emission Limitations, 215.207 Compliance by Aggregation of Emissions Units, 215.211 Compliance Dates and Geographical Areas, 215.212 Compliance Plan, and 215.214 Roadmaster Emissions Limitations (Repealed); Subpart Z: Dry Cleaners, 215.601 Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaners (Repealed), 215.602 Exemptions (Repealed), 215.603 Leaks (Repealed), 215.604 Compliance Dates and Geographical areas (Repealed), 215.605 Compliance Plan (Repealed), and 215.606 Exception to Compliance Plan (Repealed), amended at 22 Ill. Reg. 11427, effective June 19, 1998.

(146) On February 13, 1998, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) submitted a revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan (SIP). This revision amends certain sections of the Clean-Fuel Fleet Program (CFFP) in the Chicago ozone nonattainment area to reflect that fleet owners and operators will have an additional year to meet the purchase requirements of the CFFP. The amendment changes the first date by which owners or operators of fleets must submit annual reports to IEPA from November 1, 1998 to November 1, 1999. In addition, this revision corrects two credit values in the CFFP credit program.
