
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter 1: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter c: Emission Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources, Part 217 Nitrogen Oxides Emissions, Subpart W: NO[x] Trading Program for Electrical Generating Units except for 217.756(d)(3) which has been superseded by Section 9.9(f) of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act. Added at 25 Ill. Reg. 128, January 25, 2001, effective December 26, 2000.

(B) Section 9.9(f) of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act. Adopted by both Houses of the Illinois General Assembly as part of Public Act 92-0012 (previously House Bill 1599) on May 31, 2001, approved by the Governor of Illinois on June 22, 2001, effective July 1, 2001.

(158) On December 16, 1997, Bharat Mathur, Chief, Bureau of Air, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, submitted rules for a cap and trade program regulating volatile organic compound emissions in the Chicago area. By letter dated August 23, 2001, the state requested that USEPA defer rulemaking on section 205.150(e), which exempts new and modified sources obtaining offsets under the trading program from the requirements for traditional, full year offsets.
