
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) The Illinois Pollution Control Board's December 18, 2003, Opinion and Order which granted the Argonne National Laboratory's degreasing operations an Adjusted Standard (AS 03-4) from 35 Ill. Code 218.182 for its cold cleaning involving the preparation of sample materials and associated apparatus used for research and development testing and analysis at Argonne.

(174) [Reserved]

(175) On January 4, 2006, Illinois submitted a site-specific State Implementation Plan revision for the Ford Motor Company (Ford) Chicago Assembly Plant. The revision allows Ford to discontinue use of its Stage II vapor recovery system and requires instead that Ford comply with federal onboard refueling vapor recovery regulations and other conditions.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) September 1, 2005, Opinion and Order of the Illinois Pollution Control Board, AS 05-5, effective September 1, 2005.

(176) On June 14, 2004, Illinois submitted revisions to volatile organic compound rules for Formel Industries, Incorporated in Cook County, Illinois. The revisions consist of withdrawing an adjusted standard to the Flexographic Printing Rule. Formel Industries has installed a control device and is complying with the Flexographic Printing Rule.
