
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)An April 15, 2004, Supplemental Opinion and Order of the Illinois Pollution Control Board AS 00-13, terminating Formel's previously issued (January 18, 2001) adjusted standard from the Flexographic Printing Rule, effective April 15, 2004.

(177) On May 31, 2006, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted a requested revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan. This revision provides additional exemptions from State of Illinois permit requirements codified by the State at Part 201 of Title 35 of the Illinois Administrative Code (35 IAC Part 201).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(178) On September 14, 2007, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted rules and related material to address requirements under the Clean Air Interstate Rule. These rules mandate participation of electric generating units in EPA-run trading programs for annual emissions of sulfur dioxide, annual emissions of nitrogen oxides, and ozone season emissions of nitrogen oxides. These rules provide a methodology for allocating allowances to subject sources and require these sources to hold sufficient allowances to accommodate their emissions and to meet various monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements. EPA is approving the submitted provisions of Subparts A, C, D, and E of Part 225 of Title 35 of Illinois Administrative Code; EPA is deferring action on Subpart F.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Title 35 of the Illinois Administrative Code: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, Part 225: Control of Emissions from Large Combustion Sources, effective August 31, 2007, including Subpart A: General Provisions, Subpart C: Clean Air Act Interstate Rule (CAIR) SOTrading Program, Subpart D: CAIR NOAnnual Trading Program, and Subpart E: CAIR NOOzone Season Trading Program.

(179) On October 31, 2003, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted rules and related materials to address site-specific requirements for Cromwell-Phoenix, Incorporated, located in Alsip, Illinois. These rules establish an adjusted standard for the corrosion inhibiting packaging production facility of Cromwell-Phoenix, Incorporated located at this source site. These rules provide a site-specific adjusted standard for this source facility for volume 35 of the Illinois Administrative Code subpart F section 218.204(c). The adjusted standard gives the corrosion inhibiting paper coating lines at the Alsip facility an adjusted volatile organic material (volatile organic compounds) content limit for paper coatings, and places an annual limit on the volatile organic material emissions from the Alsip facility as a whole. The adjusted standard also establishes source administration and reporting requirements for Cromwell-Phoenix, Incorporated Alsip facility. EPA is approving this site-specific adjusted standard as a revision of the Illinois state implementation plan.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) September 18, 2003, Opinion and Order of the Illinois Pollution Control Board, AS 03-5, effective September 18, 2003.

(180) On January 10, 2007, Illinois submitted revisions to its rules for the Emission Reduction Market System. These revisions assure that sources in the Chicago area with potential emissions of VOC between 25 and 100 tons per year will remain subject to the program, irrespective of changes in the area's ozone nonattainment classification or designation and any associated changes in whether such sources are defined to be major sources. EPA is again deferring action on section 205.150(e).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter b: Alternative Reduction Program, Part 205 Emissions Reduction Market System, Sections:

(181) On August 17, 2005 and January 29, 2008, Illinois submitted revised regulations that are consistent with 40 CFR 51.100(s)(1), as amended by 69 FR 69298. The compounds 1,1,1,2,2,3,3-heptafluoro-3-methoxypropane (n-CFOCH), 3-ethoxy 1,1,1,2,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-dodecafluoro-2-(trifluoromethyl)hexane (HFE-7500), 1,1,1,2,3,3,3-heptafluoropropane (HFC-227ea), and methyl formate were added to the list of negligibly reactive compounds excluded from the definition of VOM in 35 IAC 211.7150(a). Tertiary-butyl acetate is also listed in 35 IAC 211.7150(a) with a notation that it must also meet the requirements of 35 IAC 211.7150(e), which state that tertiary-butyl acetate is considered a VOC for recordkeeping, emissions reporting, modeling, and inventory requirements, but is not considered a VOC for emission limits or content requirements.
