
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)

(A) Illinois Administrative Code Title 35: Environmental Protection, Part 211: Definitions and General Provisions, Subpart B: Definitions, Section 211.7150: Volatile Organic Matter (VOM) or Volatile Organic Compound (VOC), Subsections 211.7150(a) and 211.7150(e). Effective January 16, 2008.

(182) On January 29, 2008, Illinois submitted revised regulations that are consistent with 40 CFR 51.100(s)(1), as amended by 72 FR 2193. The compound 1,1,1,2,2,3,4,5,5,5-decafluoro-3-methoxy-4-trifluoromethyl-pentane (HFE-7300) was added to the list of negligibly reactive compounds excluded from the definition of VOM in 35 IAC 211.7150(a).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Illinois Administrative Code Title 35: Environmental Protection, Part 211: Definitions and General Provisions, Subpart B: Definitions, Section 211.7150: Volatile Organic Matter (VOM) or Volatile Organic Compound (VOC), Subsection 211.7150(a). Effective January 16, 2008.

(183) On January 24, 2008, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted a revision to its state implementation plan for the packaging production facility of CP-D Acquisition Company, LLC. The revision changes the source name from Cromwell-Phoenix, Incorporated, to CP-D Acquisition Company, LLC.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) November 20, 2003, Supplemental Opinion and Order of the Illinois Pollution Control Board, AS 03-05, effective November 20, 2003.

(184) On October 23, 2007, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted revisions to its State implementation plan for the Oxides of Nitrogen (NO) SIP Call Phase II. The State has submitted revisions to 35 Illinois Administrative Code (Ill. Adm. Code) Parts 211 and 217. The rules pertain to definitions and general provisions, and control of Nitrogen Oxides (NO), respectively. The rules satisfy the requirements of EPA's NOSIP Call Phase II Rule (the Phase II Rule).
