
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)The Illinois rule at 35 IAC 217.751, entitled "Sunset Provisions," submitted on December 7, 2009, effective on November 2, 2009, is incorporated by reference.

(186) On July 17, 2009, Illinois submitted amendments to its pharmaceutical manufacturing rules for approval into its state implementation plan. These amendments consist of a site-specific rulemaking for certain of Abbott Laboratories' (Abbott) tunnel dryers and fluid bed dryers.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter c: Emission Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources, Part 218: Organic Material Emission Standards and Limitations for the Chicago Area, Subpart T: Pharmaceutical Manufacturing, Section: 218.480 Applicability, effective August 26, 2008.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter from Laurel L. Kroack, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, to Cheryl Newton, EPA, dated May 12, 2010, with attachments, that establishes how compliance with Abbott's 20.6 tons VOC per year limit is determined as well as Abbott's recordkeeping requirements.

(187) On October 25, 2010, Illinois submitted revised regulations that are consistent with 40 CFR 51.100(s)(1), as amended by 74 FR 3437. The compounds propylene carbonate and dimethyl were added to the list of negligibly reactive compounds excluded from the definition of VOC in 35 IAC 211.7150(a).
