
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Additional material.

(ii)On February 28, 2011, Illinois EPA submitted an email confirmation that the sewage treatment plant exemption in Subpart TT of Parts 218 and 219 does not apply to industrial wastewater.

(190) On June 10, 2011, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted a revision to its state implementation plan. The revision to the SIP allows an adjusted standard to the general rule, Use of Organic Material Rule, known as the eight pound per hour (8 lb/hr) rule, for volatile organic matter, for Leisure Properties LLC/D/B/A Crownline Boats manufacturing facility located in West Frankfort, Illinois. The adjusted standard is that the facility takes an alternative standard of the emission limit requirements set forth in the MACT under 40 CFR part 63 subpart VVVV as published in 40 CFR Part 63 (ยง 63.1200 to end) revised as of July 1, 2002.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) July 22, 2004, Opinion and Order of the Illinois Pollution Control Board, AS-04-01, (identified in error as July 22, 2002 in the document heading), effective July 22, 2004.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter from Laurel L. Kroack, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, to Cheryl Newton, EPA, dated September 2, 2011, identifying that due to an ownership change to Crownline Boats, the Board transferred the adjusted standard to Leisure Properties LLC D/B/A Crownline Boats, which is the successor to Crownline Boats, by Board order AS04-l, effective October 7, 2010.

(191) On September 14, 2012, Illinois submitted an amendment to its State Implementation Plan at 35 Illinois Administrative Code Part 223, which adds new consumer product categories and VOC limits for these products in Subpart B, and amends Subpart C to clarify applicability. 35 IAC Part 223 limits the amount of volatile organic compounds from consumer products and architectural and industrial maintenance coatings.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Illinois Administrative Code; Title 35: Environmental Protection; Subtitle B: Air Pollution; Chapter I: Pollution Control Board; Subchapter c: Emission Standards and Limitation for Stationary Sources; Part 223: Standards and Limitations for Organic material Emissions for Area Sources, effective May 4, 2012.

(B) Reserved.

(192) On June 24, 2011, Laurel Kroack, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, submitted Illinois' regional haze plan to Cheryl Newton, Region 5, EPA. This plan includes a long-term strategy with emission limits for mandating emission reductions equivalent to the reductions from implementing best available retrofit technology and with emission reductions to provide Illinois' contribution toward achievement of reasonable progress goals at Class I areas affected by Illinois. The plan specifically includes regulations establishing Multi-Pollutant Standards and Combined Pollutant Standards, along with letters from the affected electric utilities establishing the applicability and enforceability of the option that includes sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emission limits. The plan also includes permits establishing sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emission limits for three additional electric generating plants and two consent decrees establishing sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emission limits for two refineries.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) The following sections of Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter 1: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter c: Emission Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources, Part 225, Control of Emissions from Large Combustion Sources, published at 33 IL Reg 10427, effective June 26, 2009, are incorporated by reference:
