
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### ยง 52.750 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)Illinois Administrative Code; Title 35: Environmental Protection; Subtitle B: Air Pollution; Chapter I: Pollution Control Board; Subchapter l: Air Quality Standards And Episodes; Part 243: Air Quality Standards; Sections 243.101 Definitions, 243.104 Nondegradation, 243.107 Reference Conditions, 243.108 Incorporations by Reference, 243.120 PMand PM, 243.122 Sulfur Oxides (Sulfur Dioxide), 243.125 8-Hour Ozone, and 243.126 Lead; effective October 25, 2011.

(196) On April 11, 2013, Illinois submitted a revision to 35 IAC Part 254, Annual Emissions Report. The revision amends the applicability provisions as they relate to greenhouse gases.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

Illinois Administrative Code Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution; Chapter II: Environmental Protection Agency; Part 254: Annual Emission Report, Section 254.102: Applicability, effective April 20, 2012.

(197) On July 3, 2013, Illinois submitted revised regulations that are consistent with 40 CFR 51.100(s)(1). The compound trans-1,3,3,3-tetra-flouropropene (HFO-1234ze) was added to the list of negligibly reactive compounds excluded from the definition of "Volatile Organic Material (VOM)" or "Volatile Organic Compound (VOC)" at 35 IAC 211.7150(a).

(i) Incorporation by reference. Illinois Administrative Code Title 35: Environmental Protection; Subtitle B: Air Pollution; ChapterI: Pollution Control Board; Subchapter C: Emission Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources; Part 211: Definitions and General Provisions, Section 211.7150: Volatile Organic Matter (VOM) or Volatile Organic Compound (VOC), Subsection 211.7150(a). Effective February 4, 2013.

(198) On January 9, 2014, Illinois submitted modifications to its Federally Enforceable State Operating Permits rules as a revision to the state implementation plan. The revision extends the maximum permit term of Federally Enforceable State Operating Permits from five years to ten years.

(i) Incorporation by reference. Illinois Administrative Code Title 35: Environmental Protection; Subtitle B: Air Pollution; Chapter I: Pollution Control Board; Subchapter a: Permits and General Provisions; Part 201: Permits and General Provisions; Subpart D: Permit Applications and Review Process; Section 201.162: Duration; Subsection 201.162(a). Effective December 1, 2010.

(199) On January 8, 2014, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted a revision to its state implementation plan. The revision to the SIP substitutes Latham Pool Products, d/b/a Viking Pools, for Royal Fiberglass Pools, Inc. as the holder of the adjusted standard to the general rule, Use of Organic Material Rule, known as the eight pound per hour (8 lb/hr) rule, for volatile organic matter that was granted to Royal Fiberglass Pools, Inc. manufacturing facility located in Dix, Illinois on February 18, 2010 by the Illinois Pollution Control Board. The adjusted standard affected by the name change provides that 35 Ill. Adm. Code 215.301 does not apply to VOM emissions from Viking Pools fiberglass pool manufacturing facility in Dix, Illinois. The facility is subject to emission limit requirements set forth in the National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Reinforced Plastic Composites Production at 40 CFR 63, subpart WWWW, April 21, 2003.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Supplemental Opinion and Order of the Illinois Pollution Control Board, AS 09-4, effective September 5, 2013.

(200) On November 29, 2012, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted a request to revise Illinois' vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program to reflect changes that have been made to the program since EPA fully approved the I/M program on February 22, 1999.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter k: Emission Standards and Limitations for Mobile Sources, Part 240 Mobile Sources. Effective February 1, 2012.

(B) Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter II: Environmental Protection Agency, Part 276 Procedures to be Followed in the Performance of Inspections of Motor Vehicle Emissions. Effective January 30, 2012.

(ii) Other materials.

(A) Transmittal letter dated November 29, 2012.

(B) Vehicle Emissions Inspection Law of 2005, as amended, 625 ILCS 5/13C (Public Act 94-526 enacted on August 10, 2005; Public Act 94-848 enacted on June 9, 2006; Public Act 97-106, enacted on July 14, 2011).

(C) Listing of Chicago and Metro-East St. Louis NAA Facility Closures (July 2012).

(201) On March 19, 2013, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted a request to repeal the gasoline volatility standards at 35 Ill. Adm. Code 215.585, 218.585, and 219.585, including other related revisions to 35 Ill. Adm. Code Parts 211, 215, 218, and 219, to revise the motor vehicle refinishing equipment specifications at 35 Ill. Adm. Code 218.784 and 219.784, and to repeal the motor vehicle refinishing registration requirements at 35 Ill. Adm. Code 218.792 and 219.792.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter c: Emission Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources, Part 211, Definitions and General Provisions, Sections 211.101 Incorporations by Reference, 211.2870 Heavy Liquid, and 211.5510 Reid Vapor Pressure. Effective January 28, 2013.

(B) Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter c: Emission Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources, Part 215, Organic Material Emission Standards and Limitations, Sections 215.104 Definitions, and 215.105 Incorporation by Reference. Effective January 28, 2013.

(C) Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter c: Emission Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources, Part 218, Organic Material Emission Standards and Limitations for the Chicago Area, Sections 218.112 Incorporations by Reference, 218.128 Monitoring VOL Operations, and 218.784 Equipment Specifications. Effective January 28, 2013.

(D) Illinois Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle B: Air Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, Subchapter c: Emission Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources, Part 219, Organic Material Emission Standards and Limitations for the Metro East Area, Sections 219.112 Incorporations by Reference, 219.128 Monitoring VOL Operations, and 219.784 Equipment Specifications. Effective January 28, 2013.
