
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### § 52.773 Approval status.

(a) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves Indiana's plan for attainment and maintenance of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards under section 110 of the Clean Air Act.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) The Administrator finds that Indiana's new source review strategy satisfies all requirements of Part D, Title 1 of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1977.

(d)-(e) [Reserved]

(f) The Administrator finds ozone strategies for Clark, Elkhart, Floyd, Lake, Marion, Porter, and St. Joseph Counties satisfy all requirements of Part D, Title I of the Clean Air Act that are required to be submitted by January 1, 1981, except as noted below.

(g) The administrator finds that the total suspended particulate strategies for Clark, Dearborn, Dubois, St. Joseph, Vanderburgh, and Vigo Counties satisfy all the requirements of Part D, Title I of the Clean Air Act except as noted below.

(h) The Administrator finds that the SOstrategies for Lake, LaPorte, Marion, Vigo, and Wayne Counties satisfy all requirements of Part D, Title 1 of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977. See § 52.770 (c)(67) and (c)(72).

(i) The Administrator finds that Indiana's ozone plan for Lake and Porter Counties, which was required to be submitted by July 1, 1992, does not satisfy all the requirements of part D, title 1 of the Clean Air Act and, thus, is disapproved. See §§ 52.770(c)(69)and 52.770(d). The disapproval does not affect USEPA's approval (or conditional approval) of individual parts of Indiana's ozone plan and they remain approved.

(j) The Administrator finds that the following portions of Indiana's ozone and CO plans satisfy the related requirements of part D, title 1 of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977:

(1) The transportation control plans for Lake, Porter, Clark and Floyd Counties, submitted on May 14, 1986, June 10, 1986, and April 6, 1987.

(2) The vehicle inspection and maintenance plan for Clark, Floyd, Lake, and Porter Counties, submitted October 27, 1989, and January l9, 1990.

(3) The demonstration of attainment, submitted December 2, 1983, and the carbon monoxide plan as a whole for the designated nonattainment area in Lake County.
