
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### § 52.777 Control strategy: photochemical oxidants (hydrocarbons).

(a) The requirements of subpart G of this chapter are not met because the plan does not provide for attainment and maintenance of the national standards for photochemical oxidants (hydrocarbons) in the Metropolitan Indianapolis Intrastate Region by May 31, 1975.

(b) The requirements of subpart G are not met by Revised APC-15 (November 8, 1974 submission) because it does not provide for attainment and maintenance of the photochemical oxidant (hydrocarbon) standards throughout Indiana.

(c) Part D-Conditional approval-The 1979 Indiana plan for Clark, Floyd, Elkhart, Lake, Marion, Porter, and St. Joseph Counties is approved provided the following conditions are satisfied:

(1) The plan for stationary source volatile organic compound control must contain the following:

(i)-(iv) [Reserved]

(v) For regulation 325 IAC 8-5, Section 6, Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning, the State must conduct a study to demonstrate that the 1,500 gallons exemption meets RACT requirements and submit the results to EPA within 6 months of the effective date of final rulemaking on 325 IAC 8 for VOC from Group II CTG source categories. If the demonstrated emissions resulting from the State's exemption are not essentially equivalent to those resulting from the RACT requirements, then the State must submit to EPA by July 1, 1983, a rule which requires control of emissions from dry cleaning sources using less than 1,500 gallons of perchloroethylene per year.

(2) The stationary source volatile organic control measures submitted by the State on October 23, 1990, and August 19, 1991, are approved as described in 40 CFR 52.770(c)(87) with the exception of 326 IAC 8-5-4 Pneumatic Rubber Tire Manufacturing, on which USEPA has taken no action. It should be noted that although the State's control measures provide that equivalent test methods, alternative emission controls, and revisions in rule applicability must be submitted to the USEPA as proposed revisions to the State Implementation Plan (SIP), such proposed SIP revisions are not part of the SIP unless and until they are approved as such by the USEPA.

(d) Part D-Disapproval. The 1982 Indiana plan for Lake and Porter County is disapproved because it does not assure the attainment and maintenance of the NAAQS there. See §§ 52.770(c)(69) and 52.773(i). The disapproval does not affect USEPA's approval (or conditional approval) of individual parts of Indiana's ozone plan and they remain approved.

(e) Approval-The Administrator approves the incorporation of the photochemical assessment ambient monitoring system submitted by Indiana on November 15, 1993, into the Indiana State Implementation Plan. This submittal satisfies 40 CFR 58.20(f), which requires the State to provide for the establishment and maintenance of photochemical assessment monitoring stations (PAMS) by November 12, 1993.
