
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.777 Control strategy: photochemical oxidants (hydrocarbons).
####### Determination of attainment.

(tt)As required by section 181(b)(2)(A) of the Clean Air Act, the EPA has determined that the Cincinnati, OH-KY-IN Marginal 2008 ozone nonattainment area has attained the 2008 ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of July 20, 2015.

(uu) Approval-On February 23, 2016, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management submitted a request to redesignate the Indiana portion of the Cincinnati, OH-KY-IN area to attainment of the 2008 ozone NAAQS. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. The 2020 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Indiana and Ohio portions of the Cincinnati, OH-KY-IN area are 30.02 tons per summer day (TPSD) for VOC and 30.79 TPSD for NO. The 2030 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Indiana and Ohio portions of the area are 18.22 TPSD for VOC and 16.22 TPSD for NO.

(vv) On June 15, 2016, Indiana submitted 2011 volatile organic compounds and oxides of nitrogen emissions inventories for the Indiana portion of the Chicago-Naperville, Illinois-Indiana-Wisconsin nonattainment area for the 2008 ozone national ambient air quality standard as a revision of the Indiana state implementation plan. The documented emissions inventories are approved as a revision of the state's implementation plan.

(ww) On June 15, 2016, Indiana submitted a certification that sources of volatile organic compounds or oxides of nitrogen located in Lake and Porter Counties are required to annually submit statements documenting these emissions to the state. This certification is approved as a revision to the state's implementation plan.
