
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.776 Control strategy: Particulate matter.
####### Disapproval.

(u)EPA is disapproving the portions of Indiana's Infrastructure SIP for the 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS addressing interstate transport, specifically with respect to section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I).

(v) Approval-The 1997 annual PMmaintenance plans for the following areas have been approved:

(1) The Evansville area (Dubois, Vanderburgh, and Warrick Counties, and portions of Gibson, Pike, and Spencer Counties), as submitted on April 8, 2011. The maintenance plan establishes 2015 motor vehicle emission budgets for the Evansville area of 2628.35 tons per year for NOand 57.05 tons per year for PM, and 2022 motor vehicle emission budgets of 1869.84 tons per year for NOand 53.83 tons per year for PM.

(2) The Indianapolis area (Hamilton, Hendricks, Johnson, Marion and Morgan Counties), as submitted on October 20, 2009, and supplemented on May 31, 2011, January 17, 2013, and March 18, 2013. The maintenance plan establishes 2015 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Indianapolis area of 853.76 tpy for primary PMand 25,314.49 tpy for NOand 2025 motor vehicle emissions budgets of 460.18 tpy for primary PMand 13,368.60 tpy for NO.

(3) The Indiana portion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton nonattainment area (Lawrenceburg Township in Dearborn County), as submitted on December 9, 2010. The maintenance plan establishes 2015 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Ohio and Indiana portions of the Cincinnati-Hamilton area of 1,678.60 tpy for primary PMand 35,723.83 tpy for NOand 2021 motor vehicle emissions budgets of 1,241.19 tpy for primary PMand 21,747.71 tpy for NO.

(4) Approval-On February 1, 2013, Indiana submitted a request to revise the motor vehicle emission budgets (budgets) in the 1997 annual PMmaintenance plan for the Lake and Porter County, Indiana maintenance area. The budgets are being revised with budgets developed with the MOVES2010a model. The 2015 motor vehicle emissions budgets for Lake and Porter County, Indiana are 347.30 tpy PMand 10,486.08 tpy NO. The 2025 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Lake and Porter County area are 188.73 tpy PMand 5,472.34 tpy for NO.

(5) Approval-On July 2, 2013 Indiana submitted a request to revise the approved MOBILE6.2 motor vehicle emission budgets (budgets) in the 1997 annual fine particulate matter maintenance plan for the Evansville maintenance area. The budgets are being revised with budgets developed with the MOVES2010a model. The 2015 motor vehicle emissions budgets are 199.93 tpy PMand 5,642.95 tpy NO. The 2022 motor vehicle emissions budgets are 100.45 tpy PMand 3,173 tpy NO.

(6) Approval-The 1997 annual PMmaintenance plan for the Indiana portion of the Louisville (KY-IN) (Madison Township, Jefferson County and Clark and Floyd Counties), has been approved as submitted on June 16, 2011. The maintenance plan establishes 2025 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Louisville area to be 324.04 tpy for primary PMand 9,311.76 tpy for NO.

(w) Approval-The 1997 annual PMcomprehensive emissions inventories for the following areas have been approved:

(1) Indiana's 2005 NO, directly emitted PM, and SOemissions inventory satisfies the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) for the Evansville area.

(2) Indiana's 2006 NO, primary PM, and SOemissions inventories and 2007/2008 VOC and ammonia emission inventories, as submitted on October 20, 2009 and supplemented on May 31, 2011 and March 18, 2013, satisfy the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for the Indianapolis area.

(3) Indiana's 2005 NO, directly emitted PM, and SOemissions inventory; and 2007 VOCs and ammonia emissions inventory, satisfy the emissions inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) for the Cincinnati-Hamilton area.

(4) Indiana's 2005 NO, primary PM, and SOemissions inventory satisfies the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for Lake and Porter Counties.

(5) Indiana's 2008 NO, directly emitted PM, SO, VOC, and ammonia emissions inventory satisfies the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) for the Louisville area.
