
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.787 Gasoline transfer vapor control.
####### Gasoline

(a)means any petroleum distillate having a Reid vapor pressure of 4 pounds or greater.

(b) This section is applicable in the County of Marion, Indiana (including all cities, towns and municipal corporations therein).

(c) No person shall transfer or permit the transfer of gasoline from any delivery vessel into any stationary source container with a capacity greater than 250 gallons unless such container is equipped with a submerged fill pipe and unless the displaced vapors from the storage container are processed by a control system that prevents release to the atmosphere of no less than 90 percent by weight of organic compounds in said vapors displaced from the stationary storage container location. The control system shall include one or more of the following:

(1) A vapor-tight return line from the storage container to the delivery vessel and a system that will ensure that the vapor return line is connected before gasoline can be transferred into the container. If a "vapor-balance return" system is used to meet the requirements of this section, the system shall be so constructed as to be readily adapted to retrofit with an adsorption system, refrigeration-condensation system or equivalent system connected to the stationary storage container.

(2) Refrigeration-condensation sys- tem or adsorption system connected to the stationary storage container.

(3) An equivalent system, approved by the Administrator or his designee, designed to recover or eliminate no less than 90 percent by weight of the organic compounds in the displaced vapor.

(d) No person shall own or operate a delivery vessel containing gasoline unless the delivery vessel is so designed and maintained as to be vapor-tight at all times. This paragraph (d) shall not apply to delivery vessels in transit through Marion County which neither are filled nor deliver gasoline therein, nor shall this paragraph (d) be construed to prohibit safety-valves on other devices required by governmental safety regulations. Delivery vessels which are filled in Marion County but do not deliver in Marion County may be controlled only for filling.

(e) No person shall own or operate a facility for the filling of delivery vessels with gasoline unless the facility is equipped with a control system, which can recover or eliminate at least 90 percent by weight of the organic compounds in the vapors displaced from the delivery vessel during refilling. Facilities which have a daily throughput of 20,000 gallons or less are required to have a vapor recovery system in operation no later than May 31, 1977. Delivery vessels and storage containers served exclusively by facilities required to have a vapor recovery system in operation no later than May 31, 1977, also will be required to meet the provisions of this section no later than May 31, 1977.

(f) After March 1, 1976, no person shall intentionally release gasoline vapors from a delivery vessel, except to a control system that can recover or eliminate at least 90 percent by weight of organic compounds in the vapors released.

(g) The provisions of paragraph (c) of this section shall not apply to the following:

(1) Stationary containers having a capacity less than 550 gallons used exclusively for the fueling of farming equipment.

(2) Any stationary container having a capacity less than 2,000 gallons installed prior to promulgation of this paragraph.

(3) Transfer made to storage tanks equipped with floating roofs or their equivalent.

(4) Gasoline storage compartments of 1,000 gallons or less in gasoline delivery vessels in use on the promulgated date of this regulation will not be required to be retrofitted with a vapor return system until January 1, 1977.

(h) The operation of a source, otherwise, subject to paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of this section, shall not be a violation of paragraph (c), (d), or (e), respectively, if the following acts shall be completed with respect to such source before the following dates:

(1) October 1, 1974. The owner of the source or his designee shall submit to the Administrator, a final control plan, which describes at a minimum the steps that will be taken by the source to achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.

(2) March 1, 1975. Negotiate and sign all necessary contracts for control systems, or issue orders for the purchase of component parts to accomplish emission control.

(3) May 1, 1975. Initiate on-site construction or installation of control system equipment.

(4) February 1, 1976. Complete on-site construction or installation of control system equipment.

(5) March 1, 1976. Achieve final compliance with the applicable provisions of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.

(6) Any owner of a source subject to the compliance schedule in this paragraph shall certify to the Administrator, within 5 days after the deadline for each increment of progress, whether or not the required increment of progress has been met.

(i) As an alternative to compliance with the schedule under paragraph (h) of this section:

(1) The owner of a source which is in compliance with the provisions of paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of this section, shall certify such compliance to the Administrator by October 1, 1974. The Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary for proper certification.

(2) A source for which a compliance schedule is adopted by the State and approved by the Administrator may operate in conformity with such compliance schedule.

(3) The owner of a source may submit to the Administrator, by October 1, 1974, a proposed alternative compliance schedule. No such schedule may provide for compliance after March 1, 1976. Until promulgated by the Administrator, such source shall conform with applicable portions of paragraph (c), (d), (e), or (h) of this section. Upon promulgation of the compliance schedule by the Administrator, no person shall own or operate the source except in conformity with the promulgated schedule.

(j) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Administrator from promulgating a separate schedule for any source to which the application of the compliance schedule in paragraph (h) of this section fails to satisfy the requirements of ยง 51.15 (b) and (c) of this chapter.

(k) Any new container, facility, or vessel subject to this regulation that is placed in operation after October 1, 1974, shall within 30 days of commencing operation submit a compliance schedule in conformity with paragraph (i) of this section and shall otherwise comply with this section. Any facility subject to this regulation that is placed in operation after March 1, 1976, shall comply with the applicable requirements of this section immediately upon commencing operation.
