
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Additional material.

(ii)(A) September 1, 1983, transmittal by IAPCD's A. Sunderland of Olin's Mass Emission Tests, dated August 26, 1983.

(B) April 5, 1984, letter from IAPCD's E. Stresino transmitting original petition, including Method 9 opacity data.

(52) On February 23, 1984, the Indiana Air Pollution Control Board submitted a revision to Indiana's SOSIP waiving the self-monitoring requirement for Public Service Indiana's Edwardsport Generating Station, as set forth in section 4(a) of Rule 325 IAC 7-1. See (c)(19). This revision becomes effective once the Edwardsport Station achieves an annual operating capacity of no greater than 10%.

(53) On October 6, 1980, Indiana submitted revised opacity regulation 325 IAC 5-1. It replaces 1972 APC 3 for process sources, approved at paragraph (b), and SIP 1974 APC 3 for combustion sources, approved in part at subparagraph (c)(14). Indiana does not intend 325 IAC 5-1 to regulate the emission points in Lake County listed in Table 2 of 325 IAC 6-1-110.2 (subparagraph (c)(57)). USEPA is disapproving 325 IAC 5-1 for these sources. Indiana does not intend 325 IAC 5-1 to regulate certain coke battery emission sources listed in 325 IAC 11-3 (subparagraph (c)(42)). USEPA is disapproving 325 IAC 5-1 as it applies to the provisions of 325 IAC 11-3 which USEPA disapproved at (c)(42), i.e., pushing and quenching sources throughout the State and coke oven doors in Lake and Marion Counties. Additionally, Indiana has modified 325 IAC 5-1 as it applies to the stack emission points in Porter County listed at 325 IAC 6-6-4. USEPA disapproved 325 IAC 5-1 as it applies to these Porter County sources on February 5, 1987 (52 FR 3640). For those source categories where USEPA is disapproving 325 IAC 5-1, they remain regulated by the previously approved opacity SIP which consists of SIP 1974 APC 3 for combustion sources and 1972 APC 3 for process sources. Additionally, as long as the Bethlehem Steel Corporation No. 2 Coke Oven Battery Underfire Stack EVEL (subparagraph (c)(49)) remains approved, it replaces 325 IAC 5-1.
