
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### § 52.800 Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Implementation Plan for the State of Indiana" and all revisions submitted by Indiana that were Federally approved prior to December 31, 2009.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 31, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) The State Air Pollution Control Board submitted a SOcontrol strategy for the City of Indianapolis on March 16, 1972.

(2) The Governor submitted Pub. L. 100, Regulation APC 12-R and 13 through 17 on April 11, 1972.

(3) On May 1, 1972, the Governor's office submitted an errata sheet and revised pages for the State plan.

(4) A request for a nine month extension to achieve secondary SOstandards in the Indianapolis Region was made by the Governor on May 16, 1972.

(5) The State Air Pollution Control Board submitted additional information on surveillance methodology (non-regulatory) on May 17, 1972.

(6) Regulation APC 4-R was transmitted by the Governor on June 30, 1972.

(7) Assurance that emission data for sources was available for public inspection was given on July 24, 1972, by the Technical Secretary to the Indiana Board.

(8) Clarification of a policy on availability of emission data to the public sent August 17, 1972, by the Technical Secretary to the Indiana Board.

(9) On September 15, 1972, amendments to State control regulations 13, 15 and 16 were submitted to the Governor.

(10) On May 8, 1973, the Governor submitted a new regulation (APC-19) which replaced APC-1.

(11) The Governor submitted a transportation control plan for Marion County on October 19, 1973.

(12) On March 7, 1974, the Technical Secretary of the Air Pollution Control Board, acting for the Governor of Indiana, submitted new regulation APC-20.

(13) On October 3, 1974, the Technical Secretary submitted revised regulations APC-16 covering CO, APC-17 covering NOand a new regulation APC-22 covering classification of counties for SO, oxidants, particulates, NOand CO.

(14) On November 8, 1974, the Technical Secretary submitted revised regulation APC-3 covering visible emissions and revised regulation APC-15 covering hydrocarbons.

(15) On December 5, 1974, the Technical Secretary submitted revised regulation APC-13 covering SO. On July 18, 1975, an updated Technical Support Document on APC-13 was submitted by the Technical Secretary.

(16) On June 14, 1976, the Technical Secretary submitted enforcement orders varying the final sulfur dioxide emission limitations for the Warrick and Culley electrical generating stations in Warrick County.

(17) On March 16, 1977, the Technical Secretary submitted new regulation APC-8, Continuous Emission Monitoring; and revised regulations APC-7, Incinerators; and APC-14, Indiana Ambient Air Quality Standards.

(18) On May 18, 1977, the Technical Secretary submitted revised regulation APC-2, Open Burning.

(19) On June 26, 1979, the Governor submitted a revised sulfur dioxide strategy, including regulation APC 13 with appendix, which was promulgated by the State on June 19, 1979 for all areas of the State. This included the Part D sulfur dioxide regulations for Lake, LaPorte, and Marion Counties. On August 27, 1980 and July 16, 1981 the State committed itself to correct conditionally approved items within their strategy. On October 6, 1980, the State submitted a recodified version of APC 13 which was promulgated by the State on August 27, 1980. This included 325 IAC 7, 325 IAC 1.1-6, 325 IAC 1.1-7-2 and 4, 325 IAC 12-5-1 and 2(a), 325 IAC 12-9-1 and 4, and 325 IAC 12-18-1 and 2. EPA is not taking action on: (i) 325 IAC 7 as it applies to Floyd and Vigo Counties, (ii) the 30-day averaging compliance method contained in 325 IAC 7-1-3, and (iii) the stack height provision for NIPSCO's Mitchell Station in the Lake County SOstrategy and (4) the stack height provisions for IPALCO's Stout Generating Chemicals Company, and Detroit Diesel Allison's Plant #8 in the Marion County SOstrategy.

(20) On June 26, 1979, the State of Indiana submitted to EPA revisions to the ozone and carbon monoxide portions (section 3.3.24) of its Marion County State Implementation Plan. On March 11, 1980, the state submitted revisions to the Marion County technical appendix to section 3.3.24. On May 19, 1980, the state submitted ozone and carbon monoxide attainment demonstrations for Marion County (section 1.5). On September 8, 1980 the state submitted its memoranda of understanding. On October 9 and October 15, 1980, the state submitted documentation concerning interagency coordination and the analysis of transportation control measures. On January 7, 1981, the state submitted corrections and clarifications in response to EPA's notice of proposed rulemaking (45 FR 81070).

(21) On June 26, 1979 Indiana submitted a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program for Clark, Floyd, Lake, and Porter Counties. Additional commitments were submitted on April 7, 1980; June 12, 1980; August 27, 1980; November 13, 1980 and November 24, 1980.

(22) On June 26, 1979, Indiana made submittals pertaining to section 121 Consultation, section 110(a)(2)(K)-Permit Fees, section 126-Interstate Pollution, section 127-Public Notification, section 128-State Boards and section 110(a)(2)(F) (ii) and (iii)-Continuous Emission Monitoring Additional commitments were secured on April 17, 1980, June 25, 1980, August 1, 1980, November 10, 1980, December 9, 1980, and December 31, 1980. A revised version of Indiana's continuous emission monitoring regulation (325 IAC 3) was submitted on October 6, 1980.

(23) On June 26, 1979, the State of Indiana submitted a revision to provide for modification of the existing air quality surveillance network.

(24) On June 26, 1979, the Governor submitted a revised new source review regulation, APC-19. Additional information and commitments were submitted on June 25, 1980 and May 19, 1981. EPA is not taking action on section 7 of APC-19, Prevention of Significant deterioration.

(25) On June 26, 1979 the Governor submitted revised emission limits for Knauf Fiberglass, Shelby County. Additional information was submitted by November 21, 1979. The emission limitations were recodified as 325 IAC 11-4 and 11-4 Appendix A and were resubmitted on October 6, 1980.

(26) On June 26, 1979 the Governor submitted Indiana's definition regulation, APC-1. The definitions were recodified as 325 IAC 1.1-1 and resubmitted on October 6, 1980. On January 21, 1981 Indiana submitted a revised definition for "positive net air quality benefit." EPA is taking no action on 325 IAC 1.1-1-82, definition of "State Implementation Plan (SIP)."

(27) On October 6, 1980, Indiana submitted Regulation 325 IAC 1.1-2 (formerly APC 14) which includes the primary and secondary ambient air quality standards for ozone and lead.

(28) On February 26, 1981, Indiana submitted a revision to its plan waiving the State's sulfur dioxide air monitoring requirement of section 4(a) of Regulation 325 IAC 7-1 for the area around Public Service of Indiana's Noblesville Generating Station.

(29) On June 26, 1979, May 19, 1980, September 24, 1980, October 9, 1980 and October 15, 1980, Indiana submitted transportation control plans and ozone demonstrations of attainment for Lake, Porter, Clark, Floyd, St. Joseph, Elkhart and Allen Counties. It also submitted a carbon monoxide demonstration of attainment for Lake County. EPA is taking no action on the ozone demonstration of attainment for St. Joseph, Elkhart and Allen Counties.

(30) On April 10, 1981, Indiana submitted revised emission limits for Indiana Farm Bureau Cooperative Association's Beech Grove plant.

(31) On February 11, 1980, Indiana submitted a revised sulfur dioxide strategy for Vigo County. Technical information was submitted on December 10, 1979 and on May 30, 1980. On October 6, 1980, the State submitted a recodified version of the Vigo County Regulations, 325 IAC Article 7, which was promulgated by the State on August 27, 1980. EPA is not taking action on the 30-day averaging compliance method contained in 325 IAC 7-1-3 as it applies to Vigo County.

(32) On November 24, 1981, Indiana submitted site specific emission limitations for Tecumseh Pipe Line Company, Schererville; and Wayne Transportation Division, Richmond.

(33) On February 11, 1980, Indiana submitted APC 15. EPA is taking no action the "bubble" provisions contained in Section 8(a)(2) of revised APC 15.

(34) On June 26, 1979, the Governor of Indiana submitted general TSP RACT emission limits for nonattainment areas. These regulations were amended and recodified as 325 IAC 6-1 and resubmitted on October 6, 1980. On October 6, 1980, the State submitted a revised TSP regulation for process sources, 325 IAC 6-3; a source specific Dearborn County strategy (amendments were submitted on August 10, 1981), 325 IAC 6-1-8; a source specific Dubois County strategy, 325 IAC 6-1-9; and a source specific Wayne County strategy (amendments were submitted on January 29, 1981), 325 IAC 6-1-14. On February 11, 1980, Indiana submitted a source specific Marion County strategy (amendments were submitted on October 28, 1981), 325 IAC 6-1-12. EPA is deferring rulemaking at this time on the coke battery emission limitations in the Marion County strategy. On January 29, 1981, the State submitted a source specific Vigo County strategy (amendments were submitted on October 28, 1981 and May 7, 1982), 325 IAC 6-1-13; a source specific Howard County strategy, 325 IAC 6-1-15; and a source specific Vanderburgh County strategy (amendments were submitted on October 28, 1981), 325 IAC 6-1-16. EPA is deferring rulemaking at this time on the coke battery emission limitations in the Vigo County strategy and on whether the Howard County strategy currently contains all the elements required by the Clean Air Act. On July 8, 1981, the State submitted a source specific Clark County strategy, 325 IAC 6-1-17, and a source specific St. Joseph County strategy, 325 IAC 6-1-18. On January 29, 1981 and May 7, 1982, the State submitted additional information and commitments.

(35) On October 6, 1980, Indiana submitted its regulations as recodified. Amendments were submitted on January 29, 1981 and March 18, 1981. EPA's approval is directed specifically to the codification numbering system change, not to the substance within each of the codified rules.

(36) [Reserved]

(37) On May 10, 1982, Indiana submitted source specific emission limits contained in operating permits for the Bunge Corporation, Globe Industries, Skyline Corporation, and Dubois County Farm Bureau Co-op Assn., Inc. as revisions to the Indiana SIP.

(38) On April 27, 1982, Indiana submitted source specific TSP emission limits for Huntingburg Wood Products, Jasper Desk Company, Jasper Office Furniture Company, Arist-O-Kraft Company, Mohr Construction Company, Dana Corporation, and Allis Chalmers Corporation. On April 29, 1982, Indiana submitted source specific VOC emission limits for McGee Refining Corporation, Hesco Industries, and Clark Oil and Refining Corporation.

(39) On November 25, 1980, Indiana submitted 325 IAC Article 8, Volatile Organic Compound Regulations. This regulation adds Group II CTG requirements to Indiana's VOC plan and was State promulgated on October 15, 1980. EPA is not taking action on 325 IAC 8-1.1 Section 2(b), Bubble Approach.

(40) On November 24, 1981, Indiana submitted site specific emission limitations for Jeffboat, Inc., Jeffersonville.

(41) On November 23, 1982, Indiana submitted source-specific emission limits for Paul H. Rohe Company, Inc.

(42) On June 26, 1979, Indiana submitted its coke oven battery regulation, APC 9. On October 6, 1980 Indiana resubmitted this regulation recodified as 325 IAC 11-3. On August 27, 1981, Indiana submitted amendments to 325 IAC 11-3. EPA is taking no action on 325 IAC 11-3-2(a), Pre-Carbonization Emissions. It is taking no action on 325 IAC 11-3-2(i), Underfire Particulate and Sulfur Dioxide Emissions, as it applies to Lake County.

(43) On February 26, 1981 and June 22, 1982, Indiana submitted a 9.57 lbs/MMBTU sulfur dioxide emission limit for IMEC's Breed Generating Station in Sullivan County. This limit supersedes that approved at paragraph (c)(19).

(44) On June 28, 1982, Indiana submitted new open burning regulations for Marion County. An amendment was submitted on August 25, 1982.

(45) On March 15, 1983, Indiana submitted a revision to the TSP and SOportions of its SIP in the form of operating permits for the Sisters of Providence Convent in St. Mary-of-the-Woods, Indiana.

(46) On November 29, 1982, and December 9, 1982, Indiana submitted amendments to 325 IAC 11-4, Fiber Glass Insulation Manufacturing (Superfine Process) Limitations.

(47) On August 17, 1983, Indiana submitted emission limits of 1.8 lbs/hr and 2.4 tons/yr for the boilers at Jasper Cabinet Co., Dubois County. The 1.8 lbs/hr limit replaces the 7.6 lbs/hr limit approved for this source in subparagraph 34.

(48) [Reserved]

(49) On March 28, 1983, Indiana submitted a 20% 2-hour opacity limit as an "equivalent visible emission limit" (EVEL) for the underfire stack at Bethlehem Steel Corporation's Coke Battery No. 2 in Porter County. This EVEL is approved for as long as the SIP mass emission limit determined from 325 IAC 6-2 (October 6, 1980, submittal) for this source remains in the SIP See (c)(6), (35), and (42).

(50) On December 21, 1983, the Indiana Air Pollution Control Board submitted Indiana Rule 325 IAC 6-2.1, Particulate Emission Limitations for Sources of Indirect Heating. This rule repeals and replaces Indiana Rule 325 IAC 6-2. See §§ 52.770(c)(4) and (c)(35) and § 52.776(i).
