
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### § 52.797 Control strategy: Lead.

(a)-(b) [Reserved]

(c) On January 12, 1988, Indiana'a Office of Air Management (OAM), Indiana Department of Environmental Management, agreed to review all relevant hood designs and performance guidance to determine which criteria to use in determining ongoing compliance with the capture efficiency provisions in 326 IAC 15-1 for Quemetco, Inc., and Refined Metals. Because these efficiencies are closely related to equipment design, OAM believes that a review of the process and control equipment designs and operating paramenters should provide the necessary determination of compliance. OAM will work with the Indianapolis local agency, the Indianapolis Air Pollution Control Division, on viable alternatives and will keep USEPA up to date on its progress. OAM anticipates that specific criteria for determining compliance will be incorporated into the sources' operation permits (and forwarded to USEPA for informational purposes), and, should the opportunity arise, 326 IAC 15-1 will be revised to similarly incorporate capture efficiency criteria.

(d) On March 2, 2000, Indiana submitted a maintenance plan for Marion County as part of its request to redesignate the County to attainment of the lead standard.

(e) On April 1, 2009, Indiana submitted an updated maintenance plan under section 175A of the CAA for Marion County for the continued attainment of the 1.5 µg/mlead standard.

(f) Approval-Indiana's 2008 lead emissions inventory for the Muncie area, as submitted on April 14, 2016, satisfying the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for the Muncie area.

(g) Approval - The 2008 lead maintenance plan for the Muncie, Indiana nonattainment area has been approved as submitted on April 14, 2016.
