
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Additional material.

(ii)(A) A November 30, 1981, letter from Harry Williams, Technical Secretary, Indiana Air Pollution Control Board establishing Indiana's air quality surveillance network for lead.

(B) A November 21, 1983, letter from Harry Williams, Technical Secretary, confirming that the Corning Glass facility in Wells County was permanently shut down and had been taken out of the State's emission inventory.

(C) A June 9, 1987, letter from Timothy Method, Acting Assistant Commissioner, submitting a general strategy and additional increments of progress required of Hammond Lead.

(66) On October 21, 1987, the State of Indiana submitted 325 IAC 7-1-3.1, Reporting Requirements and Methods to Determine Compliance, as a revision to its SOplan. At paragraph (c)(19) of this section, USEPA approved/conditionally approved Indiana's SOplan, 325 IAC 7-1, for most areas of the State. However, the emission limits in this plan were set aside by the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit because USEPA took no action on the State's 30-day averaging compliance method in 325 IAC 7-1-3. New compliance method 325 IAC 7-1-3.1 replaces former 325 IAC 7-1-3. Therefore, with EPA's approval of 325 IAC 7-1-3.1, USEPA is reinstating its March 12, 1982, approval of Indiana's October 6, 1980, SOrule, 325 IAC 7-1-1,7-1-2 (except for any emission limits in the below named counties), 7-1-4, 7-1-5, 7-1-6, and 7-1-7. Other than these general provisions and 325 IAC 7-1-3.1, USEPA is not acting on or approving today Indiana's SOplan for Dearborn, Floyd, Gibson, Jefferson, Lake, LaPorte, Marion, Morgan, Porter, Sullivan, Vermillion, Vigo, Warrick, and Wayne Counties. Indiana recodified 325 IAC 7-1-1 through 7-1-7 to 326 IAC 7-1-1 through 7-1-7 and submitted the recodified rules on November 16, 1988.
