
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### § 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Additional material.

(ii)(A) On June 10, 1986, Indiana submitted a May 23, 1986, letter from the Northwestern Indiana Regional Planning Commission discussing the Lake and Porter Counties' transportation control plans and their implementation.

(B) [Reserved]

(69) On December 2, 1983, Indiana submitted its ozone plan for Lake and Porter Counties, as adopted by the Indiana Air Pollution Control Board on November 2, 1983. On March 2, 1984, Indiana submitted as its attainment demonstration for Lake and Porter Counties, Illinois' attainment demonstration for the greater Chicago area. The greater Chicago attainment demonstration, as submitted by Indiana, and Indiana's overall ozone plan for Lake and Porter Counties is disapproved. See §§ 52.773(i) and 52.777(d). The disapproval does not affect USEPA's approval (or conditional approval) of individual parts of Indiana'a ozone plan, and they remain approved. See § 52.770(c) (20), (21), (29), (33), (38), (39), (55), (58), and (59).

(70) On February 3, 1988, and August 23, 1988, Indiana submitted its lead plans for Quemetco, Inc., in Indianapolis; Exide Corporation in Logansport; C and D Power System in Attica; and General Battery Corporation in Frankfort. This included a recodification of its former lead rule, 325 IAC 15-1 (40 CFR 52.770(c)(65)), to 326 IAC 15-1 and revisions to this rule.
