
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)326 Indiana Administrative Code 8-10: Automobile refinishing, Section 1: Applicability, Section 2: Definitions, Section 3: Requirements, Section 4: Means to limit volatile organic compound emissions, Section 5: Work practice standards, Section 6: Compliance procedures, Section 7: Test procedures, Section 8: Control system operation, maintenance, and monitoring, and Section 9: Record keeping and reporting. Adopted by the Indiana Air Pollution Control Board June 7, 1995. Filed with the Secretary of State October 3, 1995. Published at Indiana Register, Volume 19, Number 2, November 1, 1995. Effective November 2, 1995.

(107) On August 8, 1995, Indiana submitted a site specific SIP revision request for Richmond Power and Light in Wayne County Indiana. The submitted revisions provide for revised particulate matter and opacity limitations on the number 1 and number 2 coal fired boilers at Richmond Power and Light's Whitewater Generating Station. The revisions also allow for time weighted averaging of stack test results at Richmond Power and Light to account for soot blowing. Indiana is making revisions to 326 IAC 3-2-1, which currently allows Indiana to authorize alternative emission test methods for Richmond Power and Light. Until the rule is revised to remove this authority, and approved by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, no alternate emission test method, changes in test procedures or alternate operating load levels during testing is to be granted to Richmond Power and Light.
