
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) 326 IAC 8-1-9 General record keeping and reporting requirements. 326 IAC 8-1-10 Compliance certification, record keeping, and reporting requirements for certain coating facilities using compliant coatings. 326 IAC 8-1-11 Compliance certification, record keeping, and reporting requirements for certain coating facilities using daily weighted averaging. 326 IAC 8-1-12 Compliance certification, record keeping, and reporting requirements for certain coating facilities using control devices. Adopted by the Indiana Air Pollution Control Board November 6, 1996. Filed with the Secretary of State April 22, 1997. Published at Indiana Register, Volume 20, Number 9, June 1, 1997. Effective May 22, 1997.

(B) 326 IAC 8-5-5 Graphic arts operations. Adopted by the Indiana Air Pollution Control Board November 6, 1996. Filed with the Secretary of State April 22, 1997. Published at Indiana Register, Volume 20, Number 9, June 1, 1997. Effective May 22, 1997.

(123) On July 9, 1997, Indiana submitted a site specific SIP revision request for the University of Notre Dame in Saint Joseph County, Indiana. The submitted revision amends 326 IAC 6-1-18, and provides for revised particulate matter and heat input limitations on the five boilers at Notre Dame's power plant.
