
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) 326 Indiana Administrative Code 8-4: Petroleum Sources, Section 1: Applicability, Subsection (c). Adopted by the Indiana Air Pollution Control Board November 4, 1998. Filed with the Secretary of State April 23, 1999. Published at Indiana Register, Volume 22, Number 9, June 1, 1999. Effective May 23, 1999.

(B) 326 Indiana Administrative Code 8-10: Automobile Refinishing, Section 1: Applicability, Section 3: Requirements. Adopted by the Indiana Air Pollution Control Board November 4, 1998. Filed with the Secretary of State April 23, 1999. Published at Indiana Register, Volume 22, Number 9, June 1, 1999. Effective May 23, 1999.

(128) [Reserved]

(129) On May 18, 1999, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management submitted revised site-specific lead emission limits for Hammond Group-Halstab Division located in Hammond (Lake County), Indiana. The revised emission limits are expressed as pounds-per-hour limits ranging from 0.04 to 0.07 applicable to sixteen separate emissions points. The revised emission limits will result in the reduction of total allowable lead emissions from 31,546 pounds per year as provided for in the current federally-approved State Implementation Plan to 6,832.8 pounds per year.
