
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)Emissions limits for Cerestar USA, Inc. in Lake County contained in Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 6: Particulate Rules, Rule 1: Nonattainment Area Limitations, Section 10.1: Lake County PMemission requirements. Added at 24 In. Reg. 1308. Effective January 13, 2001.

(142) On June 8, 2000 the Indiana Department of Environmental Management submitted a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision amending certain provisions of the Indiana vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program in operation in Lake, Porter, Clark, and Floyd Counties. Among the most significant changes being made to the program include: the exemption of the current calendar year model vehicle plus the (3) previous model years vehicles from emission testing; the inclusion of language that allows the use of the IM93 alternative vehicle emission test currently being used in the program; language that updates the requirement to test vehicles equipped with second generation on-board diagnostics systems (OBDII); and the elimination of the off-cycle test, which is the emission test currently required when there is a change in possession of motor vehicle titles. The Air Pollution Control Board amended 326 IAC 13-1.1 and repealed 326 IAC 13-1.1-17, thereby putting in place the revisions to the I/M program.
