
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Commissioner's Order #2004-04 as issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management on December 22, 2004.

(170) The Indiana Department of Environmental Management submitted revisions to Indiana's State Implementation plan on February 18, 2005, February 21, 2005, and April 8, 2005. Revisions to 326 IAC 1-2-52, 326 IAC 1-2-82.5, and 326 IAC 1-3-4 amend the definition of "particulate matter" to include the definition of PMand amends the section that specifies the national ambient air quality standards. Revisions to 326 IAC 1-1-3 and 326 IAC 1-1-6 update the references to the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) from the 2000 edition to the 2002 edition and add "credible evidence provisions" into state rules consistent with federal requirements, respectively.

(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Indiana Administrative Code are incorporated by reference.

(A) Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 1: General Provisions, Rule 2: Definitions, Section 52: " 'Particulate matter' " defined," Section 52.2: " 'PM' defined," Section 52.4:" 'PM' defined," Section 82.5: " 'Total suspended particulate' or 'TSP' defined." Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 1: General Provisions, Rule 3: Ambient Air Quality Standards, Section 4: "Ambient air quality standards." Filed with the Secretary of State on December 20, 2004 and effective on January 19, 2005. Published at Indiana Register, Volume 28, Number 5, February 1, 2005 (28 IR 1471-1473).

(B) Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 1: General Provisions, Rule 1: Provisions Applicable Throughout Title 326, Section 3: "References to the Code of Federal Regulations." Filed with the Secretary of State on August 26, 2004 and effective on September 25, 2004. Published at Indiana Register, Volume 28, Number 1, October 1, 2004 (28 IR 17).

(C) Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 1: General Provisions, Rule 1: Provisions Applicable Throughout Title 326, Section 6: "Credible evidence." Filed with the Secretary of State on February 14, 2005 and effective on March 16, 2005. Published at Indiana Register, Volume 28, Number 7, April 1, 2005 (28 IR 2045).

(171) On April 8, 2005, Indiana submitted final adopted revisions for the Dearborn County sulfur dioxide emission limitations in 326 IAC 7-4-13 as a requested revision to the Indiana state implementation plan. EPA is approving these revisions, which remove obsolete rule language for Indiana Michigan Tanners Creek Station and update information for other companies listed in the rule.

(i) Incorporation by reference. (A) Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 7: Sulfur Dioxide Rules, Rule 4: Emission Limitations and Requirements by County, Section 13: Dearborn County Sulfur Dioxide Emission Limitations. Filed with the Secretary of State on February 14, 2005, and effective March 16, 2005. Published in the Indiana Register on April 1, 2005 (28 IR 2021).

(172) On April 8, 2005, and as supplemented on July 6, 2005, Indiana submitted a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision for the control of sulfur dioxide (SO) emissions in Lake County, Indiana. The SIP revision submitted by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) amends 326 Indiana Administrative Code (IAC) Article 7. Indiana's revised SOrule consists of changes to 326 IAC 7-4 which sets forth facility-specific SOemission limitations and recordkeeping requirements for Lake County. The rule revision also reflects updates to company names, updates to emission limits currently in permits, deletion of facilities that are already covered by natural gas limits, and other corrections and updates. Due to changes in section numbers, references to citations in other parts of the rule have also been updated.
