
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Amendments to Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 7 SULFUR DIOXIDE RULES, Rule 1.1 Sulfur Dioxide Emission Limitations, sections 326 IAC 7-1.1-1, "Applicability", 326 IAC 7-1.1-2 "Sulfur Dioxide Emission Limitations", and 326 IAC 7-2-1 "Reporting Requirements: Methods to Determine Compliance"; newly created 326 IAC 7-4.1, "Lake County Sulfur Dioxide Emission Limitations", adopted by the Indiana Air Pollution Control Board on March 2, 2005. Filed with the Secretary of State May 25, 2005, effective June 24, 2005.

(173) The Indiana Department of Environmental Management submitted amendments to Indiana's State Implementation Plan on September 1, 2005. The amendments include the repeal of 326 IAC 6-1, which is replaced with new articles 326 IAC 6.5, "Particulate Matter Limitations for all Counties Except Lake County" and 326 IAC 6.8, "Particulate Matter Limitations for Lake County."

(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Indiana Administrative Code are incorporated by reference.

(A) Amendments to Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 6.5 Particulate Matter Limitations Except Lake County, and Article 6.8 Particulate Matter Limitations For Lake County. Adopted by the Indiana Air Pollution Control Board on May 4, 2005. Filed with the Secretary of State on August 10, 2005 and effective on September 9, 2005. Published at Indiana Register, Volume 28, Number 12, September 1, 2005 (3454).

(174) [Reserved]

(175) On December 15, 2005, Indiana submitted revised particulate matter (PM) regulations for ASF Keystone, Inc. in Lake County. The emission limit for the small coil manufacturing unit is increased while the limits for the medium and large coil manufacturing units are decreased. The result of these revisions is a net decrease in PMemission limits. The emission limits for miscellaneous coil manufacturing are removed because the unit no longer operates. EPA also removed the process weight rate emission limits for the four units.

(i) Incorporation by reference.
