
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Indiana Register

(A) Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 6.8: Particulate Matter Limitations for Lake County, Rule 2: Lake County: PMEmission Requirements, Section 4: ASF Keystone, Inc.-Hammond. Filed with the Secretary of State on October 20, 2005 and effective November 19, 2005. Published in 29794 on December 1, 2005.

(176) On December 21, 2005, Indiana submitted revised regulations to the EPA. As a result, the compounds, 1,1,1,2,2,3,3-heptafluoro-3-methoxy-propane, 3-ethoxy-1,1,1,2,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-dodecafluoro-2-(trifluoromethyl)hexane, 1,1,1,2,3,3,3-heptafluoropropane, and methyl formate, are added to the list of "nonphotochemically reactive hydrocarbons" or "negligibly photochemically reactive compounds" in 326 IAC 1-2-48 and these compounds are deleted from the list of VOCs in 326 IAC 1-2-90. Companies producing or using the four compounds will no longer need to follow the VOC rules for these compounds. The requirements in 326 IAC 1-2-48 and 1-2-90 were also modified for the compound t-butyl acetate. It is not considered a VOC for emission limits and content requirements. T-butyl acetate will still be considered a VOC for the recordkeeping, emissions reporting, and inventory requirements.

(i) Incorporation by reference.
