
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 2: Permit Review Rules, Rule 6 Emission Reporting, Section 1: Applicability, Section 3: Compliance schedule, and Section 4: Requirements. Approved by the Attorney General June 29, 2006. Approved by the Governor July 13, 2006. Filed with the Publisher July 14, 2006. Published on the Indiana Register Web site August 9, 2006, Document Identification Number (DIN):20060809-IR-326050078FRA. Effective August 13, 2006.

(179) On July 17, 2006, Indiana submitted final adopted revisions, which add 326 IAC 8-1-6 (3)(B) and (C), to its VOC rules for new facilities in 326 IAC 8-1-6 as a requested revision to the Indiana state implementation plan. EPA is approving these revisions, which exempt boat manufacturers subject to NESHAPS for boat manufacturing, or reinforced plastics composites manufacturers subject to NESHAPS for reinforced composites production facilities, from the requirement to do a best available control technology analysis provided they comply with the applicable NESHAPS.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 8: Volatile Organic Compound Rules, Rule 1: General Provisions, Section 6: New facilities; general reduction requirements. Final adopted by the Air Pollution Control Board on March 1, 2006. Filed with the Secretary of State on May 25, 2006, and became effective June 23, 2006. Published in the Indiana Register on July 1, 2006 (29 IR 3350).

(180) On November 1, 2005, and supplemented on March 20, 2007, the State of Indiana submitted a source specific revision to its state implementation plan for control of particulate matter in Title 326 of the Indiana Administrative Code (IAC), Rule 6.5-7, Section 13, which contains particulate matter emission limits for Holy Cross Services Corporation, to reflect current operating conditions of the boilers at St. Mary's College, located in Notre Dame, Indiana. The revision in 326 IAC 6.5-7-13 also changes the source name from St. Mary's to Holy Cross Services Corporation (Saint Mary's Campus).

(i) Incorporation by reference. Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 6.5: PM Limitations Except Lake County, Rule 7: St. Joseph County, Section 13: Holy Cross Services Corporation (Saint Mary's Campus). Approved by the Attorney General January 18, 2007. Approved by the Governor January 23, 2007. Filed with the Publisher January 26, 2007. Published on the Indiana Register Web site February 14, 2007, Document Identification Number (DIN):20070214-IR-326060121FRA. Effective February 25, 2007.

(181) On September 2, 2004, Indiana submitted modifications to its Prevention of Significant Deterioration and nonattainment New Source Review rules as a revision to the state implementation plan. On October 25, 2005, and January 17, 2007, Indiana submitted revisions to the September 2, 2004 submittal.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Title 326 of the Indiana Administrative Code, Rules 2-1.1-7, 2-2-1(a) through (l), 2-2-1(n) through (kk), 2-2-1(mm) through (tt), 2-2-1(uu)(1) through (4), 2-2-1(vv) through (aaa), 2-2-2(a) through (d)(4), 2-2-2(d)(6) through (e), 2-2-2(g) through (i), 2-2-3, 2-2-4, 2-2-5(a), 2-2-5(c) through (e), 2-2-6, 2-2-8, 2-2.4, 2-3-1(a) through (i), 2-3-1(k) through (ff), 2-3-1(hh) through (uu), 2-3-2(a) through (c)(4), 2-3-2(c)(6) through (k), 2-3-2(m), 2-3-3(a) through (b)(11), 2-3-3(b)(14), 2-3.4, 2-5.1-4. Filed with the Secretary of State on August 10, 2004, effective September 10, 2004. Published in the Indiana Register on September 1, 2004 (27 IR 3887).

(182) On March 30, 2007, Indiana submitted final adopted revisions, which amend 326 IAC 8-5-1, concerning rule applicability, and add 326 IAC 8-5-6, fuel grade ethanol production at dry mills, to its VOC rules as a requested revision to the Indiana state implementation plan. By letter of December 19, 2007, Indiana stated that it would be acceptable to measure the concentration limits in 326 IAC 8-5-6 using EPA Method 25(a) expressed as equivalent ethanol with the calibration gas being a mixture of ethanol in air. EPA is approving these revisions, authorizing Indiana to establish an industry-specific State BACT standard for fuel grade ethanol production at dry mill facilities that emit 25 tons or more of VOC per year.
