
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Indiana Register

(A) Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 1: General Provisions, Rule 2: Definitions, Section 48: "'Nonphotochemically reactive hydrocarbon' or 'negligibly photochemically reactive compounds' defined", and Section 90: " 'Volatile organic compound' or 'VOC' defined". Filed with the Secretary of State on October 20, 2005 and effective November 19, 2005. Published in 29795-797 on December 1, 2005.(177) The Indiana Department of Environmental Management submitted revisions to Indiana's State Implementation plan on December 21, 2005, and June 27, 2006. Revisions to 326 IAC 1-3-4 provide consistency between State (326 IAC 1-3-4) and Federal (40 CFR 50.3) reference conditions for measurements of particulate matter air quality; and amendments to 326 IAC 1-1-3 update the references to the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) from the 2002 edition to the 2004 edition.

(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Indiana Administrative Code are incorporated by reference.

(A) Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 1: General Provisions, Rule 1: Provisions Applicable Throughout Title 326, Section 3: References to the Code of Federal Regulations. Filed with the Secretary of State on October 14, 2005 and effective on November 13, 2005. Published at Indiana Register, Volume 29, Number 3, December 1, 2005 (29 IR 795).

(B) Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 1: General Provisions, Rule 3: Ambient Air Quality Standards, Section 4: Ambient Air Quality Standards. Filed with the Secretary of State on March 6, 2006 and effective on April 5, 2006. Published at Indiana Register, Volume 29, Number 7, April 1, 2006 (29 IR 2179).

(178) On August 25, 2006, Indiana submitted final adopted revisions to its emission reporting requirement rules as a revision to the Indiana State Implementation Plan.
