
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 52.800 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)Title 326 of the Indiana Administrative Code (IAC), section 1-1-3, "References to the Code of Federal Regulations" is incorporated by reference. The rule was filed with the Publisher of the Indiana Register on April 1, 2008, and became effective on May 1, 2008. Published in the Indiana Register, on April 30, 2008 (DIN: 20080430-IR-32607037FRA).

(189) On December 19, 2007, Indiana submitted modifications to its Federally Enforceable State Operating Permits rules as a revision to the state implementation plan. The revision extends the maximum permit term for renewals of Federally Enforceable State Operating Permits from five years to ten years. EPA has determined that this revision is approvable under the Clean Air Act.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Indiana Administrative Code Title 326, Article 2: Permit Review Rules, sections 2-1.1-9.5, "General provisions; term of permit", and 2-8-4, "Permit content", are incorporated by reference. Filed with the Publisher of the Indiana Register on November 16, 2007, and became effective on December 16, 2007. Published in the Indiana Register on December 13, 2007 (20071212-IR-326060487FRA).

(190) On September 11, 2008, Indiana submitted a revision to its SIP. The revisions add particulate matter, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides control and emission limitations on the Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company's F.B. Culley Generating Station, a power plant located in Warrick County, Indiana.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Indiana Administrative Code Title 326: Air Pollution Control Board, Article 6: Particulate Rules, Rule 7: Particulate Matter Emission Limitations for Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company, Section 1: "Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company (SIGECO)"; Article 7: Sulfur Dioxide Rules, Rule 4: Emission Limitations and Requirements by County, Section 10: "Warrick County sulfur dioxide emission limitations"; and Article 10: Nitrogen Oxides Rules, Rule 6: Nitrogen Oxides Emission Limitations for Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company, Section 1: "Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company (SIGECO)".

Filed with the Secretary of State on July 31, 2008 and effective on August 30, 2008. Published in Indiana Register 326070309 on August 28, 2008, LSA Document #07-309(F).

(191) The Indiana Department of Environmental Management submitted a revision to Indiana's State Implementation plan on September 25, 2009, to amend 326 IAC 1-1-3, "References to the Code of Federal Regulations". The revision to 326 IAC 1-1-3 updates the references to CFR from the 2007 edition to the 2008 edition.
