
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart R - Kansas
###### ยง 52.875 Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Quality Implementation Plan for the State of Kansas" and all revisions submitted by Kansas that were Federally approved prior to July 1, 1998.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 31, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Various comments on the plan in response to the Regions review were submitted on March 24, 1972, by the State Department of Health. (Non-regulatory)

(2) The Emergency Episode Operations/Communications Manual for the Kansas City Interstate AQCR was submitted on April 6, 1972, by the State Department of Health. (Non-regulatory)

(3) Emergency Episode Operations/Communications Manual for all Kansas Intrastate AQCR's was submitted on February 15, 1973, by the State Department of Health. (Non-regulatory)

(4) Revisions of sections 28-19-6 through 15, 20-24, 30-32, 40-47, 50-52 and 55-58 of the State air pollution control regulations were submitted by the State Department of Health on April 17, 1973.

(5) Letter from the Governor, dated May 29, 1973, concerning the attainment of CO emission standards. (Non-regulatory)

(6) An amendment to the State air quality control law, Senate Bill No. 30, dealing with public access to emission data was submitted on July 27, 1973, by the Governor.

(7) Revisions of sections 28-19-8, 9, 14, 22, 25 and 47 of the State air pollution control regulations were submitted on February 6, 1974, by the Governor.

(8) Copy of the State's analysis and recommendations concerning the designation of Air Quality Maintenance Areas was submitted by letter from the State Department of Health on February 28, 1974. (Non-regulatory)

(9) Kansas submitted State Implementation Plan (SIP) revisions to attain the National Ambient Air Quality Standards on September 17, 1979 for Wyandotte and Johnson Counties, on October 22, 1979 for Douglas County, and on March 10, 1980 for Kansas City of the state designated nonattainment areas under section 107 of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1977. On September 22 and 25, 1980, the state submitted revised regulations on the control of volatile organic compounds and a regulation on the new source permit review program. Included in the plan are the following approved state air pollution control regulations:

(i) The VOC regulations which EPA approved as RACT: 28-19-61 Definitions, 28-19-62 Testing Procedures, 28-19-63 Automobile and Light Duty Trunk Surface Coating, 28-19-65 Petroleum Liquid Storage Tanks, 28-19-66 Petroleum Liquid Storage in External Floating Roof Tanks, 28-19-67 Petroleum Refineries, 28-19-68 Leaks from Petroleum Refinery Equipment, 28-19-69 Cutback Asphalt.

(ii) The New Source Permit Review regulation 28-19-16 through 16m which EPA conditionally approved as meeting the requirements of sections 172(b)(6); 172(b)(11)(A), and 173.

(iii) The Kansas City-Wyandotte County air pollution control regulations which have been adopted by both the Kansas City, Kansas Board of City Commissioners and the Wyandotte County Board of County Commissioners:

(10) The Kansas State Implementation Plan for lead was submitted on February 17, 1981, by the Governor of Kansas, along with a submittal letter which provided additional information concerning the Kansas State Implementation Plan for lead.

(11) Kansas submitted SIP revisions to attain and maintain the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for carbon monoxide on April 16, 1981, for the South Central Kansas Interstate Air Quality Control Region, Wichita nonattainment area. The plan included commitments to complete transportation control measures for the reduction of carbon monoxide from transportation related sources for the attainment of the national standards by December 31, 1982.

(12) A plan revision which makes modifications to the existing Kansas air quality surveillance network was submitted by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment on October 16, 1981.

(13) Additional information to correct two plan deficiencies was submitted by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment on May 12, 1981.

(14) Letter and supporting documents submitted on September 15, 1981, from the Director of Air Quality and Occupational Health relating to reasonably available control technology for certain particulate matter sources in the Kansas City, Kansas area.

(15) New regulations 28-19-70 and 28-19-62 applicable to tank trucks operating at bulk gasoline terminals were submitted by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment on June 15, 1982. State regulation 28-19-51 is revoked. Revised regulations 28-19-16, 28-19-16a, 28-19-16b, 28-19-16c, 28-19-16f, 28-19-16g, 28-19-16h, and 28-19-16i, applicable to new sources in nonattainment areas were included with the June 15, 1982 submittal. Action is deferred on the following regulations: 28-19-16a(d), 28-19-16a(v), 28-19-16, 28-19-16b, 28-19-16c, 28-19-16f, 28-19-16h, 28-19-16i, and 28-19-16a(o). The remainder of the provisions are approved.

(16) New regulations K.A.R. 28-19-17 through K.A.R. 28-19-171 applicable to stationary sources subject to prevention of significant deterioration (PSD) permit requirements were submitted on May 5, 1983. Regulation K.A.R. 28-19-171 pertaining to the use of innovative control technology is not approved. By letter dated June 20, 1984, the State of Kansas agrees to follow the EPA interim stack height policy for each PSD permit issued until such time as EPA revises its general stack height regulations.

(17) Revised regulation K.A.R. 28-19-69, applicable to the use of cutback asphalt, was submitted by the Secretary of the Kansas Department of Health and Environment on February 21, 1986.
