
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart R - Kansas
###### ยง 52.875 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Kansas Administrative Regulations (KAR) 28-19-7, 28-19-8, 28-19-9, 28-19-14, 14(a) and 14(b), 28-19-31, 28-19-45, which became effective on May 1, 1986.

(B) Letter of March 27, 1986 to EPA from the State of Kansas Department of Health and Environment.

(C) Letter of September 15, 1987 to EPA from the State of Kansas Department of Health and Environment.

(20) Revisions to the ozone attainment plan for the Kansas City metropolitan area were submitted by the Governor on July 2, 1986. Pursuant to this plan, revised regulations for the control of volatile organic compound emissions were submitted by the Secretary of the Kansas Department of Health and Environment on January 6, 1988. In numerous instances, the revised Kansas regulations provide for departmental discretion to approve compliance plans and test methods which are alternatives to the EPA reference methods. EPA approves these regulations with the understanding that all such alternative compliance plans and test methods must be submitted to EPA, and approved, as individual SIP revisions. In the absence of such approval, the enforceable requirements of the SIP shall be the emission limits or reduction requirements stated in the regulations. Also, the Kansas regulations contain provisions whereby testing is required when the facility intends to demonstrate compliance by improved operations or new emission controls, yet no test procedures are specified. Examples of such provisions are transfer efficiency (TE) and vapor processing systems. Test methods which are developed by the state must be approved by EPA before facilities may demonstrate compliance through alternative controls and/or TE.
