
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Kentucky
###### ยง 52.929 Determination of attainment.

(a) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007-2009, EPA determined that the Huntington-Ashland, West Virginia-Kentucky-Ohio PMnonattainment Area attained the 1997 annual PMNAAQS by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the Area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the Area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Huntington-Ashland PMnonattainment Area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(b) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007-2009, EPA determined that the Louisville, Kentucky-Indiana PMnonattainment Area attained the 1997 annual PMNAAQS by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the Area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the Area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Louisville PMnonattainment Area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(c) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007-2009, EPA determined that the Cincinnati-Hamilton, Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana PMnonattainment Area attained the 1997 annual PMNAAQS by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the Area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the Area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Cincinnati-Hamilton, Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana PMnonattainment Area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).
