
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart T - Louisiana
###### ยง 52.975 Redesignations and maintenance plans; ozone.
####### Approval.

(a)The Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ) submitted redesignation requests and maintenance plans for the areas of Beauregard, Lafourche, and St. Mary Parishes on June 14, 1993. Redesignation requests and maintenance plans were submitted for the areas of Grant and Lafayette on May 25, 1993. The EPA deemed these requests complete on September 10, 1993. Several approvability issues existed, however. The LDEQ addressed these approvability issues in supplemental ozone redesignation requests and revised maintenance plans. These supplemental submittals were received for the areas of Beauregard, Grant, Lafayette, Lafourche, and St. Mary Parishes on March 27, 1995, December 12, 1994, October 21, 1994, November 18, 1994, and November 23, 1994, respectively. The redesignation requests and maintenance plans meet the redesignation requirements in section 107(d)(3)(E) of the Act as amended in 1990. The redesignations meet the Federal requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act as a revision to the Louisiana ozone State Implementation Plan for these areas. The EPA therefore approved the request for redesignation to attainment with respect to ozone for the areas of Beauregard, Grant, Lafayette, Lafourche, and St. Mary Parishes on October 17, 1995.
