
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart T - Louisiana
###### ยง 52.987 Control of hydrocarbon emissions.

(a) Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in the Louisiana Implementation Plan, the control measures listed in paragraphs (b) through (n) of this section shall be implemented in accordance with the schedule set forth below.

(b) Removal from service of a 10,000 barrel capacity crude oil storage tank at the Belcher Station of the Exxon Pipeline Company, Belcher, Louisiana, with a final compliance date of January 1, 1980. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 208 tons per year.

(c) Removal from service of a 55,000 barrel capacity crude oil storage tank at the Weller Station of the Exxon Pipeline Company, near Minden, Louisiana, with a final compliance date of January 1, 1980. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 263 tons per year.

(d) Installation of emission control systems on three 3,000 barrel capacity distillate storage tanks, at the Jones O'Brien Inc., Keatchie, Louisiana, with a final compliance date of January 1, 1978. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 23 tons per year.

(e) Installation of emission control systems on crude oil storage tanks TK-43, TK-44, T-45 and T-49, and distillate tanks T-46 and T-50 at the Atlas Processing Company, Shreveport, Louisiana with a final compliance date of January 2, 1980. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 881 tons per year.

(f) Installation of emission control systems on crude oil storage tanks TK-19-74, TK-HC-74, TK-571-74 and TK-15-74 and agreement to store only nonvolatile organic solvent in tanks TK-F2-74, TK-41-74 and TK-40-74 at the Cotton Valley Solvents Company, Cotton Valley, Louisiana with a final compliance date of January 2, 1980. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 934 tons per year.

(g) Discontinue use of residue gas in pneumatic instrumentation and control systems at the Kerr-McGee Corporation, Devon Corporation, and Eason Oil Company, Calhoun Plant, Calhoun, Louisiana with a final compliance date of July 1, 1978. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 21 tons per year.

(h) Discontinue use of residue gas in pneumatic instrumentation and control systems with a final compliance date of July 1, 1978, and install emission control systems on distillate storage tanks 2-7 and 2-13 with a final compliance date of January 2, 1980, at the Kerr-McGee Corp., Devon Corp., and Eason Oil Co., Dubach Plant, Dubach, Louisiana. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon reduction of at least 367 tons per year.

(i) Installation of emission control systems on a 37,500 barrel capacity crude oil storage tank at Cities Service Pipeline Company, Oil City, Louisiana with a final compliance date of February 1, 1980. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 208 tons per year.

(j) Installation of emission control systems on a 25,000 barrel capacity crude oil storage tank at Cities Service Pipeline Company, Haynesville, Louisiana with a final compliance date of February 1, 1980. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 28 tons per year.

(k) Installation of emission control systems on a 10,000 barrel capacity crude oil storage tank at Cities Service Pipeline Company, Summerfield, Louisiana with final compliance achieved in August 1977. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 162 tons per year.

(l) Installation of emission control systems on a 30,000 barrel capacity crude oil storage tank at the Scurlock Oil Company, Lake End, Louisiana, with a final compliance date of January 15, 1980. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 90 tons per year.

(m) Installation of emission control systems on a 55,000 barrel capacity crude oil storage tank at the Scurlock Oil Company, Dutchtown Oil Field near Minden, Louisiana, with a final compliance date of January 15, 1980. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 186 tons per year.

(n) Installation of emission control systems on distillate storage tank No. 414 with a final compliance date of September 1, 1979, and the removal from service of tank No. 450 with final compliance achieved on December 1, 1977, at the Texas Eastern Products Pipeline Company, Sarepta, Louisiana. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 355 tons per year.
