
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart T - Louisiana
###### ยง 52.999 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Regulation 22.22.1(A) and 22.22.2(A) Letter dated July 14, 1983, from the State of Louisiana and which change the reference for the test methods from a CTG document to the Louisiana Air Quality Regulations Division's Source Test Manual. These regulations were adopted on September 23, 1982.

(44) On October 4, 1985, the Governor submitted a revision entitled, "Protection of Visibility for Mandatory Class I Federal Areas," July 12, 1985. This submittal included new source review and visibility monitoring strategy as adopted by the Secretary of the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in October 1985.

(45) On August 14, 1985, the Governor of Louisiana submitted a Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Plan including Air Quality Regulations-Part V, (sections 90.1-90.19) as adopted by the Secretary of the Department of Environmental Quality on May 23, 1985. Air Quality Regulations-Part V provides authority for the State to implement the PSD program in certain areas of the State. Letters of commitment for air quality modeling (dated September 30, 1985) and Federal stack height and dispersion technique regulation (dated June 3, 1986) were submitted by the Secretary of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality.
