
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart T - Louisiana
###### ยง 52.993 Emissions inventories.

(a) The Governor of the State of Louisiana submitted the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Baton Rouge (BTR) and Calcasieu Parish (CAL) ozone nonattainment areas on November 16, 1992 as a revision to the State Implementation Plan (SIP). The 1990 base year emission inventory requirement of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, has been satisfied for each of these areas.

(b) The inventories are for the ozone precursors which are volatile organic compounds, nitrogen oxides, and carbon monoxide. The inventories cover point, area, non-road mobile, on-road mobile, and biogenic sources.

(c) The BTR nonattainment area is classified as Serious and includes Ascension, East Baton Rouge, Iberville, Livingston, Point Coupee, and West Baton Rouge Parishes; the CAL nonattainment area is classified as Marginal and includes Calcasieu Parish.

(d) On December 15, 1995, the Governor of the State of Louisiana submitted a revision to the 1990 base year volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions inventory for the Baton Rouge, Louisiana ozone nonattainment area. The revised inventory was submitted as part of the revised Baton Rouge 15 Percent Rate-of-Progress Plan. This revision to the base year inventory modified the point source VOC emissions. The revisions satisfy the requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990.

(e) On January 2, 1997, the Governor of the State of Louisiana submitted a revision to the 1990 base year volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions inventory for the Baton Rouge, Louisiana ozone nonattainment area. The revised inventory was submitted as part of the revised Baton Rouge Post-1996 Rate-of-Progress Plan. This revision to the base year inventory modified the point, area, non-road mobile, on-road mobile, and biogenic sources of VOC emissions. The revisions satisfy the requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990.
