
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart T - Louisiana
###### ยง 52.999 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Louisiana Air Quality Regulations-Part V, Prevention of Significant Deterioration of Air Quality, except that no provision of this part applies to Indian Reservations meaning any Federally recognized reservation established by Treaty, Agreement,Executive Order, or Act of Congress, as adopted on May 23, 1985.

(B) A letter from the Secretary of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality dated September 30, 1985, which commits the Department to use only the EPA approved air quality models in accordance with the provisions of 40 CFR 51.24(1) [now 40 CFR 51.166(1)] and to submit a stack height and dispersion techniques SIP revision by April 8, 1986.

(C) A letter from the Secretary of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality dated June 3, 1986, which certifies that the Department interprets the provisions of section 90.8 of Louisiana PSD regulations as having the same meaning as the Federal stack height and dispersion technique regulation, 40 CFR 51.1(hh)-(kk) [now 40 CFR 51.100(hh)-(kk)], promulgated by EPA in theof July 8, 1985, and that the State will apply, implement, and enforce these requirements in the PSD permitting process.

(D) A narrative explanation and additional requirements entitled "Prevention of Significant Deterioration Revisions to the Louisiana State Implementation Plan".

(46) On January 6, 1988, the Governor of Louisiana submitted a revision to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) that contained Air Quality Regulations, LAC 33: Part III, Section 921, Stack Heights, as adopted by the Secretary of the Department of Environmental Quality on December 20, 1987. Section 921, Stack Heights, enables the State to ensure that the degree of emission limitation required for the control of any air pollutant under its SIP is not affected by that portion of any stack height which exceeds GEP or by any other dispersion technique.
