
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart T - Louisiana
###### ยง 52.999 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21 (December 1987). Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, except section 2105. Storage of Volatile Organic Components (Small Tanks).

(B) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 1. General Provisions, section 111. Definitions-Administrator, Administrative Authority*, Attainment Areas, Nonattainment Areas, SIP, Volatile Organic Compound, and Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General, section 2103. Storage of Volatile Organic Compounds paragraphs A., C., D.1., D.1.a. through D.1.d., D.2., D.2.a., D.2.b., D.3., E., F., H.1., H.2., I. effective January 20, 1990.

(C) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Organic Compounds Subchapter A. General, section 2107. Volatile Organic Compounds-Loading, section 2109. Oil/Water-Separation, paragraphs A.1. through A.4., B. through D., section 2113. Housekeeping, paragraphs A.1 through A.3., A.5., section 2117. Exemptions, section 2119. Variances B., and Subchapter D. Cutback Paving Asphalt section 2127. Cutback Paving Asphalt, paragraphs A., B., C.1., C.2., C.3., D., D.1., D.1.b., D.1.c., D.1.d., and D.2., effective February 20, 1990.

(D) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, Subchapter B. Organic Solvents, section 2123. Organic Solvents, paragraphs C., C.1. through C.5., C.7. through C.9., effective February 20, 1990.

(E) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, Subchapter F. Gasoline Handling, section 2131. Filling of Gasoline Storage Vessels, paragraphs A., B., B.1., B.3., D., D.1., D.4., D.5., E., F., and G., section 2133. Gasoline Bulk Plants paragraphs A., A.1., A.3. through A.6., B., B.3., B.4., C. and D., section 2135. Bulk Gasoline Terminals paragraphs A., B., B.1.a., B.1.a.i., B.1.a.iii., B.1.d., B.2. through B.5., and C. through E., E.1. through E.4., and section 2137. Gasoline Terminal Vapor-Tight Control Procedure. effective July 20, 1990.

(F) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Organic Compounds Subchapter A. General, section 2101. Compliance Schedules, section 2115. Waste Gas Disposal paragraphs A., B., C., D., F., G., H., I.1. through I.5., J. through K., section 2121. Fugitive Emission Control paragraphs B., B.1, B.2., C., C.1.b., C.1.b.i., C.1.b.ii., C.1.b.iii., C.1.c, C.2., C.2.b., C.2.b.i., C.4., C.4.c., C.4.d., C.5. and G., Subchapter C. Vapor Degreasers, section 2125. Vapor Degreasers paragraphs A., A.1., A.2., A.2.i. through A.2.m., A.3., A.3.a. through A.3.d., B., B.1., B.7., B.8., C., C.1., C.1.a. through C.1.c., C.1.i., C.1.j., and D. through G., Subchapter E. Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning Systems, section 2129. Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning Systems paragraphs A., A.1., A.2., A.2.a. through A.2.c., C., and D., Subchapter H. Graphic Arts, section 2143. Graphic Arts (Printing) by Rotogravure and Flexographic Processes paragraphs A., A.1., A.3., A.5., B., C. and D., Subchapter I. Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Facilities, section 2145. Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Facilities, paragraphs A., A.1., A.1.c., and E. through G. effective November 20, 1990.

(G) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds Subchapter A. General, section 2103. Storage of Volatile Organic Compounds paragraphs B.,D., D.2.c. through D.2.e., G., H.3., I.2.c., I.4. and I.5., section 2107. Volatile Organic Compounds-Loading paragraphs D.3. and D.4., section 2109. Oil/Water Separation paragraphs A., B.4., and B.5., section 2111. Pumps and Compressors, section 2113. Housekeeping paragraph A.4., section 2119. Variances paragraph A.; Subchapter D. Cutback Paving Asphalt, section 2127. Cutback Paving Asphalt paragraphs C. and D.1.a. effective April 20, 1991.

(H) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, section 2115. Waste Gas Disposal paragraphs I., K., and K.4., section 2121. Fugitive Emission Control paragraphs A., C.1., C.1.b.iv. through C.1.b.vi., C.4.a., C.4.b., C.4.h., D., D.1., D.1.b. through D.1.f., and D.2., section 2123. Organic Solvents paragraphs A., A.1. through A.3., B., B.1., B.1.a. through B.1.c., C.11., D., D.1. through D.9., E., E.1. through E.7., F., and F.1. through F.4., Subchapter F. Gasoline Handling, section 2131. Filling of Gasoline Storage Vessels paragraphs D.2. and D.3., section 2135. Bulk Gasoline Terminals paragraph E.5., Subchapter G-Petroleum Refinery Operations, section 2139. Refinery Vacuum Producing Systems paragraphs A. and B. and section 2141. Refinery Process Unit Turnarounds effective July 20, 1991.

(I) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 61. Division's Sources Test Manual, Subchapter A. Method 43-Capture Efficiency Test Procedures section 6121 through section 6131 effective July 20, 1991.

(J) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air Chapter 1. General Provisions, section 111. Definitions-Coating, Department, Distance from Source to Property Line, Exceedance, Hydrocarbon, Leak, Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products Coating, Nonattainment Area, Ozone Exceedance, SIP effective August 20, 1991.

(61) A revision to the Louisiana SIP to include revisions to LAC, Title 33, "Environmental Quality," Part III. Air, Chapter 21, Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, Section 2132-Stage II Vapor Recovery Systems for Control of Vehicle Refuelling Emissions at Gasoline Dispensing Facilities effective November 20, 1992, and submitted by the Governor by cover letter dated November 10, 1992.
