
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart T - Louisiana
###### ยง 52.999 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Enrolled House Bill No. 1319 (Act 1037, Regular Session, 1992), signed into law by the Governor on July 13, 1992, and effective upon signature, enacting Louisiana Revised Statutes (R.S.) 30:2061 and 2062 and R.S. 36:239(H). Included in Act 1037 are provisions establishing a small business stationary source compliance assistance program; creating the State Ombudsman Office for small business; creating a Compliance Advisory Panel (CAP); establishing membership of the CAP; and establishing CAP powers, duties, and functions.

(B) Louisiana R.S. 30:2060N.(6), "Toxic air pollutant emission control program", (the small business stationary source technical and environmental compliance assistance program subsection), as in effect on October 22, 1992.

(C) State of Louisiana Executive Order No. EWE 92-4 dated February 10, 1992, and effective upon signature, creating and establishing an Office of Permits within the Executive Department, Office of the Governor.

(D) Letter from Louisiana Governor Edwards to Mr. Kai Midboe, Secretary, LDEQ, dated February 20, 1992, designating the Governor's Office of Permits as the official State office to serve as Ombudsman for the PROGRAM per the mandate of section 507 of the Federal CAA. The Coordinator of the Office of Permits will be responsible for administering the Small Business Ombudsman portion of the PROGRAM.
