
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart T - Louisiana
###### ยง 52.999 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2108. Marine Vapor Recovery, paragraphs B.1., B.2., B.3., B.3.a. through B.3.d., B.4.a., B.4.b., B.5., B.6., D.1.a., D.1.a.i., D.1.a.ii., D.1.b., D.2., D.3., D.4.a., D.4.b., D.4.c., D.4.c.i., D.4.c.ii., D.4.d., D.4.e., D.4.e.i., D.4.e.ii., D.4.f., D.4.g., E.2., E.2.a. through E.2.c., F.1., F.2., F.3., G.1., G.2., as adopted by LDEQ on October 20, 1988.

(B) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2108. Marine Vapor Recovery, paragraphs A., B. Definitions-Barge, Crude Oil, Gasoline, Ship, C., C.1., C.2., C.3., C.3.a. through C.3.d. (note: paragraphs B.1., B.2., B.3., and B.3.a. through B.3.d., as adopted on October 20, 1988, were moved to C.1., C.2., C.3., and C.3.a. through C.3.d. without repromulgating), C.4., C.4.a., C.4.b., C.5., C.6. (note: paragraphs B.4.a., B.4.b., B.5., and B.6., as adopted on October 20, 1988, were moved to C.4.a., C.4.b., C.5., and C.6. without repromulgating), D.1., D.1.a. through D.1.c., D.2., D.2.a. through D.2.c., D.3., E., E.1., E.1.a., E.1.a.i., E.1.a.ii., E.1.b., E.2., E.3. (note: D.1.a., D.1.a.i., D.1.a.ii., D.1.b., D.2., and D.3., as adopted October 20, 1988, were moved to E.1.a., E.1.a.i., E.1.a.ii., E.1.b., E.2., and E.3. without repromulgating), E.4., E.4.a., E.4.b., E.4.c., E.4.c.i., E.4.c.ii., E.4.d., E.4.e., E.4.e.i., E.4.e.ii., E.4.f., E.4.g. (note: D.4.a., D.4.b., D.4.c., D.4.c.i., D.4.c.ii., D.4.d., D.4.e., D.4.e.i., D.4.e.ii., D.4.f., and D.4.g, as adopted on October 20, 1988, were moved to E.4.a., E.4.b., E.4.c., E.4.c.i., E.4.c.ii., E.4.d., E.4.e., E.4.e.i., E.4.e.ii., E.4.f., and E.4.g. without repromulgating), E.5., F., F.1., F.2., F.2.a. through F.2.e. (note: E.2. and E.2.a. through E.2.c., as adopted on October 20, 1988, were moved to F.2. and F.2.a through F.2.c. without repromulgating), G., G.1., G.2., G.3. (note: F.1., F.2., and F.3., as adopted October 20, 1988, were moved to G.1., G.2., and G.3. without repromulgating), H., H.1., H.2. (note: G.1. and G.2., as adopted on October 20, 1988, were moved to H.1. and H.2. without repromulgating), as adopted by LDEQ on November 20, 1990.

(C) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2122. Fugitive Emission Control for Ozone Nonattainment Areas, paragraphs A., A.1. through A.5., A.6., A.6.a. through A.6.d., B. Definitions-Connector, Good Performance Level, Heavy Liquid Service, Inaccessible Valve/Connector, In Vacuum Service, Light Liquid, Light Liquid Service, Liquid Service, Process Unit, Process Unit Shutdown, Unrepairable Component, C., C.1., C.1.a. through C.1.c., C.2. through C.5., D., D.1., D.1.a., D.1.a.i., D.1.a.ii., D.1.b., D.1.b.i. through D.1.b.v., D.1.c. through D.1.e., D.2., D.2.a., D.2.b., D.2.b.i. through D.2.b.iii., D.3., D.3.a. through D.3.d., D.4., D.4.a. through D.4.k., D.5., E.1.a. through E.1.f., E.2., E.3., E.3.a., E.3.a.i. through E.3.a.v., E.3.b., E.3.b.i. through E.3.b.v., F., F.1., F.2., F.2.a. through F.2.j., F.3., G., G.1. through G.13., as adopted by LDEQ on October 20, 1994.

(D) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2122. Fugitive Emission Control for Ozone Nonattainment Areas, paragraphs E., E.1., E.1.g., as adopted by LDEQ on November 20, 1994.

(E) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2103. Storage of Volatile Organic Compounds, paragraphs A., B., D.1., D.1.a. through D.1.d., D.2., D.2.a. through D.2.e., E., F., G., G.1. through G.4., H., H.1., H.2., H.2.a. through H.2.e., H.3., I., I.1., I.2., I.2.a. through I.2.c., I.3. through I.5., as adopted by LDEQ on December 20, 1994.

(F) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air;

(G) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2103. Storage of Volatile Organic Compounds, paragraph D.4., as adopted by LDEQ on December 20, 1995.

(H) Reasonable Further Progress Agreed To Order, dated December 16, 1994, issued by the Assistant Secretary of the State of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in the matter of BASF Corporation, Geismar, Louisiana.

(I) Reasonable Further Progress Agreed To Order, dated August 22, 1994, issued by the Assistant Secretary of the State of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in the matter of CosMar Company, Inc., Carville, Louisiana.

(J) Reasonable Further Progress Agreed To Order, dated September 26, 1994, issued by the Assistant Secretary of the State of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in the matter of Shell Chemical Company, Geismar, Louisiana.

(K) Reasonable Further Progress Agreed To Order, dated September 8, 1994, issued by the Assistant Secretary of the State of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in the matter of Uniroyal Chemical Company, Inc., Geismar, Louisiana.

(L) Reasonable Further Progress Agreed To Order, dated September 8, 1994, issued by the Assistant Secretary of the State of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in the matter of Vulcan Chemicals, Geismar, Louisiana.

(M) SIP narrative plan entitled, "Revision to the 15% Rate of Progress Plan and 1990 Emissions Inventory," dated December 28, 1995, page 11, Section 2.2, 1996 Target Level Emissions, first paragraph; page 23, Section 5, Table 2-Reductions in Plan; page 173, Appendix G, table-Reductions from Industrial Sources through 1996 Used for the 15% Requirement, which ends on page 174.
