
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart T - Louisiana
###### ยง 52.999 Original identification of plan section.
####### Additional materials.

(ii)(A) SIP narrative plan entitled, "Revision to 15% Rate of Progress Plan and 1990 Emissions Inventory," submitted by the Governor of Louisiana on December 15, 1995, except Section 6. Contingency Measures Documentation, Appendix M. Contingency Reductions Documentation, and Appendix N. Banking Regulations.

(B) Letter dated May 3, 1996, from Gustave Von Bodungen, Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, to Thomas Diggs, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting supplemental documentation for the 15 Percent Rate of Progress Plan.

(72) Revisions to the Louisiana SIP addressing VOC RACT Negative Declarations. The Governor of Louisiana submitted the negative declarations for reasonably available control technology (RACT) for the Baton Rouge ozone nonattainment area on December 15, 1996. Section 172(c)(1) of the Clean Air Act requires nonattainment areas to adopt, at a minimum, RACT to reduce emissions from existing sources. Pursuant to section 182(b)(2) of the Act, for moderate and above ozone nonattainment areas, the EPA has identified 13 categories for such sources and developed the Control Technique Guidelines (CTGs) or Alternate Control Techniques (ACTs) documents to implement RACT at those sources. When no major volatile organic compound (VOC) sources for a CTG/ACT category exist in a nonattainment area, a State may submit a negative declaration for that category. Louisiana's submittal included two negative declaration letters from Mr. Gustave Von Bodungen to Ms. Karen Alvarez dated April 6, 1994, and June 20, 1994, for the following source categories: offset lithography, plastic parts-business machines, plastic parts-others, wood furniture, aerospace coatings, autobody refinishing, and shipbuilding coatings/repair. This submittal satisfies section 182(b)(2) of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 for these particular CTG/ACT source categories for the Baton Rouge ozone nonattainment area.
