
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart U - Maine
###### ยง 52.1023 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Approval.

(f)EPA is approving a revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Maine Department of Environmental Protection on June 9, 13, and 14, 2005. The revision is for purposes of satisfying the 5 percent increment of progress requirement of 40 CFR 51.905(a)(1)(ii)(B) for the Portland Maine eight-hour ozone nonattainment area. The revision establishes motor vehicle emissions budgets for 2007 of 20.115 tons per summer day (tpsd) of volatile organic compound (VOC) and 39.893 tpsd of nitrogen oxide (NO) to be used in transportation conformity in the Portland Maine 8-hour ozone nonattainment area.

(g) Approval. EPA is approving a redesignation request for the Portland, Maine 8-hour ozone nonattainment area. Maine submitted this request on August 3, 2006. The request contains the required Clean Air Act Section 175A maintenance plan. The plan establishes motor vehicle emissions budgets for 2016 of 16.659 tons per summer day (tpsd) of volatile organic compound and 32.837 tpsd of nitrogen oxide (NO) to be used in transportation conformity determinations in the Portland area.

(h) Approval. EPA is approving a redesignation request for the Hancock, Knox, Lincoln and Waldo Counties, Maine 8-hour ozone nonattainment area. Maine submitted this request on August 3, 2006. The request contains the required Clean Air Act Section 175A maintenance plan. The plan establishes motor vehicle emissions budgets for 2016 of 3.763 tons per summer day (tpsd) of volatile organic compound and 6.245 tpsd of nitrogen oxide (NO) to be used in transportation conformity determinations in the Hancock, Knox, Lincoln and Waldo Counties area.

(i) Approval: EPA is approving the 110(a)(1) 8-hour ozone maintenance plans in the four areas of the state required to have a 110(a)(1) maintenance plan for the 8-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard. These areas are as follows: portions of York and Cumberland Counties; portions of Androscoggin County and all of Kennebec County; portions of Knox and Lincoln Counties; and portions of Hancock and Waldo Counties. These maintenance plans were submitted to EPA on August 3, 2006.

(j) Approval. EPA is approving an exemption request from the nitrogen oxides (NOx) requirements contained in Section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act for the entire state of Maine for purposes of the 2008 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard. The exemption request was submitted by the Maine Department of Environmental Protection on October 13, 2012. This approval exempts, for purposes of the 2008 ozone standard, major sources of nitrogen oxides in Maine from:

(1) The requirement to implement controls meeting reasonably available control technology (RACT) for NO; and

(2) Nonattainment area new source review requirements for major new and modified sources as they apply to emissions of NO.
