
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart U - Maine
###### ยง 52.1036 Emission inventories.

(a) The Governor's designee for the State of Maine submitted 1990 base year emission inventories for the Knox and Lincoln Counties area, the Lewiston and Auburn area, the Portland area, and the Hancock and Waldo Counties area on July 25, 1995 as a revision to the State Implementation Plan (SIP). An amendment to the 1990 base year emission inventory for the Portland area was submitted on June 9, 2005. The 1990 base year emission inventory requirement of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, has been satisfied for these areas.

(b) The inventory is for the ozone precursors which are volatile organic compounds, nitrogen oxides, and carbon monoxide. The inventory covers point, area, non-road mobile, on-road mobile, and biogenic sources.

(c) The Knox and Lincoln Counties nonattainment area is classified as moderate. The Lewiston and Auburn nonattainment area is classified as moderate and consists of Androscoggin and Kennebec Counties. The Portland nonattainment area is classified as moderate and consists of Cumberland, Sagadahoc and York Counties. The Hancock and Waldo Counties nonattainment area is classified as attainment.

(d) The Governor's designee for the State of Maine submitted 1993 periodic year emission inventories for the Hancock and Waldo Counties area on May 13, 1996 as a revision to the State Implementation Plan (SIP). The 1993 periodic year emission inventory requirement of section 182(3)(A) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, has been satisfied for the Hancock and Waldo counties area.

(e) On June 24, 1997, the Maine Department of Environmental Protection submitted a revision to establish explicit year 2006 motor vehicle emissions budgets [6.44 tons per summer day of VOC, and 8.85 tons per summer day of NO] for the Hancock and Waldo counties ozone maintenance area to be used in determining transportation conformity.

(f) The Governor's designee for the State of Maine submitted a 2002 base year emission inventory for Cumberland, Sagadahoc, and York counties, to represent emissions for the Portland 8-hour ozone nonattainment area on June 9, 2005, as a revision to the State Implementation Plan (SIP). The 2002 base year emission inventory requirement of 40 CFR 51.915 has been satisfied for this area.
