
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart U - Maine
###### ยง 52.1037 Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Implementation Plan for the State of Maine" and all revisions submitted by Maine that were federally approved prior to September 1, 2008.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 28, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Miscellaneous non-regulatory changes to the plan submitted on March 17, 1972, by the Environmental Improvement Commission for the State of Maine.

(2) Regulation 10.8.4(g) establishing compliance schedules for sources in Maine submitted on July 28, 1972, by the Environmental Improvement Commission for the State of Maine.

(3) A revision removing fuel burning sources with a maximum heat input from three million up to 10 million BTU/hr from the particulate matter control strategy submitted on March 29, 1973, by the Governor.

(4) Changes in the Open Burning Regulation 100.2 submitted on September 4, 1973, by the State of Maine Department of Environmental Protection.

(5) An AQMA proposal submitted on June 26, 1974, by the Governor.

(6) Revision to incinerator particulate emission standard, submitted on August 26, 1976 by the Commissioner of the Maine Department of Environmental Protection, which would exempt woodwaste cone burners from the plan until 1980.

(7) Revision to incinerator particulate emission standard, submitted on November 18, 1976 by the Commissioner of the Maine Department of Environmental Protection, which would exempt municipal waste cone burners from the plan.

(8) Revision to open burning regulation submitted on December 7, 1976 by the Commissioner of the Maine Department of Environmental Protection.
