
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart V - Maryland
###### ยง 52.1076 Control strategy plans for attainment and rate-of-progress: Ozone.

(a) EPA is approving as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 15 Percent Rate of Progress Plan and associated contingency measures for the Cecil County ozone nonattainment area, submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on July 21, 1995.

(b) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan, the Stage II vapor recovery comparability plan for the counties of Allegany, Caroline, Dorchester, Garrett, Kent, Queen Anne's, Somerset, St. Mary's, Talbot, Washington, Wicomico, and Worcester Counties submitted by the Maryland Department of the Environment on November 5, 1997.

(c) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan, the 15 Percent Rate of Progress Plan for the Baltimore ozone nonattainment area, submitted by the Secretary of Maryland Department of the Environment on October 7, 1998.

(d) EPA approves the Maryland's 15 Percent Rate of Progress Plan for the Maryland portion of the Metropolitan Washington, D.C. ozone nonattainment area, submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on May 5, 1998.

(e) [Reserved]

(f)(1) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan for post 1996 rate of progress plans for milestone years 1999, 2002 and 2005 for the Cecil County portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton ozone nonattainment area. These revisions were submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on December 24, 1997, as revised on April 24 and August 18, 1998, December 21, 1999 and December 28, 2000.

(2) EPA approves the contingency plans for failure to meet rate of progress in the Cecil County portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton ozone nonattainment area for milestone years 1999, 2002 and 2005. These plans were submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on December 24, 1997, as revised on April 24 and August 18, 1998, December 21, 1999 and December 28, 2000.

(3) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan, submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on March 8, 2004, for the rate-of-progress (ROP) plan for year 2005 for the Cecil County portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton 1-hour ozone nonattainment area. These revisions update Cecil County's 2005 ROP plan's 1990 and 2005 motor vehicle emissions inventories and motor vehicle emissions budgets to reflect the use of the MOBILE6 emissions model, establish motor vehicle emissions budgets of 3.0 tons per day (tpd) of volatile organic compounds and 11.3 tpd of nitrogen oxides, and amend the contingency measures associated with the 2005 ROP plan for Cecil County.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) EPA approves the attainment demonstration for the Philadelphia area submitted as a revision to the State Implementation Plan by the Maryland Department of the Environment on April 29, 1998, August 18, 1998, December 21, 1999, December 28, 2000, August 31, 2001, and September 2, 2003 including its RACM analysis and determination. EPA is also approving the revised enforceable commitments made to the attainment plan for the Baltimore severe ozone nonattainment area which were submitted on December 28, 2000. The enforceable commitments are to submit measures by October 31, 2001 for additional emission reductions as required in the attainment demonstration test, and to revise the SIP and motor vehicle emissions budgets by October 31, 2001 if the additional measures affect the motor vehicle emissions inventory; and to perform a mid-course review by December 31, 2003.

(i) EPA approves the following mobile budgets of Maryland's attainment plan for the Philadelphia area:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Similarly, EPA is approving the 2005 attainment demonstration and its current budgets because Maryland has provided an enforceable commitment to submit new budgets as a SIP revision to the attainment plan consistent with any new measures submitted to fill any shortfall, if the new additional control measures affect on-road motor vehicle emissions.

(j)(1) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan for post 1996 rate of progress plans for milestone years 1999, 2002 and 2005 for the Baltimore severe ozone nonattainment area. These revisions were submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on December 24, 1997, as revised on April 24 and August 18, 1998, December 21, 1999 and December 28, 2000.

(2) EPA approves the contingency plans for failure to meet rate of progress in the Baltimore severe ozone nonattainment area for milestone years 1999, 2002 and 2005. These plans were submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on December 24, 1997, as revised on April 24 and August 18, 1998, December 21, 1999 and December 28, 2000.

(k) EPA approves the attainment demonstration for the Baltimore area submitted as a revision to the State Implementation Plan by the Maryland Department of the Environment on April 29, 1998, August 18, 1998, December 21, 1999, December 28, 2000, August 20, 2001, and September 2, 2003 including its RACM analysis and determination. EPA is also approving the revised enforceable commitments made to the attainment plan for the Baltimore severe ozone nonattainment area which were submitted on December 28, 2000. The enforceable commitments are to submit measures by October 31, 2001 for additional emission reductions as required in the attainment demonstration test, and to revise the SIP and motor vehicle emissions budgets by October 31, 2001 if the additional measures affect the motor vehicle emissions inventory; and to perform a mid-course review by December 31, 2003.

(l) EPA approves the following mobile budgets of the Baltimore area attainment plan:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Similarly, EPA is approving the 2005 attainment demonstration and its current budgets because Maryland has provided an enforceable commitment to submit new budgets as a SIP revision to the attainment plan consistent with any new measures submitted to fill any shortfall, if the new additional control measures affect on-road motor vehicle emissions.

(m) EPA approves the State of Maryland's revised 1990 and the 2005 VOC and NOhighway mobile emissions inventories and the 2005 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the one-hour ozone attainment plans for the Baltimore severe ozone nonattainment area and the Cecil County portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe ozone nonattainment area. These revisions were submitted by the Maryland Department of the Environment on September 2, 2003. Submission of these revised MOBILE6-based motor vehicle emissions inventories was a requirement of EPA's approval of the attainment demonstration under paragraphs (h) and (k) of this section.

(n) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan for Post-1996 Rate of Progress (ROP) Plans for the Baltimore severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area. These revisions were submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on December 23, 2003 and consist of the following:

(1) Revisions to the base year 1990 emissions inventory which reflect the use of the MOBILE6 motor vehicle emissions model. These revisions establish motor vehicle emissions inventories for 1990 of 165.14 tons per day of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and 228.21 tons per day of oxides of nitrogen (NO).

(2) Revisions to the year 2005 motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for transportation conformity purposes, reflecting the use of the MOBILE6 motor vehicle emissions model. These revisions establish a motor vehicle emissions budget of 55 tons per day of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and 144.5 tons per day of oxides of nitrogen (NO). EPA approved new 2005 MOBILE6-based MVEBs for the Baltimore area's 1-hour ozone attainment demonstration on October 27, 2003 (68 FR 61106). Those MVEBs became effective on November 26, 2003. The approved 2005 attainment plan MVEBs budgets are 55.3 tons per day of VOC and 146.9 tons per day of NO. The MVEBs of the 2005 ROP plan are less than the MVEBs in the approved attainment demonstration. These more restrictive MVEBs, contained in the ROP plan, are the applicable MVEBs to be used in transportation conformity demonstrations for the year 2005 for the Baltimore area.

(3) Revisions to the 2005 ROP plan to reallocate some of the contingency measures established in prior SIP revisions to the control measures portion of the plan. EPA guidance allows states an additional year to adopt new contingency measures to replace those reallocated to the control measures portion of the plan. The State of Maryland's December 23, 2003 SIP revision submittal includes an enforceable commitment to replace those contingency measures reallocated to the control measures portion of the 2005 ROP plan and to submit these additional contingency measures by October 31, 2004.

(o) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2003 to 2005, EPA has determined that the Washington, DC severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area attained the 1-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of November 15, 2005. EPA also has determined that the Washington, DC severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area is not subject to the imposition of the section 185 penalty fees.

(p) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2003 to 2005, EPA has determined that that the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area attained the 1-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of November 15, 2005. EPA also has determined that the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area is not subject to the imposition of the section 185 penalty fees.

(q) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan consisting of the 2008 reasonable further progress (RFP) plan, reasonably available control measures, and contingency measures for the Baltimore 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007.

(r) EPA approves the following 2008 RFP motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Baltimore 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007:

(s) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan consisting of the 2008 reasonable further progress (RFP) plan, reasonably available control measures, and contingency measures for the Maryland portion of the Philadelphia 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007.

(t) EPA approves the following 2008 RFP motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Maryland portion of the Philadelphia 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007:

(u) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan consisting of the 2008 reasonable further progress (RFP) plan, reasonably available control measures, and contingency measures for the Washington DC-MD-VA 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007.

(v) EPA approves the following 2008 RFP motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Washington, DC-MD-VA 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Director of the Virginia Department of Environment Quality on June 12, 2007:
