
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart V - Maryland
###### ยง 52.1075 Base year emissions inventory.

(a) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 1990 base year emission inventory for the Baltimore Metropolitan Statistical Area, submitted by the Secretary, Maryland Department of the Environment, on September 20, 1995. This submittal consists of the 1990 base year stationary, area, off-road mobile and on-road mobile emission inventories in the Baltimore Metropolitan Statistical Area for the pollutant, carbon monoxide (CO).

(b) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland Implementation Plan the 1990 base year emission inventory for the Washington Metropolitan Statistical Area, submitted by Secretary, Maryland Department of the Environment, on March 21, 1994 and October 12, 1995. This submittal consist of the 1990 base year stationary, area and off-road mobile and on-road mobile emission inventories in the Washington Statistical Area for the pollutant, carbon monoxide (CO).

(c) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Maryland ozone nonattainment areas submitted by the Secretary of Maryland Department of Environment on March 21, 1994. This submittal consists of the 1990 base year point, area, non-road mobile, biogenic and on-road mobile source emission inventories for the following pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO), and oxides of nitrogen (NO).

(d) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Maryland ozone nonattainment areas: Baltimore nonattainment areas, Cecil County, and Kent and Queen Anne's Counties submitted by the Secretary of Maryland Department of Environment on March 21, 1994. This submittal consists of the 1990 base year point, area, non-road mobile, biogenic and on-road mobile source emission inventories for the following pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO), and oxides of nitrogen (NO).

(e) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 1990 base year emission inventory for the Maryland portion of the Metropolitan Washington DC ozone nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of MDE on March 21, 1994. This submittal consists of the 1990 base year point, area, highway mobile, non-road mobile, and biogenic source emission inventories in the area for the following pollutants: Volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO), and oxides of nitrogen (NO).

(f) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan an amendment to the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Maryland portion of the Metropolitan Washington DC ozone nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of Maryland of the Department Environment on December 24, 1997. This submittal consists of amendments to the 1990 base year point, area, highway mobile, and non-road mobile source emission inventories in the area for the following pollutants: Volatile organic compounds (VOC), and oxides of nitrogen (NO).

(g) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan amending the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Baltimore ozone nonattainment area, submitted by the Secretary of Maryland Department of the Environment on December 24, 1997. This submittal consists of amendments to the 1990 base year point, area, highway mobile and non-road mobile source emission inventories for volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides in the Baltimore ozone nonattainment area.

(h) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan amending the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Cecil County portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton ozone nonattainment area, submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on December 24, 1997. This submittal consists of amendments to the 1990 base year point, area, highway mobile and non-road mobile source emission inventories for volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides in the Cecil County portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton ozone nonattainment area.

(i) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventories for the Baltimore 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007. This submittal consists of the 2002 base year point, area, non-road mobile, and on-road mobile source inventories in area for the following pollutants: Volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxides (NO).

(j) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventories for the Maryland portion of the Philadelphia 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007. This submittal consists of the 2002 base year point, area, non-road mobile, and on-road mobile source inventories in area for the following pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxides (NO).

(k) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventories for the Washington DC-MD-VA 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007. This submittal consists of the 2002 base year point, area, non-road mobile, and on-road mobile source inventories in area for the following pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxides (NO).

(l) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventory for the Maryland portion of the Washington DC-MD-VA 1997 fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area submitted by the Maryland Department of Environment on April 3, 2008. The 2002 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), PM, coarse particles (PM), ammonia (NH), and sulfur dioxide (SO).

(m) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventory for the Washington County, Maryland 1997 fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area submitted by the Maryland Department of Environment on June 6, 2008. The 2002 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), PM, coarse particles (PM), ammonia (NH), and sulfur dioxide (SO).

(n) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventory for the Baltimore, Maryland 1997 fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area submitted by the Maryland Department of Environment on June 6, 2008. The 2002 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), PM, coarse particles (PM), ammonia (NH), and sulfur dioxide (SO).

(o) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 2011 base year emissions inventory for the Maryland portion of the Washington, DC-MD-VA 2008 8-hour ozone nonattainment area submitted by the Maryland Department of Environment on August 4, 2014. The 2011 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NO) and volatile organic compounds (VOC).

(p) EPA approves, as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan, updates to the 2002 base year emissions inventories previously approved under paragraph (i) of this section for the Baltimore 1997 8-hour ozone serious nonattainment area (Area) submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on July 22, 2013. This submittal consists of updated 2002 base year point, area, non-road mobile, and on-road mobile source inventories in the Area for the following pollutants: Volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxides (NO).

(q) EPA approves, as a revision to the Maryland state implementation plan the 2011 base year emissions inventory for the Maryland portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City marginal nonattainment area for the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standards submitted by the Maryland Department of the Environment on January 19, 2017, as amended July 20, 2017. The 2011 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of stationary point, area (nonpoint), nonroad mobile, onroad mobile, and Marine-Air-Rail (M-A-R). The inventory included actual annual emissions and typical summer day emissions for the months of May through September for the ozone precursors, VOC and NO.

(r) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland state implementation plan the 2011 base year emissions inventory for the Baltimore, Maryland moderate nonattainment area for the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standards submitted by the Maryland Department of the Environment on December 30, 2016. The 2011 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of stationary point, quasi-point, area (nonpoint), nonroad mobile, onroad mobile, and Marine-Air-Rail (M-A-R). The inventory includes actual annual emissions and typical summer day emissions for the months of May through September for the ozone precursors, VOC and NO.
