
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart V - Maryland
###### ยง 52.1082 Determinations of attainment.
####### June 1, 2015,

(i) EPA has determined, as ofthat based on 2012 to 2014 ambient air quality data, the Baltimore nonattainment area has attained the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1118, suspends the requirement for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS.

(j) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2013 to 2015, Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-MD-DE marginal ozone nonattainment area has attained the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of July 20, 2016. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2)(A) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-MD-DE marginal ozone nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date pursuant to section 181(b)(2)(A).

(k) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2013 to 2015, the Washington, DC-MD-VA marginal ozone nonattainment area has attained the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of July 20, 2016. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to Clean Air Act section 181(b)(2)(A) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Washington, DC-MD-VA marginal nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date pursuant to section 181(b)(2)(A).

(l) EPA has determined, as of November 2, 2022, that based on 2019 to 2021 ambient air quality monitoring data and air dispersion modeling, the Anne Arundel-Baltimore County nonattainment area has attained the 2010 1-hour sulfur dioxide NAAQS. This clean data determination suspends the requirement for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other sulfur dioxide NAAQS attainment plan SIP elements for as long as this area continues to meet the 2010 1-hour sulfur dioxide NAAQS.
