
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart W - Massachusetts
###### ยง 52.1129 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Determination of Attainment.

(2)Effective June 28, 2012.

(i) Determination of Attainment by the Area's Attainment Date. EPA is determining that the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester, MA eight-hour ozone nonattainment area met the applicable June 15, 2010 attainment deadline for the 1997 eight-hour ozone standard.

(ii) EPA is determining that the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester, MA eight-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1997 eight-hour ozone standard. Under the provisions of EPA's ozone implementation rule (see 40 CFR 51.918), this determination suspends the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act for as long as the area continues to attain the 1997 eight-hour ozone standard. If EPA determines, after notice-and comment rulemaking, that the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester, MA area no longer meets the 1997 ozone NAAQS, this determination shall be withdrawn.

(h) Determinations of Attainment: Effective July 19, 2012.

(1) Determination of Attainment. EPA is determining that the Springfield (Western Massachusetts) 8-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. Under the provisions of EPA's ozone implementation rule (see 40 CFR 51.918), this determination suspends the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act for as long as the area continues to attain the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. If EPA determines, after notice-and comment rulemaking, that the Western Massachusetts area no longer meets the 1997 ozone NAAQS, this determination shall be withdrawn.

(2) Determination of Attainment by the Area's Attainment Date. EPA has determined that the Springfield (Western Massachusetts) 8-hour ozone nonattainment area met the applicable June 15, 2010 attainment deadline for the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.

(i) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on January 31, 2008. These revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the rate of progress requirement of section 182(b)(1) from 2002 through 2008, and the contingency measure requirement of sections 172(c)(9) and of the Clean Air Act, for the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester (E. MA) moderate 8-hour ozone nonattainment area, and the Springfield (W. MA) moderate 8-hour ozone nonattainment area. These revisions establish motor vehicle emission budgets for 2008 of 68.30 tons per day of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and 191.30 tons per day of nitrogen oxides (NO) to be used in transportation conformity in the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester (E. MA) moderate 8-hour ozone nonattainment area. These revisions also establish motor vehicle emission budgets for 2008 for the Springfield (W. MA) moderate 8-hour ozone nonattainment area of 11.80 tons per day for VOCs, and 31.30 tons per day for NO.

(j) Approval-Reasonably Available Control Technology Demonstration for the 1997 8-hour ozone standard submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on January 31, 2008. The revision consists of the state's certification that with regard to the 1997 8-hour ozone standard, Reasonably Available Control Technology controls have been implemented for all sources in the state covered by EPA's Control Techniques Guidelines (CTG) and for all major sources of volatile organic compound and nitrogen oxide emissions. The submittal also includes negative declaration for several CTG categories.
