
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart W - Massachusetts
###### ยง 52.1132 Control strategy: Carbon Monoxide.

(a) Approval-On November 13, 1992, the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection submitted a revision to the carbon monoxide State Implementation Plan for the 1990 base year emission inventory. The inventory was submitted by the State of Massachusetts to satisfy Federal requirements under section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990, as a revision to the carbon monoxide State Implementation Plan.

(b) Approval-On December 12, 1994, the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection submitted a request to redesignate the Boston Area carbon monoxide nonattainment area to attainment for carbon monoxide. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by 175A of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990. Elements of the section 175A maintenance plan include a base year (1993 attainment year) emission inventory for carbon monoxide, a demonstration of maintenance of the carbon monoxide NAAQS with projected emission inventories to the year 2010 for carbon monoxide, a plan to verify continued attainment, a contingency plan, and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. If the area records a violation of the carbon monoxide NAAQS (which must be confirmed by the State), Massachusetts will implement one or more appropriate contingency measure(s) which are contained in the contingency plan. The menu of contingency measures includes an enhanced motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program and implementation of the oxygenated fuels program. The redesignation request and maintenance plan meet the redesignation requirements in sections 107(d)(3)(E) and 175A of the Act as amended in 1990, respectively. The redesignation meets the Federal requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act as a revision to the Massachusetts Carbon Monoxide State Implementation Plan for the above mentioned area.
