
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart W - Massachusetts
###### ยง 52.1129 Control strategy: Ozone.

(a) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on April 1, 1999, and supplemented on June 25, 1999 and September 9, 1999. The revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the rate of progress requirements of sections 182(b)(1) and 182(c)(2)(B) of the Clean Air Act for the Springfield, Massachusetts serious ozone nonattainment area.

(b) Approval-Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on July 27, 1998, October 1, 1998 and August 13, 1999. The revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(c)(2)(A) of the Clean Air Act, for the Springfield (Western Massachusetts) serious ozone nonattainment area. The revision establishes an attainment date of December 31, 2003 for the Springfield, Massachusetts serious ozone nonattainment area. This revision establishes motor vehicle emissions budgets for 2003 of 23.77 tons per day of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and 49.11 tons per day of nitrogen oxides (NO) to be used in transportation conformity in the Springfield, Massachusetts serious ozone nonattainment area.

(c) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on April 10, 2002 and amended on July 26, 2002. The revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the rate of progress requirements of sections 182(b)(1) and 182(c)(2)(B) of the Clean Air Act for the Massachusetts portion of the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester serious ozone nonattainment area.

(d) Approval-Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental protection on July 27, 1998, and September 6, 2002. The revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the one-hour ozone attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(c)92)(A) of the Clean Air Act, for the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester, MA-NH serious ozone nonattainment area. The revision establishes a one-hour attainment date of November 15, 2007l, for the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester, MA-NH serious ozone nonattainment area. This revision establishes motor vehicle emissions budgets for 2007 of 86.7 tons per day of volatile organic compounds and 226.363 tons per day of nitrogen oxides to be used in transportation conformity in the Massachusetts portion of the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester, MA-NH serious ozone nonattainment area.

(e) Determination of Attainment for the One-Hour Ozone Standard. Effective May 30, 2012, EPA is determining that the Springfield (Western Massachusetts) one-hour ozone nonattainment area did not meet its applicable one-hour ozone attainment date of December 31, 2003, based on 2001-2003 complete, quality-assured ozone monitoring data. Separate from and independent of this determination, EPA is determining that the Springfield (Western Massachusetts) one-hour ozone nonattainment area met the one-hour ozone standard, based on 2007-2009 complete, quality-assured ozone monitoring data at all monitoring sites in the area. EPA's review of the ozone data shows that the area began attaining the one-hour ozone standard during the 2007-2009 monitoring period, and has continued attaining the one-hour standard through the 2008-2010 and 2009-2011 monitoring periods.

(f) Determination of Attainment for the One-Hour Ozone Standard. Effective June 28, 2012, EPA is determining that the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester, MA-NH one-hour ozone nonattainment area met the one-hour ozone standard, by the area's applicable attainment date of November 15, 2007, based on 2005-2007 complete, certified, quality-assured ozone monitoring data at all monitoring sites in the area.
