
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart W - Massachusetts
###### § 52.1147 Federal compliance schedules.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the owner or operator of a source subject to regulation under paragraph (c)(1) of § 52.1144 and § 52.1145 shall comply with the increments of progress contained in the following schedule:

(1) Final control plans for emission control systems or process modifications must be submitted on or before June 1, 1974, for sources subject to § 52.1144(c)(1) and on or before May 1, 1974 for sources subject to § 52.1145.

(2) Contracts for emission control systems or process modifications must be awarded or orders must be issued for the purchase of component parts to accomplish emission control or process modifications on or before March 1, 1975, for sources subject to § 52.1144(c)(1) and on or before July 1, 1974, for sources subject to § 52.1145.

(3) Initiation of on-site construction or installation of emission control equipment or process modification must begin on or before May 1, 1975, for sources subject to § 52.1144(c)(1) and on or before August 15, 1974, for sources subject to § 52.1145.

(4) On-site construction or installation of emission control equipment or process modification must be completed prior to April 15, 1975, except for purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of § 52.1144, the applicable date shall be February 1, 1976.

(5) Final compliance is to be achieved prior to May 31, 1975, except for sources subject to paragraph (c)(1) of § 52.1144 of this subpart. Final compliance for sources subject to paragraph (c)(1) of § 52.1144 is to be achieved by June 1, 1976.

(i) Facilities subject to paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of § 52.1144 of this subpart which have a daily throughput of 20,000 gallons of gasoline or less are required to have a vapor recovery system in operation no later than May 31, 1977. Delivery vessels and storage containers served exclusively by facilities required to have a vapor recovery system in operation no later than May 31, 1977, also are required to meet the provisions of this section no later than May 31, 1977.

(6) Any owner or operator of stationary sources subject to compliance schedule in this paragraph shall certify to the Administrator within 5 days after the deadline for each increment of progress, whether or not the required increment of progress has been met.

(7) Any gasoline dispensing facility subject to paragraph (c)(1) of § 52.1144 which installs a storage tank after October 15, 1973, shall comply with such paragraph by March 1, 1976. Any facility subject to such paragraph which installs a storage tank after March 1, 1976 shall comply with such paragraph at the time of installation.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator of a source subject to paragraph (d)(1) of § 52.1144 shall comply with the increments of progress contained in the following compliance schedule:

(1) Final control plans for emission control systems or process modifications must be submitted prior to January 1, 1975.

(2) Contracts for emission control systems or process modifications must be awarded or orders must be issued for the purchase of component parts to accomplish emission control or process modification prior to March 1, 1975.

(3) Initiation of on-site construction or installation of emission control equipment or process modification must begin not later than May 1, 1975.

(4) On-site construction or installation of emission control equipment or process modification must be completed prior to May 1, 1977.

(5) Federal compliance is to be achieved prior to May 31, 1977.

(6) Any owner or operator of stationary sources subject to the compliance schedule in this paragraph shall certify to the Administrator, within 5 days after the deadline for each increment of progress, whether or not the required increment of progress has been met.

(7) Any gasoline dispensing facility subject to paragraph (d)(1) of § 52.1144 which installs a gasoline dispensing system after the effective date of this regulation shall comply with the requirements of such paragraph by May 31, 1977. Any facility subject to such paragraph which installs a gasoline dispensing system after May 31, 1977, shall comply with such paragraph at the time of installation.

(c) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply:

(1) To a source which is presently in compliance with all requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of § 52.1144 and § 52.1145 and which has certified such compliance to the Administrator by June 1, 1974. The Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary for proper certification.

(2) To a source for which a compliance schedule is adopted by the Commonwealth and approved by the Administrator.

(3) To a source subject to § 52.1144(c)(1) whose owner or operator submits to the Administrator by June 1, 1974, a proposed alternative compliance schedule. No such schedule may provide for compliance after March 1, 1976. If promulgated by the Administrator, such schedule shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph for the affected source.

(4) To a source subject to § 52.1145 whose owner or operator submits to the Administrator by May 1, 1974, a proposed alternative compliance schedule. No such schedule may provide for compliance after May 31, 1975. If promulgated by the Administrator, such schedule shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph for the affected source.

(d) Paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply:

(1) To a source which is presently in compliance with paragraph (d)(1) of § 52.1144 and which has certified such compliance to the Administrator by January 1, 1975. The Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary for proper certification.

(2) To a source for which a compliance schedule is adopted by the State and approved by the Administrator.

(3) To a source whose owner or operator submits to the Administrator by June 1, 1974, a proposed alternative schedule. No such schedule may provide for compliance after May 31, 1977. If promulgated by the Administrator, such schedule shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph for the affected source.

(e) Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the Administrator from promulgating a separate schedule for any source to which the application of the compliance schedule in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section fails to satisfy and requirements of 40 CFR 51.15 (b) and (c).
