
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart W - Massachusetts
###### ยง 52.1166 Original identification of plan.
####### Visible Emissions,

(17) Revision to Regulations 310 CMR 7.05, Sulfur-in-Fuel, and 310 CMR 7.06, Visible Emissions, allowing burning of a coal-oil slurry at New England Power Company, Salem Harbor Station, Massachusetts, submitted on July 5, 1978 by the Commissioner, Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering and an extension to 310 CMR 7.06,submitted on December 28, 1979.

(18) Revision to Regulation 7.02(11) (formerly Regulation 2.5.3)-Emission Limitation to Incinerators, submitted February 1, 1978 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(19) The addition of Regulation 7.17, for the Southeastern Massachusetts Air Pollution Control District, Coal Conversion-Brayton Point Station, New England Power Company, submitted by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering on September 7, 1978. Compliance with this revision shall be determined by methods consistent with New Source Performance Standards, proposed Test Method 19, as stated in a letter dated February 8, 1979 from Kenneth Hagg of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering to Frank Ciavattieri of the Environmental Protection Agency.

(20) A revision permanently extending Regulation 310 CMR 7.05(1) (formerly Regulation 5.1) "Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof" and a revision for the Metropolitan Boston APCD, and Merrimack Valley APCD submitted on December 28, 1978, by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(21) A revision permanently extending Regulation 310 CMR 7.05(1) (formerly Regulation 5.1), "Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof" and a revision to Regulation 310 CMR 7.05(4) "Ash Content of Fuels" for the Pioneer Valley Air Pollution Control District, submitted on January 3, 1979 by the Acting Com0missioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(22) A revision permanently extending Regulation 310 CMR 7.05(1) (formerly Regulation 5.1), "Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof" for the Southeastern Massachusetts APCD, submitted on January 31, 1979 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(23) A revision to Regulation 310 CMR 7.05(4) "Ash Content of Fuels" for the Metropolitan Boston Air Pollution Control District, submitted on July 20, 1978 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(24) A revision permanently extending Regulation 310 CMR 7.05(1) (formerly Regulation 5.1) "Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof" for the Central Massachusetts APCD, submitted on March 2, 1979 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering, and a revision removing the seasonal restriction in Fitchburg for Fitchburg Paper Company (55 meter stacks only) and James River-Massachusetts submitted on September 28, 1979 by the Commissioner.

(25) On March 30, 1979 and on April 23, 1979 the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering submitted the non-attainment area plan for Total Suspended Particulates (TSP) in Worcester, miscellaneous statewide regulation changes, and an extension request for the attainment of TSP secondary standards for areas designated non-attainment as of March 3, 1978.

(26) On May 3, 1979, August 7, 1979, and April 17, 1980, the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering submitted a revision entitled "Massachusetts Implementation Plan, Amended Regulation-All Districts, New Source Review Element," relating to construction and operation of major new or modified sources in non-attainment areas.

(27) Revisions to Regulation 310 CMR 7.07, Open Burning, submitted on September 28, 1979 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(28) Revision to the state ozone standard and adoption of an ambient lead standard was submitted by Thomas F. McLoughlin, Acting Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering on August 21, 1979.

(29) A revision varying the provisions of Regulation 310 CMR 7.04(5), Fuel Oil Viscosity, for Cambridge Electric Light Company's Kendall Station, First Street, Cambridge, and Blackstone Station, Blackstone Street, Cambridge, submitted on December 28, 1978 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(30) Attainment plans to meet the requirements of Part D for carbon monoxide and ozone and other miscellaneous provisions were submitted by the Governor of Massachusetts on December 31, 1978 and on May 16, 1979 by the Acting Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering. Supplemental information was submitted on September 19, November 13 and December 7, 1979; and March 20 and April 7, 1980 by DEQE.

(31) A temporary variance to the Provisions of Regulation 310 CMR 7.05, Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof, for Seaman Paper Company, Otter River. Submitted on March 20, 1980 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(32) A revision to Regulation 7.05(1) "Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof" for the Metropolitan Boston APCD submitted on November 27, 1979 by the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(33) A revision to Regulation 310 CMR 7.05(1) (formerly Regulation 5.1) "Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof" for the Pioneer Valley Air Pollution Control District submitted by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering on March 2, 1979 and May 5, 1981.

(34) A revision to Regulation 7.05(1) "Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof" for the Metropolitan Boston APCD submitted on April 25, 1980 by the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(35) On January 5, 1981, the Acting Director of the Division of Air Quality Control, Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering submitted a revision entitled "Appendix J Transportation Project Level Guidelines" relating to policy guidance on the preparation of air quality analysis for transportation projects.

(36) A comprehensive air quality monitoring plan, intended to meet requirements of 40 CFR part 58, was submitted by the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering on January 28, 1980.

(37) A revision submitted by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering on September 12, 1980 adding a new regulation 310 CMR 7.19 "Interim Sulfur-in-Fuel Limitations for Fossil Fuel Utilization Facilities Pending Conversion to an Alternate Fuel or Implementation of Permanent Energy Conservation Measures."

(38) A variance of Regulation 310 CMR 7.05(1)(d)(2) "Sulfur Control of Fuels and Control Thereof" for the Metropolitan Boston Air Pollution Control District, submitted on November 25, 1980, by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(39) Revisions to meet the requirements of Part D and certain other sections of the Clean Air Act, as amended, for making a commitment to public transportation in the Boston urban region which were submitted on July 9, 1981 and on July 30, 1981.

(40) Regulations 310 CMR (14), (15), and (16), for paper, fabric, and vinyl surface coaters to meet the requirements of Part D for ozone were submitted by the Governor of Massachusetts on March 6, 1981.

(41) A revision to Regulation 7.05(1)(c) "Sulfur Content of Fuels Control Thereof for the Merrimack Valley Air Pollution Control District" allowing the burning of higher sulfur content fuel oil at Haverhill Paperboard Corporation, Haverhill.

(42) Regulation 310 CMR 7.18(2)(b), to allow existing surface coating lines regulated under 310 CMR 7.18 (4), (5), (6), (7), (10), (11), (12), (14), (15) and (16) to bubble emissions to meet the requirements of Part D for ozone was submitted by the Governor on March 6, 1981, and a letter clarifying state procedures was submitted on November 12, 1981. The emission limitations required by the federally-approved portion of 310 CMR 7.18 are the applicable requirements of the Massachusetts SIP for the purpose of section 113 of the Clean Air Act and shall be enforceable by EPA and by citizens in the same manner as other requirements of the SIP; except that emission limitations adopted by the state under and which comply with 310 CMR 7.18(2)(b) and the procedures set out in the letter of November 12, 1981 shall be the applicable requirements of the Massachusetts SIP in lieu of those contained elsewhere in 310 CMR 7.18 and shall be enforceable by EPA and by citizens.

(43) A revision to Regulation 7.05(1)(d) "Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof for the Metropolitan Boston Air Pollution Control District" allowing the burning of higher sulfur content fuel oil at Eastman Gelatine Corporation, Peabody, submitted on September 24, 1981 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(44) The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering submitted an updated VOC emissions inventory on September 3, 1981, and the procedures to annually update this inventory on November 4, 1981.

(45) A revision to Regulation 7.05(1)(e) "Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof for the Pioneer Valley Air Pollution Control District" allowing the burning of higher sulfur content fuel oil at the Holyoke Gas and Electric Department, Holyoke.

(46) A revision submitted on December 29, 1981 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering allowing the burning of higher sulfur content fuel oil at the ATF Davidson Company, Northbridge, until December 1, 1983.

(47) Regulation 310 CMR 7.18(10) for metal coil coating was submitted on June 24, 1980 by the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering, in order to meet Part D requirements for ozone.

(48) Regulations 310 CMR 7.18(11), Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products and (12), Graphic Arts-Rotogravure and Flexography with test methods; and (13) Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning Systems without test methods, were submitted on July 21, 1981 and March 10, 1982 by the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering to meet Part D requirements for ozone attainment.

(49) A revision to Regulation 7.17 "Conversions to Coal" submitted by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering on January 22, 1982 specifying the conditions under which coal may be burned at the Holyoke Water Power Company, Mount Tom Plant, Holyoke, Massachusetts.

(50) [Reserved]

(51) A revision submitted on September 29, 1982 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering allowing the burning of fuel oil having a sulfur content of 0.55 pounds per million Btu heat release potential at the Northeast Petroleum Corporation, Chelsea, Massachusetts.

(52) A revision submitted on September 28, 1982 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering allowing the burning of higher sulfur content fuel oil at the Polaroid Corporation for a period of up to 30 months commencing on December 1, 1982.

(53)(i) Attainment plans for carbon monoxide and ozone submitted by the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering on September 9, November 2 and November 17, 1982; February 2, March 21, April 7, April 26 and May 16, 1983. These revisions amend Regulations 310 CMR 7.18 (3)-(7), (9)-(16); and add Regulation 310 CMR 7.18(17), 7.20 (1)-(14), and 540 CMR 4.00.

(ii) Regulation 310 CMR 7.18(3) for the surface coating of metal furniture submitted on September 9, 1982 as part of the attainment plan identified in ยง 52.1120(c)(53)(i), is added to the VOC surface coating bubble Regulation 310 CMR 7.18(2)(b) identified in ยง 52.1120(c)(42).

(iii) Regulation 310 CMR 7.18(13) for Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning systems submitted on September 9, 1982 as part of the attainment plan identified in section 52.1120(53)(i), is amended by adding EPA test methods to the no action identified in 52.1120(48).

(54) On February 8, 1983, the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering submitted a source specific emission limit in the letter of approval to the Esleeck Manufacturing Company, Inc., Montague, allowing the Company to burn fuel oil having a maximum sulfur content of 1.21 pounds per million Btu heat release potential provided the fuel firing rate does not exceed 137.5 gallons per hour.

(55) A revision to exempt the Berkshire Air Pollution Control District from Regulation 310 CMR 7.02(12)(b)2 was submitted on March 25, 1983 by Kenneth A. Hagg, Director of the Division of Air Quality Control of the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(56) A revision to Regulation 310 CMR 7.02(12)(a)1(e) for petroleum liquid storage in external floating roof tanks submitted on December 2, 1983.
