
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart W - Massachusetts
###### § 52.1166 Original identification of plan.
####### U Best Available Controls for Consumer and Commercial Products.

(B) The following portions of the Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts effective on November 18, 1994: 310 Code of Massachusetts Regulations Section 7.25

(109) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on January 9, 1995.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, dated January 9, 1995, submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(B) The following portions of the Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts effective on December 16, 1994: 310 Code of Massachusetts Regulations Section 7.18(28) Automotive Refinishing.

(110) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on March 29, 1995.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated March 29, 1995 submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(B) The following portions of the Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts effective on January 27, 1995: 310 Code of Massachusetts Regulations Section 7.18(29), Bakeries.

(111) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on July 30, 1993.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated July 30, 1993 submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(B) Massachusetts Air Pollution Control Regulation 310 CMR 7.33, entitled "City of Boston/South Boston Parking Freeze," and the following amendments to 310 CMR 7.00, entitled "Definitions," which consist of adding or amending four definitions; motor vehicle parking space; off-peak parking spaces; remote parking spaces; and restricted use parking, effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on April 9, 1993.

(112) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on February 9, 1994, and April 14, 1995, concerning emissions banking, trading, and averaging.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letters from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated February 9, 1994, and March 29, 1995, submitting revisions to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(B) Regulations 310 CMR 7.00 Appendix B(1); 310 CMR 7.00 Appendix B(2); 310 CMR 7.00 Appendix B(3), except 310 CMR 7.00 Appendix B(3)(e)5.h; and, 310 CMR 7.00 Appendix B(5); effective on January 1, 1994. Also, regulations 310 CMR 7.00 Appendix B(4); 310 CMR 7.00 Appendix B(6); 310 CMR 7.18(2)(b); 310 CMR 7.19(2)(d); 310 CMR 7.19(2)(g); and, 310 CMR 7.19(14); effective on January 27, 1995.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter and attachments from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated February 8, 1996, submitting supplemental information concerning the demonstration of balance between credit creation and credit use.

(113) A revision to the Massachusetts SIP regarding ozone monitoring. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts will modify its SLAMS and its NAMS monitoring systems to include a PAMS network design and establish monitoring sites. The Commonwealth's SIP revision satisfies 40 CFR 58.20(f) PAMS requirements.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Massachusetts PAMS Network Plan, which incorporates PAMS into the ambient air quality monitoring network of State or Local Air Monitoring Stations (SLAMS) and National Air Monitoring Stations (NAMS).

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated December 30, 1993 submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(114) The Commonwealth of Massachusetts' March 27, 1996 submittal for an enhanced motor vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program, as amended on June 27, 1996 and July 29, 1996, and November 1, 1996, is conditionally approved based on certain contingencies, for an interim period to last eighteen months. If the Commonwealth fails to start its program according to schedule, or by November 15, 1997 at the latest, this conditional approval will convert to a disapproval after EPA sends a letter to the state. If the Commonwealth fails to satisfy the following conditions within 12 months of this rulemaking, this conditional approval will automatically convert to a disapproval as explained under section 110(k) of the Clean Air Act.

(i) The conditions for approvability are as follows:

(A) The time extension program as described and committed to in the March 3, 1997 letter from Massachusetts must be further defined and submitted to EPA as a SIP revision by no later than one year after the effective date of this interim approval. Another program which meets the requirements of 40 CFR 51.360 (Waivers and Compliance via Diagnostic Inspection) and provides for no more than a 1% waiver rate would also be approvable.

(B) Other major deficiencies as described in the proposal must also be corrected in 40 CFR 51.351 (Enhanced I/M Performance Standard), § 51.354 (Adequate Tools and Resources), § 51.357 (Test Procedures and Standards), § 51.359 (Quality Control), and § 51.363 (Quality Assurance). The Commonwealth, committed in a letter dated March 3, 1997 to correct these deficiencies within one year of conditional interim approval by EPA.

(ii) In addition to the above conditions for approval, the Commonwealth must correct several minor, or de minimis deficiencies related to CAA requirements for enhanced I/M. Although satisfaction of these deficiencies does not affect the conditional approval status of the Commonwealth's rulemaking granted under the authority of section 110 of the Clean Air Act, these deficiencies must be corrected in the final I/M SIP revision prior to the end of the 18-month interim period granted under the National Highway Safety Designation Act of 1995:

(A) The SIP lacks a detailed description of the program evaluation element as required under 40 CFR 51.353;

(B) The SIP lacks a detailed description of the test frequency and convenience element required under 40 CFR 51.355;

(C) The SIP lacks a detailed description of the number and types of vehicles included in the program as required under 40 CFR 51.356;

(D) The SIP lacks a detailed information concerning the enforcement process, and a commitment to a compliance rate to be maintained in practice required under 40 CFR 51.361.

(E) The SIP lacks the details of the enforcement oversight program including quality control and quality assurance procedures to be used to insure the effective overall performance of the enforcement system as required under 40 CFR 51.362;

(F) The SIP lacks a detailed description of procedures for enforcement against contractors, stations and inspectors as required under 40 CFR 51.364;

(G) The SIP lacks a detailed description of data analysis and reporting provisions as required under 40 CFR 51.366;

(H) The SIP lacks a public awareness plan as required by 40 CFR 51.368; and

(I) The SIP lacks provisions for notifying motorists of required recalls prior to inspection of the vehicle as required by 40 CFR 51.370.

(iii) EPA is also approving this SIP revision under section 110(k), for its strengthening effect on the plan.

(115) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on October 17, 1997 and July 30, 1996.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) 310 CMR 7.24(8) "Marine Volatile Organic Liquid Transfer" effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on October 5, 1997.

(B) Definition of "volatile organic compound" in 310 CMR 7.00 "Definitions" effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on June 28, 1996.

(C) Definition of "waterproofing sealer" in 310 CMR 7.25 "Best Available Controls for Consumer and Commercial Products" effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on June 28, 1996.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Nonregulatory portions of the submittal.

(116) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on August 9, 2000, September 11, 2000 and July 25, 1995.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) 310 CMR 7.24(6) "Dispensing of Motor Vehicle Fuel," effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on September 29, 2000.

(B) 310 CMR 7.00 definitions of the following terms associated with 310 CMR 7.24(6) and effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on September 29, 2000: "commence operation"; "emergency situation"; "executive order"; "Stage II system"; "substantial modification"; "vacuum assist system"; and "vapor balance system."

(C) 310 CMR 7.00 definitions of the following terms associated with 310 CMR 7.24(6) and effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on June 30, 1995: "emergency motor vehicle;" and "tank truck."

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Nonregulatory portions of the submittal.

(117) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on February 17, 1993.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated February 17, 1993 submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(B) Regulations 310 CMR 7.00, Definitions; 310 CMR 7.03(13), Paint spray booths; 310 CMR 7.18(2), Compliance with emission limitations; 310 CMR 7.18(7), Automobile surface coating; 310 CMR 7.18(8), Solvent Metal Degreasing; 310 CMR 7.18(11), Surface coating of miscellaneous metal parts and products; 310 CMR 7.18(12), Graphic arts; 310 CMR 7.18(17), Reasonable available control technology (as it applies to the Springfield ozone nonattainment area only); 310 CMR 7.18(20), Emission control plans for implementation of reasonably available control technology; 310 CMR 7.18(21), Surface coating of plastic parts; 310 CMR 7.18(22), Leather surface coating; 310 CMR 7.18(23), Wood products surface coating; 310 CMR 7.18(24), Flat wood paneling surface coating; 310 CMR 7.18(25), Offset lithographic printing; 310 CMR 7.18(26), Textile finishing; 310 CMR 7.18(27), Coating mixing tanks; and 310 CMR 7.24(3), Distribution of motor vehicle fuel all effective on February 12, 1993.

(118) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on December 19, 1997.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated December 19, 1997 submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(B) Regulation 310 CMR 7.27, NOAllowance Program, effective on June 27, 1997.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated March 9, 1998 clarifying the program implementation process.

(119) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on July 15, 1994, October 4, 1996, December 2, 1996, January 11, 1999, and April 16, 1999.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letters from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated July 15, 1994, October 4, 1996, December 2, 1996, January 11, 1999, and April 16, 1999 submitting revisions to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(B) Regulation, 310 CMR 7.19, "Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) for Sources of Oxides of Nitrogen (NO)" as adopted by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on June 29, 1994 and effective on July 1, 1994.

(C) Emission Control Plan for Specialty Minerals, Incorporated, in Adams, issued by Massachusetts and effective on June 16, 1995.

(D) Emission Control Plan for Monsanto Company's Indian Orchard facility in Springfield, issued by Massachusetts and effective on October 28, 1996.

(E) Emission Control Plan for Turners Falls Limited Partnership/Indeck Energy Services Turners Falls, Inc., in Montague, issued by Massachusetts and effective on March 10, 1998.

(F) Emission Control Plan for Medusa Minerals Company in Lee, issued by Massachusetts and effective on April 17, 1998.

(G) Regulation 310 CMR 7.08(2), "Municipal Waste Combustors, adopted on July 24, 1998 and effective on August 21, 1998, excluding the following sections which were not submitted as part of the SIP revision: (a); the definition of "Material Separation Plan" in (c); (d)1; (d)2; (d)3; (d)4; (d)5; (d)6; (d)8; (f)1; (f)2; (f)5; (f)6; (f)7; (g)1; (g)2; (g)3; (g)4; (h)2.a; (h)2.b; (h)2.d; (h)2.e; (h)2.g; (h)2.h; (h)4; (h)5.a; (h)5.c; (h)5.d; (h)9; (h)10; (h)13; (i)1.b; (i)1.g; (i)2.c; (i)2.d; (i)2.e; and (k)3.

(H) Amendments to regulation 310 CMR 7.19, "Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) for Sources of Oxides of Nitrogen (NO)" as adopted by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on January 5, 1999 and effective on January 22, 1999.

(120) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on July 25, 1990.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) 310 CMR 6.04, 7.00, and 8.02 and 8.03 (August 17, 1990).

(121) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on January 11, 1995 and March 29, 1995.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Definitions of "combustion device," "leak," "leaking component," "lightering or lightering operation," "loading event," "marine tank vessel," "marine terminal," "marine vessel," "organic liquid," and "recovery device" in 310 CMR 7.00 "Definitions" effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on January 27, 1995.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Nonregulatory portions of the submittal.

(122) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on May 14, 1999, February 1, 2000 and March 15, 2000.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Regulation 310 CMR 60.02 entitled "Regulations for the Enhanced Motor Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program" which became effective on October 1, 1999, and a September 17, 1999, Notice of Correction submitted by the Secretary of State indicating the effective date of the regulations.

(B) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04(1), (2), (3), (5), (15) 4.05(1), (2), (12)(d), (12)(e), (12)(o) 4.07, 4.08, and 4.09 of Regulation 540 CMR 4.00 entitled "Periodic Annual Staggered Safety and Combined Safety and Emissions Inspection of All Motor Vehicles, Trailers, Semi-trailers and Converter Dollies' which became effective on May 28, 1999."

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letters from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated May 14, 1999, February 1, 2000, and March 15, 2000, submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(B) Test Procedures and Equipment Specifications submitted on February 1, 2000.

(C) Acceptance Test Protocol submitted on March 15, 2000.

(123) [Reserved]

(124) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on November 19, 1999.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments revising regulatory language in 310 CMR 7.19(13)(b), Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems, which became effective on December 10, 1999.

(B) Amendments to 310 CMR 7.27, NOAllowance Program, adding paragraphs 7.27(6)(m), 7.27(9)(b), 7.27(11)(o), 7.27(11)(p) and 7.27(15)(e), which became effective December 10, 1999.

(C) Regulations 310 CMR 7.28, NOAllowance Trading Program, which became effective on December 10, 1999.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Executive Office of Environmental Affairs, Department of Environmental Protection dated November 19, 1999, submitting amendment to SIP.

(B) Background Document and Technical Support for Public Hearings on the Proposed Revisions to the State Implementation Plan for Ozone, July, 1999.

(C) Supplemental Background Document and Technical Support for Public Hearings on Modifications to the July 1999 Proposal to Revise the State Implementation Plan for Ozone, September, 1999.

(D) Table of Unit Allocations.

(E) Letter from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Executive Office of Environmental Affairs, Department of Environmental Protection dated April 10, 2002.

(F) The SIP narrative "Technical Support Document for Public Hearings on Revisions to the State Implementation Plan for Ozone for Massachusetts, Amendments to Statewide Projected Inventory for Nitrogen Oxides," dated March 2002.

(125)-(126) [Reserved]

(127) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on July 15, 1994 and April 14, 1995.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Massachusetts Amendments to 310 CMR 7.00 Appendix A entitled, "Emission Offsets and Nonattainment Review," effective July 1, 1994.

(B) Massachusetts Amendments to 310 CMR 7.00 Appendix A entitled, "Emission Offsets and Nonattainment Review" paragraph (3)(g) effective July 1, 1994.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letters from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated July 15, 1994 and March 29, 1995 submitting revisions to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(128) [Reserved]

(129) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on February 17, 1993, April 16, 1999, and October 7, 1999.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) 310 CMR 7.18(17) "Reasonable Available Control Technology," as it applies to the eastern Massachusetts ozone nonattainment area, effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on February 12, 1993.

(B) Plan Approval issued by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection to the Gillette Company Andover Manufacturing Plant on June 17, 1999.

(C) Plan Approval issued by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection to Norton Company on August 5, 1999 and letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, dated October 7, 1999, identifying the effective date of this plan approval.

(D) Plan Approval issued by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection to Rex Finishing Incorporated on May 10, 1991 and letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, dated April 16, 1999, identifying the effective date of this plan approval.

(E) Plan Approval issued by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection to Barnet Corporation on May 14, 1991.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, dated April 16, 1999, submitting negative declarations for certain VOC source categories.

(B) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, dated July 24, 2002, discussing wood furniture manufacturing and aerospace coating requirements in Massachusetts.

(C) 310 CMR 7.02 BACT plan approvals issued by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection to Solutia, Saloom Furniture, Eureka Manufacturing, Moduform, Polaroid, and Globe.

(130) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on December 8, 2000 and December 26, 2000.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Massachusetts State Regulation 310 CMR 7.30 "Massport/Logan Airport Parking Freeze," effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on December 22, 2000.

(B) Massachusetts State Regulation 310 CMR 7.31 "City of Boston/East Boston Parking Freeze," effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on December 22, 2000.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated December 8, 2000 submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(B) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated December 26, 2000 submitting the final state certified copies of State regulations 310 CMR 7.30 "Massport/Logan Airport Parking Freeze" and 310 CMR 7.31 "City of Boston/East Boston Parking Freeze."

(131) [Reserved]

(132) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan regarding the Low Emission Vehicle Program submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on August 9 and August 26, 2002.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated August 9, 2002, in which it submitted the Low Emission Vehicle Program adopted on December 24, 1999.

(B) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated August 26, 2002 which clarified the August 9, 2002 submittal to exclude certain sections of the Low Emission Vehicle Program from consideration.

(C) December 24, 1999 version of 310 CMR 7.40, the "Low Emission Vehicle Program" except for 310 CMR 7.40(2)(a)5, 310 CMR 7.40(2)(a)6, 310 CMR 7.40(2)(c)3, 310 CMR 7.40(10), and 310 CMR 7.40(12).

(133) [Reserved]

(134) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on July 12, 2006.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Massachusetts Regulation 310 CMR 7.38, entitled "Certification of Tunnel Ventilation Systems in the Metropolitan Boston Air Pollution Control District," effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on December 30, 2005.

(B) Massachusetts Regulation Filing, dated December 13, 2005, amending 310 CMR 7.38 entitled "Certification of Tunnel Ventilation Systems in the Metropolitan Boston Air Pollution Control District."

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated July 12, 2006, submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(135) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on March 30, 2007.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) 310 CMR 7.32 entitled "Massachusetts Clean Air Interstate Rule (Mass CAIR)," effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on May 4, 2007.

(B) Amendments to 310 CMR 7.28 entitled "NOAllowance Trading Program," effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on May 4, 2007.

(C) Massachusetts Regulation Filing, dated April 19, 2007, amending 310 CMR 7.28 entitled "NOAllowance Trading Program," and adopting 310 CMR 7.32 entitled "Massachusetts Clean Air Interstate Rule (Mass CAIR)."

(136) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on December 13, 2006 and June 1, 2007.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Massachusetts Regulation 310 CMR 7.00 entitled "Definitions," adding the definition for the term "Boston Metropolitan Planning Organization," effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on December 1, 2006.

(B) Massachusetts Regulation 310 CMR 7.36 entitled "Transit System Improvements," effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on December 1, 2006.

(C) Massachusetts Regulation Filing, dated November 16, 2006, substantiating December 1, 2006, State effective date for amended 310 CMR 7.00 entitled "Definition," (addition of term "Boston Metropolitan Planning Organization," which appears on the replaced page 173 of the State's Code of Massachusetts Regulations,) and 310 CMR 7.36 entitled "Transit System Improvements."

(ii) Additional Materials.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated December 13, 2006 submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(B) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection dated June 1, 2007 submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(C) Letter from the Massachusetts Executive Office of Transportation dated September 4, 2007 identifying its commitment to the Green Line extension and to make every effort to accelerate the planning, design and environmental review and permitting of the project in order to work towards the 2014 completion date.

(D) Letter from the Chair of the Boston Region Metropolitan Planning Organization dated May 1, 2008 concurring in the finding that the transit system improvements projects will achieve emission benefits equivalent to or greater than the benefits from the original transit system improvements projects being replaced.

(E) Letter from EPA New England Regional Administrator dated July 5, 2008 concurring in the finding that the transit system improvements projects will achieve emission benefits equivalent to or greater than the benefits from the original transit system improvements projects being replaced.

(137) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on June 1, 2009 and November 30, 2009.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Regulation 310 CMR 60.02 entitled "Massachusetts Motor Vehicle Emissions Inspection and Maintenance Program," effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on September 5, 2008, with the exception of subsection 310 CMR 60.02(24)(f).

(B) Regulation 540 CMR 4.00 entitled "Annual Safety and Combined Safety and Emissions Inspection of All Motor Vehicles, Trailers, Semi-trailers and Converter Dollies," effective in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on September 5, 2008.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, dated June 1, 2009, submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(B) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, dated November 30, 2009, amending the June 1, 2009 State Implementation Plan submittal.

(C) Massachusetts June 1, 2009 SIP Revision Table of Contents Item 7, "Documentation of IM SIP Revision consistent with 42 USC Section 7511a and Section 182(c)(3)(A) of the Clean Air Act."

(138) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on June 1, 2010.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Massachusetts Regulation 310 CMR 7.18(8), "U Solvent Metal Degreasing," effective on March 6, 2009.

(B) Massachusetts Regulation 310 CMR 7.24(6), "U Dispensing of Motor Vehicle Fuel," effective on March 1, 2009.

(C) The definitions of the following terms contained in Massachusetts Regulation 310 CMR 7.00, "Statutory Authority; Legend; Preamble; Definitions," effective on March 1, 2009: isolate; minor modification; routine maintenance; solvent metal degreasing; special and extreme solvent metal cleaning; substantial modification.

(139) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan regarding Regional Haze submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on December 30, 2011, August 9, 2012, and August 28, 2012.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Massachusetts Regulation 310 CMR 7.00, "Definitions," amended definition of SULFUR IN FUEL, effective August 3, 2012.

(B) Massachusetts Regulation 310 CMR 7.05, "U Fuels All Districts," effective August 3, 2012, with the following exceptions which are not applicable to the Massachusetts Alternative to BART:
