
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart W - Massachusetts
###### ยง 52.1166 Original identification of plan.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Implementation Plan for the State of Massachusetts" and all revisions submitted by Massachusetts that were federally approved prior to January 20, 2017.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 27, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Emergency episode regulations submitted on February 22, 1972, by the Bureau of Air Quality Control, Massachusetts Department of Public Health.

(2) Miscellaneous non-regulatory changes to the plan, wording changes in regulations 2.5 and 2.1 and clarification of Regulations 2.5.1 through 2.5.4 submitted on April 27, 1972, by the Division of Environmental Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health.

(3) Miscellaneous non-regulatory additions to the plan submitted on May 5, 1972, by the Bureau of Air Quality Control, Massachusetts Department of Public Health.

(4) Miscellaneous changes affecting regulations 2.1, 2.5, 4.2, 4.5.1, 5.6.1, 6.1.2, 6.3.1, 8.1.6, 9.1, 15.1, 51.2, 52.1 and 52.2 of the regulations for all six Air Pollution Control Districts submitted on August 28, 1972 by the Governor.

(5) Letter of concurrence on AQMA identifications submitted on July 23, 1974, by the Governor.

(6) Revision to Regulation No. 5, increasing allowable sulfur content of fuels in the Boston Air Pollution Control District submitted on July 11, 1975, by the Secretary of Environmental Affairs, and on April 1, 1977 and April 20, 1978 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(7) Revision to Regulation 50-Variances, Regulations for Control of Air Pollution in the six Massachusetts Air Pollution Control Districts, submitted by letter dated November 14, 1974, by the Governor.

(8) Regulation 5.1, Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof, for the Merrimack Valley Air Pollution Control District submitted on January 28, 1976 by the Secretary of Environmental Affairs and on August 22, 1977 by the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering, and additional technical information pertinent to the Haverhill Paperboard Corp., Haverhill, Mass., submitted on December 30, 1976 by the Secretary of Environmental Affairs.

(9) Regulation 5.1, Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof, for the Pioneer Valley Air Pollution Control District submitted on July 22, 1976 by the Secretary of Environmental Affairs and on August 22, 1977 by the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering, and additional technical information pertinent to Deerfield Specialty Papers, Inc., Monroe, Mass., submitted on December 27, 1977 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(10) Regulation 5.1, Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof, for the Central Massachusetts Air Pollution Control District submitted on June 25, 1976 by the Secretary of Environmental Affairs and on August 22, 1977 by the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(11) Regulation 5.1, Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof, for the Central Massachusetts Air Pollution Control District (revised and adopted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering on March 29, 1976, with specific provisions for the City of Fitchburg) submitted on June 25, 1976, by the Secretary of Environmental Affairs.

(12) A revision to Regulation 5.1, Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof, for the Southeastern Massachusetts Air Pollution Control District, submitted on December 30, 1976 by the Secretary of Environmental Affairs and on January 31, 1978 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(13) A revision to Regulation 5.1, Sulfur Content of Fuels and Control Thereof, for the Berkshire Air Pollution Control District, submitted by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering on April 14, 1977, and additional technical information submitted on August 11, 1978, pertaining to the Schweitzer Division, Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Columbia Mill, Lee, and on August 31, 1978, pertaining to Crane and Company, Inc., Dalton.

(14) Revisions to "Regulations for the Prevention and/or Abatement of Air Pollution Episode and Air Pollution Incident Emergencies," submitted on September 15, 1976 by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(15) A revision to Regulation 2.5, Compliance with Emission Limitations, and to Regulation 16, Reduction of Single Passenger Commuter Vehicle Use, for the Pioneer Valley Air Pollution Control District, submitted on May 20, 1977, by the Acting Commissioner of the Executive Office of Environmental Affairs, Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.

(16) Revision to regulation 7 and regulation 9, submitted on December 9, 1977, by the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality and Engineering.
