
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart W - Massachusetts
###### ยง 52.1166 Original identification of plan.
####### 3

() 7.24(6) "Dispensing of Motor Vehicle Fuel".

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, dated May 5, 2015, submitting a revision to the Massachusetts State Implementation Plan.

(145) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on December 14, 2007. The submittal consists of an Infrastructure SIP for the 1997 ozone national ambient air quality standard.

(146) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on December 4, 2012. The submittal consists of an Infrastructure SIP for the 2008 lead national ambient air quality standard.

(147) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection on June 6, 2014. The submittal consists of Infrastructure SIPs for the 2008 ozone, 2010 NO, and 2010 SOnational ambient air quality standards.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Section 6, "Financial interest of state employee, relative, or associates; disclosure," of the Massachusetts General Laws Annotated, chapter 268A, "Conduct of Public Officials and Employees," as amended by Statute 1978, chapter 210, ยง 9.

(B) Section 6A, "Conflict of interest of public officials; reporting requirement," of the Massachusetts General Laws Annotated, chapter 268A, "Conduct of Public Officials and Employees," as amended by Statute 1984, chapter 189, ยง 163.
