
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart X - Michigan
###### ยง 52.1173 Control strategy: Particulates.
####### Determination of Attainment.

(h)EPA has determined, as of November 6, 2012, that based on 2009-2011 ambient air quality data, the Detroit-Ann Arbor nonattainment area has attained the 1997 annual PMNAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PMNAAQS.

(i) Pursuant to Clean Air Act section 179(c), EPA has determined that the Detroit-Ann Arbor area attained the annual 1997 PMNAAQS by the applicable attainment date, April 5, 2010.

(j) Approval-The 1997 annual PMmaintenance plans for the Detroit-Ann Arbor nonattainment area (Livingston, Macomb, Monroe, Oakland, St. Clair, Washtenaw, and Wayne Counties), has been approved as submitted on July 5, 2011. The maintenance plan establishes 2023 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Detroit-Ann Arbor area of 4,360 tpy for primary PMand 119,194 tpy for NO.

(k) Approval-The 2006 24-Hour PMmaintenance plans for the Detroit-Ann Arbor nonattainment area (Livingston, Macomb, Monroe, Oakland, St. Clair, Washtenaw, and Wayne Counties), has been approved as submitted on July 5, 2011. The maintenance plan establishes 2023 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Detroit-Ann Arbor area of 16 tpd for primary PMand 365 tpd for NO.

(l) Approval-On October 3, 2016, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to their Particulate Matter State Implementation Plan. The submittal established transportation conformity "Conformity" criteria and procedures related to interagency consultation, and enforceability of certain transportation related control and mitigation measures.
