
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart X - Michigan
###### ยง 52.1173 Control strategy: Particulates.
####### Part D-Disapproval.

(a)The following specific revisions to the Michigan Plan are disapproved:

(1) Rule 336.1331, Table 31, Item C: Emission limits for Open Hearth Furnaces, Basic Oxygen Furnaces, Electric Arc Furnaces, Sintering Plants, Blast Furnaces, Heating and Reheating Furnaces.

(2) Rules 336.1371 (Fugitive dust control programs other than areas listed in table 36.), 336.1372 (Fugitive dust control programs; required activities; typical control methods.) and 336.1373 (Fugitive dust control programs; areas listed in table 36.) for control of industrial fugitive particulate emissions sources.

(b) Part D-Conditional Approval-The Michigan overall Plan for primary and secondary nonattainment areas is approved provided that the following conditions are satisfied:

(1) The State officially adopts final industrial fugitive regulations that represent RACT for traditional sources and submits these finally effective regulations to USEPA by January 31, 1981.

(2) The State adopts and submits regulations reflecting RACT for Basic Oxygen Furnaces, Electric Arc Furnaces, Sintering Plants, Blast Furnaces and Heating and Reheating Furnaces.

(3) Rule 336.1331, Table 31, Item C: Coke Oven Preheater Equipment Effective After July 1, 1979-The State clarifies the compliance test method to include measurement of the whole train.

(4) Rule 336.1349-The State submits consent orders containing enforceable increments insuring reasonable further progress for each source subject to Rules 336.1350 through 336.1357.

(5) Rule 336.1350-The State adopts and submits an acceptable inspection method for determining compliance with the rule.

(6) Rule 336.1352-The State adopts and submits the following clarifications to the rule: (a) The rule regulates emissions from the receiving car itself during the pushing operation; (b) in the phrase "eight consecutive trips," "consecutive" is defined as "consecutively observed trips"; (c) the word "trips" is defined as "trips per battery" or "trips per system"; (d) the 40% opacity fugitive emissions limitation refers to an instantaneous reading and not an average; (e) the method of reading opacity is defined.

(7) Rule 336.1353-The State adopts and submits: (a) An acceptable test methodology for determining compliance with the rule; and (b) a clarification that the exception to the visible emission prohibition of 4% of standpipe emission points refers to "operating" ovens.

(8) Rule 336.1356-The State adopts and submits a clarification of the test methodology to determine compliance with the rule.

(9) Rule 336.1357-The State adopts and submits a clarification of the test methodology to determine compliance with the rule.

(10) The State adopts and submits a regulation reflecting RACT for coke battery combustion stacks.

(11) The State adopts and submits an acceptable test method for application of Rule 336.1331, Table 32 to quench towers, or, in the alternative, adopts and submits a limitation reflecting RACT for quench tower emissions based on the quantity of total dissolved solids in the quench water.

(12) The State adopts and submits rules requiring RACT for scarfing emissions.

(13) Part 10 Testing-The State adopts and submits the following clarifications to the test methods: (a) Testing of fugitive emissions from blast furnaces are conducted during the cast; (b) the starting and ending period is specified for basic oxygen furnaces (for both primary and secondary emissions generating operations), electric arc furnaces and for each of the three emission points at sinter plants.

(14) The State conducts additional particulate studies in the Detroit area by September, 1980.
