
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart X - Michigan
###### ยง 52.1173 Control strategy: Particulates.
####### Disapprovals.

(c)EPA disapproves the following specific revisions to the Michigan Plan:

(1) The State submitted Consent Order No. 16-1982 on June 24, 1982, Great Lakes Steel, a Division of the National Steel Corporation as a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan. EPA disapproves this revision, because it does not satisfy all the requirements of EPA's proposed Emission Trading Policy Statement of April 7, 1982 (47 FR 15076).

(d) Approval-On April 29, 1988, the State of Michigan submitted a committal SIP for particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter equal to or less than 10 micrometers (PM) for Michigan's Group II areas. The Group II areas of concern are in the City of Monroe and an area surrounding the City of Carrollton. The committal SIP contains all the requirements identified in the July 1, 1987, promulgation of the SIP requirements for PMat 52 FR 24681.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) On July 24, 1995, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources requested the redesignation of Wayne County to attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for particulate matter. The State's maintenance plan is complete and the redesignation satisfies all of the requirements of the Act.

(g) Approval-On November 29, 1994, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources submitted a revision to the particulate State Implementation Plan for general conformity rules. The general conformity SIP revisions enable the State of Michigan to implement and enforce the Federal general conformity requirements in the nonattainment or maintenance areas at the State or local level in accordance with 40 CFR part 93, subpart B-Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plans.
