
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart X - Michigan
###### § 52.1175 Compliance schedules.
####### e

() If a performance test is necessary for a determination as to whether compliance has been achieved, such a test must be completed by July 1, 1978. Ten days prior to such a test, notice must be given to the Administrator to afford him the opportunity to have an observer present.

(vii) Any owner or operator subject to a compliance schedule above shall certify to the Administrator, within five days after the deadline for each increment of progress in that schedule, whether or not the increment has been met.

(3)(i) Paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section shall not apply to a source which is presently in compliance with Table 3 or Table 4 of Rule 336.49 and which has certified such compliance to the Administrator by October 1, 1973. The Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary for proper certification.

(ii) Any compliance schedule adopted by the State and approved by the Administrator shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph for the affected source.

(iii) Any owner or operator subject to a compliance schedule in this paragraph may submit to the Administrator no later than October 1, 1973, a proposed alternative compliance schedule. No such compliance schedule may provide for final compliance after the final compliance date in the applicable compliance schedule of this paragraph. If promulgated by the Administrator, such schedule shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph for the affected source.

(4) Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the Administrator from promulgating a separate schedule for any source to which the application of the compliance schedule in paragraph (d)(2) of this section fails to satisfy the requirements of §§ 51.261 and 51.262(a) of this chapter.

(e) The compliance schedules for the sources identified below are approved as meeting the requirements of § 51.104 and subpart N of this chapter. All regulations cited are air pollution control regulations of the State, unless otherwise noted.

(f) The compliance schedules for the sources identified below are disapproved as not meeting the requirements of § 51.15 of this chapter. All regulations cited are air pollution control regulations of the State, unless otherwise noted.
