
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart X - Michigan
###### ยง 52.1183 Visibility protection.
####### SO,Emission Limits

(2). A fuel sulfur content limit of no greater than 1.20 percent sulfur content by weight shall apply to fuel combusted in Process Boiler #1 (EUBOILER1) and Process Boiler #2 (EUBOILER2) beginning three months from March 8, 2013. A fuel sulfur content limit of no greater than 1.50 percent sulfur content by weight shall apply to fuel combusted in the Line 1 Dryer (EUDRYER1) beginning 3 months from March 8, 2013. The sampling and calculation methodology for determining the sulfur content of fuel must be described in the monitoring plan required at paragraph (n)(8)(x) of this section.

(3) The owner or operator of the Tilden Grate Kiln Line 1 furnace shall meet an emission limit of 500 lbs SO/hr based on a 30-day rolling average beginning six months after May 12, 2016. Compliance with these emission limits shall be demonstrated with data collected by a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) for SO. The owner or operator must start collecting CEMS data for SObeginning six months after May 12, 2016 and submit the data to EPA no later than 30 days from the end of each calendar quarter. The Tilden Grate Kiln Line 1 furnace shall not be limited to natural gas fuel. Beginning six months after May 12, 2016, any coal burned on Tilden Grate Kiln Line 1 shall have no more than 0.60 percent sulfur by weight based on a monthly block average. The sampling and calculation methodology for determining the sulfur content of coal must be described in the monitoring plan required for this furnace. The owner or operator must calculate an SOlimit based on 12 continuous months of CEMS emissions data and submit such limit, calculations, and CEMS data to EPA no later than 36 months after May 12, 2016. If the submitted CEMS SOhourly data are normally distributed, the SOlbs/hr emission rate shall be based on the appropriate (depending upon whether data are statistically independent or dependent) 99% upper predictive limit (UPL) equation. If the submitted CEMS SOhourly data are not normally distributed, the SOlbs/hr emission rate shall be based on the non-parametric equation provided in paragraph (p) of this section. Compliance with the SOlbs/hr emission rate shall be determined on a 30-day rolling average basis. EPA will take final agency action by publishing a confirmation or modification of the SOlimit in theno later than 39 months after May 12, 2016. EPA may adjust the 500 lbs SO/hr limit downward to reflect the calculated SOemission rate; however, EPA will not increase the SOlimit above 500 lbs SO/hr.

(4) Starting 26 months from May 12, 2016, records shall be kept for any day during which fuel oil is burned as fuel (either alone or blended with other fuels) in Grate Kiln Line 1. These records must include, at a minimum, the gallons of fuel oil burned per hour, the sulfur content of the fuel oil, and the SOemissions in pounds per hour.

(5) Starting 26 months from May 12, 2016, the SOlimit for Grate Kiln Line 1 does not apply for any hour in which it is documented that there is a natural gas curtailment beyond Cliffs' control necessitating that the supply of natural gas to Tilden's Line 1 indurating furnace is restricted or eliminated. Records must be kept of the cause of the curtailment and duration of such curtailment. During such curtailment, the use of backup coal is restricted to coal with no greater than 0.60 percent sulfur by weight.
