
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart X - Michigan
###### ยง 52.1183 Visibility protection.
####### Reporting.

(8)All reports under this section shall be submitted to Chief, Air Enforcement and Compliance Assurance Branch, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, Mail Code AE-17J, 77 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, IL 60604-3590.

(i) The owner/operator shall submit quarterly excess emissions reports for SOand NOBART limits no later than the 30th day following the end of each calendar quarter. Excess emissions means emissions that exceed the emissions limits specified in paragraph (h)(1), (h)(2), and (h)(3) of this section. The reports shall include the magnitude, date(s), and duration of each period of excess emissions, specific identification of each period of excess emissions that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the unit, the nature and cause of any malfunction (if known), and the corrective action taken or preventative measures adopted.

(ii) Owner/operator of each unit shall submit quarterly CEMS performance reports, to include dates and duration of each period during which the CEMS was inoperative (except for zero and span adjustments and calibration checks), reason(s) why the CEMS was inoperative and steps taken to prevent recurrence, and any CEMS repairs or adjustments.

(iii) The owner/operator shall also submit results of any CEMS performance tests required by 40 CFR part 60, appendix F, Procedure 1 (Relative Accuracy Test Audits, Relative Accuracy Audits, and Cylinder Gas Audits).

(iv) When no excess emissions have occurred or the CEMS has not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted during the reporting period, such information shall be stated in the quarterly reports required by paragraphs (h)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Escanaba Paper Company, or any subsequent owner or operator of the Escanaba Paper Company facility in Escanaba, Michigan, shall meet the following requirements and shall not cause or permit the emission of NO(expressed as NO) to exceed the following limits:

(1) For Boiler 8, designated as EU8B13, a rolling 30-day average limit of 0.35 lb per MMBTU.

(2) A continuous emission monitoring system shall be operated to measure NOemissions from Boiler 8 in conformance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix F.

(3) The reference test method for assessing compliance with the limit in paragraph (i)(1) of this section shall be a continuous emission monitoring system operated in conformance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix F. A new 30-day average shall be computed at the end of each calendar day in which the boiler operated, based on the following procedure: first, sum the total pounds of NOemitted from the unit during the operating day and the previous twenty-nine operating days, second sum the total heat input to the unit in MMBTU during the same period, and third, divide the total number of pounds of NOemitted by the total heat input during the thirty operating days.

(4) For Boiler 9, also identified as EU9B03, a limit of 0.27 lb per MMBTU.

(5) The reference test method for assessing compliance with the limit in paragraph (i)(4) of this section shall be a test conducted in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 7.
