
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart X - Michigan
###### ยง 52.1183 Visibility protection.
####### NO,Emission Limits.

(1)(i) An emission limit of 2.8 lbs NO/MMBTU, based on a 720-hour rolling average, shall apply to Tilden Grate Kiln Line 1 when burning natural gas, and an emission limit of 1.5 lbs NO/MMBTU, based on a 720-hour rolling average, shall apply to Tilden Grate Kiln Line 1 when burning coal or a mixture of coal and natural gas. These emission limits will become enforceable 60 months after May 12, 2016 and only after EPA's confirmation or modification of the emission limit in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (k)(1)(ii) through (viii) of this section.

(ii) Compliance with these emission limits shall be demonstrated with data collected by a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) for NO. The owner or operator must start collecting CEMS data for NOupon May 12, 2016 and submit the data to EPA no later than 30 days from the end of each calendar quarter. Any remaining data through the end of the 57th month from May 12, 2016, that does not fall within a calendar quarter, must be submitted to EPA no later than 30 days from the end of the 57th month. Although CEMS data must continue to be collected, it does not need to be submitted to EPA starting 57 months after May 12, 2016.

(iii) No later than 48 months from May 12, 2016, the owner or operator must submit to EPA a report, including any final report(s) completed by the selected NOreduction technology supplier and furnace retrofit engineer, containing a detailed engineering analysis and modeling of the NOreduction control technology being installed on Tilden Grate Kiln Line 1. This report must include a list of all variables that can reasonably be expected to have an impact on NOemission control technology performance, as well as a description of how these variables can be adjusted to reduce NOemissions to meet the NOdesign emission limit. This NOreduction control technology must be designed to meet emission limits of 2.8 lbs NO/MMBTU when burning natural gas and 1.5 lbs NO/MMBTU when burning coal or a mixture of coal and natural gas.

(iv) The NOreduction control technology shall be installed on Tilden Grate Kiln Line 1 furnace no later than 50 months from May 12, 2016.

(v) Commencing on the earlier of: Six months from the installation of the NOreduction control technology or 50 months from May 12, 2016, the owner or operator must provide to EPA the results from pellet quality analyses. The owner or operator shall provide the results from pellet quality analyses no later than 30 days from the end of each calendar quarter up until 57 months after May 12, 2016. Any remaining results through the end of the 57th month that do not fall within a calendar quarter must be submitted to EPA no later than 30 days from the end of the 57th month. The pellet quality analyses shall include results for the following factors: Compression, reducibility, before tumble, after tumble, and low temperature disintegration. For each of the pellet quality analysis factors the owner or operator must explain the pellet quality analysis factor as well as the defined acceptable range for each factor using the applicable product quality standards based upon customers' pellet specifications that are contained in Tilden's ISO 9001 quality management system. The owner or operator shall provide pellet quality analysis testing results that state the date and time of the analysis and, in order to define the time period when pellets were produced outside of the defined acceptable range for the pellet quality factors listed, provide copies of the production logs that document the starting and ending times for such periods. The owner or operator shall provide an explanation of causes for pellet samples that fail to meet the acceptable range for any pellet quality analysis factor. Pellet quality information and data may be submitted to EPA as Confidential Business Information.

(vi) No later than 57 months after May 12, 2016, the owner or operator may submit to EPA a report to either confirm or modify the NOlimits for Tilden Grate Kiln Line 1 within the upper and lower bounds described below. EPA will review the report and either confirm or modify the NOlimits. If the CEMS data collected during operating periods between months 50 and 57 that both meet pellet quality specifications and proper furnace/burner operation is normally distributed, the limit adjustment determination shall be based on the appropriate (depending upon whether data are statistically independent or dependent) 95% upper predictive limit (UPL) equations in paragraph (p) of this section. If the CEMS data collected during operating periods between months 50 and 57 that both meet pellet quality specifications and proper furnace/burner operation are not normally distributed, the limit adjustment determination shall be based on the non-parametric equation provided in paragraph (p) of this section. The data set for the determination shall exclude periods when pellet quality did not fall within the defined acceptable ranges of the pellet quality factors identified pursuant to paragraph (k)(1)(v) of this section and for any subsequent period when production had been reduced in response to pellet quality concerns consistent with Tilden's ISO 9001 operating standards. Any excluded period will commence at the time documented on the production log demonstrating pellet quality did not fall within the defined acceptable range and shall end when pellet quality within the defined acceptable range has been re-established at planned production levels, which will be presumed to be the level that existed immediately prior to the reduction in production due to pellet quality concerns. EPA may also exclude data where operations are inconsistent with the reported design parameters of the NOreduction control technology that were installed.

(vii) EPA will take final agency action by publishing its final confirmation or modification of the NOlimits in theno later than 60 months after May 12, 2016. The confirmed or modified NOlimit for Tilden Grate Kiln Line 1 when burning only natural gas may be no lower than 2.8 lbs NO/MMBTU, based on a 720-hour rolling average, and may not exceed 3.0 lbs NO/MMBTU, based on a 720-hour rolling average. The confirmed or modified NOlimit for Tilden Grate Kiln Line 1 when burning coal or a mixture of coal and natural gas may be no lower than 1.5 lbs NO/MMBTU, based on a 720-hour rolling average, and may not exceed 2.5 lbs NO/MMBTU, based on a 720-hour rolling average.

(viii) If the owner or operator submits a report proposing a single NOlimit for all fuels, EPA may approve the proposed NOlimit for all fuels based on a 30-day rolling average. The confirmed or modified limit will be established and enforceable within 60 months from May 12, 2016.
