
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart X - Michigan
###### ยง 52.1183 Visibility protection.
####### Reporting requirements.

(n)(1) All requests, reports, submittals, notifications, and other communications to the Regional Administrator required by this section shall be submitted, unless instructed otherwise, to the Air and Radiation Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5 (A-18J) at 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois 60604. References in this section to the Regional Administrator shall mean the EPA Regional Administrator for Region 5.

(2) The owner or operator of each BART affected unit identified in this section and CEMS required by this section must provide to the Regional Administrator the written notifications, reports, and plans identified at paragraphs (n)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section. If acceptable to both the Regional Administrator and the owner or operator of each BART affected unit identified in this section and CEMS required by this section the owner or operator may provide electronic notifications, reports, and plans.

(i) A notification of the date construction of control devices and installation of burners required by this section commences postmarked no later than 30 days after the commencement date.

(ii) A notification of the date the installation of each CEMS required by this section commences postmarked no later than 30 days after the commencement date.

(iii) A notification of the date the construction of control devices and installation of burners required by this section is complete postmarked no later than 30 days after the completion date.

(iv) A notification of the date the installation of each CEMS required by this section is complete postmarked no later than 30 days after the completion date.

(v) A notification of the date control devices and burners installed by this section startup postmarked no later than 30 days after the startup date.

(vi) A notification of the date CEMS required by this section postmarked no later than 30 days after the startup date.

(vii) A notification of the date upon which the initial CEMS performance evaluations are planned. This notification must be submitted at least 60 days before the performance evaluation is scheduled to begin.

(viii) A notification of initial compliance signed by the responsible official, who shall certify its accuracy, attesting to whether the source has complied with the requirements of this section, including, but not limited to, applicable emission standards, control device and burner installations, and CEMS installation and certification. This notification must be submitted before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the compliance demonstration and must include, at a minimum, the information in paragraphs (n)(2)(viii)(A) through (F) of this section.

(A) The methods used to determine compliance.

(B) The results of any CEMS performance evaluations and other monitoring procedures or methods that were conducted.

(C) The methods that will be used for determining continuing compliance, including a description of monitoring and reporting requirements and test methods.

(D) The type and quantity of air pollutants emitted by the source, reported in units of the standard.

(E) A description of the air pollution control equipment and burners installed as required by this section for each emission point.

(F) A statement by the owner or operator as to whether the source has complied with the relevant standards and other requirements.

(3) The owner or operator must develop and implement a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan for NOand SO. The plan must include, at a minimum, procedures for operating and maintaining the source during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction and a program of corrective action for a malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment used to comply with the relevant standard. The plan must ensure that, at all times, the owner or operator operates and maintains each affected source, including associated air pollution control and monitoring equipment, in a manner which satisfies the general duty to minimize or eliminate emissions using good air pollution control practices. The plan must ensure that owners or operators are prepared to correct malfunctions as soon as practicable after their occurrence.

(4) The written reports of the results of each performance evaluation and QA/QC check in accordance with and as required in paragraph (l)(4)(v) of this section.
