
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart X - Michigan
###### ยง 52.1188 Control strategy: Lead (Pb).
####### Approval.
######## Reporting.

(6)Beginning on the effective date of the FIP, all reports under this section shall be submitted quarterly to Compliance Tracker, Air Enforcement and Compliance Assurance Branch, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, Mail Code AE-17J, 77 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, IL 60604-3590.

(i) The owner or operator shall submit a CAP in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section within 30 days of the effective date of the FIP.

(ii) The owner or operator shall report CEMS data and hourly mass balance calculations quarterly in accordance with CEMS requirements in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and the CAP requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section no later than the 30th day following the end of each calendar quarter.

(iii) The owner or operator shall report the results of the initial compliance test for the Boilerhouse 2 stack within 60 days of conducting the test.

(iv) The owner or operator shall submit quarterly excess emissions reports for all units identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section no later than the 30th day following the end of each calendar quarter. Excess emissions means emissions that exceed the emission limits specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The reports shall include the magnitude, date(s), and duration of each period of excess emissions, specific identification of each period of excess emissions that occurs during all periods of operation including startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the unit, the nature and cause of any malfunction (if known), and the corrective action taken, or preventative measures adopted.

(v) The owner or operator of each unit shall submit quarterly CEMS performance reports, to include dates and duration of each period during which the CEMS was inoperative (except for zero and span adjustments and calibration checks), reason(s) why the CEMS was inoperative and steps taken to prevent recurrence, and any CEMS repairs or adjustments no later than the 30th day following the end of each calendar quarter.
