
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart X - Michigan
###### ยง 52.1190 Original Identification of plan section.
####### 5

() R 336.1629 Emission of volatile organic compounds from components of existing process equipment used in processing natural gas; monitoring program (entire rule).

(C) Senate Bill No. 726 of the State of Michigan 87th Legislature for Stage I controls signed and effective on November 13, 1993.

(D) State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order No. 39-1993 which was adopted by the State on November 12, 1993.

(E) State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order No. 40-1993 which was adopted by the State on November 12, 1993.

(F) State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order No. 3-1993 which was adopted by the State on June 21, 1993.

(97) On November 12, 1993, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) for the implementation of a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program in the Grand Rapids and Muskegon ozone nonattainment areas. This revision included House Bill No. 4165 which establishes an I/M program in Western Michigan, SIP narrative, and the State's Request for Proposal (RFP) for implementation of the program. House Bill No. 4165 was signed and effective on November 13, 1993.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) House Bill No. 4165; signed and effective November 13, 1993.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) SIP narrative plan titled "Motor Vehicle Emissions Inspection and Maintenance Program for Southeast Michigan, Grand Rapids MSA, and Muskegon MSA Moderate Nonattainment Areas," submitted to the EPA on November 12, 1993.

(B) RFP, submitted along with the SIP narrative on November 12, 1993.

(C) Supplemental materials, submitted on July 19, 1994, in a letter to EPA.

(98) [Reserved]

(99) On July 13, 1994, the State of Michigan requested a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan (SIP). The State requested that a consent order for the Eagle-Ottawa Leather Company of Grand Haven be included in the SIP.

(i) Incorporation by reference. State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order No. 7-1994 which was adopted on July 13, 1994.

(100) On June 11, 1993 the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted a plan, with revisions submitted on April 7, 1994 and October 14, 1994 for the purpose of bringing about the attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to a nominal 10 micrometers (PM) in the Wayne County moderate PM nonattainment area.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Consent Order 4-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Allied Signal, Inc., Detroit Tar Plant.

(B) Consent Order 5-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Asphalt Products Company, Plant 5A.

(C) Consent Order 6-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Clawson Concrete Company, Plant #1.

(D) Consent Order 7-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Cummings-Moore Graphite Company.

(E) Consent Order 8-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Delray Connecting Railroad Company.

(F) Consent Order 9-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Detroit Edison Company, River Rouge Plant.

(G) Consent Order 10-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Detroit Edison Company, Sibley Quarry.

(H) Consent Order 11-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the city of Detroit, Detroit Water and Sewage Department, Wastewater Treatment Plant.

(I) Consent Order 12-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Ferrous Processing and Trading Company.

(J) Consent Order 13-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Ford Motor Company, Rouge Industrial Complex.

(K) Consent Order 14-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Ford Motor Company, Vulcan Forge.

(L) Consent Order 15-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Edward C. Levy Company, Detroit Lime Company.

(M) Consent Order 16-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Edward C. Levy Company, Plant #1.

(N) Consent Order 17-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Edward C. Levy Company, Plant #3.

(O) Consent Order 18-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Edward C. Levy Company, Plant #6.

(P) Consent Order 19-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Edward C. Levy Company, Plant 4 and 5.

(Q) Consent Order 20-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Edward C. Levy Company, Plant Scrap Up-Grade Facility.

(R) Consent Order 21-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Marblehead Lime, Brennan Avenue Plant.

(S) Consent Order 22-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Marblehead Lime, River Rouge Plant.

(T) Consent Order 23-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the McLouth Steel Company, Trenton Plant.

(U) Consent Order 24-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Michigan Foundation Company, Cement Plant.

(V) Consent Order 25-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Michigan Foundation Company, Sibley Quarry.

(W) Consent Order 26-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Morton International, Inc., Morton Salt Division.

(X) Consent Order 27-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the National Steel Corporation, Great Lakes Division.

(Y) Consent Order 28-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the National Steel Corporation, Transportation and Materials Handling Division.

(Z) Consent Order 29-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Peerless Metals Powders, Incorporated.

(AA) Consent Order 30-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Rouge Steel Company.

(BB) Consent Order 31-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Keywell Corporation.

(CC) Consent Order 32-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the St. Marys Cement Company.

(DD) Consent Order 33-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the United States Gypsum Company.

(EE) Consent Order 34-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Wyandotte Municipal Power Plant.

(101) On November 15, 1993, the State of Michigan submitted as a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for ozone a State Implementation Plan for a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program for the Detroit-Ann Arbor area. Michigan submitted House Bill No. 5016, signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) State of Michigan House Bill No. 5016 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993.

(102) On November 12, 1993, the State of Michigan submitted as a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for ozone a State Implementation Plan for a section 175A maintenance plan for the Detroit-Ann Arbor area as part of Michigan's request to redesignate the area from moderate nonattainment to attainment for ozone. Elements of the section 175A maintenance plan include a base year (1993 attainment year) emission inventory for NOand VOC, a demonstration of maintenance of the ozone NAAQS with projected emission inventories (including interim years) to the year 2005 for NOand VOC, a plan to verify continued attainment, a contingency plan, and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. If the area records a violation of the ozone NAAQS (which must be confirmed by the State), Michigan will implement one or more appropriate contingency measure(s) which are contained in the contingency plan. Appropriateness of a contingency measure will be determined by an urban airshed modeling analysis. The Governor or his designee will select the contingency measure(s) to be implemented based on the analysis and the MDNR's recommendation. The menu of contingency measures includes basic motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program upgrades, Stage I vapor recovery expansion, Stage II vapor recovery, intensified RACT for degreasing operations, NORACT, and RVP reduction to 7.8 psi. Michigan submitted legislation or rules for basic I/M in House Bill No 5016, signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993; Stage I and Stage II in Senate Bill 726 signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993; and RVP reduction to 7.8 psi in House Bill 4898 signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) State of Michigan House Bill No. 5016 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993.

(B) State of Michigan Senate Bill 726 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993.

(C) State of Michigan House Bill No. 4898 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993.

(103) On August 26, 1994 Michigan submitted a site-specific SIP revision in the form of a consent order for incorporation into the federally enforceable ozone SIP. This consent order determines Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) specifically for the Enamalum Corporation Novi, Michigan facility for the emission of volatile organic compounds (VOCs).

(i) Incorporation by reference. The following Michigan Stipulation for Entry of Final Order By Consent.

(A) State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, Stipulation for Entry of Final Order By Consent No. 6-1994 which was adopted by the State on June 27, 1994.

(104) On July 13, 1995, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted a contingency measures plan for the Wayne County particulate matter nonattainment area.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) State of Michigan Administrative Rule 374 (R 336.1374), effective July 26, 1995.

(105) [Reserved]

(106) On March 9, 1995, the State of Michigan submitted as a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for ozone a State Implementation Plan for a section 175A maintenance plan for the Grand Rapids area as part of Michigan's request to redesignate the area from moderate nonattainment to attainment for ozone. Elements of the section 175A maintenance plan include an attainment emission inventory for NOand VOC, a demonstration of maintenance of the ozone NAAQS with projected emission inventories to the year 2007 for NOand VOC, a plan to verify continued attainment, a contingency plan, and a commitment to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. If a violation of the ozone NAAQS, determined not to be attributable to transport from upwind areas, is monitored, Michigan will implement one or more appropriate contingency measure(s) contained in the contingency plan. Once a violation of the ozone NAAQS is recorded, the State will notify EPA, review the data for quality assurance, and conduct a technical analysis, including an analysis of meteorological conditions leading up to and during the exceedances contributing to the violation, to determine local culpability. This preliminary analysis will be submitted to EPA and subjected to public review and comment. The State will solicit and consider EPA's technical advice and analysis before making a final determination on the cause of the violation. The Governor or his designee will select the contingency measure(s) to be implemented within six months of a monitored violation attributable to ozone and ozone precursors from the Grand Rapids area. The menu of contingency measures includes a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program, Stage II vapor recovery, gasoline RVP reduction to 7.8 psi, RACT on major non-CTG VOC sources in the categories of coating of plastics, coating of wood furniture, and industrial cleaning solvents. Michigan submitted legislation or rules for I/M in House Bill No 4165, signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993; Stage II in Senate Bill 726 signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993; and RVP reduction to 7.8 psi in House Bill 4898 signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) State of Michigan House Bill No. 4165 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993.

(B) State of Michigan Senate Bill 726 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993.

(C) State of Michigan House Bill No. 4898 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993.

(107) [Reserved]

(108) On May 16, 1996, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan (SIP). This revision is for the purpose of establishing a gasoline Reid vapor pressure (RVP) limit of 7.8 pounds per square inch (psi) for gasoline sold in Wayne, Oakland, Macomb, Washtenaw, Livingston, St. Clair, and Monroe counties in Michigan.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) House Bill No. 4898; signed and effective November 13, 1993.

(B) Michigan Complied Laws, Motor Fuels Quality Act, Chapter 290, Sections 642, 643, 645, 646, 647, and 649; all effective November 13, 1993.

(C) Michigan Complied Laws, Weights and Measures Act of 1964, Chapter 290, Sections 613, 615; all effective August 28, 1964.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from Michigan Governor John Engler to Regional Administrator Valdas Adamkus, dated January 5, 1996.

(B) Letter from Michigan Director of Environmental Quality Russell Harding to Regional Administrator Valdas Adamkus, dated May 14, 1996.

(C) State report titled "Evaluation of Air Quality Contingency Measures for Implementation in Southeast Michigan," submitted to the EPA on May 14, 1996.

(109) On December 13, 1994 and January 19, 1996, Michigan submitted correspondence and Executive Orders 1991-31 and 1995-18 which indicated that the executive branch of government had been reorganized. As a result of the reorganization, delegation of the Governor's authority under the Clean Air Act was revised. The Environmental Protection Agency's approval of these Executive Orders is limited to those provisions affecting air pollution control. The Air Pollution Control Commission was abolished and its authority was initially transferred to the Director of the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (DNR). Subsequently, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources of Environmental Quality (DEQ) was created by elevating eight program divisions and two program offices previously located within the DNR. The authority then earlier vested to the Director of the Michigan DNR was then transferred to the Director of the Michigan DEQ with the exception of some administrative appeals decisions.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) State of Michigan Executive Order 1991-31 Commission of Natural Resources, Department of Natural Resources, Michigan Department of Natural Resources Executive Reorganization. Introductory and concluding words of issuance and Title I: General; Part A: Sections 1, 2, 4 and 5, Part B. Title III: Environmental Protection; Part A: Sections 1 and 2, Part B. Title IV: Miscellaneous; Parts A and B, Part C: Sections 1, 2, 4, Part D. Signed by John Engler, Governor, November 8, 1991. Filed with the Secretary of State November 8, 1991. Effective January 7, 1992.

(B) State of Michigan Executive Order No. 1995-18 Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, Michigan Department of Natural Resources Executive Reorganization. Introductory and concluding words of issuance. Paragraphs 1, 2, 3(a) and (g), 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18. Signed by John Engler, Governor, July 31, 1995. Filed with the Secretary of State on August 1, 1995. Effective September 30, 1995.

(110) A revision to Michigan's State Implementation Plan (SIP), containing part of Michigan's Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, was submitted by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) on May 16, 1996, and supplemented on September 23, 1997. On December 30, 1997, MDEQ withdrew much of the original submittal. The revision incorporated below contains control requirements and applicable definitions for fugitive dust sources.

(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of Part 55 of Act 451 of 1994, the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act are incorporated by reference.

(A) 324.5524 Fugitive dust sources or emissions, effective March 30, 1995.

(B) 324.5525 Definitions, effective March 30, 1995.

(111) On March 18, 1999, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for carbon monoxide containing a section 175A maintenance plan for the Detroit area as part of Michigan's request to redesignate the area from nonattainment to attainment for carbon monoxide. Elements of the section 175A maintenance plan include a base year (1996 attainment year) emission inventory for CO, a demonstration of maintenance of the ozone NAAQS with projected emission inventories to the year 2010, a plan to verify continued attainment, a contingency plan, and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. If the area records a violation of the CO NAAQS (which must be confirmed by the State), Michigan will implement one or more appropriate contingency measure(s) which are in the contingency plan. The menu of contingency measures includes enforceable emission limitations for stationary sources, transportation control measures, or a vehicle inspection and maintenance program.

(112) The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) submitted a revision to Michigan's State Implementation Plan (SIP) on August 20, 1998, and supplemented it on November 3, 1998. The revision removed from the SIP the following rules, which the State rescinded effective May 28, 1997: R 336.91 Purpose; R 336.92 Suspension of enforcement; requests by local agencies; R 336.93 Local agency requirements prior to suspension of enforcement; R 336.94 Commission public hearings on applications; R 336.95 Suspension of enforcement; procedures and public notice; R 336.96 Suspension of enforcement; conditions; R 336.97 Commission review of local agency programs; renewal of suspended enforcement; R 336.601 Affected counties and areas; R 336.602 Attainment of national ambient air quality standards; exemption from inspection and maintenance program requirements; R 336.603 Ozone and carbon monoxide attainment status determination; R 336.1373 Fugitive dust control requirements; areas listed in table 36; R 336.1501 Emission limits; extension of compliance date past January 1, 1980, generally; R 336.1502 Application; copies; R 336.1503 Application; contents; R 336.1504 Denial of request for extension past January 1, 1980; R 336.1505 Grant of extension past January 1, 1980; R 336.1506 Receipt of full and complete application; public notice; inspection; public hearing; R 336.1507 Modification or revocation of order granting extension; immediate effect; R 336.1603 Compliance program; R 336.2010 Reference test method 5A; R 336.2199(c); R 336.2601 Organization; R 336.2602 Offices and meetings; R 336.2603 Documents available for inspection and copying; R 336.2604 Document inspection and copying procedures; tape recording transcriptions; R 336.2605 Functions; R 336.2608 Hearings and informal conferences; R 336.2301 Definition of air pollution episode; R 336.2302 Definition of air pollution forecast; R 336.2303 Definition of air pollution alert; R 336.2304 Definition of air pollution warning; R 336.2305 Definition of air pollution emergency; R 336.2306 Declaration of air pollution episodes; R 336.2307 Episode emission abatement programs; and R 336.2308 Episode orders. The rules incorporated below contain revisions to degreasing, perchloroethylene dry cleaning, petroleum refinery, synthetic organic chemical manufacturing, and delivery vessel loading rules.

(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Michigan Administrative Code are incorporated by reference.

(A) R 336.1611 Existing cold cleaners, effective June 13, 1997.

(B) R336.1612 Existing open top vapor degreasers, effective June 13, 1997.

(C) R 336.1613 Existing conveyorized cold cleaners, effective June 13, 1997.

(D) R 336.1614 Existing conveyorized vapor degreasers, effective June 13, 1997.

(E) R 336.1619 Standards for perchloroethylene dry cleaning equipment, effective June 13, 1997.

(F) R 336.1622 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing components of petroleum refineries; refinery monitoring program, effective June 13, 1997.

(G) R 336.1628 Emission of volatile organic compounds from components of existing process equipment used in manufacturing synthetic organic chemicals and polymers; monitoring program, effective June 13, 1997.

(H) R 336.1651 Standards for Degreasers, effective June 13, 1997.

(I) R 336.1706 Loading delivery vessels with organic compounds having a true vapor pressure of more than 1.5 psia at new loading facilities handling 5,000,000 or more gallons of such compounds per year, effective June 13, 1997.

(J) R 336.1707 New cold cleaners, effective June 13, 1997.

(K) R 336.1708 New open top vapor degreasers, effective June 13, 1997.

(L) R 336.1709 New conveyorized cold cleaners, effective June 13, 1997.

(M) R 336.1710 New conveyorized vapor degreasers, effective June 13, 1997.

(113) On March 9, 1995, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for ozone containing a section 175A maintenance plan for the Muskegon County area as part of Michigan's request to redesignate the area from nonattainment to attainment for ozone. Elements of the section 175A maintenance plan include a contingency plan, and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. If the area records a violation of the 1-hour ozone NAAQS, determined not to be attributable to transport from upwind areas, Michigan will implement one or more appropriate contingency measure(s) which are in the contingency plan. The menu of contingency measures includes a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program, stage II vapor recovery, a low Reid vapor pressure gasoline program, and rules for industrial cleanup solvents, plastic parts coating, and wood furniture coating.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) State of Michigan House Bill No. 4165 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993.

(B) State of Michigan House Bill No. 726 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993.

(C) State of Michigan House Bill No. 4898 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993.

(114)-(115) [Reserved]

(116) The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality submitted revisions to Michigan's State Implementation Plan (SIP) on July 7, 2000 and supplemented them with letters dated January 29, 2001, and February 6, 2002. They include revisions to definitions, open burning rules, general volatile organic compound provisions, and administrative procedures. The revision removed from the SIP rules R 336.1320 and R 336.2703, which the State rescinded effective April 10, 2000.

(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Michigan Administrative Code are incorporated by reference.

(A) R 336.1104 Definitions; D, effective April 10, 2000.

(B) R 336.1310, Open burning, effective February 3, 1999.

(C) R 336.1602 General provisions for existing sources of volatile organic compound emissions, effective April 10, 2000.

(D) R 336.2701 Petitions for review and for contested case hearings; hearing procedure; "duly authorized agent" defined, effective April 10, 2000.

(E) R 336.2702 Appearances, effective April 10, 2000.

(117) [Reserved]

(118) The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality submitted revisions to Michigan's State Implementation Plan (SIP) on September 23, 2002. They include rules to address excess emissions occurring during startup, shutdown or malfunction as well as revisions to definitions.

(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Michigan Administrative Code are incorporated by reference.

(A) R 336.1102 Definitions; B, effective May 27, 2002.

(B) R 336.1104 Definitions; D, effective May 27, 2002.

(C) R 336.1105 Definitions; E, effective May 27, 2002.

(D) R 336.1107 Definitions; G, effective May 27, 2002.

(E) R 336.1108 Definitions; H, effective May 27, 2002.

(F) R 336.1113 Definitions; M, effective May 27, 2002.

(G) R 336.1118 Definitions; R, effective May 27, 2002.

(H) R 336.1120 Definitions; T, effective May 27, 2002.

(I) R 336.1915 Enforcement discretion in instances of excess emissions resulting from malfunction, start-up, or shutdown, effective May 27, 2002.

(J) R 336.1916 Affirmative defense for excess emissions during start-up or shutdown, effective May 27, 2002.

(119) The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality submitted a revision to Michigan's State Implementation Plan for ozone on April 25, 2003. This submittal contained a revised definition of volatile organic compound.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) R 336.1122 Definitions; V, effective March 13, 2003.

(120) [Reserved]

(121) On April 3, 2003, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) submitted regulations restricting emissions of oxides of nitrogen (NO) to address the Phase I NOSIP Call requirements. EPA conditionally approved Michigan's April 3, 2003, SIP revision on April 16, 2004. On May 27, 2004 and August 5, 2004, Michigan subsequently submitted for EPA approval SIP revisions to address the requirements found in EPA's conditional approval. These additional submittals, in combination with the original SIP revision, fulfill the Phase I NOSIP Call requirements.

(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Michigan Administrative Code are incorporated by reference.

(A) R336.1802 Applicability under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective May 20, 2004.

(B) R336.1803 Definitions for oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.

(C) R336.1804 Retired unit exemption from oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective May 20, 2004.

(D) R336.1805 Standard requirements of oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.

(E) R336.1806 Computation of time under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.

(F) R336.1807 Authorized account representative under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.

(G) R336.1808 Permit requirements under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.

(H) R336.1809 Compliance certification under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.

(I) R336.1810 Allowance allocations under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.

(J) R336.1811 New source set-aside under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective May 20, 2004.

(K) R336.1812 Allowance tracking system and transfers under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.

(L) R336.1813 Monitoring and reporting requirements under oxides of nitrogen budget trading, effective December 4, 2002.

(M) R336.1814 Individual opt-ins under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.

(N) R336.1815 Allowance banking under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.

(O) R336.1816 Compliance supplement pool under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.

(P) R336.1817 Emission limitations and restrictions for Portland cement kilns, effective December 4, 2002.

(122) On April 3, 2003, May 28, 2003, September 17, 2004, October 25, 2004 and June 8, 2005, Michigan submitted revisions to the State Implementation Plan which affect the following sections of the Michigan Administrative Code: Part 3: Emission Limitations and Prohibitions-Particulate Matter; Part 4: Emission Limitations and Prohibitions-Sulfur-bearing Compounds; Part 6: Emission Limitations and Prohibitions-Existing Sources of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions; Part 7: Emission Limitations and Prohibitions-New Sources of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions; Part 9: Emission Limitations and Prohibitions-Miscellaneous; Part 10: Intermittent Testing and Sampling; and Part 11: Continuous Emission Monitoring.

(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Michigan Administrative Code are incorporated by reference.

(A) Revisions to the following provisions of the Michigan Administrative Code, effective April 30, 1998:
