
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Minnesota
###### ยง 52.1219 Identification of plan - conditional approval.

(a) On November 12, 1993, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency submitted a revision request to Minnesota's carbon monoxide SIP for approval of the State's basic inspection and maintenance (I/M) program. The basic I/M program requirements apply to sources in the State's moderate nonattainment areas for carbon monoxide and includes the following counties: Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott, and Washington Counties. The USEPA is conditionally approving Minnesota's basic I/M program provided that the State adopt specific enforceable measures as outlined in its July 5, 1994 letter from Charles W. Williams, Commissioner, Minnesota Air Pollution Control Agency.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Minnesota Rules relating to Motor Vehicle Emissions parts 7023.1010 to 7023.1105, effective January 8, 1994.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter from the State of Minnesota to USEPA dated July 5, 1994.

(b) On February 9, 1996, the State of Minnesota submitted a request to revise its particulate matter (PM) State Implementation Plan (SIP) for the Saint Paul area. This SIP submittal contains administrative orders which include control measures for three companies located in the Red Rock Road area-St. Paul Terminals, Inc., Lafarge Corporation and AMG Resources Corporation. Recent exceedances were attributed to changes of emissions/operations that had occurred at particular sources in the area. The results from the modeling analysis submitted with the Red Rock Road SIP revision, preliminarily demonstrate protection of the PM National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). However, due to the lack of emission limits and specific information regarding emission distribution at Lafarge Corporation following the installation of the pneumatic unloader, EPA is conditionally approving the SIP revision at this time. Final approval will be conditioned upon EPA receiving a subsequent modeled attainment demonstration with specific emission limits for Lafarge Corporation, corrected inputs for Peavey/Con-Agra, and consideration of the sources in the 2-4 km range which have experienced emission changes that may impact the Red Rock Road attainment demonstration.
