
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Minnesota
###### ยง 52.1222 Original Identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Implementation Plan for the State of Minnesota" and all revisions submitted by Minnesota that were federally approved prior to December 1, 2004.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 28, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) A revised copy of the State emergency episode criteria was forwarded on February 7, 1972. (Non-regulatory)

(2) Information concerning intergovernmental cooperation was submitted by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency on March 27, 1972.

(3) Certification that the State had adopted amendments to APC-1, 3, 4, 11, and 15, adopted a new air pollution control regulation (APC-16) and projected manpower resources was submitted by the State on April 28, 1972.

(4) An opinion on the availability of emission data to the public and evaluation of regulation concerning new construction was submitted by the State Attorney General's office on June 15, 1972. (Non-regulatory)

(5) A revised version of the State's regulation APC-3 was submitted by the Governor on July 25, 1972.

(6) On June 8, 1973, the Governor of Minnesota submitted a transportation control plan for the Minneapolis-St. Paul Intrastate Air Quality Control Region.

(7) Information concerning the transportation control plan was submitted on June 18, 1973, by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.

(8) Compliance schedules were submitted on June 28, 1973, by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.

(9) Information concerning the transportation control plan was submitted on July 30, 1973, by the Metropolitan Transit Commission.

(10) Information concerning the transportation control plan was submitted on August 1, 1973, by the Minnesota Department of Highways.

(11) Compliance schedules were submitted on August 9, 1973, by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.

(12) On November 15, 1974, the Governor of Minnesota submitted recommended Air Quality Maintenance Area identifications.

(13) A request for an extension of the statutory timetable for the submittal of the portion of the Minnesota State Implementation Plan implementing the National Secondary Ambient Air Quality Standards for total suspended particulates was submitted by the Executive Director of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency on January 8, 1979, and was supplemented with additional information on March 9, 1979.

(14) A transportation control plan for the St. Cloud Metropolitan Area was submitted on May 17, 1979, by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.

(15) Transportation control plans for the Metropolitan Areas of Duluth, Rochester and Minneapolis-St. Paul were submitted on July 3, 1979, and July 23, 1979, by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.

(16) On March 5, 1980, the State of Minnesota submitted a revision to provide for modification of the existing air quality surveillance network. An amendment to the revision was submitted by the State of Minnesota on June 2, 1980.

(17) The sulfur dioxide control plan and revised operating permits for the Rochester and Twin Cities nonattainment areas were submitted by the State of Minnesota on July 17, 1980, and August 4, 1980. Amendments to the control plans were submitted on September 4, 1980. EPA's approval of the control plan includes approval of the emission limitations contained in the revised operating permits.

(18) Stipulation Agreement between the State Pollution Control Agency and Erie Mining Company submitted by the State on February 20, 1981.

(19) On July 29, 1981, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency submitted an amendment to the transportation control plan for the Minneapolis-St. Paul Metropolitan Area.

(20) On August 4, 1980, and October 17, 1980, the State submitted its total suspended particulate Part D control plans for the Twin Cities Seven County Metropolitan Area and the City of Duluth. As part of the control strategies the State on January 5, 1981 submitted rule APC-33 and on January 23, 1981 further submitted amended and new rules. The amended and new rules that control total suspended particulate (TSP) emissions are: Amended APC-2, APC-4, APC-5, APC-7, APC-11; and new APC-18, APC-21, APC-22, APC-23, APC-24, APC-25, APC-26, APC-28, APC-29, and APC-32. Regulations APC-4, APC-24, and APC-32 are only approved as they apply to TSP emissions.

(21) On January 23, 1981, the State submitted new rules and amendments to some of their previously approved rules. On November 17, 1981, the State submitted amendments to APC-33. On May 6, 1982 (47 FR 19520), EPA approved some of the rules insofar as they applied to the total suspended particulate strategy for the Twin Cities Seven County Metropolitan Area and the City of Duluth. The remainder of the rules are:

(i) Those portions of APC-4, APC-24, and APC-32 which control emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, and carbon monoxide; (ii) the amendments to APC-33; and (iii) APC-8, APC-12, APC-13, APC-15, APC-16, APC-19 and APC-39.

(22) On April 28, 1983, Minnesota submitted its Lead SIP. Additional information was submitted on February 15, 1984, and February 21, 1984.

(23) On May 20, 1985, and on April 17, 1986, the State submitted a carbon monoxide plan for the intersection of Snelling and University Avenues in the City of St. Paul. The plan committed to improved signal progression through the intersection by December 31, 1987, and a parking ban on University Avenue within 1 block in either direction of the intersection with Snelling Avenue by December 31, 1989.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendment to Air Quality Control Plan for Transportation for the Metropolitan Council of the Twin Cities Area dated January 28, 1985.

(B) Letter from Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, dated April 17, 1986, and letter from the City of St. Paul, dated April 1, 1986, committing to implementing of transportation control measures.

(24) On January 7, 1985, the State of Minnesota submitted a consolidated permit rule (CPR) to satisfy the requirements of 40 CFR 51.160 through 51.164 for a general new source review (NSR) program, including lead. On October 25, 1985, the State submitted a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) which remedied certain deficiencies (40 CFR 52.1225(d)). On October 1, 1986, and January 14, 1987, the State committed to implement its NSR program using USEPA's July 8, 1985 (50 FR 27892), regulations for implementing the stack height requirements of Section 123 of the Clean Air Act (40 CFR 52.1225(e)). USEPA is approving the above for general NSR purposes for all sources, except it is disapproving them for those few sources subject to an NSPS requirement (40 CFR Part 60) and exempted from review under 6 MCAR section 4.4303 B.3. For these sources, NSR Rule APC 3 (40 CFR 52.1220(c)(5)), will continue to apply. Additionally, USEPA is taking no action on the CPR in relationship to the requirements of Section 111, Part C, and Part D of the Clean Air Act.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Within Title 6 Environment, Minnesota Code of Administrative Rules, Part 4 Pollution Control Agency (6 MCAR 4), Rule 6 MCAR 4 section 4.0002, Parts A, B, C, and E-Definitions, Abbreviations, Applicability of Standards, and Circumvention (formerly APC 2) Proposed and Published in Volume 8 of the State of Minnesota STATE REGISTER (8 S.R.) on October 17, 1983, at 8 S.R. 682 and adopted as modified on April 16, 1984, at 8 S.R. 2275.

(B) Rules 6 MCAR section 4.4001 through section 4.4021-Permits (formerly APC 3)-Proposed and Published on December 19, 1983, at 8 S.R. 1419 (text of rule starting at 8 S.R. 1420) and adopted as modified on April 16, 1984, at 8 S.R. 2278.

(C) Rules 6 MCAR section 4.4301 through section 4.4305-Air Emission Facility Permits-Proposed and Published on December 19, 1983, at 8 S.R. 1419 (text of rule starting at 8 S.R. 1470) and adopted as proposed on April 16, 1984, at 8 S.R. 2276.

(D) Rules 6 MCAR section 4.4311 through section 4.4321-Indirect Source Permits (formerly APC 19)-Proposed and Published on December 19, 1983, at 8 S.R. 1419 (text of rule starting at 8 S.R. 1472) and adopted as modified on April 16, 1984, at 8 S.R. 2277.

(25) On July 9, 1986, the State of Minnesota submitted Rules 7005.2520 through 7005.2523, submitted to replace the rule APC-29 in the existing SIP (see paragraph (20)). This submittal also included State permits for three sources, but these permits were withdrawn from USEPA consideration on February 24, 1992. This submittal provides for regulation of particulate matter from grain handling facilities, and was submitted to satisfy a condition on the approval of Minnesota's Part D plan for particulate matter.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Minnesota Rule 7005.2520, Definitions; Rule 7005.2521, Standards of Performance for Dry Bulk Agricultural Commodity Facilities; Rule 7005.2522, Nuisance; and Rule 7005.2523, Control Requirements Schedule, promulgated by Minnesota on January 16, 1984, and effective at the State level on January 23, 1984.

(ii) Additional Material.

(A) Appendix E to Minnesota's July 9, 1986, submittal, which is a statement signed on April 18, 1986, by Thomas J. Kalitowski, Executive Director, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, interpreting Rules 7005.2520 through 7005.2523 in the context of actual barge loading practices in Minnesota.

(26) On March 13, 1989, the State of Minnesota requested that EPA revise the referencing of regulations in the SIP to conform to the State's recodification of its regulations. On November 26, 1991, and September 18, 1992, the State submitted an official version of the recodified regulations to be incorporated into the SIP. The recodified regulations are in Chapter 7001 and Chapter 7005 of Minnesota's regulations. Not approved as part of the SIP are recodified versions of regulations which EPA previously did not approve. Therefore, the SIP does not include Rules 7005.1550 through 7005.1610 (National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) for asbestos), Rules 7005.2300 through 7005.2330 (limits for iron and steel plants), Rules 7005.2550 through 7005.2590 (NESHAP for beryllium), Rules 7005.2650 through 7005.2690 (NESHAP for mercury), Rule 7005.0116 (Opacity Standard Adjustment) and Rule 7005.2910 (Performance Test Methods for coal handling facilities). Similarly, the SIP continues to exclude the exemption now in Rule 7001.1210 as applied to small sources subject to new source performance standards, and the SIP is approved only for "existing sources" in the case of Rules 7005.1250 through 7005.1280 (Standards of Performance for Liquid Petroleum Storage Vessels), Rules 7005.1350 through 7005.1410 (Standards of Performance for Sulfuric Acid Plants), Rules 7005.1450 through 7005.1500 (Standards of Performance for Nitric Acid Plants), and Rules 7005.2100 through 7005.2160 (Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries). The SIP also does not include changes in the State's Rule 7005.0100 (relating to offsets) that were withdrawn by the State on February 24, 1992, and does not include the new rules 7005.0030 and 7005.0040.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Minnesota regulations in Chapter 7005 as submitted November 26, 1991, and in Chapter 7001 as submitted September 18, 1992, except for those regulations that EPA has not approved as identified above.

(27) On August 16, 1982, the MPCA submitted an amendment to the St. Cloud Area Air Quality Control Plan for Transportation as a State Implementation Plan revision. This revision to the SIP was adopted by the Board of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency on July 27, 1982. On August 31, 1989, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency submitted a revision to the Minnesota State Implementation Plan (SIP) for carbon monoxide deleting the Lake George Interchange roadway improvement project (10th Avenue at First Street South) from its St. Cloud transportation control measures. This revision to the SIP was approved by the Board on June 27, 1989.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter dated August 16, 1982, from Louis J. Breimburst, Executive Director, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas V. Adamkus, Regional Administrator, United States Environmental Protection Agency-Region 5 and its enclosed amendment to the Air Quality Plan for Transportation for the St. Cloud Metropolitan Area entitled, "Staff Resolution," measures 1, 4 and 5 adopted by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency on July 27, 1982.

(B) Letter dated August 31, 1989, from Gerald L. Willet, Commissioner, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas V. Adamkus, Regional Administrator, United States Environmental Protection Agency-Region 5.

(28) On November 9, 1992, the State of Minnesota submitted the Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance plan. This submittal satisfies the requirements of section 507 of the Clean Air Act, as amended.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Minnesota Laws Chapter 546, sections 5 through 9 enacted by the Legislature, and signed into Law on April 29, 1992.

(29) On November 26, 1991, August 31, 1992, November 13, 1992, February 3, 1993, April 30, 1993, and October 15, 1993, the State of Minnesota submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plans (SIPs) for particulate matter for the Saint Paul and Rochester areas.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) An administrative order for Ashbach Construction Company, dated August 25, 1992, submitted August 31, 1992, for the facility at University Avenue and Omstead Street.

(B) An administrative order for Commercial Asphalt, Inc., dated August 25, 1992, submitted August 31, 1992, for the facility at Red Rock Road.

(C) An administrative order for Great Lakes Coal & Dock Company dated August 25, 1992, submitted August 31, 1992, for the facility at 1031 Childs Road.

(D) An administrative order for Harvest States Cooperatives dated January 26, 1993, submitted February 3, 1993, for the facility at 935 Childs Road.

(E) An administrative order for LaFarge Corporation dated November 30, 1992, submitted in a letter dated November 13, 1992, for the facility at 2145 Childs Road.

(F) An administrative order for the Metropolitan Waste Control Commission and the Metropolitan Council dated November 30, 1992, submitted in a letter dated November 13, 1992, for the facility at 2400 Childs Road.

(G) An administrative order for North Star Steel Company dated April 22, 1993, submitted April 30, 1993, for the facility at 1678 Red Rock Road.

(H) An administrative order for PM Ag Products, Inc., dated August 25, 1992, submitted August 31, 1992, for the facility at 2225 Childs Road.

(I) An administrative order for Rochester Public Utilities dated November 30, 1992, submitted in a letter dated November 13, 1992, for the facility at 425 Silver Lake Drive.

(J) An amendment to the administrative order for Rochester Public Utilities, dated October 14, 1993, submitted October 15, 1993, for the facility at 425 Silver Lake Drive.

(K) An administrative order for J.L. Shiely Company dated August 25, 1992, submitted August 31, 1992, for the facility at 1177 Childs Road.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated November 26, 1991, with attachments.

(B) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated August 31, 1992, with attachments.

(C) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated November 13, 1992, with attachments.

(D) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated February 3, 1993, with attachments.

(E) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated April 30, 1993, with attachments.

(F) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated October 15, 1993, with attachments.

(30) On June 4, 1992, March 30, 1993, and July 15, 1993, the State of Minnesota submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plans (SIPs) for sulfur dioxide for Air Quality Control Region (AQCR) 131 (excluding the Dakota County Pine Bend area and an area around Ashland Refinery in St. Paul Park).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) An administrative order, received on June 4, 1992, for FMC Corporation and U.S. Navy, located in Fridley, Anoka County, Minnesota. The administrative order became effective on May 27, 1992. Amendment One, which was received on March 30, 1993, became effective on March 5, 1993. Amendment Two, which was received on July 15, 1993, became effective on June 30, 1993.

(B) An administrative order, received on June 4, 1992, for Federal Hoffman, Incorporated, located in Anoka, Anoka County, Minnesota. The administrative order became effective on May 27, 1992. Amendment one, received on July 15, 1993, became effective on June 30, 1993.

(C) An administrative order, received on June 4, 1992, for GAF Building Materials Corporation (Asphalt Roofing Products Manufacturing Facility) located at 50 Lowry Avenue, Minneapolis, Hennepin County, Minnesota. The administrative order became effective on May 27, 1992. Amendment One, received on July 15, 1993, became effective on June 30, 1993.

(D) An administrative order, received on June 4, 1992, for Northern States Power Company-Riverside Generating Plant, located in Minneapolis, Hennepin County, Minnesota. The administrative order became effective on May 27, 1992. Amendment One, received on July 15, 1993, became effective on June 30, 1993.

(E) An administrative order for Minneapolis Energy Center, received on July 15, 1993, Inc.'s Main Plant, Baker Boiler Plant, and the Soo Line Boiler Plant all located in Minneapolis, Hennepin County, Minnesota. The administrative order became effective on June 30, 1993.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated May 29, 1992, with enclosures providing technical support (e.g., computer modeling) for the revisions to the administrative orders for five facilities.

(B) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated March 26, 1993, with enclosures providing technical support for an amendment to the administrative order for FMC Corporation and U.S. Navy.

(C) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated July 12, 1993, with enclosures providing technical support for amendments to administrative orders for four facilities and a reissuance of the administrative order to Minneapolis Energy Center, Inc.

(31) In a letter dated October 30, 1992, the MPCA submitted a revision to the Carbon Monoxide State Implementation Plan for Duluth, Minnesota. This revision contains a maintenance plan that the area will use to maintain the CO NAAQS. The maintenance plan contains park and ride lots and an oxygenated fuels program as the contingency measure.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter dated October 30, 1992, from Charles Williams, Commissioner, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5 and its enclosures entitled Appendix E.

(ii) Additional information.

(A) Letter dated November 10, 1992, from Charles Williams, Commissioner, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5.

(B) Letter dated December 22, 1993, from Charles Williams, Commissioner, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5.

(32) In a letter dated October 30, 1992, the MPCA submitted a revision to the Carbon Monoxide State Implementation Plan for Duluth, Minnesota. This revision removes a transportation control measure (TCM) from the State Implementation Plan. The TCM is an increased turning radius at 14th Avenue and 3rd Street East.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter dated October 30, 1992, from Charles Williams, Commissioner, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5 and its enclosure entitled Appendix D.

(ii) Additional information.

(A) Letter dated November 10, 1992, from Charles Williams, Commissioner, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5.

(33) On August 5, 1992, and August 26, 1993, the State of Minnesota submitted its "Offset Rules" as revisions to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) for new source review in nonattainment areas.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rules 7005.3020, 7005.3030, and 7005.3040, with amendments effective August 24, 1992.

(B) Amendments to Rule 7005.3040, effective June 28, 1993.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated August 5, 1992, with attachments.

(B) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated August 26, 1993, with attachments.

(34) On November 9, 1992, the State of Minnesota submitted the Oxygenated Gasoline Program. This submittal satisfies the requirements of section 211(m) of the Clean Air Act, as amended.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Minnesota Laws Chapter 2509, sections 1 through 31, except for sections 29 (b) and (c), enacted by the Legislature and signed into Law on April 29, 1992.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter dated August 12, 1994, from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA), to the United States Environmental Protection Agency that withdraws the MPCA Board resolution dated October 27, 1992, and any reference to it, from the oxygenated gasoline State Implementation Plan revision request of 1992.

(35) On July 29, 1992, February 11, 1993, and February 25, 1994, the State of Minnesota submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plans (SIPs) for sulfur dioxide for Dakota County Pine Bend area of Air Quality Control Region (AQCR) 131.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) For Continental Nitrogen and Resources Corporation, located in Rosemount, Dakota County, Minnesota:
