
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Minnesota
###### ยง 52.1222 Original Identification of plan section.
####### Minnesota State Register

(A) Amendments to Minnesota Rules 7011.0010, 7011.0105, 7011.0510, 7011.0515, 7011.0610, 7011.0710, 7011.0805, 7011.1305, 7011.1405, 7011.1410, 7017.2001, 7017.2005, 7017.2015, 7017.2018, 7017.2020, 7017.2025, 7017.2030, 7017.2035, 7017.2045, 7017.2050 and 2060, published in theApril 20, 1998, and adopted by the state on July 13, 1998.

(59) On September 1, 1999, the State of Minnesota submitted a site-specific revision to the Minnesota Sulfur Dioxide (SO) SIP for the Northern States Power Company (NSP) Riverside Plant, located in Minneapolis, Hennepin County, Minnesota. Specifically, EPA is approving into the SOSIP only those portions of the NSP Riverside Plant Title V Operating Permit cited as "Title I condition: State Implementation Plan for SO." In this same action, EPA is removing from the state SOSIP the NSP Riverside Plant Administrative Order previously approved and amended in paragraphs (c)(30) and (c)(46) of this section respectively.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Air Emission Permit No. 05300015-001, issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) to Northern States Power Company-Riverside Plant on May 11, 1999, Title I conditions only.

(60) [Reserved]

(61) On June 1, 2001, the State of Minnesota submitted a site-specific revision to the Minnesota particulate matter (PM) State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Metropolitan Council Environmental Service's (MCES) Metropolitan Wastewater Treatment Plant located on Childs Road in St. Paul, Ramsey County, Minnesota. Specifically, EPA is only approving into the SIP those portions of the MCES federally enforceable state operating permit cited as "Title I Condition: State Implementation Plan for PM10." In this same action, EPA is removing from the state PM SIP the MCES Administrative Order previously approved in paragraph (c)(29) of this section.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Air Emission Permit No. 12300053-001, issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to MCES's Metropolitan Wastewater Treatment Plant at 2400 Childs Road on March 13, 2001, Title I conditions only.

(62) On March 13, 2003, the State of Minnesota submitted a site-specific State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision for the control of emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO) for Flint Hills Resources, L.P., located in the Pine Bend Area of Rosemount, Dakota County, Minnesota. Specifically, EPA is approving into the SOSIP Amendment No. 6 to the Administrative Order previously approved in paragraph (c)(35) and revised in paragraphs (c)(57) and (c)(60) of this section.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) An administrative order identified as Amendment Six to Findings and Order by Stipulation, for Flint Hills Resources, L.P., dated and effective March 11, 2003, submitted March 13, 2003.

(63) On August 9, 2002, the State of Minnesota submitted a revision to the Minnesota sulfur dioxide (SO) State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Xcel Energy's Inver Hills Generating Plant (Xcel) located in the city of Inver Grove Heights, Dakota County, Minnesota. Specifically, EPA is only approving into the SOSIP those portions of the Xcel Title V operating permit cited as "Title I Condition: State Implementation Plan for SO" and is removing from the state SOSIP the Xcel Administrative Order previously approved in paragraph (c)(46) and modified in paragraphs (c)(35) and (c)(41) of this section. In this same action, EPA is removing from the state particulate matter SIP the Administrative Order for Ashbach Construction Company previously approved in paragraph (c)(29) and modified in paragraph (c)(41) of this section.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) AIR EMISSION PERMIT NO. 03700015-001, issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Northern States Power Company Inver Hills Generating Plant on July 25, 2000, Title I conditions only.

(64) On July 18, 2002, the State of Minnesota submitted a site-specific revision to the Minnesota particulate matter (PM) SIP for the Lafarge Corporation (Lafarge) Red Rock Road facility, located in Saint Paul, Ramsey County, Minnesota. Specifically, EPA is approving into the PM SIP only those portions of the Lafarge Red Rock Road facility state operating permit cited as "Title I condition: SIP for PM10 NAAQS."

(i) Incorporation by reference. AIR EMISSION PERMIT NO. 12300353-002, issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) to Lafarge Corporation-Red Rock Terminal on May 7, 2002, Title I conditions only.

(65) The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency submitted a revision to Minnesota's State Implementation Plan for sulfur dioxide on December 19, 2002. This revision consists of a Title V permit for the United Defense, LP facility located in Anoka County at 4800 East River Road, Fridley, Minnesota. The Permit contains non-expiring Title I SIP conditions.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Title I conditions contained in the November 25, 2002, Title V permit (permit number 00300020-001) issued to the United Defense, LP facility located in Anoka County at 4800 East River Road, Fridley, Minnesota.
