
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Minnesota
###### ยง 52.1222 Original Identification of plan section.
####### 2

() Amendment One to the administrative order, dated, submitted, and effective, September 13, 1994.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) A letter from Charles W. Williams to Valdas V. Adamkus, dated June 22, 1993, with enclosures providing technical support (e.g., computer modeling) for the revisions to the State Implementation Plan for lead.

(B) A letter from Charles W. Williams to Valdas V. Adamkus, dated September 13, 1994, with enclosures providing technical support for the revised administrative order for Gopher Smelting and Refining Company.

(37) On March 9, 1994, the State of Minnesota submitted a revision to its particulate matter plan for the Saint Paul area, providing substitute limits for an aggregate heater at the J.L. Shiely facility.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) An amendment dated January 12, 1994, amending the administrative order of August 25, 1992, for the J.L. Shiely facility at 1177 Childs Road, Saint Paul.

(37) On November 23, 1993, the State of Minnesota submitted updated air permitting rules.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rules 7007.0050 through 7007.1850, effective August 10, 1993.

(B) Rules 7001.0020, 7001.0050, 7001.0140, 7001.0180, 7001.0550, 7001.3050, 7002.0005, 7002.0015, and 7005.0100, effective August 10, 1993.

(38)-(39) [Reserved]

(40) On November 23, 1993, the State of Minnesota requested recodification of the regulations in its State Implementation Plan, requested removal of various regulations, and submitted recodified regulations containing minor revisions.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Minnesota regulations in Chapters 7005, 7007, 7009, 7011, 7017, 7019, and 7023, effective October 18, 1993.

(B) Submitted portions of Minnesota Statutes Sections 17.135, 88.01, 88.02, 88.03, 88.16, 88.17, and 88.171, effective 1993.

(41) On December 22, 1994, Minnesota submitted miscellaneous amendments to 11 previously approved administrative orders. In addition, the previously approved administrative order for PM Ag Products (dated August 25, 1992) is revoked.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments, all effective December 21, 1994, to administrative orders approved in paragraph (c)(29) of this section for: Ashbach Construction Company; Commercial Asphalt, Inc.; Great Lakes Coal & Dock Company; Harvest States Cooperatives; LaFarge Corporation; Metropolitan Council; North Star Steel Company; Rochester Public Utilities; and J.L. Shiely Company.

(B) Amendments, effective December 21, 1994, to the administrative order approved in paragraph (c)(30) of this section for United Defense, LP (formerly FMC/U.S. Navy).

(C) Amendments, effective December 21, 1994, to the administrative order approved in paragraph (c)(35) of this section for Northern States Power-Inver Hills Station.

(42) On September 7, 1994, the State of Minnesota submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) for particulate matter for the Rochester area of Olmsted County, Minnesota.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendment Two to the administrative order for the Silver Lake Plant of Rochester Public Utilities, located in Rochester, Minnesota, dated and effective August 31, 1994, submitted September 7, 1994.

(43) On November 12, 1993, the State of Minnesota submitted a contingency plan to control the emissions of carbon monoxide from mobile sources by use of oxygenated gasoline on a year-round basis. The submittal of this program satisfies the provisions under section 172(c)(9) and 172(b) of the Clean Air Act as amended.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Laws of Minnesota for 1992, Chapter 575, section 29(b), enacted by the legislature and signed into law on April 29, 1992.

(44) This revision provides for data which have been collected under the enhanced monitoring and operating permit programs to be used for compliance certifications and enforcement actions.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Minnesota Rules, sections 7007.0800 Subpart 6.C(5), 7017.0100 Subparts 1 and 2, both effective February 28, 1995.

(45) On December 15, 1995, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency submitted a revision to the State Implementation Plan for the general conformity rules. The general conformity SIP revisions enable the State of Minnesota to implement and enforce the Federal general conformity requirements in the nonattainment or maintenance areas at the State or local level in accordance with 40 CFR part 93, subpart B-Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plans.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Minnesota rules Part 7009.9000, as created and published in the (Minnesota) Register, November 13, 1995, number 477, effective November 20, 1995.

(46) On April 24, 1997, the State of Minnesota submitted Administrative Order amendments for sulfur dioxide for two Northern States Power facilities: Inver Hills and Riverside.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendment Two, dated and effective November 26, 1996, to administrative order approved in paragraph (c)(30) of this section for Northern States Power-Riverside Station.

(B) Amendment Three, dated and effective November 26, 1996, to administrative order and amendments approved in paragraphs (c)(35) and (c)(41), respectively, of this section for Northern States Power-Inver Hills Station.

(47) On October 17, 1997, the State of Minnesota submitted amendments to three previously approved Administrative Orders for North Star Steel Company, LaFarge Corporation, and GAF Building Materials, all located in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments, both dated and effective September 23, 1997, to administrative orders and amendments approved in paragraphs (c)(29) and (c)(41) of this section, respectively, of this section for: LaFarge Corporation (Childs Road facility) and North Star Steel Company.

(B) Amendment Two, dated and effective September 18, 1997, to administrative order and amendment approved in paragraph (c)(30) of this section for GAF Building Materials.

(48) On January 12, 1995, Minnesota submitted revisions to its air permitting rules. The submitted revisions provide generally applicable limitations on potential to emit for certain categories of sources.

(i) Incorporation by reference. Submitted portions of Minnesota regulations in Chapter 7007, and 7011.0060 through 7011.0080 effective December 27, 1994.

(49) [Reserved]

(50) On July 22, 1998 the State of Minnesota submitted a supplemental SIP revision for the control of particulate matter emissions from certain sources located along Red Rock Road, within the boundaries of Ramsey County. This supplemental SIP revision is in response to EPA's July 22, 1997 conditional approval (62 FR 39120), of a February 9, 1996 SIP revision for Red Rock Road. In addition, the previously approved administrative order for Lafarge Corporation (dated February 2, 1996) is revoked.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Air Emission Permit No. 12300353-001, issued by the MPCA to Lafarge Corporation-Red Rock Terminal on April 14, 1998, Title I conditions only.

(B) Revocation of Findings and Order, dated and effective July 21, 1998, to Findings and Order issued to Lafarge Corporation on February 2, 1996.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter submitting vendor certifications of performance for the pollution control equipment at Lafarge Corporation's facility on Red Rock Road in St. Paul, Minnesota, dated May 4, 1998, from Arthur C. Granfield, Regional Environmental Manager for Lafarge Corporation, to Michael J. Sandusky, MPCA Air Quality Division Manager.

(B) Letter submitting operating ranges for the pollution control equipment at Lafarge Corporation's facility on Red Rock Road in St. Paul, Minnesota, dated July 13, 1998, from Arthur C. Granfield, Regional Environmental Manager for Lafarge Corporation, to Michael J. Sandusky, MPCA Air Quality Division Manager.

(51) On November 14, 1995, July 8, 1996, September 24, 1996, June 30, 1999, and September 1, 1999, the State of Minnesota submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plan for carbon monoxide regarding the implementation of the motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program in the Minneapolis/St. Paul carbon monoxide nonattainment area. This plan approves Minnesota Statutes Sections 116.60 to 116.65 and Minnesota Rules 7023.1010-7023.1105. This plan also removes Minnesota Rules Part 7023.1010, Subp. 35(B), Part 7023.1030, Subp. 11(B,C), and Part 7023.1055, Subp. 1 (E)(2) from the SIP.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Minnesota Statutes Sections 116.60 to 116.65;

(B) Minnesota Rules 7023.1010-7023.1105 (except Part 7023.1010, Subp. 35(B), Part 7023.1030, Subp. 11(B,C), and Part 7023.1055, Subp. 1 (E)(2)).

(52) [Reserved]

(53) On September 29, 1998, the State of Minnesota submitted a site-specific revision to the particulate matter (PM) SIP for LTV Steel Mining Company (LTV), formerly known as Erie Mining Company, located in St. Louis County, Minnesota. This SIP revision was submitted in response to a request from LTV that EPA remove the Stipulation Agreement for Erie Mining Company from the State SIP, as was approved by EPA in paragraph (c)(18) of this section. Accordingly the Stipulation Agreement for Erie Mining Company referenced in paragraph (c)(18) of this section is removed from the SIP without replacement.

(54) On December 7, 1999, the State of Minnesota submitted to remove an Administrative Order and replace it with a federally enforceable State operating permit for Commercial Asphalt's facility located on Red Rock Road in the city of St. Paul. EPA approved a federally enforceable State operating permit (FESOP)(60 FR 21447) for the State of Minnesota on May 2, 1995.

(i) Incorporation by reference

(A) Air Emission Permit No. 12300347-002, issued by the MPCA to Commercial Asphalt CO-Plant 905, on September 10, 1999. Title I conditions only.

(55) On February 6, 2000, the State of Minnesota submitted a site-specific revision to the Minnesota Sulfur Dioxide (SO) SIP for Marathon Ashland Petroleum, LLC (Marathon Ashland), located in the cities of St. Paul Park and Newport, Washington County, Minnesota. Specifically, EPA is only approving into the SIP only those portions of the Marathon Ashland Title V Operating permit cited as "Title I condition: SIP for SONAAQS 40 CFR pt.50 and Minnesota State Implementation Plan (SIP)." In this same action, EPA is removing from the state SOSIP the Marathon Ashland Administrative Order previously approved in paragraph (c)(38) and revised in paragraph (c)(49) of this section.

(i) Incorporation by reference

(A) AIR EMISSION PERMIT NO. 16300003-003, issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Marathon Ashland Petroleum, LLC on October 26, 1999, Title I conditions only.

(56) On November 4, 1998, the State of Minnesota submitted a SIP revision for Olmsted County, Minnesota, for the control of emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO) in the city of Rochester. The state also submitted on that date a request to redesignate the Rochester nonattainment area to attainment of the SONational Ambient Air Quality Standards. The state's maintenance plan is complete and the submittals meet the SOnonattainment area SIP and redesignation requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(i) Incorporation by reference

(A) Air Emission Permit No. 10900011-001, issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) to City of Rochester-Rochester Public Utilities-Silver Lake Plant on July 22, 1997, Title I conditions only.

(B) Air Emission Permit No. 00000610-001, issued by the MPCA to City of Rochester-Rochester Public Utilities-Cascade Creek Combustion on January 10, 1997, Title I conditions only.

(C) Air Emission Permit No. 10900010-001, issued by the MPCA to Associated Milk Producers, Inc. on May 5, 1997, Title I conditions only.

(D) Air Emission Permit No. 10900008-007 (989-91-OT-2, AMENDMENT No. 4), issued by the MPCA to St. Mary's Hospital on February 28, 1997, Title I conditions only.

(E) Air Emission Permit No. 10900005-001, issued by the MPCA to Olmsted County-Olmsted Waste-to-Energy Facility on June 5, 1997, Title I conditions only.

(F) Amendment No. 2 to Air Emission Permit No. 1148-83-OT-1 [10900019], issued by the MPCA to Franklin Heating Station on June 19, 1998, Title I conditions only.

(G) Air Emission Permit No. 10900006-001, issued by the MPCA to International Business Machine Corporation-IBM-Rochester on June 3, 1998, Title I conditions only.

(57) [Reserved]

(58) On December 16, 1998, the State submitted an update to the Minnesota performance test rule, which sets out the procedures for facilities that are required to conduct performance tests to demonstrate compliance with their emission limits and/or operating requirements. In addition, EPA is removing from the state SIP Minnesota Rule 7017.2000 previously approved as APC 21 in paragraph (c)(20) and amended in paragraph (c)(40) of this section.

(i) Incorporation by reference.
