
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Minnesota
###### ยง 52.1235 Regional haze.
####### 7

() EPA will take final agency action by publishing its final confirmation or modification of the NOlimit in theno later than 55 months after May 12, 2016. The confirmed or modified NOlimit for the ArcelorMittal Minorca Mine indurating furnace when burning only natural gas may be no lower than 1.2 lbs NO/MMBTU, based on a 30-day rolling average, and may not exceed 1.8 lbs NO/MMBTU, based on a 30-day rolling average.

(B) [Reserved]

(vi) Northshore Mining Company- Silver Bay: An emission limit of 1.5 lbs NO/MMBtu, based on a 30-day rolling average, shall apply to Furnace 11 (EU100/EU104) beginning 26 months from March 8, 2013. An emission limit of 1.5 lbs NO/MMBtu, based on a 30-day rolling average, shall apply to Furnace 12 (EU110/114) beginning 38 months from March 8, 2013. However, for any 30, or more, consecutive days when only natural gas is used at either Northshore Mining Furnace 11 or Furnace 12, a limit of 1.2 lbs NO/MMBtu, based on a 30-day rolling average, shall apply. An emission limit of 0.085 lbs/MMBtu, based on a 30-day rolling average, shall apply to Process Boiler #1 (EU003) and Process Boiler #2 (EU004) beginning 5 years from March 8, 2013. The 0.085 lbs/MMBtu emission limit for each process boiler applies at all times a unit is operating, including periods of start-up, shut-down and malfunction.
