
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Minnesota
###### ยง 52.1235 Regional haze.
####### 5

() Commencing on the earlier of: Six months from the installation of the NOreduction control technology; or 44 months from May 12, 2016, the owner or operator must provide to EPA the results from pellet quality analyses. The owner or operator shall provide the results from pellet quality analyses no later than 30 days from the end of each calendar quarter up until 52 months after May 12, 2016. Any remaining results through the end of the 52nd month from May 12, 2016, that do not fall within a calendar quarter, must be submitted to EPA no later than 30 days from the end of the 52nd month. The pellet quality analyses shall include results for the following factors: Compression, reducibility, before tumble, after tumble, low temperature disintegration, and contraction. For each of the pellet quality analysis factors, the owner or operator must explain the pellet quality analysis factor, as well as the defined acceptable range for each factor using the applicable product quality standards based upon customers' pellet specifications that are contained in the ArcelorMittal Minorca Mine's Standard Product Parameters. The owner or operator shall provide pellet quality analysis testing results that state the date and time of the analysis and, in order to define the time period when pellets were produced outside of the defined acceptable range for the pellet quality factors listed, provide copies of production or scale data that document the starting and ending times for such periods. The owner or operator shall provide an explanation of causes for pellet samples that fail to meet the acceptable range for any pellet quality analysis factor. Pellet quality information and data may be submitted to EPA as Confidential Business Information.
