
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Minnesota
###### ยง 52.1235 Regional haze.
####### SO,emission limits.

(2)(i) United States Steel Corporation, Keetac: An emission limit of 225 lbs SO/hr, based on a 30-day rolling average, shall apply to the Grate Kiln pelletizing furnace (EU030). Any coal burned at Keetac shall have a sulfur content of 0.60 percent sulfur by weight or less based on a monthly block average. The sampling and calculation methodology for determining the sulfur content of fuel must be described in the monitoring plan required at paragraph (e)(8)(x) of this section. Compliance with these requirements for EU030 is required beginning 3 months from March 8, 2013.

(ii) Hibbing Taconite Company: An aggregate emission limit of 247.8 lbs SO/hr shall apply to the three affected lines, EU020, EU021, and EU022. The SOemission limits for these three pelletizing furnaces are based on a 30-day rolling average. Emissions resulting from the combustion of fuel oil are not included in the calculation of the 30-day rolling average. However, if any fuel oil is burned after the first day that SOCEMS are required to be operational, then the information specified in (b)(2)(vii) must be submitted, for each calendar year, to the Regional Administrator no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar year so that a limit can be set. Compliance with the emission limits is required beginning 6 months from March 8, 2013. Within 20 months of March 8, 2013, the owner or operator may calculate a revised SOlimit based on one year of hourly CEMS emissions data reported in lbs SO/hr and submit such limit, calculations and CEMS data to EPA. This limit shall be set in terms of lbs SO/hr, based on the following equations, with compliance to be determined on a 30-day rolling average.

If m is not a whole number, the limit shall be computed by linear interpolation according to the following equation.

(iii) United States Steel Corporation, Minntac: An aggregate emission limit for indurating furnace Lines 3-7 (EU225, EU261, EU282, EU315, and EU334) of 498 lbs SO/hr shall apply when all lines are producing flux pellets. An aggregate emission limit of 630 lbs SO/hr shall apply to Lines 3-7 when Line 3-5 are producing acid pellets and Lines 6 and 7 are producing flux pellets. An aggregate emission limit of 800 lbs SO/hr shall apply to Lines 3-7 when all lines are producing acid pellets. The SOemission limits are based on a 30-day rolling average and apply beginning 3 months from March 8, 2013. The emission limit for a given 30-day rolling average period is calculated using a weighted average as follows:

Also, beginning 3 months from March 8, 2013, any coal burned at Minntac's Lines 3-7 shall have a sulfur content of 0.60 percent sulfur by weight or less based on a monthly block average. The sampling and calculation methodology for determining the sulfur content of fuel must be described in the monitoring plan required at paragraph (e)(8)(x) of this section.

(iv) United Taconite: An aggregate emission limit of 529.0 lbs SO/hr, based on a 30-day rolling average, shall apply to the Line 1 pellet furnace (EU040) and Line 2 pellet furnace (EU042) beginning six months after May 12, 2016. Compliance with this aggregate emission limit shall be demonstrated with data collected by a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) for SO. The owner or operator must start collecting CEMS data for SObeginning six months after May 12, 2016 and submit the data to EPA no later than 30 days from the end of each calendar quarter. Beginning six months after May 12, 2016, any coal burned on UTAC Grate Kiln Line 1 or Line 2 shall have no more than 1.5 percent sulfur by weight based on a monthly block average. The sampling and calculation methodology for determining the sulfur content of coal must be described in the monitoring plan required for this furnace.

(v) ArcelorMittal Minorca Mine: An emission limit of 38.16 lbs SO/hr, based on a 30-day rolling average, shall apply to the indurating furnace (EU026) beginning 6 months from March 8, 2013. This limit shall not apply when the unit is combusting fuel oil. However, if any fuel oil is burned after the first day that SOCEMS are required to be operational, then the information specified in paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section must be submitted, for each calendar year, to the Regional Administrator no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar year so that a limit can be set. Within 20 months of March 8, 2013, the owner or operator may calculate a revised SOlimit based on one year of hourly CEMS emissions data reported in lbs SO/hr and submit such limit, calculations, and CEMS data to EPA. This limit shall be set in terms of lbs SO/hr, based on the following equations, with compliance to be determined on a 30-day rolling average.

If m is not a whole number, the limit shall be computed by linear interpolation according to the following equation.

(vi) Northshore Mining Company-Silver Bay: An aggregate emission limit of 39.0 lbs SO/hr, based on a 30-day rolling average, shall apply to Furnace 11 (EU100/EU104) and Furnace 12 (EU110/EU114). Compliance with this limit is required within 6 months. Emissions resulting from the combustion of fuel oil are not included in the calculation of the 30-day rolling average. However, if any fuel oil is burned after the first day that SOCEMS are required to be operational, then the information specified in paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section must be submitted, for each calendar year, to the Regional Administrator no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar year so that a limit can be set. Within 20 months of March 8, 2013, the owner or operator must calculate a revised SOlimit based on one year of hourly CEMS emissions data reported in lbs SO/hr and submit such limit, calculations and CEMS data to EPA. This limit shall be set in terms of lbs SO/hr, based on the following equations, with compliance to be determined on a 30-day rolling average.

If m is not a whole number, the limit shall be computed by linear interpolation according to the following equation.

(vii) Starting with the first day that SOCEMS are required to be operational, for the facilities listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)-(b)(2)(vi) of this section, records shall be kept for any day during which fuel oil is burned (either alone or blended with other fuels) in one or more of a facility's indurating furnaces. These records must include, at a minimum, the gallons of fuel oil burned per hour, the sulfur content of the fuel oil, and the SOemissions in pounds per hour. If any fuel oil is burned after the first day that SOCEMS are required to be operational, then the records must be submitted, for each calendar year, to the Regional Administrator no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar year.
