
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Minnesota
###### ยง 52.1235 Regional haze.
####### Recordkeeping requirements.

(d)(1)(i) Records required by this section must be kept in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review.

(ii) Records required by this section must be kept for a minimum of five years following the date of creation.

(iii) Records must be kept on site for at least two years following the date of creation and may be kept offsite, but readily accessible, for the remaining three years.

(2) The owner or operator of the BART affected units must maintain the records at paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (xi) of this section.

(i) A copy of each notification and report developed for and submitted to comply with this section including all documentation supporting any initial notification or notification of compliance status submitted according to the requirements of this section.

(ii) Records of the occurrence and duration of startup, shutdown, and malfunction of the BART affected units, air pollution control equipment, and CEMS required by this section.

(iii) Records of activities taken during each startup, shutdown, and malfunction of the BART affected unit, air pollution control equipment, and CEMS required by this section.

(iv) Records of the occurrence and duration of all major maintenance conducted on the BART affected units, air pollution control equipment, and CEMS required by this section.

(v) Records of each excess emission report, including all documentation supporting the reports, dates and times when excess emissions occurred, investigations into the causes of excess emissions, actions taken to minimize or eliminate the excess emissions, and preventative measures to avoid the cause of excess emissions from occurring again.

(vi) Records of all CEMS data including, as a minimum, the date, location, and time of sampling or measurement, parameters sampled or measured, and results.

(vii) All records associated with quality assurance and quality control activities on each CEMS as well as other records required by 40 CFR part 60, appendix F, Procedure 1 including, but not limited to, the quality control program, audit results, and reports submitted as required by this section.

(viii) Records of the NOemissions during all periods of BART affected unit operation, including startup, shutdown, and malfunction in the units of the standard. The owner or operator shall convert the monitored data into the appropriate unit of the emission limitation using appropriate conversion factors and F-factors. F-factors used for purposes of this section shall be documented in the monitoring plan and developed in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 19. The owner or operator may use an alternate method to calculate the NOemissions upon written approval from EPA.

(ix) Records of the SOemissions in lbs/MMBTUs or lbs/hr(based on CEMS data), depending on the emission standard selected, during all periods of operation, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, in the units of the standard.

(x) Records associated with the CEMS unit including type of CEMS, CEMS model number, CEMS serial number, and initial certification of each CEMS conducted in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, Performance Specification 2 must be kept for the life of the CEMS unit.

(xi) Records of all periods of fuel oil usage as required at paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section.
