
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Minnesota
###### ยง 52.1235 Regional haze.
####### i.e.

(D) For purposes of this calculation, an operating day is any day during which fuel is combusted in the BART affected unit regardless of whether pellets are produced. Actual hours of operation are the total hours a unit is firing fuel regardless of whether a complete 24-hour operational cycle occurs (if the furnace is firing fuel for only five hours during a 24-hour period, then the actual operating hours for that day are five. Similarly, total number of pounds of the pollutant in question for that day is determined only from the CEMS data for the five hours during which fuel is combusted.)

(E) If the owner or operator of the CEMS required by this section uses an alternative method to determine 30-day rolling averages, that method must be described in detail in the monitoring plan required by this section. The alternative method will only be applicable if the final monitoring plan and the alternative method are approved by EPA.

(F) A new 30-day rolling average emission rate must be calculated for each new operating day.

(xi) The 720-hour rolling average emission rate determined from data derived from the CEMS required by this section (in lbs/MMBTU) must be calculated in accordance with (c)(4)(xi)(A) through (C).

(A) Sum the total pounds of NOemitted from the unit every hour and the previous (not necessarily consecutive) 719 hours for which that type of fuel (either natural gas or mixed coal and natural gas) was used.

(B) Sum the total heat input to the unit (in MMBTU) every hour and the previous (not necessarily consecutive) 719 hours for which that type of fuel (either natural gas or mixed coal and natural gas) was used.

(C) Divide the total number of pounds of NOemitted during the 720 hours, as defined above, by the total heat input during the same 720 hour period. This calculation must be done separately for each fuel type (either for natural gas or mixed coal and natural gas).

(xii) Data substitution must not be used for purposes of determining compliance under this section.

(xiii) All CEMS data shall be reduced and reported in units of the applicable standard.

(xiv) A Quality Control Program must be developed and implemented for all CEMS required by this section in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix F, Procedure 1, Section 3. The program will include, at a minimum, written procedures and operations for calibration checks, calibration drift adjustments, preventative maintenance, data collection, recording and reporting, accuracy audits/procedures, periodic performance evaluations, and a corrective action program for malfunctioning CEMS.
