
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart AA - Missouri
###### ยง 52.1322 Original Identification of Plan Section.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Implementation Plan for the State of Missouri" and all revisions submitted by Missouri that were Federally approved prior to July 1, 1999.

(b) The plans were officially submitted on January 24, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Budget and manpower projections were submitted by the State Air Conservation Commission (ACC) on February 28, 1972. (Non-regulatory)

(2) A memorandum from the State Air Conservation Commission concerning the effects of adopting Appendix B to NOemissions in the St. Louis area was submitted on March 27, 1972. (Non-regulatory)

(3) The determination of the CO air quality data base on the St. Louis area was submitted on May 2, 1972, by the Air Conservation Commission. (Non- regulatory)

(4) The emergency episode operations/communications manual for the Kansas City area was submitted on May 11, 1972, by the State Air Conservation Commission. (Non-regulatory)

(5) Amendments to the Air Conservation Law, Chapter 203, and plans for air monitoring for outstate Missouri were submitted July 12, 1972, by the Air Conservation Commission.

(6) The following amendments to the St. Louis and Kansas City outstate plans were submitted August 8, 1972, by the State ACC: Air Conservation Law, Chapter 203; Kansas City Ordinance, Chapter 18; Regulations XVIII, XX, XXVI (St. Louis); Regulations X, XII, XVII (Kansas City) and Regulations S-11, S-X111 and S-X11 (outstate).

(7) Letters discussing transportation control strategy for Kansas City Interstate AQCR submitted by the State ACC on May 11 and 21, 1973. (Non-regulatory)

(8) Alert plan for St. Louis County and outstate Missouri was submitted on May 24, 1973, by the ACC. (Regulatory)

(9) Copy of the State's analysis of ambient air quality in the Missouri portion of the Metropolitan Kansas City Interstate Air Quality Control Region and recommendation that the area not be designated as an Air Quality Maintenance Area submitted by the Missouri Air Conservation Commission on April 11, 1974. (Non-regulatory)

(10) Copy of the State's analysis of the Missouri portion of the Metropolitan St. Louis Interstate Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA), the Columbia SMSA and the Springfield SMSA and recommendations for the designation of Air Quality Maintenance Areas submitted by the Missouri Air Conservation Commission on May 6, 1974. (Non-regulatory)

(11) Compliance Schedules were submitted by the Missouri Air Conservation Commission on June 3 and October 1, 1976.

(12) Compliance Schedules were submitted by the Missouri Air Conservation Commission on November 23, 1976.

(13) On August 28, 1978, the following revisions were submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources:

(i) The recodification of Missouri regulations of July 1, 1976, now contained in Title 10, Division 10 of the Code of State Regulations.

(ii) Title 10, Division 10, Chapter 6 of the Code of State Regulations which contains air quality standards, definitions, and reference methods.

(iii) Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-2.200; Rule 10 CSR 10-3.150; and Rule 10 CSR 10-4.190 pertaining to control of SOfrom indirect heating sources.

(iv) Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-2.030; Rule 10 CSR 10-3.050; Rule 10 CSR 10-4.030; and 10 CSR 10-5.050 exempting certain process sources from the process weight regulations for particulate matter.

(v) Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-2.190; Rule 10 CSR 10-3.140; Rule 10 CSR 10-4.180; and Rule 10 CSR 10-5.280 which contain the "Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources," found at 40 CFR part 60 as in effect on January 18, 1975.

(vi) Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-2.060; Rule 10 CSR 10-3.080; Rule 10 CSR 10-4.060; and Rule 10 CSR 10-5.090 which require continuous opacity monitors for certain sources.

(vii) Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-5.140 for determining settlable acid and alkaline mists is rescinded.

(viii) The EPA is taking no action on Rule 10 CSR 10-5.100; 10 CSR 10-2.050, and 10 CSR 10-3.070 which limit fugitive particulate emissions from the handling, transporting and storage of materials in the State of Missouri.

(14) On March 12, 1979, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted Rule 10 CSR 10-3.100 and Rule 10 CSR 10-5.150 establishing revised SOemission limits for primary lead smelters.

(15) On March 1, 1979, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted a revision of regulation 10 CSR 10-5.110 revising the allowable emission rates of sulfur dioxide from Union Electric's Sioux and Labadie power plants.

(16) On July 2, 1979, the State of Missouri submitted a plan to attain the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for the Kansas City and St. Louis areas of the state designated nonattainment under section 107 of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977. Included in the plan are the following approved regulations as amended, in part, in subsequent submittals:

(i) Rule 10 CSR 10-2.210 and 10 CSR 10-5.300 Control of Emissions from Solvent Metal Cleaning are approved as RACT;

(ii) Rule 10 CSR 10-2.220 and 10 CSR 10-5.310 Liquified Cutback Asphalt Paving Restriated are approved as RACT;

(iii) Rule 10 CSR 10-5.220 Control of Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading and Transfer (St. Louis) is approved as RACT.

(iv) Rule 10 CSR 10-2.260 Control of Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading and Transfer (Kansas City) is approved as RACT;

(v) Rule 10 CSR 10-5.030 Maximum Allowable Emission of Particulate Matter from Fuel Burning Equipment Used for Indirect Heating is approved as RACT;

(vi) Rule 10 CSR 10-5.090 Restriction of Emission of Visible Air Contaminants is approved as RACT;

(vii) Rule 10 CSR 10-5.290 More Restrictive Emission Limitations for Sulfur Dioxide and Particulate Matter in South St. Louis is approved as RACT;

(viii) Rule 10 CSR 10-2.040 Maximum Allowable Emission of Particulate Matter from Fuel Burning Equipment Used for Indirect Heating is approved as RACT;

(ix) Rule 10 CSR 10-2.240 Restriction of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds from Petroleum Refinery Sources is approved as RACT;

(x) Rule 10 CSR 10-2.250 Control of Volatile Leaks from Petroleum Refinery Equipment is approved as RACT; and

(xi) Rule 10 CSR 10-2.230 and 10 CSR 10-5.330 Control of Emissions from Industrial Surface Coating Operations is approved as RACT.

(17) On July 2, 1979, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted variances (compliance schedules) for Union Electric Company's Labadie power plant, River Cement Company, and Monsanto Company's Queeny plant. The compliance schedules require these sources to comply with revised Rule 10 CSR 10-5.090. In addition, the Labadie power plant is required to come into compliance with Rule 10 CSR 10-5.030.

(18) On April 7, 1980 the State of Missouri submitted plan revisions for the review and permitting of sources of air pollutant emissions in nonattainment areas. Included in the plan are Missouri regulations 10 CSR 10-6.020, Definitions, and 10 CFR 10-6.060, Permits Required, as amended, in part, in subsequent submittals, which are approved as meeting the requirements of sections 172(b)(6), 172(b)(11)(A) and 173.

(19) On July 2, 1979, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted the variance for the University of Missouri power plant.

(20) On March 11, 1977 the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted a variance for Noranda Aluminum.

(21) On June 25, 1979 the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted a variance for Associated Electric Cooperative in New Madrid.

(22) On April 25, 1979, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted the variance for the Union Electric Company's Meramec power plant.

(23) Revisions to Rule 10 CSR 10-2.260 Control of Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading and Transfer (Kansas City), submitted on September 5, 1980, amending the vapor pressure limit in Section 2(A) and amending the limit on gasoline loading in Section 3(B)(1), are approved as RACT.

(24) A schedule for an inspection and maintenance program in St. Louis and a commitment by the East-West Gateway Coordinating Council regarding difficult transportation control measures, submitted on September 9, 1980.

(25) On September 5, 1980, the State of Missouri submitted new regulations and amendments to existing regulations to control emissions of volatile organic compounds in the St. Louis and Kansas City ozone nonattainment areas. Included in the plan revision are the following approved regulations as amended, in part, in subsequent submittals:

(i) Amendments to Rule 10 CSR 10-2.230 and to Rule 10 CSR 10-5.330, Control of Emissions from Industrial Surface Coating Operations, are approved as RACT;

(ii) Amendments to Rule 10 CSR 10-2.260 and to Rule 10 CSR 10-5.220, Control of Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading and Transfer, are approved as RACT;

(iii) Amendments to Rule 10 CSR 10-6.020, Definitions, and to Rule 10 CSR 10-6.030, Sampling Methods for Air Pollution Sources, and to Rule 10 CSR 10-6.040, Reference Methods, are approved as RACT;

(iv) Rule 10 CSR 10-2.280 and Rule 10 CSR 10-5.320, Control of Emissions from Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning Installations, are approved as RACT;

(v) Rule 10 CSR 10-2.290, Control of Emissions from Rotogravure and Flexographic Printing Facilities, is approved as RACT;

(vi) Rule 10 CSR 10-5.350, Control of Emissions from the Manufacture of Synthesized Pharmaceutical Products, is approved as RACT;

(vii) Rule 10 CSR 10-5.340, Control of Emissions from Rotogravure and Flexographic Printing Facilities is approved as RACT.

(26) On September 2, 1980, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted the State Implementation Plan for Lead. On February 11 and 13, 1981, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted two letters containing additional information concerning the State Implementation Plan for Lead.

(27) On September 5, 1980, the state of Missouri submitted a plan revision which involved provisions for start-up, shutdown, and malfunction conditions. Included in the plan are new Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-6.050, Start-up Shutdown, and MalfunctionConditions; and revisions to Rule 10 CSR 10-6.020, Defintions and Amended Start-up, Shutdown and Malfunction Provisions in Rules 10 CSR 10-2.030, 10-3.050, 10-3.060, 10-3.080, 10-4.030, 10-4.040, and 10-5.050.

(28) Revisions to Rule 10 CSR 10-6.060 Permits Required, submitted on April 7, 1981.

(29) A revision to Rule 10 CSR 10-5.220 Control of Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading and Transfer (St. Louis), submitted on April 14, 1981, amending the emission limit in Section 3, is approved as RACT.

(30) A report on the recommended type of I/M program, stringency factor, vehicle test mix, and program resources and justification, submitted on December 16, 1980, is approved as meeting the applicable condition on the SIP. No action is being taken with respect to the approvability of the specific recommendation sin the report.

(31) A report from the East-West Gateway Coordinating Council outlining commitments to transportation control measures, an analysis of those measures, and the results of the carbon monoxide dispersion modeling, submitted on February 12 and April 28, 1981, is approved as meeting the applicable condition on the SIP.

(32) A variance from Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-3.050 Restriction of Emission of Particulate Matter From Industrial Processes, for St. Joe Minerals Corporation, Pea Ridge Iron Ore facility, was submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on May 6, 1981 with supplementary information submitted on June 22 and July 28, 1981.

(33) On September 5, 1980, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted a revision of Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-3.050, Restriction of Emission of Particulate Matter from Industrial Processes, which exempts existing Missouri type charcoal kilns from the rule.

(34) A variance from Missouri Rules 10 CSR 10-3.060, Maximum Allowable Emissions of Particulate Matter from Fuel Burning Equipment Used for Indirect Heating, and 10 CSR 10-3.080, Restriction of Emission of Visible Air Contaminants, was submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on August 12, 1981.

(35) A variance from Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-2.260, Control of Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading and Transfer for the Kansas City Metropolitan Area, was submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on June 11, 1981.

(36) Revisions to Rule 10 CSR 10-5.340, Control of Emissions from Rotogravure and Flexographic Printing Facilities, submitted on April 15, 1982, are approved as RACT.

(37) On April 15, 1982, the State of Missouri submitted a new Rule 10 CSR 10-6.060, Permits Required, and Amendments to Rule 10 CSR 10.6020, Definitions, involving the review and permitting of new sources of air pollution. Included in the plan are provisions relating to the attainment area (PSD) new source review. The plan also includes new source review provisions of nonattainment areas in the State.

(38) Revisions to Rules 10 CSR 10-2.280 (Kansas City) and 10 CSR 10-5.320 (St. Louis), both entitled Control of Emissions from Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning Installations, and 10 CSR 10-5.290, More Restrictive Emission Limitations for Sulfur Dioxide and Particulate Matter in the South St. Louis Area, submitted on July 13, 1982, are approved.

(39) [Reserved]

(40) The 1982 carbon monoxide and ozone state implementation plan revisions were submitted by the Department of Natural Resources on December 23, 1982. A revised version of the 1982 carbon monoxide and ozone plan was submitted by the Department of Natural Resources on August 24, 1983. This version contained updated inventories, attainment demonstrations and schedules to adopt rules. The submission included new rule 10 CSR 10-5.360, Control of Emissions from Polyethylene Bag Sealing Operations. (No action was taken with respect to provisions dealing with control strategy demonstration, reasonable further progress and inspection and maintenance of motor vehicles.)

(41) Revised rule 10 CSR 10-1.010, General Organization, was submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on December 30, 1982.

(42) [Reserved]

(43) On March 26, 1984, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted a revision to the September 2, 1980, lead State Implementation Plan pertaining to item 4 of the consent order for the St. Joe Lead Company. The revision consists of a substitution of equivalent control measures for item 4.

(44) A variance from Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-3.050, Restriction of Emission of Particulate Matter from Industrial Processes, for the St. Joe Minerals Corporation, Pea Ridge Iron Ore facility, was submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on July 1, 1983.

(45) The Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted revisions to regulations 10 CSR 10-2.100, 3.030, 4.090, and 5.070 requiring operating permits for open burning of untreated wood waste at solid waste disposal and processing installations effective April 12, 1984.

(46) On June 6, 1984, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted the Air Quality Monitoring State Implementation Plan.

(47) In a letter dated August 14, 1984, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted the rules, 10 CSR 10-6.030, Sampling Methods for Air Pollution Sources, and 10 CSR 10-6.040, Reference Methods.

(48) Revised rules 10 CSR 10-2.040, 3.060, 4.040 and 5.030 all entitled "Maximum Allowable Emission of Particulate Matter from Fuel Burning Equipment Used for Indirect Heating" were submitted September 24, 1984, by the Department of Natural Resources.

(49) On October 5, 1984, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted a revision to the September 2, 1980, lead State Implementation Plan pertaining to item 6 of the Consent Order for the AMAX Lead Company. The revision consists of a substitution of equivalent control measures for item 6.

(50) The Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted an amendment to Rule 10 CSR 10-5.330 "Control of Emissions from Industrial Surface Coating Operations," limiting emissions from surface coating of plastic parts and new Rule 10 CSR 10-5.370 "Control of Emissions from the Application of Deadeners and Adhesives" on January 24, 1984; and new Rule 10 CSR 10-5.390, "Control of Emissions from Manufacture of Paints, Varnishes, Lacquers, Enamels and Other Allied Surface Coating Products" and an amendment to 10 CSR 10-6.020, "Definitions" on April 10, 1984. (Approval action was deferred on 10 CSR 10-5.370.)

(51) The motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program for the St. Louis area was submitted August 27, 1984, by the Department of Natural Resources.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendment to Regulations 10 CSR 10-5.380, "Motor Vehicle Emissions Inspections", published in the Missouri Register January 3, 1982;

(B) Missouri Revised Statutes, Sections 307.350 through 307.395, "Motor Vehicle Safety Inspection", as revised September 1983;

(C) Regulations 11 CSR 50-2.010 through 11 CSR 50-2.410, "Missouri Motor Vehicle Inspection Regulations", as revised July 1, 1982.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) I/M Implementation Schedule.

(B) Highway Patrol Forms.

(C) Missouri Certified Emission Analyzers.

(D) Missouri Department of Revenue Policy.

(E) Highway Patrol QC Manual.

(F) EPA Approval of RACT Compliance.

(G) Public Awareness Materials.

(52) [Reserved]

(53) A rule requiring sources to keep records and report data and requiring emission data to be made public was submitted January 22, 1985, by the Department of Natural Resources. This rule replaces previous rules 10 CSR 10-2.130, 3.130, 4.120, and 5.210, all entitled "Submission of Emission Information" which were approved as parts of the State Implementation Plan; and previous rules 10 CSR 10-2.180, 3.120, 4.170, and 5.270, all entitled "Public Availability of Emission Data" which were not approved prior to the submission of this replacement rule.

(i) Incorporation by reference. A new regulation 10 CSR 10-6.110 published in the Missouri Register November 1, 1984.

(54) A new rule, Controlling Emissions During Episodes of High Air Pollution Potential, was submitted by the Department of Natural Resources on January 22, 1985.

(i) Incorporation by reference. 10 CSR 10-6.130, Controlling Emissions During Episodes of High Air Pollution Potential, adopted by the Missouri Air Conservation Commission and effective on October 11, 1984.

(ii) Additional material. The State has rescinded rules 10 CSR 10-2.170, 3.110, 4.160, and 5.260, all entitled "Rules for Controlling Emission During Periods of High Air Pollution Potential."

(55) [Reserved]

(56) The Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted the Protection of Visibility Plan, 1985, on May 3, 1985.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments to Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-6.020, Definitions, and Rule 10 CSR 10-6.060, Permits Required. These Amendments were adopted by the Missouri Air Conservation Commission and became effective on May 11, 1985.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Narrative description of visibility new source review program for Class I areas in Missouri.

(B) Visibility monitoring plan for Class I areas in Missouri.

(57) On July 1, 1985, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted amendments to Rules 10 CSR 10-5.220 for the St. Louis Metropolitan Area, and 10 CSR 10-2.260 for the Kansas City Metropolitan Area. The amendments require bulk gasoline plants to be equipped with a vapor recovery system if their monthly throughput is greater than the exemption level.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) 10 CSR 10-5.220, and 10 CSR 10-2.260, Control of Emissions from Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading, and Transfer, as published in the Missouri Register on May 1, 1985.

(58) A plan revision demonstrating that the ozone standard will be attained in the St. Louis ozone nonattainment area by December 31, 1987, was submitted by the Department of Natural Resources on August 1, 1985.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) An agreement and variance modification order dated July 18, 1985, signed by the Missouri Air Conservation Commission and the General Motors (GM) Corporation requiring that the GM St. Louis assembly plant meet interim emission limitations and comply with the SIP by shutdown by December 31, 1987.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) A revised and corrected emission inventory for base year 1980.

(B) A revised projected year 1987 inventory demonstrating that the additional emission reductions from two new regulations and one plant shutdown, in addition to reductions already required, will be adequate to reduce ambient ozone concentrations to the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for ozone.

(59) A new rule, Control of Emissions from the Production of Maleic Anhydride, was submitted by the Department of Natural Resources on January 21, 1986.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) 10 CSR 10-5.400, Control of Emissions from the Production of Maleic Anhydride, adopted by the Missouri Air Conservation Commission and effective on October 26, 1985.

(60) A plan revision to correct motor vehicle inspection and maintenance testing deficiencies was submitted by the Department of Natural Resources on December 29, 1987.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Regulations 11 CSR 50-2.370 and 11 CSR 50-2.400, effective June 25, 1987.

(61) On June 9, 1986, the state of Missouri submitted an amendment to Rule 10 CSR 10-5.220, Control of Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading, and Transfer. This amendment requires the control of volatile organic compound emissions from the refueling of motor vehicles in the St. Louis Metropolitan Area.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) 10 CSR 10-5.220, Control of Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading, and Transfer, revised paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9, published in the Missouri Register on May 1, 1985.

(62) A new rule, Control of Equipment Leaks from Synthetic Organic Chemical and Polymer Manufacturing Plants, was submitted by the Department of Natural Resources on November 19, 1986.

(i) Incorporation by reference, 10 CSR 10-5.420, Control of Equipment Leaks from Synthetic Organic Chemical and Polymer Manufacturing Plants, effective on September 26, 1986.

(63) An amendment to the rule, Restriction of Emissions of Sulfur Compounds, was submitted by the Department of Natural Resources on November 19, 1986.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amended Regulation 10 CSR 10-3.100, Restriction of Emission of Sulfur Compounds adopted October 16, 1986, and effective on November 28, 1986.

(64) A variance from Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-3.050, Restriction of Emission of Particulate Matter from Industrial Processes, for the St. Joe Minerals Corporation, Pea Ridge Iron Ore facility, was submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on October 22, 1987.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Variance order modification dated May 21, 1987, issued to St. Joe Minerals Corporation allowing certain equipment at its Pea Ridge Iron Ore facility to operate beyond the limitations specified in Rule 10 CSR 10-3.050, Restriction of emissions of Particulate Matter from Industrial Processes, for outstate Missouri area, effective May 21, 1987.

(65) Revised regulations for the control of volatile organic compound emissions in the Kansas City area were submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on May 21, 1986, and December 18, 1987. The May 21, 1986, submittal also included anozone attainment demonstration for Kansas City, which will be addressed in a future action.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revision to Rule 10 CSR 10-2.260, Control of Emissions from Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading, and Transfer, effective May 29, 1986, with amendments effective December 24, 1987.

(B) New Rule 10 CSR 10-2.300, Control of Emissions from the Manufacturing of Paints, Varnishes, Lacquers, Enamels, and Other Allied Surface Coating Products, effective December 12, 1987.

(C) New Rules 10 CSR 10-2.310, Control of Emissions from the Application of Automotive Underbody Deadeners, and 10 CSR 10-2.320, Control of Emissions from Production of Pesticides and Herbicides, effective November 23, 1987.

(D) Rescinded Rules 10 CSR 10-2.240, Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds from Petroleum Refinery Equipment, and 10 CSR 10-2.250, Control of Volatile Leaks from Petroleum Refinery Equipment, effective November 23, 1987.

(E) Revision to Rule 10 CSR 10-6.030, Sampling Methods for Air Pollution Sources, effective November 23, 1987, with amendments effective December 24, 1987.

(F) Revision to Rule 10 CSR 10-2.210, Control of Emissions from Solvent Metal Cleaning, effective December 12, 1987.

(G) Revisions to Rules 10 CSR 10-2.290, Control of Emissions from Rotogravure and Flexographic Printing Facilities, and 10 CSR 10-6.020, Definitions, effective December 24, 1987.

(66) The Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted revisions to its state implementation plan to incorporate PMon March 29, 1988, May 12, 1988, and June 15, 1988.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to the following Missouri air pollution rules:

These rules were published in the Missouri Register on April 18, 1988, and became effective April 28, 1988.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) A revision to the Missouri Monitoring Plan was submitted March 29, 1988.

(B) A narrative description of the PMSIP for the state of Missouri was submitted June 15, 1988.

(67) Plan revisions were submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on August 18, 1986, and October 18, 1988, which implement EPA's July 8, 1985, revised stack height requirements.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to rules 10 C.S.R. 10-6.020, Definitions, and 10 CSR 10-6.060, Permits Required, effective May 11, 1986.

(B) New rule 10 C.S.R. 10-6.140, Restriction of Emissions Credit for Reduced Pollutant Concentrations from the Use of Dispersion Techniques, effective May 11, 1986.

(C) Revisions to rule 10 CSR 10-6.020, Definitions, effective August 25, 1988.

(68) Revised regulations applicable to air quality models were submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on October 18, 1988.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revision of rule 10 CSR 10-6.060 "Permits Required," effective on September 29, 1988.

(69) A plan revision to change the construction permit fees was submitted by the Department of Natural Resources on January 24, 1989, and September 27, 1989.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revision to 10 CSR 10-6.060, Permits Required, amended December 19, 1988, effective January 1, 1989.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Chapter 643 RSMo (House Bill Number 1187) passed by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri in 1988.

(70) The Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted amendments to Rule 10 CSR 10-2.230 on December 18, 1987, and December 19, 1988. The rule controls volatile organic compound emissions from industrial surface coating facilities in the Kansas City area.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revision to Rule 10 CSR 10-2.230, Control of Emissions from Industrial Surface Coating Operations, effective December 24, 1987, with amendments effective November 24, 1988.

(71) Revisions to regulations for controlling volatile organic compound emissions in the St. Louis area were submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on June 14, 1985; November 19, 1986; and March 30, 1989.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) New Rule 10 CSR 10-5.410, Control of Emissions from the Manufacture of Polystyrene Resin, effective May 11, 1985, with amendments effective September 26, 1986, and March 11, 1989.

(B) Revisions to Rules 10 CSR 10-5.220, Control of Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading and Transfer; 10 CSR 10-5.300, Control of Emissions from Solvent Metal Cleaning; 10 CSR 10-5.310, Liquefied Cutback Asphalt Paving Restricted; 10 CSR 10-5.320, Control of Emissions from Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning Installations; 10 CSR 10-5.340, Control of Emissions from Rotogravure and Flexographic Printing Facilities; 10 CSR 10-5.350, Control of Emissions of Synthesized Pharmaceutical Products; 10 CSR 10-5.360, Control of Emissions from Polyethylene Bag Sealing Operations; 10 CSR 10-5.370, Control of Emissions from the Application of Deadeners and Adhesives; 10 CSR 10-5.390, Control of Emissions from the Manufacturing of Paints, Varnishes, Lacquers, Enamels, and Other Allied Surface Coating Products; 10 CSR 10-5.420, Control of Equipment Leaks from Synthetic Organic Chemical and Polymer Manufacturing Plants; and 10 CSR 6.020, Definitions; effective March 11, 1989.

(C) Rescinded Rule 10 CSR 10-5.400, Control of Emissions from Production of Maleic Anhydride, effective March 11, 1989.

(72) The Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted new rule 10 CSR 10-5.330, Control of Emissions from Industrial Surface Coating Operations, and amendments to rule 10 CSR 10-6.020, Definitions, on January 11, 1990.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) New rule 10 CSR 10-5.330, Control of Emissions from Industrial Surface Coating Operations, effective November 26, 1989.

(B) Rescinded rule 10 CSR 10-5.330, Control of Emissions from Industrial Surface Coating Operations, effective November 26, 1989.

(C) Revisions to rule 10 CSR 10-6.020, Definitions, effective November 26, 1989.

(73) A rule revision to establish gasoline tank truck certification requirements in ozone nonattainment areas was submitted by the Department of Natural Resources on July 17, 1990.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revision to rule 10 CSR 10-2.260 and 10 CSR 10-5.220 both titled "Control of Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading, and Transfer" effective May 24, 1990.

(74) Revisions to the circumvention plan submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on September 6, 1990.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule at 10 CSR 10-6.150, Circumvention, effective November 30, 1990.

(B) Rescission of rules 10 CSR 10-2.140, Circumvention; CSR 10-4.130, Circumvention; and 10 CSR 10-5.230, Circumvention, effective September 28, 1990.

(75) Plan revisions were submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on September 25, 1990, which implement EPA's October 17, 1988, PSD NOrequirements.

(i) Incorporation by reference

(A) Revisions to rules 10 CSR 10-6.020 "Definitions" and 10 CSR 10-6.060 "Permits Required" were adopted by the Missouri Air Conservation Commission on May 14, 1990, and became effective May 24, 1990.

(ii) Additional Information

(A) Letter from the state dated November 30, 1990, pertaining to NOrules and analysis which certifies that the material was adopted by the state on May 24, 1990.

(76) In submittals dated September 6, 1990, and May 8, 1991, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted a lead NAAQS attainment plan for the Doe Run Herculaneum primary lead smelter. Although Missouri rule 10 CSR 10-6.120 contains requirements which apply statewide to primary lead smelting operations, EPA takes action on this rule only insofar as it pertains to the Doe Run Herculaneum facility. Plan revisions to address the other lead smelters in the state are under development.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) New rule 10 CSR 10-6.120, Restriction of Emissions of Lead from Primary Lead Smelter-Refinery Installations, effective December 29, 1988, with amendments effective March 14, 1991.

(B) Consent order, entered into between the Doe Run Company and the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, dated March 9, 1990.

(C) Supplemental consent order, signed by the Doe Run Company on July 26, 1990, and by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on August 17, 1990.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Narrative SIP material, submitted on September 9, 1990. This submittal includes the emissions inventory and attainment demonstration.

(B) The Doe Run Herculaneum Work Practice Manual was submitted on May 8, 1991. In the May 8, 1991, submittal letter, the state agreed that any subsequent changes to the work practice manual would be submitted to EPA as SIP revisions.

(77) Revisions to the state implementation plan for the Kansas City metropolitan area were submitted by the Director of the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on October 9, 1991. Revisions include a maintenance plan which demonstrates continued attainment of the NAAQS for ozone through the year 2002. Rule revisions were also submitted on October 9, 1991.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revised regulations 10 CSR 10-6.020, Definitions, and 10 CSR 10-2.220, Liquefied Cutback Asphalt Paving Restricted, effective August 30, 1991; and new regulation 10 CSR 10-2.340, Control of Emissions from Lithographic Printing Facilities, effective December 9, 1991.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) State of Missouri Implementation Plan, Kansas City Metropolitan Area Maintenance Provisions, October 1991.

(78) The Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted new rule 10 CSR 10-6.180, Measurement of Emissions of Air Contaminants, on March 4, 1991.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) New rule 10 CSR 10-6.180 entitled "Measurement of Emissions of Air Contaminants" published November 19, 1990, effective December 31, 1990.

(79) The Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted an amendment on March 19, 1992, to add sampling methods to rule 10 CSR 10-6.030 "Sampling Methods for Air Pollution Sources." On November 20, 1991, Missouri submitted administrative amendments to rule 10 CSR 10-6.030 which renumber and reorganize sections within that rule. Rules which reference the renumbered sections of 10 CSR 10-6.030 were also administratively amended and submitted.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revised regulation 10 CSR 10-6.030 "Sampling Methods for Air Pollution Sources" effective September 30, 1991.

(B) Administrative amendments to the sampling citations in the following rules which are affected by the administrative amendments to 10 CSR 10-6.030: 10 CSR 10-2.210, effective December 12, 1987; 10 CSR 10-2.230, effective November 24, 1988; 10 CSR 10-2.260, effective May 24, 1990; 10 CSR 10-2.280, effective May 13, 1982; 10 CSR 10-2.290, effective December 24, 1987; 10 CSR 10-2.300, effective December 12, 1987; 10 CSR 10-2.310, effective November 23, 1987; 10 CSR 10-2.320, effective November 23, 1987; 10 CSR 10-3.160, effective December 11, 1987; 10 CSR 10-5.220, effective May 24, 1990; 10 CSR 10-5.300, effective March 11, 1989; 10 CSR 10-5.320, effective March 11, 1989; 10 CSR 10-5.330, effective November 26, 1989; 10 CSR 10-5.350, effective March 11, 1989; 10 CSR 10-5.360, effective March 11, 1989; 10 CSR 10-5.370, effective March 11, 1989; 10 CSR 10-5.390, effective March 11, 1989; 10 CSR 10-5.410, effective March 11, 1989; 10 CSR 10-6.090, effective August 13, 1981; and 10 CSR 10-6.120, effective March 14, 1991.

(80) On June 28, 1991, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted revisions to the Missouri State Implementation Plan which pertain to the St. Louis vehicle inspection and maintenance program. The Missouri rules contain requirements which apply to both safety and emission testing; EPA takes action on these rules only insofar as they pertain to emissions testing.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) New rules 11 CSR 50-2.401, General Specifications; 11 CSR 50-2.402, Missouri Analyzer System (MAS) Software Functions; 11 CSR 50-2.403, MAS Display and Program Requirements; 11 CSR 50-2.405, Vehicle Inspection Certificate, Vehicle Inspection Report and Printer Function Specifications; 11 CSR 50-2.406, Technical Specifications for the MAS; and 11 CSR 50-2.407 Documentation, Logistics and Warranty Requirements; (appendix A, B, C), effective June 28, 1990.

(B) New rule 11 CSR 50-2.404, Test Record Specifications, effective September 28, 1990.

(C) Amended rules 11 CSR 50-2.370 Inspection Station Licensing; 11 CSR 50-2.410, Vehicles Failing Reinspection; and 11 CSR 50-2.420 Procedures for Conducting Only Emission Tests; effective December 31, 1990.

(D) Rescinded rule 11 CSR 50-2,400, Emission Test Procedures; effective December 31, 1990.

(81) The Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted a rule action rescinding rules 10 CSR 10-2.120, 10 CSR 10-4.110, and 10-5.200, Measurement of Emissions of Air Contaminants for the Kansas City Metropolitan Area, Springfield-Greene County Area, and the St. Louis Metropolitan Area, respectively, on July 9, 1992.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rescission of rules 10 CSR 10-2.120, 10 CSR 10-4.110, and 10 CSR 10-5.200 entitled "Measurement of Emissions of Air Contaminants" rescinded April 9, 1992.

(82) Revisions to the Missouri State Implementation Plan establishing a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program were submitted by the Director of the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on March 10, 1993.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Program dated November 1992 and adopted February 18, 1993.

(83) A revision to the Missouri State Implementation Plan (SIP) to incorporate the lead nonattainment areas into the existing new source review (NSR) program was submitted by the state on March 15, 1993. This revision changes the applicability requirements by changing the definition of nonattainment area in the state regulations to include lead nonattainment areas, and to delete the Kansas City area as a nonattainment area in light of its attainment of the ozone standard.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revision to rule 10 C.S.R. 10-6.020, definitions, effective February 26, 1993.

(84) The Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted rule revisions pertaining to rotogravure and flexographic printing facilities in Kansas City, Missouri, and St. Louis, Missouri; and an amendment to the sampling methods rule which adds a compliance test method for the capture efficiency of air pollution control devices. These amendments were submitted September 16 and September 23, 1992.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revised regulations 10 CSR 10-2.290 (except section (6), Compliance Dates) and 10 CSR 10-5.340 (except section (6), Compliance Dates), both entitled Control of Emissions from Rotogravure and Flexographic Printing Facilities, effective February 6, 1992.

(B) Revised regulation 10 CSR 10-6.030 (section (20)), effective April 9, 1992.

(85) [Reserved]

(86) A revision to the Missouri SIP to revise the Missouri Part D new source review rules, update and add numerous definitions, revise the maximum allowable increase for particulate matter under the requirements for prevention of significant deterioration, address emission statements under Title I of the CAA, and generally enhance the SIP.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revision to rules 10 CSR 10-6.020, Definitions and Common Reference Tables, effective August 30, 1995; 10 CSR 10-6.060, Construction Permits Required, effective August 30, 1995; 10 CSR 10-6.110, Submission of Emission Data, Emission Fees, and Process Information, except section 5, effective May 9, 1994; and 10 CSR 10-6.210, Confidential Information, effective May 9, 1994.

(87) In submittals dated July 2, 1993; June 30, 1994; and November 23, 1994, MDNR submitted an SIP to satisfy Federal requirements for an approvable nonattainment area lead SIP for the Doe Run primary smelter in Herculaneum, Missouri. Although Missouri rule 10 CSR 10-6.120 contains requirements which apply statewide to primary lead smelting operations, EPA takes action on this rule only insofar as it pertains to the Doe Run Herculaneum facility. Plan revisions to address the other lead smelters in the state are under development.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revised regulation 10 CSR 10-6.120 (section (1), section (2)(B), section (3)) entitled Restriction of Emissions of Lead From Primary Lead Smelter-Refinery Installations, effective August 28, 1994.

(B) Consent Order, entered into between the Doe Run Company and MDNR, dated July 2, 1993.

(C) Consent Order amendment, signed by the Doe Run Company on March 31, 1994, and by MDNR on April 28, 1994.

(D) Consent Order amendment, signed by the Doe Run Company on September 6, 1994, and by MDNR on November 23, 1994.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Revisions to the Doe Run Herculaneum Work Practice Manual submitted on July 2, 1993.

(B) Revisions to the Doe Run Herculaneum Work Practice Manual submitted on June 30, 1994.

(88) This revision submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on March 31, 1994, relates to intermediate sources, and the EPA is not approving the basic operating permit program. This revision establishes a mechanism for creating federally enforceable limitations. Emission limitations and related provisions which are established in Missouri operating permits as federally enforceable conditions shall be enforceable by EPA. EPA reserves the right to deem permit conditions not federally enforceable. Such a determination will be made according to appropriate procedures and be based upon the permit, permit approval procedures, or permit requirements which do not conform with the operating permit program requirements or the requirements of EPA's underlying regulations.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) 10 C.S.R. 10-6.065 (sections 1, 2, 3, 4(C)-(P), 5, and 7) Operating Permits, effective May 9, 1994.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter from Missouri to EPA Region VII dated November 7, 1994, regarding how Missouri intends to satisfy the requirements set forth in the Clean Air Act Amendments at sections 112(l)(5)(A), (B), and (C).

(B) Two letters from Missouri to EPA Region VII dated October 3, 1994, and February 10, 1995, supplementing the November 7, 1994, letter and clarifying that Missouri does have adequate authority to limit potential-to-emit of hazardous air pollutants through the state operating permit program.

(89) In submittals dated July 2, 1993; June 30, 1994; and November 23, 1994, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted a State Implementation Plan (SIP) to satisfy Federal requirements for an approvable nonattainment area lead SIP for the Doe Run primary and secondary smelter near Bixby, Missouri (Doe Run-Buick). Although Missouri rule 10 CSR 10-6.120 contains requirements which apply statewide to primary lead smelting operations, EPA takes action on this rule insofar as it pertains to the Doe Run-Buick facility. Plan revisions to address the other lead smelters in the state are under development.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revised regulation 10 CSR 10-6.120 (section (2)(C), section (4)) entitled Restriction of Emissions of Lead from Primary Smelter-Refinery Installations, effective August 28, 1994.

(B) Consent Order, entered into between the Doe Run Company and MDNR, dated July 2, 1993.

(C) Consent Order amendment, signed by the Doe Run Company on August 30, 1994, and by MDNR on November 23, 1994.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) The Doe Run-Buick Work Practice Manual submitted on July 2, 1993. EPA approves the Work Practice manual with the understanding that any subsequent changes to the Work Practice Manual will be submitted as SIP revisions.

(B) Revisions to the Doe Run-Buick Work Practice Manual submitted on June 30, 1994.

(90)-(91) [Reserved]

(92) On February 14, 1995, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted two new rules which pertain to transportation conformity in Kansas City and St. Louis.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) New rule 10 CSR 10-2.390 (except section (20) Criteria and Procedures: Interim Period Reductions in Ozone Areas (TIP)) and 10 CSR 10-5.480 (except section (22) Criteria and Procedures: Interim Period Reductions in Ozone Areas (TIP)), both entitled Conformity to State Implementation Plans of Transportation Plans, Programs, and Projects Developed, Funded, or Approved Under Title 23 U.S.C. or the Federal Transit Act, effective May 28, 1995.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Missouri's Air Pollution Control Plan, St. Louis Metropolitan Area Ozone and Carbon Monoxide Transportation Conformity, January 12, 1995.

(B) Missouri's Air Pollution Control Plan, Kansas City Metropolitan Area Ozone Transportation Conformity, January 12, 1995.

(C) Policy agreement, entered into between the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, the Mid-America Regional Council, and the Highway and Transportation Commission of the state of Missouri, dated August 31, 1993.

(D) Letter from the state of Missouri to EPA, dated December 7, 1995, in which the state commits to implementing its state rule consistent with the Federal Transportation Conformity rule, as amended on August 29, 1995, with regards to the granting of an NOwaiver and the NOconformity requirements.

(93) On February 14, 1995, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted a new rule which pertains to general conformity.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) New rule 10 CSR 10-6.300, entitled Conformity of General Federal Actions to State Implementation Plans, effective May 28, 1995.

(94) On April 12, 1995, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted an emissions inventory update to the Kansas City maintenance plan approved by EPA on June 23, 1992. The submittal also establishes a motor vehicle emissions budget for the purpose of fulfilling the requirements of the Federal Transportation Conformity rule.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Kansas City Ozone Maintenance SIP Revisions: Emission Inventories and Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets, adopted by the Missouri Air Conservation Commission on March 30, 1995.

(95) Plan revisions were submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on August 14, 1996, which reduce lead emissions from the Asarco primary lead smelter located within the lead nonattainment area defined by the boundaries of the Liberty and Arcadia Townships located in Iron County, Missouri.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule 10 CSR 10-6.120, Restriction of Emissions of Lead From Primary Lead Smelter-Refinery Installations, except subsection 2(B) and 2(C), and section 4, effective June 30, 1996.

(B) Consent Decree Case Number CV596-98CC, STATE OF MISSOURI ex. rel. Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon and the Missouri Department of Natural Resources v. ASARCO, INC., Missouri Lead Division, effective July 30, 1996, with Exhibits A, C, D, E, F, and G.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Narrative SIP material submitted on August 14, 1996. This submittal includes the emissions inventory and the attainment demonstration.

(96) Revisions to the Missouri SIP submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on March 13, 1996, and August 6, 1996, pertaining to its intermediate operating permit program. The EPA is not approving provisions of the rules which pertain to the basic operating permit program.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Regulations 10 C.S.R. 10-6.020, Definitions and Common Reference Tables, effective June 30, 1996; and 10 C.S.R. 10-6.065, Operating Permits, effective June 30, 1996, except sections (4)(A), (4)(B), and (4)(H).

(97) On November 20, 1996, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted a revised rule which pertains to general conformity.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule 10 CSR 10-6.300, entitled Conformity of General Federal Actions to State Implementation Plans, effective September 30, 1996.

(98) Revision to the Missouri SIP submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on July 14, 1997.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Missouri Emergency Rule, 10 CSR 10-2.330, Control of Gasoline Reid Vapor Pressure, effective May 1, 1997, and expires October 27, 1997.

(99) Revisions to the ozone attainment plan were submitted by the Governor on February 1, 1996.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-2.260, "Control of Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading, and Transfer," effective December 30, 1995.

(B) Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-5.220, "Control of Petroleum Liquid Storage, Loading, and Transfer," effective December 30, 1995.

(100) A revision to the Missouri SIP was submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on February 1, 1996, pertaining to Emission Data, Emission Fees, and Process Information.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-6.110, "Emission Data, Emission Fees, and Process Information," effective December 30, 1995.

(101) On January 10, 1997, and February 2, 1997, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted revised rules pertaining to transportation conformity.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Regulation 10 CSR 10-2.390, entitled Conformity to State Implementation Plans of Transportation Plans, Programs, and Projects Developed, Funded or Approved Under Title 23 U.S.C. or the Federal Transit Act, effective December 30, 1996.

(B) Regulation 10 CSR 10-5.480, entitled Conformity to State Implementation Plans of Transportation Plans, Programs, and Projects Developed, Funded or Approved Under Title 23 U.S.C. or the Federal Transit Act, effective December 30, 1996.

(102) Revised regulations for the control of fugitive particulate matter emissions were submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) on September 25, 1990, and on November 20, 1996.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Regulation 10 CSR 10-6.170, entitled Restriction of Particulate Matter Beyond the Premises of Origin, effective November 30, 1990, as amended October 30, 1996.

(B) Rescission of regulation 10 CSR 10-2.050, entitled Preventing Particulate Matter From Becoming Airborne, effective September 28, 1990.

(C) Rescission of regulation 10 CSR 10-3.070, entitled Restriction of Particulate Matter From Becoming Airborne, effective September 28, 1990.

(D) Rescission of regulation 10 CSR 10-4.050, entitled Preventing Particulate Matter From Becoming Airborne, effective September 28, 1990.

(E) Rescission of regulation 10 CSR 10-5.100, entitled Preventing Particulate Matter From Becoming Airborne, effective on September 28, 1990.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter from Missouri submitted on February 24, 1997, pertaining to the submission of supplemental documentation.

(103) Revisions to the Missouri plan were submitted by the Governor on March 20, 1997.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) St. Louis City Ordinance 59270, Section 4-Definitions, numbers 80. "Open Burning," 100. "Refuse," 108. "Salvage Operation," and 126. "Trade Waste" only; and Section 12, effective October 23, 1984.

(B) St. Louis City Permit No. 96-10-084, issued to Washington University School of Medicine Medical Waste Incinerator, 500 S. Euclid Avenue, effective February 20, 1997.

(C) St. Louis City Permit No. 96-10-083, issued to Washington University School of Medicine Pathological Incinerator, 4566 Scott Avenue, effective February 20, 1997.

(D) St. Louis City Operating Permit, issued to St. Louis University Medical Center Medical Waste Incinerator, 3628 Rutger Avenue, effective August 3, 1992.

(E) Kansas City Air Quality Control Code C.S. No. 56726, Chapter 8, Sections: 8-2, definitions for "Open burning," "Refuse," "Salvage operation," and "Trade waste"; and 8-4, only, effective August 2, 1984.

(F) Remove St. Louis City Ordinance 50163, effective June 11, 1968.

(G) Remove St. Louis City Ordinance 54699, effective March 27, 1967.

(H) Remove St. Louis County Air Pollution Control Code SLCRO, Title VI, Chapter 612, effective February 22, 1967.

(I) Remove Kansas City Air Pollution Control Code C.S. No. 36539, Chapter 18, except sections: 18.83-Definitions, subsections (13) "Incinerators" and (15) "Multiple Chamber Incinerators"; and 18.91-Incinerators, effective August 31, 1972.

(J) Remove City of Springfield Air Pollution Control Standard G.O. No. 1890, Chapter 2A, except sections: 2A-2-Definitions, the definitions for "Director of Health," "Existing Equipment," "Incinerator," "Multiple-chamber incinerator," "New equipment," "Open burning," "Particulate matter," "Refuse," and "Trade waste"; 2A-25; 2A-34; 2A-35; 2A-36; 2A-37; 2A-38; 2A-51; 2A-55; and 2A-56, effective October 12, 1969.

(104) [Reserved]

(105) Revision to the Missouri SIP submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources on November 13, 1997.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Missouri Rule, 10 CSR 10-2.330, Control of Gasoline Reid Vapor Pressure, effective October 30, 1997.

(106) On December 17, 1996, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted a revised rule pertaining to capture efficiency.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revised regulation 10 CSR 10-6.030 entitled, "Sampling Methods for Air Pollution Sources," effective November 30, 1996.

(107) New regulation for control of volatile organic emissions from Kansas City commercial bakeries submitted by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources March 13, 1996.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule 10 CSR 10-2.360 entitled "Control of Emissions from Bakery Ovens," effective December 30, 1995.

(108) On August 12, 1997, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted a new rule which consolidated the SOrules into one and rescinded eight existing rules dealing with sulfur compounds.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Regulation 10 CSR 10-6.260, Restriction of Emission of Sulfur Compounds, except Section (4), Restriction of Concentration of Sulfur Compounds in the Ambient Air, and Section (3), Restriction of Concentration of Sulfur Compounds in Emissions, effective on August 30, 1996.

(B) Rescission of rules 10 CSR 10-2.160, Restriction of Emission of Sulfur Compounds; 10 CSR 10-2.200, Restriction of Emission of Sulfur Compounds From Indirect Heating Sources; 10 CSR 10-3.100, Restriction of Emission of Sulfur Compounds; 10 CSR 10-3.150, Restriction of Emission of Sulfur Compounds From Indirect Heating Sources; 10 CSR 10-4.150, Restriction of Emissions of Sulfur Compounds; 10 CSR 10-4.190, Restriction of Emission of Sulfur Compounds From Indirect Heating Sources; 10 CSR 10-5.110, Restrictions of Emission of Sulfur Dioxide for Use of Fuel; and 10 CSR 10-5.150, Emission of Certain Sulfur Compounds Restricted; effective July 30, 1997.

(109) This State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision submitted by the state of Missouri on July 10, 1996, broadens the current rule exceptions to include smoke-generating devices. This revision would allow smoke generators to be used for military and other types of training when operated under applicable requirements.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Regulation 10 CSR 10-3.080, "Restriction of Emission of Visible Air Contaminants," effective on May 30, 1996.

(110) On May 28, 1998, the Missouri Department of Natural Resources submitted revisions to the construction permits rule.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Missouri Rule 10 CSR 10-6.060, "Construction Permits Required," except Section (9), effective April 30, 1998.

(111) A revision submitted by the Governor's designee on July 30, 1998, that reduces air emissions from batch-type charcoal kilns throughout the state of Missouri.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) New Missouri rule 10 CSR 10-6.330, Restriction of Emissions from Batch-Type Charcoal Kilns, effective July 30, 1998.

(112) Revisions submitted on November 13, 1998, and December 7, 1998, by the MDNR that modify Missouri's Out-state Open Burning Rule and add sampling methods to Missouri's Sampling Method Rule, respectively.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Revisions to Missouri rule 10 CSR 10-3.030 entitled "Open Burning Restrictions," effective August 30, 1998.

(B) Revisions to Missouri rule 10 CSR 10-6.030 entitled "Sampling Methods for Air Pollution Sources," effective November 30, 1998.
