
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart AA - Missouri
###### § 52.1323 Approval status.

(a) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves Missouri's plans for the attainment and maintenance of the national standards. Continued satisfaction of the requirements of Part D for the ozone portion of the SIP depends on the adoption and submittal of RACT requirements by July 1, 1980, for the sources covered by CTGs issued between January 1978 and January 1979 and adoption and submittal by each successive January of Additional RACT requirements for sources covered by CTGs issued the previous January. New source review permits issued pursuant to section 173 of the Clean Air Act will not be deemed valid by EPA unless the provisions of Section V of the emission offset interpretive rule published on January 16, 1979 (44 FR 3274) are met.

(b) The Administrator approves Rule 10 CSR 10-2.290 as identified under § 52.1320, paragraph (c)(65), with the understanding that any alternative compliance plans issued under this rule must be approved by EPA as individual SIP revisions. In the absence of such approval, the enforceable requirements of the SIP would be the reduction requirements stated in the rule.

(c) The Administrator approves Rule 10 CSR 10-2.230 as identified under § 52.1320, paragraph (c)(70), with the understanding that any alternative compliance plans issued under this rule must be approved by EPA as individual SIP revisions. In the absence of such approval, the enforceable requirements of the SIP would be the emission limits stated in the rule.

(d) The Administrator approves Rule 10 CSR 10-5.340 as identified under § 52.1320, paragraph (c)(71), with the understanding that any alternative compliance plans issued under this rule must be approved as individual SIP revisions. In the absence of such approval, the enforceable requirements of the SIP would be the reduction requirements stated in the rule.

(e) The Administrator approves Rule 10 CSR 10-5.330 as identified under § 52.1320, paragraph (c)(72), under the following terms, to which the state of Missouri has agreed: Subsections (5)(B)3 and (7)(B) of the rule contain provisions whereby the director of the Missouri Air Pollution Control Program has discretion to establish compliance determination procedures and equivalent alternative emission limits for individual sources. Any such director discretion determinations under this rule must be submitted to EPA for approval as individual SIP revisions. In the absence of EPA approval, the enforceable requirements of the SIP are the applicable emission limit(s) in subsection (4)(B) and the compliance determination provisions stated in subsection(5)(B)1 or (5)(B)2.

(f) The Administrator approves Rule 10 CSR 10-6.120 as identified under § 52.1320(c)(76), under the following terms, to which the state of Missouri has agreed. Subparagraph (2)(B)2.B.(IV) contains a provision whereby the Director of the Missouri Department of Natural Resources has discretion to approve revisions to the Doe Run Herculaneum work practice manual. Any revisions to the work practice manual, pursuant to this rule, must be submitted to EPA for approval as an individual SIP revision. Thus, any existing federally approved work practices remain in effect, until such time that subsequent revisions are submitted to EPA and approved as SIP revisions.

(g) The Missouri portion of the Kansas City metropolitan area was designated as nonattainment for ozone in 40 CFR part 81. Therefore, the Administrator approves continuation of the 7.8 RVP limit as federally enforceable in the Kansas City metropolitan area, even after the area is redesignated to attainment, because of its nonattainment designation effective January 6, 1992. Also, the requirement for 7.8 psi RVP volatility is deemed necessary to ensure attainment and maintenance of the ozone standard as demonstrated by the emissions inventory projections (based on use of 7.8 psi RVP) in Missouri's ozone maintenance plan for the Kansas City metropolitan area.

(h) Missouri rule 10 CSR 10-6.300 was rescinded on September 15, 2022.

(i) Emission limitations and related provisions which are established in Missouri's operation permits as federally enforceable conditions shall be enforceable by EPA. EPA reserves the right to deem permit conditions not federally enforceable. Such a determination will be made according to appropriate procedures, and be based upon the permit, permit approval procedures, or permit requirements which do not conform with the operating permit program requirements or the requirements of EPA's underlying regulations.

(j) Missouri rule 10 CSR 10-6.300 was rescinded on September 15, 2022.

(k) The state of Missouri revised 10 CSR 10-2.390 for Kansas City and 10 CSR 10-5.480 for St. Louis to update the transportation conformity requirements contained in 40 CFR Part 51, Subpart T, effective November 14, 1995.

(l) The Administrator conditionally approves Missouri emergency rule 10 CSR 10-2.330 under § 52.1320(c)(98). Full approval is contingent on the state submitting the permanent rule, to the EPA, by November 30, 1997.

(m) The Administrator approves Missouri rule 10 CSR 10-2.330 under § 52.1320(c)(105). This fulfills the requirements of the conditional approval granted effective November 10, 1997, as published on October 9, 1997.

(n) Missouri rule 10 CSR 10-2.330 was rescinded on April 12, 2021.

(o) The Administrator conditionally approves the Missouri SIP revisions that address the requirements of RACT under the 8-hour ozone NAAQS under § 52.1320(c). Full approval is contingent on Missouri submitting RACT rules for inclusion into the Missouri SIP to address the Solvent Cleanup Operations CTG, to the EPA, no later than December 31, 2012.

(p) For the 2015 8-hour ozone NAAQS:
