
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart BB - Montana
###### ยง 52.1374 Control strategy: Particulate matter.
####### Determination of Attainment.

(c)EPA has determined, July 14, 2015, based on quality-assured air monitoring data for 2007-2009 and 2012-2014 ambient air quality data, that the Libby, MT fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMnational ambient air quality standards (NAAQS). Therefore, EPA has met the requirement of CAA section 188(b)(2) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date or as expeditiously as practicable, whether the area attained the 1997 annual PMNAAQS. Additionally, this determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PMNAAQS. If EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 1997 annual PMNAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for that area shall be withdrawn.

(d) On August 3, 2016, the State of Montana submitted a maintenance plan for the Missoula PMnonattainment area and requested that this area be redesignated to attainment for the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(e) On July 23, 2019, the State of Montana submitted limited maintenance plans for the Columbia Falls, Kalispell and Libby PMnonattainment areas and requested that these areas be redesignated to attainment for the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and limited maintenance plans satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(f) On March 23, 2020, the State of Montana submitted limited maintenance plans for the Butte PMnonattainment areas and requested that this area be redesignated to attainment for the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and limited maintenance plans satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(g) On August 6, 2021, the State of Montana submitted limited maintenance plans for the Whitefish PMnonattainment areas and requested that this area be redesignated to attainment for the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and limited maintenance plans satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(h) On November 4, 2021, the State of Montana submitted limited maintenance plans for the Thompson Falls PMnonattainment areas and requested that this area be redesignated to attainment for the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and limited maintenance plans satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.
