
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart BB - Montana
###### ยง 52.1392 Federal Implementation Plan for the Billings/Laurel Area.
####### Data reporting requirements.

(4)(i) CHS Inc. shall submit quarterly reports beginning with the first calendar quarter following May 21, 2008. The quarterly reports shall be submitted within 30 days of the end of each calendar quarter. The quarterly reports shall be submitted to EPA at the following address: Air Program Contact, EPA Montana Operations Office, Federal Building, 10 West 15th Street, Suite 3200, Helena, MT 59626.

(ii) The electronic report shall be on magnetic or optical media, and such submittal shall follow the reporting format of electronic data being submitted to the MDEQ. EPA may modify the reporting format delineated in this section, and, thereafter, CHS Inc. shall follow the revised format. In addition to submitting the electronic quarterly reports to EPA, CHS Inc. shall also record, organize, and archive for at least five (5) years the same data, and upon request by EPA, CHS Inc. shall provide EPA with any data archived in accordance with this provision. The electronic report shall contain the following:

(A) Hourly average total sulfur concentrations as HS or SOin ppm in the gas stream to the flare;

(B) Hourly average HS concentrations of the flare pilot and purge gases in ppm;

(C) Hourly average volumetric flow rates in SCFH of the gas stream to the flare;

(D) Hourly average volumetric flow rates in SCFH of the flare pilot and purge gases;

(E) Hourly average temperature (in &#xB0;F) and pressure (in mm or inches of Hg) of the gas stream to the flare;

(F) Hourly emissions from the flare in pounds per clock hour; and

(G) Daily calibration data for all flare, pilot gas, and purge gas CEMS.

(iii) The quarterly written report shall contain the following information:

(A) The 3-hour emissions in pounds per 3-hour period from each flare;

(B) Periods in which only natural gas or an inert gas was used as flare pilot gas or purge gas or both;

(C) The results of all quarterly Cylinder Gas Audits (CGA), Relative Accuracy Audits (RAA), and annual Relative Accuracy Test Audits (RATA) for all total sulfur analyzer(s) and HS analyzer(s), and the results of all annual calibrations and verifications for the volumetric flow, temperature, and pressure monitors;

(D) For all periods of flare volumetric flow rate monitoring system or total sulfur analyzer system downtime, flare pilot gas or purge gas volumetric flow or HS analyzer system downtime, or failure to obtain or analyze a grab or integrated sample, the written report shall identify:
