
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Headquarters
###### ยง 1.27 Offices of the Associate Administrators.
####### Office of Regional Operations.

(b)The Office of Regional Operations, under the supervision of an Associate Administrator, reports directly to the Administrator and Deputy Administrator. The Office serves as the primary communications link between the Administrator/Deputy Administrator and the Regional Administrators. It provides a Headquarters focus for ensuring the involvement of Regions, or consideration of Regional views and needs, in all aspects of the Agency's work. The Office is responsible for assuring Regional participation in Agency decision-making processes, assessing the impact of Headquarters actions on Regional operations, and acting as ombudsman to resolve Regional problems on behalf of the Administrator. The Associate Administrator coordinates Regional issues, organizes Regional Administrator meetings and work groups; and coordinates Regional responses to specific issues. In addition, the Office is responsible for working with the Regional Offices to further the consistent application of national program policies by reinforcing existing administrative, procedural, and program policy mechanisms as well as through initiation of reviews of significant Regional issues of interest to the Administrator. It continually monitors responsiveness and compliance with established policies and technical needs through formal and informal contact and free dialogue. The Office initiates and conducts on-site field visits to study, analyze, and resolve problems of Regional, sectional, and national scale.
