
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart BB - Montana
###### ยง 52.1392 Federal Implementation Plan for the Billings/Laurel Area.
####### Compliance determining method.

(ii)(A) Compliance with the emission limits referenced in paragraph (f)(4)(i) of this section shall be determined by measuring the SOconcentration and flow rate in the Coker CO Boiler stack according to the procedures in paragraphs (f)(4)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section and calculating emissions according to the equations in paragraph (f)(4)(ii)(D) of this section.

(B) Beginning on May 21, 2008, ExxonMobil shall operate and maintain a CEMS to measure sulfur dioxide concentrations in the Coker CO Boiler stack. Whenever ExxonMobil's Coker unit is operating and Coker unit flue gases are exhausted through the Coker CO Boiler stack, the CEMS shall be operational and shall achieve a temporal sampling resolution of at least one (1) concentration measurement per minute, meet the requirements expressed in the definition of "hourly average" in paragraph (c)(14) of this section, and meet the CEMS Performance Specifications contained in section 6(C) of ExxonMobil's 1998 exhibit, except that ExxonMobil shall perform a Cylinder Gas Audit (CGA) or Relative Accuracy Audit (RAA) which meets the requirements of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix F, within eight (8) hours of when the Coker unit flue gases begin exhausting through the Coker CO Boiler stack. ExxonMobil shall perform an annual Relative Accuracy Test Audit (RATA) on the CEMS and notify EPA in writing of each annual RATA a minimum of 25 working days prior to actual testing.

(C) Beginning on May 21, 2008, ExxonMobil shall operate and maintain a continuous stack flow rate monitor to measure the stack gas flow rates in the Coker CO Boiler stack. Whenever ExxonMobil's Coker unit is operating and Coker unit flue gases are exhausted through the Coker CO Boiler stack, this CEMS shall be operational and shall achieve a temporal sampling resolution of at least one (1) flow rate measurement per minute, meet the requirements expressed in the definition of "hourly average" in paragraph (c)(14) of this section, and meet the Stack Gas Flow Rate Monitor Performance Specifications of section 6(D) of ExxonMobil's 1998 exhibit, except that ExxonMobil shall perform an annual Relative Accuracy Test Audit (RATA) on the CEMS and notify EPA in writing of each annual RATA a minimum of 25 working days prior to actual testing.

(D) SOemissions from the Coker CO Boiler stack shall be determined in accordance with the equations in sections 2(A)(1), (8), (11)(a), and (16) of ExxonMobil's 1998 exhibit.
