
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart BB - Montana
###### ยง 52.1392 Federal Implementation Plan for the Billings/Laurel Area.
####### Flare flow monitoring:

(2)(i) Within 365 days after receiving EPA approval of the flare monitoring plan required by paragraph (h)(5) of this section, each facility named in paragraph (a) of this section shall install and calibrate, and, thereafter, calibrate, maintain and operate, a continuous flow monitoring system capable of measuring the volumetric flow of the gas stream to the flare(s) in accordance with the specifications contained in paragraphs (h)(2)(iii) through (vi) of this section. The flow monitoring system shall require more than one flow monitoring device or flow measurements at more than one location if one monitor cannot measure the total volumetric flow to each flare.

(ii) Volumetric flow monitors meeting the proposed volumetric flow monitoring specifications below should be able to measure the majority of volumetric flow in the gas streams to the flare. However, in rare events (e.g., upset conditions) the flow to the flare may exceed the range of the monitor. In such cases, or when the volumetric flow monitor or monitors are not working, other methods approved by EPA in the flare monitoring plan required by paragraph (h)(5) of this section shall be used to determine the volumetric flow rate to the flare, which shall then be used to calculate SOemissions. In quarterly reports, sources shall indicate when these other methods are used.

(iii) The flare gas stream volumetric flow rate shall be measured on an actual wet basis, converted to Standard Conditions, and reported in SCFH. The minimum detectable velocity of the flow monitoring device(s) shall be 0.1 feet per second (fps). The flow monitoring device(s) shall continuously measure the range of flow rates corresponding to velocities from 0.5 to 275 fps and have a manufacturer's specified accuracy of +/-5% of the measured flow over the range of 1.0 to 275 fps and +/-20% of the measured flow over the range of 0.1 to 1.0 fps. The volumetric flow monitor(s) shall feature automated daily calibrations at low and high ranges. The volumetric flow monitor(s) shall be calibrated annually according to manufacturer's specifications.

(iv) For correcting flow rate to standard conditions (defined as 68 &#xB0;F and 760 mm, or 29.92 inches, of Hg), temperature and pressure shall be monitored continuously. Temperature and pressure shall be monitored in the same location as volumetric flow, and the temperature and pressure monitors shall be calibrated prior to installation according to manufacturer's specifications and, thereafter, annually to meet accuracy specifications as follows: The temperature monitor shall be calibrated to within +/-2.0% at absolute temperature and the pressure monitor shall be calibrated to within +/-5.0 mmHg;

(v) The flow monitoring device(s) shall be calibrated prior to installation to demonstrate accuracy of the measured flow to within 5.0% at flow rates equivalent to 30%, 60%, and 90% of monitor full scale.

(vi) Each volumetric flow device shall achieve a temporal sampling resolution of at least one (1) flow rate measurement per minute, meet the requirements expressed in the definition of "hourly average" in paragraph (c)(14) of this section, and be installed in a manner and at a location that will allow for accurate measurements of the total volume of the gas stream going to each flare. Each temperature and pressure monitoring device shall achieve a temporal sampling resolution of at least one (1) measurement per minute, meet the requirements expressed in the definition of "hourly average" in paragraph (c)(14) of this section, and be installed in a manner that will allow for accurate measurements.

(vii) In addition to the continuous flow monitors, facilities may use flare water seal monitoring devices to determine whether there is flow going to the flare. If used, owners or operators shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain these devices according to manufacturer's specifications. The devices shall include a continuous monitoring system that:

(A) Monitors the status of the water seal to indicate when flow is going to the flare;

(B) Automatically records the time and duration when flow is going to the flare; and

(C) Verifies that the physical seal has been restored after flow has been sent to the flare.

If the water seal monitoring devices indicate that there is no flow going to the flare, yet the continuous flow monitor is indicating flow, the presumption will be that no flow is going to the flare.

(viii) Each facility named in paragraph (a) of this section, that does not certify that only natural gas or an inert gas is used for both the pilot gas and purge gas, shall determine the volumetric flow of each pilot gas and purge gas stream for which natural gas or inert gas is not used by one of the following methods:

(A) Measure the volumetric flow of the gas using continuous flow monitoring devices on an actual wet basis, converted to Standard Conditions, and reported in SCFH. Each flow monitoring device shall achieve a temporal sampling resolution of at least one (1) flow rate measurement per minute, meet the requirements expressed in the definition of "hourly average" in paragraph (c)(14) of this section, and be installed in a manner and at a location that will allow for accurate measurements of the total volume of the gas. Gas flow rate monitor accuracy determinations shall be required at least once every 48 months or more frequently at routine refinery turn-around. In cases when the flow monitoring device or devices are not working or the range of the monitoring device(s) is exceeded, other methods approved by EPA in the flare monitoring plan required by paragraph (h)(5) of this section shall be used to determine volumetric flow of the gas which shall then be used to calculate SOemissions. In quarterly reports, sources shall indicate when other methods are used; or

(B) Use parameters and methods approved by EPA in the flare monitoring plan required by paragraph (h)(5) of this section to calculate the volumetric flows of the gas, in SCFH.
