
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart BB - Montana
###### ยง 52.1396 Federal implementation plan for regional haze.
####### Reporting.

(i)All reports under this section, with the exception of 40 CFR 52.1396(n) and (o), shall be submitted by the owner/operator to the Director, Office of Enforcement, Compliance and Environmental Justice, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 8, Mail Code 8ENF-AT, 1595 Wynkoop Street, Denver, Colorado 80202-1129.

(1) The owner/operator of each unit shall submit excess emissions reports for SOand NOBART limits. Reports shall be submitted quarterly by the owner/operator for EGUs and semiannually for cement kilns, no later than the 30th day following the end of each calendar quarter or semiannual period, respectively. Excess emissions means emissions that exceed the emissions limits specified in paragraph (c) of this section. The reports shall include the magnitude, date(s), and duration of each period of excess emissions, specific identification of each period of excess emissions that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the unit, the nature and cause of any malfunction (if known), and the corrective action taken or preventative measures adopted.

(2) The owner/operator of each unit shall submit CEMS performance reports, to include dates and duration of each period during which the CEMS was inoperative (except for zero and span adjustments and calibration checks), reason(s) why the CEMS was inoperative and steps taken to prevent recurrence, and any CEMS repairs or adjustments. The owner/operator shall submit reports quarterly for EGUs and semiannually for cement kilns.
