
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart BB - Montana
###### ยง 52.1397 Original identification of plan.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Implementation Plan for the State of Montana" and all revisions submitted by Montana that were federally approved prior to March 1, 2015.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on March 22, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Non-regulatory changes to the plan involving compliance schedules, emergency episodes, and air quality surveillance submitted May 10, 1972, by the State Department of Health.

(2) Plan revisions (Regulation 90-001, Part VI, Part VIII, Part XII) submitted June 26, 1972, by the Governor.

(3) The Governor submitted the Air Quality Maintenance Area identification to the Administrator on June 24, 1974.

(4) The Governor submitted revision to the Air Quality Maintenance Areas on January 25, 1975.

(5) Sulfur oxides control strategy and compliance schedule for the American Smelting and Refining Company submitted May 21, 1975, by the Governor.

(6) Sulfur oxides control strategy for the Billings and Laurel areas and schedule of Compliance for the Farmers Union Central Exchange (CENEX) refinery in Laurel submitted by the Governor on January 26, 1978.

(7) On May 5, September 4, and October 1, 1975, the Governor submitted revisions which amended regulations applicable to incinerators, industrial processes, storage of petroleum products, aluminum refineries, and malfunctions.

(8) On April 24, and October 4, 1979, the Governor submitted revisions for Anaconda, East Helena, and Laurel-SO; Billings, Butte, Columbia Falls, Colstrip, East Helena, Great Falls, and Missoula-TSP; Billings and Missoula-CO; and Yellowstone County-ozone. No action is taken with regard to the revised new source review regulation, the revised stack height regulation, or the control strategies for East Helena SOand Yellowstone County ozone.

(9) On February 21, 1980 the Governor submitted a plan revision to meet the requirements of Air Quality Monitoring, 40 CFR part 58, subpart C, ยง 58.20.

(10) On April 24, October 4, 1979, and January 7, 1980, the Governor submitted revisions to meet Part D and other sections of the Clean Air Act, as amended in l977. No action is taken with regard to the revised stack height regulation.

(11) On April 21, 1982, and April 22, 1982, Montana submitted revisions to the open burning regulation and redesignated the Anaconda area from nonattainment to attainment for sulfur dioxide (SO).

(12) On January 19, 1983, Montana submitted revisions to the State Implementation Plan to meet the requirements of Part C, Subpart 1, and section 110 of the Clean Air Act.

(13) On July 20, 1982 Montana submitted revisions which amended the State's rules relating to malfunctions.

(14) Revisions to the SIP for Missoula and Billings Carbon Monoxide (CO) and Missoula Total Suspended Particulate (TSP) Attainment Plans were submitted by the Governor on August 14, 1981. A revision specifying a list of statewide source test procedures was submitted by the Governor on September 21, 1981.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from Governor Ted Schwinden to EPA Region VIII Regional Administrator dated September 21, 1981, and document entitled "Montana SDHED-AQB Sampling and Analytical Procedures" as part of the SIP, adopted December 31, 1972.

(B) Missoula City Council Resolution Number 4146 approving amendments to Missoula Total Suspended Particulate and Carbon Monoxide Air Quality Attainment Plans, adopted on May 4, 1981.

(C) Missoula Board of County Commissioners Resolution number 81-73 approving changes in the Missoula TSP and CO State Implementation Plan, adopted on May 13, 1981.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) "Missoula SIP Revisions; Revision to Total Suspended Particulates Strategies and Strategy Development and Implementation for Carbon Monoxide," 1981.

(B) Certification of approval by Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences on May 28, 1981 of the "Transportation Control Plan" (July, 1980) prepared by Billings-Yellowstone City-County Planning Board.

(C) Billings-Yellowstone City-County Planning Board "Transportation Control Plan", July, 1980, approved on May 28, 1981.

(15) On September 29, 1983, the Governor submitted the Montana State Implementation Plan revision for lead.

(16) A revision to the East Helena nonattainment plan for sulfur dioxide (SO) was submitted on June 7, 1982, and supplemental information was submitted October 4, 1983.

(17) On September 21, 1981 the Governor submitted a permit which had been issued to the Western Energy Company as required in the conditional approval of the Colstrip TSP plan.

(18) In a letter dated March 28, 1986, the Governor submitted modifications to the Montana SIP which revised rules governing stack height and dispersion techniques. In a letter dated November 25, 1985, the Chief of the Air Quality Bureau, Montana, submitted the stack height demonstration analysis with supplemental information submitted on January 28, 1986. EPA is approving the demonstration analysis for all of the stacks except the ASARCO stacks.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to the Administrative Rules of Montana effective on June 13, 1986. The modifications repeal Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM 116.8.1201, 116.8.1202 and 16.8.1203 in Subchapter 12 and adds ARM 16.8.1204 (Definitions), 16.8.1205 (Requirements), and 16.8.1206 (Exemptions).

(B) Stack height demonstration analysis submitted by the State on November 25, 1985 (except for materials pertaining to ASARCO), and January 28, 1986 (except for materials pertaining to ASARCO and Appendix A).

(19) On August 21, 1985 and September 5, 1989, the Governor of Montana submitted revisions to the plan. The submittal revised existing Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) regulations.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments to the Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM) 16.8.921 (27), (Definitions), effective April 1, 1983.

(B) Amendments to the Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM) 16.8.921(2), (Definitions), effective September 13, 1985.

(C) Amendments to the ARM 16.8.921(21) and (27) (Definitions), ARM 16.8.936 (Exemptions from Review], ARM 1 6.8.937 (Air Quality Models), and ARM 16.8.941 (Class I Variances-General), effective June 16, 1989.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) February 29, 1988 letter from Douglas Skie, EPA, to Jeffrey Chaffee, Chief of the Montana Air Quality Bureau.

(B) September 9, 1988 letter from Jeffrey Chaffee, Chief of the Montana Air Quality Bureau, to Douglas Skie, EPA.

(C) December 14, 1988 letter from Douglas Skie, EPA, to Jeffrey Chaffee, Chief of the Montana Air Quality Bureau.

(D) April 28, 1989 letter from Jeffrey Chaffee, Chief of the Montana Air Quality Bureau, to Douglas Skie, EPA.

(20) A revision to the SIP was submitted by the Governor on August 21, 1985, for visibility monitoring and new source review.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revision to the Montana SIP was made on July 19, 1985, for visibility new source review and monitoring.

(B) Revision to the Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM) was made on July 19, 1985, for visibility which includes new regulations ARM 16.8.1001-.1008 and revising ARM 16.8.1107(3).

(21) Revisions to Montana TSP SIP for Butte were submitted by Governor Ted Schwinden on February 10, 1983.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) State of Montana Air Quality Control, Implementation Plan, Chapter 5C, Butte, adopted January 14, 1983.

(B) Air quality Permit #1749 for Anaconda Minerals Company filed March 28, 1983.

(22) Revisions to the Montana CO SIP for Great Falls were submitted by the Governor on March 28, 1986.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Montana Refining Company permit dated October 20, 1985.

(B) Stipulation in the matter of the Montana Refining Company dated December 2, 1985.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Montana SIP, chapter 5(3)D. Great Falls (Date: March 14, 1986).

(B) Pre-filed testimony by the Department of Health and Environmental Services dated February 28, 1986.

(23) On March 9, 1988, the Governor submitted a plan revising the State's Air Quality Modeling Rule (16.8.937) and its Particulate Matter, Fuel Burning Equipment Rule (16.8.1402).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Modification to the State of Montana Air Quality Rules, that is the Air Quality Modeling rule (16.8.937) and the Particulate Matter, Fuel Burning Equipment rule (16.8.1402) adopted on January 15, 1988.

(24) On July 13, 1990, the Governor of Montana submitted revisions to the Montana Air Quality Rules, Sub-chapter 9, Prevention of Significant Deterioration of Air Quality (PSD) Regulations, to incorporate the nitrogen dioxide (NO) increments.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to the Montana Air Quality Rules, Subchapter 9, Prevention of Significant Deterioration of Air Quality (PSD) effective on July 12, 1990.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) October 22, 1990 letter from Douglas Skie, EPA, to Jeffrey Chaffee, Chief, Montana Air Quality Bureau.

(B) December 4, 1990 letter from Jeffrey Chaffee, Chief, Montana Air Quality Bureau, to Douglas Skie, EPA.

(C) January 4, 1991 letter from Jeffrey Chaffee, Chief, Montana Air Quality Bureau, to Douglas Skie, EPA.

(D) April 30, 1991 letter from Douglas Skie, EPA, to Jeffrey Chaffee, Chief, Montana Air Quality Bureau.

(25) On August 20, 1991, the Governor of Montana submitted revisions to the plan for new source performance standards and national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to the Administrative Rules of Montana 16.8.1423, Standards of Performance of New Stationary Sources, and 16.8.1424, Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, adopted July 1, 1991, effective July 12, 1991.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter dated April 20, 1992 from Jeffrey T. Chaffee, Chief of the Montana Air Quality Bureau, to Doug Skie, Chief of Air Programs Branch, EPA Region VIII.

(26) On April 2, 1992, the Governor of Montana submitted revisions to the plan. The revisions included amendments to the Montana Air Quality Rules incorporating the July 1, 1991, version of the Montana Quality Assurance Manual and streamlining of the procedure for updating the Quality Assurance Manual.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions, as adopted March 31, 1992, to the Montana Air Quality Rules: 16.8.807 Ambient Air Monitoring, 16.8.809 Methods and Data, and the repeal of 16.8.810 Procedures for Reviewing and Revising the Montana Quality Assurance Manual.

(27) On April 25, 1988, the Governor submitted a plan to help assure attainment and maintenance of the PM-10 NAAQS throughout the State of Montana.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments to the Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM) 16.8.821 (Ambient Air Quality Standards), and ARM 16.8.701, ARM 16.8.806, and ARM 16.8.921 (Definitions), effective April 29, 1988.

(B) Amendments to the ARM, subchapter 9 (Prevention of Significant Deterioration): sections 16.8.924, 16.8.925, and 16.8.936, effective April 29, 1988; section 16.8.937, effective March 11, 1988; section 16.8.930, effective April 1, 1988; and sections 16.8.922, 16.8.923, 16.8.926, 16.8.927, 16.8.928, 16.8.929, 16.8.931, 16.8.932, 16.8.933, 16.8.934, 16.8.935, 16.8.938, 16.8.939, 16.8.940, 16.8.941, 16.8.942, 16.8.943, effective January 1, 1983.

(C) Amendments to the ARM, subchapter 10 (Visibility Impact Assessment): section 16.8.1007, effective April 29, 1988; and sections 16.8.1001, 16.8.1002, 16.8.1003, 16.8.1004, 16.8.1005, 16.8.1006, and 16.8.1008, effective March 11, 1988; section 16.8.930, effective September 13, 1985.

(D) Amendments to the ARM, subchapter 12 (Stack Heights and Dispersion Techniques), sections 16.8.1204, 16.8.1205, and 16.8.1206, effective June 13, 1986.

(E) Amendments to the ARM, subchapter 13 (Open Burning), sections 16.8.1301, 16.8.1302, 16.8.1303, 16.8.1304, 16.8.1305, 16.8.1306, 16.8.1307, and 16.8.1308, effective April 16, 1982.

(F) Amendments to the ARM, subchapter 14 (Emission Standards): section 16.8.1401, effective February 16, 1979; section 16.8.1402, effective March 11, 1988; section 16.8.1403, effective September 5, 1975; section 16.8.1404, effective June 13, 1986; section 16.8.1406, effective December 29, 1978; section 16.8.1419, effective December 31, 1972; section 16.8.1423, effective March 11, 1988; and section 16.8.1428, effective June 13, 1986.

(G) Amendments to the ARM, Sub-Chapter 16 (Combustion Device Tax Credit), sections 16.8.1601 and 16.8.1602, effective December 27, 1985.

(H) Appendix G-2, Montana Smoke Management Plan, effective April 15, 1988, is removed and replaced by ยง 52.1395.

(28) On August 20, 1991, the Governor of Montana submitted revisions to the plan for visibility models, new source performance standards, and national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to the Administrative Rules of Montana 16.8.1004, Visibility Models, 16.8.1423, Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources, and 16.8.1424, Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, effective December 25, 1992.

(29) The Governor of Montana submitted a portion of the requirements for the moderate nonattainment area PM10 State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Butte, Montana with a letter dated July 9, 1992, with technical corrections dated May 17, 1993. The submittals were made to satisfy those moderate PM10 nonattainment area SIP requirements due for Butte on November 15, 1991. The Butte PM10 SIP replaces the prior approved Butte total suspended particulate (TSP) SIP approved in paragraph (c)(21).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Stipulation signed October 8, 1991 between the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences and the Butte-Silver Bow Council of Commissioners, which delineates responsibilities and authorities between the two entities.

(B) Board order issued on November 15, 1991 by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences approving the Butte-Silver Bow Air Pollution Control Program.

(C) Stipulation between the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences (signed September 27, 1991), the Montana Department of Transportation (signed October 4, 1991), and the Butte-Silver Bow Council of Commissioners (signed October 7, 1991) to ensure that Butte-Silver Bow and the Montana Department of Transportation comply with Butte-Silver Bow Council Resolution No. 1307.

(D) Butte/Silver Bow Resolution No. 1307, effective March 6, 1991, which addresses sanding and chip sealing standards and street sweeping and flushing requirements.

(E) Butte/Silver Bow Ordinance No. 330, effective August 3, 1988, which addresses residential wood burning and idling diesel vehicle and locomotive requirements.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences Air Quality Permit #1636A, with a final modification date of October 26, 1991, for Rhone-Poulenc's elemental phosphorus plant.

(B) Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences Air Quality Permit #1749-04, with a final modification date of March 20, 1992, for Montana Resources, Inc.'s open pit copper and molybdenum mine, crushing and milling operation and concentrator.

(C) Montana Smoke Management Plan, effective April 28, 1988, which addresses prescribed burning requirements.

(D) Federal tailpipe standards, which provide an ongoing benefit due to fleet turnover.

(30) The Governor of Montana submitted a portion of the requirements for the moderate nonattainment area PMState Implementation Plan (SIP) for Missoula, Montana, and the Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program regulations with letters dated August 20, 1991 and June 4, 1992. The submittals were made to satisfy those moderate PMnonattainment area SIP requirements due for Missoula on November 15, 1991.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Stipulation signed April 29, 1991, between the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences and the Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Board, which delineates responsibilities and authorities between the two entities.

(B) Board order issued on June 28, 1991, by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences approving the comprehensive revised version of the Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program.

(C) Board order issued on March 20, 1992, by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences approving the amendments to Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program Rule 1401, concerning the use of approved liquid de-icer, and Rule 1428, concerning pellet stoves.

(D) Missoula County Rule 1401 (7), effective June 28, 1991, which addresses sanding and chip sealing standards and street sweeping and flushing requirements.

(E) Missoula County Rule 1401 (9), effective March 20, 1992, which addresses liquid de-icer requirements.

(F) Missoula County Rule 1428, effective June 28, 1991, with revisions to sections (2)(l)-(p), (4)(a)(i), and (4)(c)(vi) of Rule 1428, effective March 20, 1992, which addresses requirements for solid fuel burning devices.

(G) Missoula County Rule 1310 (3), effective June 28, 1991, which addresses prescribed wildland open burning.

(H) Other Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program regulations effective June 28, 1991, as follows: Chapter I. Short Title; Chapter II. Declaration of Policy and Purpose; Chapter III. Authorities for Program; Chapter IV. Administration; Chapter V. Control Board, Meetings-Duties-Powers; Chapter VI. Air Quality Staff; Chapter VII. Air Pollution Control Advisory Council; Chapter VIII. Inspections; Chapter IX., Subchapter 7 General Provisions; Chapter IX., Subchapter 14, Emission Standards, Rules 1401, 1402, 1403, 1404, 1406 (with amendments effective March 20, 1992), 1411, 1419, 1425, and 1426; Chapter XI. Enforcement, Judicial Review and Hearings; Chapter XII. Criminal Penalties; Chapter XIII. Civil Penalties; Chapter XIV. Non-Compliance Penalties; Chapter XV. Separability Clause; Chapter XVI. Amendments and Revisions; Chapter XVII. Limitations, and Appendix A, Maps.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences Air Quality Permit #2303-M, with a final modification date of March 20, 1992, for Louisiana-Pacific Corporation's particle board manufacturing facility.

(B) Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences Air Quality Permit #2589-M, with a final modification date of January 23, 1992, for Stone Container Corporation's pulp and paper mill facility.

(C) Federal tailpipe standards, which provide an ongoing benefit due to fleet turnover.

(31) The Governor of Montana submitted a portion of the requirements for the moderate nonattainment area PMState Implementation Plan (SIP) for Columbia Falls, Montana with letters dated November 25, 1991, and May 6, 1992, with technical corrections dated June 15, 1993. The submittals were made to satisfy those moderate PMnonattainment area SIP requirements due for Columbia Falls on November 15, 1991.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Stipulation signed November 15, 1991, between the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences, the Flathead County Commission, and the Kalispell City Council and the Columbia Falls City Council, which delineates responsibilities and authorities between the MDHES and Flathead County.

(B) Board order issued on November 15, 1991, by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences approving the Flathead County Air Pollution Control Program.

(C) Flathead County Board of Commissioners Resolution No. 867, adopting the Flathead County Air Pollution Control Program and Flathead County Air Pollution Control Regulations, with the exception of rules 501 through 506, signed October 3, 1991.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences Air Quality Permit # 2667-M, with a final modification date of January 24, 1992, for Plum Creek Manufacturing, Inc. Columbia Falls Operations.

(B) Montana Smoke Management Plan, effective April 28, 1988, which addresses prescribed burning requirements.

(C) Federal tailpipe standards, which provide an ongoing benefit due to fleet turnover.

(32) On November 6, 1992, Stan Stephens, the Governor of Montana, submitted a SIP revision to the Implementation Plan for the Control of Air Pollution. This revision establishes and requires the implementation of an oxygenated fuels program in Missoula County as required by section 211(m) of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Missoula City-County Rule 1429, which establishes and requires the implementation of an oxygenated fuel program, as adopted June 9, 1992.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter dated November 6, 1992, from Governor Stan Stephens submitting the oxygenated gasoline program SIP revision.

(B) Stipulation signed June 12, 1991 between the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences and the Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Board, which delineates the responsibilities and authorities between the two entities.

(C) Board order issued September 25, 1992 by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences approving amendments to Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program, adopting Rule 1429 establishing and implementing an oxygenated fuels program.

(33) The Governor of Montana submitted a portion of the requirements for the moderate nonattainment area PMState Implementation Plan (SIP) for Libby, Montana with letters dated November 25, 1991 and May 24, 1993, with technical corrections dated June 3, 1994. The submittals were to satisfy those moderate PMnonattainment area SIP requirements due for Libby on November 15, 1991.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Stipulation signed October 7, 1991 between the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences (MDHES), the County of Lincoln and the City of Libby, which delineates responsibilities and authorities between the MDHES, Lincoln County and Libby.

(B) Board order issued on November 15, 1991 by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences approving the Lincoln County Air Pollution Control Program.

(C) Stipulation signed March 18, 1993 between the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences, the County of Lincoln and the City of Libby, seeking approval of amendments to the local air pollution control program.

(D) Board order issued on March 19, 1993 by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences approving amendments to the Lincoln County Air Pollution Control Program.

(E) Letter dated February 4, 1993, from Kendra J. Lind, Lincoln County Department of Environmental Health, to Gretchen Bennitt, Air Quality Bureau, Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences, which explains the local adoption process and effective date of amendments to the Lincoln County Air Quality Control Program regulations.

(F) Lincoln County Board of Commissioners Resolution No. 276, signed December, 23, 1992, and Libby City Council Ordinance No. 1470, signed February 1, 1993, adopting amendments to the Lincoln County Air Quality Control Program regulations 1 through 7.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences Air Quality Permit #2627-M, with a final modification date of July 25, 1991, for Stimson Lumber Company (formerly Champion International Corporation), Libby Facility.

(B) Montana Smoke Management Plan, effective April 28, 1988, which addresses prescribed burning requirements.

(C) Federal tailpipe standards, which provide an ongoing benefit due to fleet turnover.

(34) On October 19, 1992, the Governor of Montana submitted a plan for the establishment and implementation of a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program to be incorporated into the Montana State Implementation Plan as required by section 507 of the Clean Air Act.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Montana Code Annotated, Sections 75-2-106, 75-2-107, 75-2-108, 75-2-109 and 75-2-220, to establish and fund a small business stationary source technical and environmental compliance assistance program, effective April 24, 1993.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) October 19, 1992 letter from the Governor of Montana submitting a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program plan to EPA.

(B) The State of Montana plan for the establishment and implementation of a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program, adopted by the Board of Health and Environmental Sciences on September 25, 1992, effective September 25, 1992.

(35) The Governor of Montana submitted PMand CO contingency measures for Missoula, Montana in a letter dated March 2, 1994. The Governor of Montana also submitted the Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program in a letter dated August 20, 1991, with amendments submitted in letters dated June 4, 1992 and March 2, 1994. The March 2, 1994 submittal satisfies several commitments made by the State in its original PMmoderate nonattainment area SIP.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Board order issued on November 19, 1993 by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences approving the amendments to Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program Chapter VII, VIII, and IX, regarding, among other things, the PMand CO contingency measures, inspections, emergency procedures, permitting, and wood-waste burners.

(B) Missoula City-County Chapter IX, Subchapter 3, effective November 19, 1993, which addresses the PMand CO contingency measure selection process.

(C) Missoula City-County Rule 1401(7), effective November 19, 1993, which addresses PMcontingency measure requirements for an expanded area of regulated road sanding materials.

(D) Missoula City-County Rule 1428(5) and 1428(7), effective November 19, 1993, which addresses PMand CO contingency measure requirements for solid fuel burning devices.

(E) Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program Chapter IX, Subchapter 13, Open Burning, effective June 28, 1991.

(F) Other Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program regulations effective June 28, 1991, with amendments effective on March 20, 1992 and November 19, 1993, as follows: all portions of Chapter IX, Subchapter 11, Permit, Construction and Operation of Air Contaminant Sources, except, Rules 1102(3), 1105(2), and 1111(2).

(G) Other Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program regulations effective June 28, 1991, with amendments effective on November 19, 1993, as follows: Chapter IX, Subchapter 4, Emergency Procedures and Chapter IX, Subchapter 14, Rule 1407, Prevention, Abatement and Control of Air Pollution from Wood-Waste Burners.

(H) Minor revisions to Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program Chapter VII, Air Quality Advisory Council, and Chapter VIII, Inspections, effective on November 19, 1993, as follows: Chapter VII(1) and Chapter VIII(4).

(36) The Governor of Montana submitted PMcontingency measures for Butte, Montana in a letter dated August 26, 1994. This submittal also contained revisions to the attainment and maintenance demonstrations for the moderate PMnonattainment area SIP, due to modifications made to the Air Quality Permit for Montana Resources, Inc.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Board order issued on May 20, 1994 by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences approving the amendments to the Butte/Silver Bow Air Pollution Control Program regarding the PMcontingency measure.

(B) Butte/Silver Bow Ordinance No. 468, effective May 20, 1994, which addresses PMcontingency measure requirements for liquid de-icer application.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences Air Quality Permit #1749-05, as revised with a final modification date of January 5, 1994, for Montana Resources, Inc.'s open pit copper and molybdenum mine, crushing and milling operation, and concentrator.

(37) The Governor of Montana submitted a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision meeting the requirements for the primary SONAAQS SIP for the East Helena, Montana nonattainment area with a letter dated March 30, 1994. The submittal was to satisfy those SOnonattainment area SIP requirements due for East Helena on May 15, 1992. The East Helena SOSIP revision submitted on March 30, 1994, supersedes the East Helena SOSIP approved in paragraph (c)(5) of this section and, effective after November 15, 1995, terminates the East Helena SOSIP approved in paragraph (c)(16) of this section.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Stipulation signed March 15, 1994, between the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences (MDHES) and Asarco, Incorporated, which specifies SOemission limitations and requirements for the company's primary lead smelter located in East Helena, MT.

(B) Board order issued on March 18, 1994, by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences approving and adopting the control strategy for achieving and maintaining the primary SONAAQS in the East Helena area.

(38) [Reserved]

(39) On May 17, 1994, the Governor of Montana submitted revisions to the Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM) regarding nonattainment new source review, prevention of significant deterioration, general construction permitting, wood waste burners, source test methods, new source performance standards, and national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants. Also, the Governor requested that all existing State regulations approved in the SIP be replaced with the October 1, 1979 codification of the ARM as in effect on March 30, 1994. EPA is replacing all of the previously approved State regulations, except ARM 16.8.1302 and 16.8.1307, with those regulations listed in paragraph (c)(39)(i)(A) of this section. ARM 16.8.1302 and 16.8.1307, as in effect on April 16, 1982 and as approved by EPA at 40 CFR 52.1370(c)(11), will remain part of the SIP.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM) Sections 16.8.201-202, 16.8.301-304, and 16.8.401-404, effective 12/31/72; Section 16.8.701, effective 12/10/93; Section 16.8.704, effective 2/14/87; Section 16.8.705, effective 6/18/82; Section 16.8.707, effective 9/13/85; Sections 16.8.708-709, effective 12/10/93; Sections 16.8.945-963, effective 12/10/93; Sections 16.8.1001-1003, effective 9/13/85; Section 16.8.1004, effective 12/25/92; Sections 16.8.1005-1006, effective 9/13/85; Section 16.8.1007, effective 4/29/88; Section 16.8.1008, effective 9/13/85; Section 16.8.1101, effective 6/16/89; Section 16.8.1102, effective 2/14/87; Section 16.8.1103, effective 6/16/89; Section 16.8.1104, effective 3/16/79; Section 16.8.1105, effective 12/27/91; Sections 16.8.1107 and 16.8.1109, effective 12/10/93; Sections 16.8.1110-1112. effective 3/16/79; Section 16.8.1113, effective 2/14/87; Section 16.8.1114, effective 12/10/93; Sections 16.8.1115, 16.8.1117, and 16.8.1118, effective 3/16/79; Sections 16.8.1119-1120, effective 12/10/93; Sections 16.8.1204-1206, effective 6/13/86; Sections 16.8.1301 and 16.8.1303, effective 4/16/82; Section 16.8.1304, effective 9/11/92; Section 16.8.1305, effective 4/16/82; Section 16.8.1306, effective 4/1/82; Section 16.8.1308, effective 10/16/92; Section 16.8.1401, effective 10/29/93; Section 16.8.1402, effective 3/11/88; Section 16.8.1403, effective 9/5/75; Section 16.8.1404, effective 6/13/86; Section 16.8.1406, effective 12/29/78; Section 16.8.1407, effective 10/29/93; Section 16.8.1411, effective 12/31/72; Section 16.8.1412, effective 3/13/81; Section 16.8.1413, effective 12/31/72; Section 16.8.1419, effective 12/31/72; Sections 16.8.1423, 16.8.1424, and 16.8.1425 (except 16.8.1425(1)(c) and (2)(d)), effective 10/29/93; Section 16.8.1426, effective 12/31/72; Sections 16.8.1428-1430, effective 10/29/93; Section 16.8.1501, effective 2/10/89; Section 16.8.1502, effective 2/26/82; Section 16.8.1503, effective 2/10/89; Sections 16.8.1504-1505, effective 2/26/82; Sections 16.8.1701-1705, effective 12/10/93; and Sections 16.8.1801-1806, effective 12/10/93.

(40) The Governor of Montana submitted a PMplan for Kalispell, Montana in a letter dated November 25, 1991. The Governor of Montana later submitted additional materials in letters dated January 11, 1994, August 26, 1994, and July 18, 1995. The August 26, 1994, and July 18, 1995 submittals also contain the Kalispell Contingency Measure Plan. The August 26, 1994, submittal also contains the Columbia Falls PMcontingency measures and minor revisions to the attainment and maintenance demonstrations for the moderate PMnonattainment area SIP for Columbia Falls. Finally, the August 26, 1994, submittal contains revisions to the Flathead County Air Pollution Control Program regulations.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Stipulations signed September 15, 1993 between the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences and the following industries: A-1 Paving; Equity Supply Company; Flathead Road Dept. (two stipulations issued); Klingler Lumber Co.; McElroy and Wilkins; and Montana Mokko.

(B) Stipulations signed September 17, 1993 between the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences and the following industries: Pack and Company, Inc.; Pack Concrete; and Plum Creek Inc. (Evergreen).

(C) Board Order issued on September 17, 1993, by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences enforcing emissions limitations specified by stipulations signed by both the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Services and participating facilities. The participating facilities included: A-1 Paving; Equity Supply Company; Flathead Road Dept. (two stipulations issued); Klingler Lumber Co.; McElroy and Wilkins; Montana Mokko; Pack and Company, Inc.; Pack Concrete; and Plum Creek Inc. (Evergreen).

(D) Flathead County Board of Commissioners Resolution No. 867B, dated April 4, 1994, adopting the Flathead County Air Pollution Control Program.

(E) Board Order issued May 20, 1994, by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences approving the Flathead County Air Pollution Control Program.

(F) Flathead County Air Pollution Control Program, including all regulations found in Chapter VIII, Sub-Chapters 1-6, effective May 20, 1994.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Montana Smoke Management Plan, effective April 28, 1988, which addresses prescribed burning requirements.

(B) Federal tailpipe standards, which provide an ongoing benefit due to fleet turnover.

(41) The Governor of Montana submitted revisions to the Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program in a letter dated March 3, 1995. In addition, the March 3, 1995 submittal satisfies the one remaining commitment made by the State in its original PMmoderate nonattainment area SIP.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Board order issued on September 16, 1994 by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences approving the amendments to Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program Chapters IX and XVI regarding, among other things, emergency procedures, paving of private roads, driveways, and parking lots, National standards of performance for new stationary sources, National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, and solid fuel burning devices.

(B) Missoula City-County Rule 401, Missoula County Air Stagnation Plan, effective September 16, 1994.

(C) Missoula City-County Rule 1401, Prevent Particulate Matter from Being Airborne, effective September 16, 1994.

(D) Missoula City-County Rule 1423, Standard of Performance for New Stationary Sources, effective September 16, 1994.

(E) Missoula City-County Rule 1424, Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, effective September 16, 1994.

(F) Missoula City-County Rule 1428, Solid Fuel Burning Devices, effective September 16, 1994.

(G) Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program Chapter XVI, Amendments and Revisions, effective September 16, 1994.

(42) On May 22, 1995, the Governor of Montana submitted revisions to the prevention of significant deterioration regulations in the Administrative Rules of Montana to incorporate changes in the Federal PSD permitting regulations for PM-10 increments.

(i) Incorporation by reference

(A) Revisions to the Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM), rules 16.8.945(3)(c), 16.8.945(21)(d), 16.8.945(24)(d), 16.8.947(1), 16.8.953(7)(a), and 16.8.960(4), effective 10/28/94.

(43) On May 22, 1995, the Governor of Montana submitted revisions to the plan, which included revisions to the State's open burning regulation and other minor administrative revisions.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to the Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM), 16.8.1301-1310, effective September 9, 1994; and

(B) Revisions to the ARM, 16.8.708, 16.8.946, 16.8.1120, 16.8.1429, 16.8.1702, 16.8.1802, and 16.8.2003, effective October 28, 1994.

(44) The Governor of Montana submitted PMcontingency measures and a recodification of the local regulations for Libby, Montana in a letter dated March 15, 1995. In addition, the Governor of Montana submitted revisions to the local open burning regulations and other minor administrative amendments on May 13, 1996.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Board order issued on December 16, 1994 by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences adopting stipulation of the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences and Stimson Lumber Company.

(B) Board order issued December 16, 1994 by the Montana Board of Health and Environmental Sciences adopting the PMcontingency measures as part of the Libby air pollution control program.

(C) Board order issued on February 1, 1996 by the Montana Board of Environmental Review approving amendments to the Libby Air Pollution Control Program.

(D) Lincoln Board of Commissioners Resolution No. 377, signed September 27, 1995, and Libby City Council Ordinance No. 1507, signed November 20, 1995, adopting revisions to the Lincoln County Air Pollution Control Program, Sections 75.1.103 through 75.1.719.

(E) Lincoln County Air Pollution Control Program, Sections 75.1.101 through 75.1.719, effective December 21, 1995.

(45) [Reserved]

(46) The Governor of Montana submitted sulfur dioxide SIP revisions for Billings/Laurel on September 6, 1995, August 27, 1996, April 2, 1997 and July 29, 1998. On March 24, 1999, the Governor submitted a commitment to revise the SIP.

(i) Incorporation by Reference.

(A) Board Order issued on June 12, 1998, by the Montana Board of Environmental Review adopting and incorporating the stipulation of the Montana Department of Environmental Quality and Cenex Harvest Cooperatives, including the stipulation and exhibit A and attachments to exhibit A, except for the following:
