
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart BB - Montana
###### ยง 52.1397 Original identification of plan.
####### Permit, Construction, and Operation of Air Contaminant Sources.,Definitions;,Incorporation by Reference,General Procedures for Air Quality Preconstruction Permitting;,When Permit Required-Exclusions;,New or Altered Sources and Stacks-Permit Application Requirements;,Waivers;,Conditions for Issuance of Permit;,Emission Control Requirements;,Inspection of Permit;,Compliance with Other Statutes and Rules;,Public Review of Permit Applications;,Denial of Permit;,Duration of Permit;,Revocation of Permit;,Modification of Permit;,Transfer of Permit,

(F) Previously approved in paragraph (c)(49)(i)(A) under Subchapter 7:These sections are now deleted without replacement: ARM 17.8.701,ARM 17.8.702,(excluding 17.8.702(1)(f)); ARM 17.8.704,17.8.705,17.8.706,17.8.70717.8.710,17.8.715,17.8.716,17.8.717,17.8.720,17.8.730,17.8.731,17.8.732,17.8.733,17.8.734,as adopted by Montana on 12/9/1996 and effective 12/27/2002.

(ii) Additional Material.

(A) April 5, 2000 letter from Debra Wolfe, Montana Department of Environmental Quality, to Dawn Tesorero, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 8.

(B) February 14, 2001 letter from Don Vidrine, Montana Department of Environmental Quality, to Dick Long, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 8.

(50) On February 9, 2001, the Governor of Montana submitted revisions to Montana's Emergency Episode Avoidance Plan and Cascade County Air Pollution Control Program Regulation Chapter 7, Open Burning.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Board Order issued on October 16, 2000, by the Montana Board of Environmental Review approving the Cascade County Air Pollution Control Program.

(B) Cascade County Air Pollution Control Program, Regulation Chapter 7, Open Burning, effective October 16, 2000.

(C) March 16, 2001 letter from Debra Wolfe, Montana Department of Environmental Quality, to Laurie Ostrand, EPA Region 8, explaining the effective date of the Cascade County Air Pollution Control Program Regulation Chapter 7, Open Burning.

(51) The Governor of Montana submitted the East Helena Lead SIP revisions with letters dated August 16, 1995, July 2, 1996, and October 20, 1998. The revisions address regulating lead emission from Asarco, American Chemet and re-entrained road dust from the streets of East Helena. The revisions supersede the Lead Plan submitted to EPA on September 29, 1983 (see paragraph (c)(15) of this section).

(i) Incorporation by Reference.

(A) Board order issued on August 28, 1998, by the Montana Board of Environmental Review adopting and incorporating the August 13, 1998 stipulation of the Montana Department of Environmental Quality and Asarco.

(B) Board order issued on June 26, 1996, by the Montana Board of Environmental Review adopting and incorporating the June 11, 1996 stipulation of the Montana Department of Environmental Quality and Asarco including exhibit A and attachments to the stipulation, excluding paragraphs 15 and 16 of the stipulation, and excluding the following:
