
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart BB - Montana
###### ยง 52.1397 Original identification of plan.
####### 8

() Section 12(B) of exhibit A.

(C) Board order issued on August 4, 1995, by the Montana Board of Environmental Review adopting and incorporating the June 30, 1995 stipulation of the Montana Department of Environmental Quality and American Chemet including exhibit A to the stipulation, excluding paragraph 20 of the stipulation.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) All portions of the August 16, 1995 East Helena Pb SIP submitted other than the orders, stipulations and exhibit A's and attachments to the stipulations.

(B) All portions of the July 2, 1996 East Helena Pb SIP submitted other than the orders, stipulations and exhibit A's and attachments to the stipulations.

(C) All portions of the October 20, 1998 East Helena Pb SIP submitted other than the orders, stipulations and exhibit A's and attachments to the stipulations.

(D) November 16, 1999 letter from Art Compton, Division Administrator, Planning, Prevention and Assistance Division, Montana Department of Environmental Quality, to Richard R. Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region VIII.

(E) September 9, 1998 letter from Richard A. Southwick, Point Source SIP Coordinator, Montana Department of Environmental Quality, to Richard R. Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region VIII.

(52) The Governor of Montana submitted sulfur dioxide (SO) SIP revisions for Billings/Laurel on July 29, 1998 and May 4, 2000. EPA is approving some of the provisions of the July 29, 1998 submittal that it did not approve before. The May 4, 2000 submittal revises some previously approved provisions of the Billings/Laurel SOSIP and adds new provisions.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Sections 3(B)(2) and 4(D) (excluding "or the flare" and "or in the flare" in both sections), 3(A)(1)(d) and 4(B) of Cenex Harvest States Cooperatives' exhibit A to the stipulation between the Montana Department of Environmental Quality and Cenex Harvest States Cooperatives, adopted June 12, 1998 by Board Order issued by the Montana Board of Environmental Review.

(B) Board Order issued March 17, 2000 by the Montana Board of Environmental Review adopting and incorporating the February 14, 2000 stipulation between the Montana Department of Environmental Quality and Cenex Harvest States Cooperatives. This stipulation revises attachment #2 to Cenex Harvest States Cooperatives' exhibit A to require the use of method #6A-1.

(C) Sections 3(E)(4) and 4(E) (excluding "or in the flare" and "or the flare" in both sections), 3(A)(2), 3(B)(2), 3(B)(3), 4(B) and 6(B)(3) of Exxon's exhibit A to the stipulation between the Montana Department of Environmental Quality and Exxon, adopted June 12, 1998 by Board Order issued by the Montana Board of Environmental Review.

(D) Board Order issued March 17, 2000, by the Montana Board of Environmental Review adopting and incorporating the February 14, 2000 stipulation between the Montana Department of Environmental Quality and Exxon Mobil Corporation. The stipulation adds the following to Exxon Mobil Corporation's exhibit A: method #6A-1 of attachment #2 and sections 2(A)(11)(d), 4(C), 7(B)(1)(j) and 7(C)(1)(l). The stipulation revises the following sections of Exxon Mobil Corporation's exhibit A: 3 (introductory text only), 3(A) (introductory text only), 3(A)(1), 3(B) (introductory text only), 3(B)(1), 3(E)(3), 6(B)(7), 7(B)(1)(d), 7(C)(1)(b), 7(C)(1)(d), and 7(C)(1)(f).

(E) Board Order issued on March 17, 2000, by the Montana Board of Environmental Review adopting and incorporating the February 14, 2000 stipulation between the Montana Department of Environmental Quality and Yellowstone Energy Limited Partnership (YELP). The stipulation revises the following sections of YELP's exhibit A: sections 3(A)(1) through (3) and 7(C)(1)(b).

(53) The Governor of Montana submitted minor revisions to Asarco's control strategy in the East Helena Lead SIP on November 27, 2000.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Board order issued on September 15, 2000, by the Montana Board of Environmental Review adopting and incorporating the stipulation of the Montana Department of Environmental Quality and Asarco dated July 18, 2000. The July 18, 2000 stipulation revises the following sections in the previously adopted exhibit A to the stipulation: 1(B(4), 1(B)(5), 3(A)(3), 3(A)(4), 3(A)(12)(a), 3(A)(12)(i), 3(A)(12)(m), 3(A)(12)(o), 3(A)(12)(p), 3(A)(12)(q), 3(A)(12)(r), 3(A)(16)(a), 5(D)(1), 5(D)(2), 5(G)(4), 8(A),(2), 8(A)(3), 9(B)(2), and 9(B)(3). These revisions, which became effective on September 15, 2000, replace the same-numbered sections in previously approved SIP revisions.

(54) The Governor of Montana submitted revisions to the Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program with a letter dated April 30, 2001. The revisions completely replace the previous version of the program regulations in the SIP.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) November 17, 2000 Montana Board of Environmental Review order approving revisions to the Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program regulations.

(B) Missoula City-County Air Pollution Control Program regulations as follows: Chapter 1, Program Authority and Administration; Chapter 2, Definitions; Chapter 3, Failure To Attain Standards; Chapter 4, Missoula County Air Stagnation and Emergency Episode Avoidance Plan; Chapter 5, General Provisions, Rules 5.101-5.103, 5.105-5.106, and 5.112; Chapter 6, Standards for Stationary Sources, Subchapter 1, Air Quality Permits for Air Pollutant Sources, Rules 6.101-6.103 and 6.105-6.109, Subchapter 5, Emission Standards, Rules 6.501-6.504, Subchapter 6, Incinerators, Rules 6.601-6.604, and Subchapter 7, Wood Waste Burners, Rules 6.701-6.703; Chapter 7, Outdoor Burning; Chapter 8, Fugitive Particulate; Chapter 9, Solid Fuel Burning Devices; Chapter 10, Fuels; Chapter 11, Motor Vehicles; Chapter 14, Enforcement and Administrative Procedures; Chapter 15, Penalties; Appendix A, Maps; Appendix B, Missoula's Emergency Episode Avoidance Plan Operations and Procedures; and Appendix D, Oxygenated Fuels Program Sampling Requirements for Blending Facilities, effective November 17, 2000.

(55) On April 30, 2001, May 21, 2001 and December 20, 2001, the Governor of Montana submitted revisions to the Administrative Rules of Montana. The State revised its Incorporation by Reference Rules and repealed a Sulfur Oxide Emissions-Primary Copper Smelter rule (ARM 17.8.323). ARM 17.8.323, last incorporated by reference at 40 CFR 52.1370(c)(49)(i)(A), is removed from the SIP.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM) sections 17.8.102(1)(a), (b), (c) and (d), effective 8/10/01; 17.8.103(1)(m), (n), (o), and (p), effective 8/10/01; 17.8.302(1)(d), (e) and (f), effective 8/10/01; 17.8.602(1) and (2), effective 8/10/01; 17.8.702(1)(g), effective 8/10/01; 17.8.902(1)(e), effective 8/10/01; and 17.8.1002(1)(e), effective 8/10/01.
