
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart BB - Montana
###### ยง 52.1397 Original identification of plan.
####### 1,Review of Permit Applications,

() The following provisions of the ARM are amended effective 12/23/2005: 17.8.759,(4) through (6).

(71) The Governor of Montana submitted revisions, reordering and renumbering to the Libby County Air Pollution Control Program in a letter dated June 26, 2006. The revised Lincoln County regulations focus on woodstove emissions, road dust, and outdoor burning emissions.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Before the Board of Environmental Review of the State of Montana order issued on March 23, 2006, by the Montana Board of Environmental Review approving amendments to the Libby Air Pollution Control Program.

(B) Libby City Council Resolution No. 1660 signed February 27, 2006 and Lincoln County Board of Commissioners Resolution No. 725 signed February 27, 2006, adopting revisions, reordering and renumbering to the Lincoln County Air Pollution Control Program, Health and Environment Regulations, Chapter 1-Control on Air Pollution, Subchapter 1-General Provisions; Subchapter 2-Solid Fuel Burning Device Regulations; Subchapter 3-Dust Control Regulations; Subchapter 4-Outdoor Burning Regulations; as revised on February 27, 2006.

(ii) Additional Material.

(A) Stipulation signed October 7, 1991, between the Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences (MDHES), the County of Lincoln and the City of Libby, which delineates responsibilities and authorities between the MDHES, Lincoln County and Libby.
