
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart CC - Nebraska
###### ยง 52.1422 Approval status.
############# ยง 52.1423 PMState implementation plan development in group II areas.

The state of Nebraska committed to conform to the PMregulations as set forth in 40 CFR part 51. In a letter to Morris Kay, EPA, dated February 5, 1988, Mr. Dennis Grams, Director, Nebraska Department of Environmental Control, stated:

(a) An area in the City of Omaha and the area in and around the Village of Weeping Water have been classified as Group II areas for the purpose of PMState Implementation Plan (SIP) development. The specific boundaries of these areas are identified in our letter of October 6, 1987, to Carl Walter. In accordance with the requirements for PMSIP development, the State of Nebraska commits to perform the following PMmonitoring and SIP development activities for these Group II areas:

(1) Gather ambient PMdata, at least to the extent consistent with minimum EPA requirements and guidance.

(2) Analyze and verify the ambient PMdata and report 24-hour exceedances of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for PMto the Regional Office within 45 days of each exceedance.

(3) When an appropriate number of verifiable exceedances of the 24-hour standard occur, calculated according to section 2.0 of the PMSIP Development Guideline, or when an exceedance of the annual PMstandard occurs, acknowledge that a nonattainment problem exists and immediately notify the Regional Office.

(4) Within 30 days of the notification referred to in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, or within 37 months of promulgation of the PMstandards, whichever comes first, determine whether measures in the existing SIP will assure timely attainment and maintenance of the PMstandards and immediately notify the Regional Office.

(5) Within 6 months of the notification referred to in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, adopt and submit to EPA a PMcontrol strategy that assures attainment as expeditiously as practicable but no later than 3 years from approval of the committal SIP.

An emission inventory will be compiled for the identified Group II areas. If either area is found to be violating the PMstandards, the inventory will be completed as part of the PMSIP for that area on a schedule consistent with that outlined in paragraphs 3, 4, and 5. If the PMstandards are not violated, the inventory will be completed not later than July 1, 1989, and submitted to EPA not later than August 31, 1990, as part of the determination of adequacy of the current SIP to attain and maintain the PMair quality standards.

(b) We request that the total suspended particulate nonattainment areas in Omaha and Weeping Water (all secondary nonattainment) and Louisville (Primary nonattainment) be redesignated to unclassifiable.
