
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart CC - Nebraska
###### ยง 52.1426 Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original "Nebraska Air Quality Implementation Plan" and all revisions submitted by Nebraska that were Federally approved prior to July 1, 1998.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 28, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Request submitted by the Governor on January 24, 1972, for a two-year extension in order to meet the primary standard for NOx in the Omaha-Council Bluffs AQCR. (Non-regulatory)

(2) Clarification of section 11 of the State plan submitted on February 16, 1972 by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Control. (Non-regulatory)

(3) A confirmation that the State does not have air quality control standards based on the enclosed disapproval of the State Attorney General was submitted on April 25, 1972 by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Control. (Non-regulatory)

(4) Revision of Rules 3 through 18 and Rule 21 and 22 submitted on June 9, 1972, by the Governor.

(5) Amendments to the Omaha Air Pollution Control Ordinance 26350 submitted on June 29, 1972, by the Governor.

(6) Letters submitted September 26 and 27, 1972, from the State Department of Environmental Control revising Rule 3 and Rule 5 of the State Rules and Regulations.

(7) Letters clarifying the application of the State emergency episode, rule 22(a), submitted October 2, 1972, by the State Department of Environmental Control. (Non-regulatory).

(8) Revision of the State air regulations to expand emission limitations to apply State-wide, change procedures for preconstruction review of new sources, change procedures for disapproving construction permits for new or modified sources and add new sulfur oxide emission standards was submitted on February 27, 1974, by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Control.

(9) Copy of the State's analysis of ambient air quality in Standard Metropolitan Statistical Areas in the State and recommendations for designation of Air Quality Maintenance Areas submitted by the Department of Environmental Control on May 9, 1974. (Non-regulatory)

(10) Compliance schedules were submitted by the Department of Environmental Control on September 13, 1974.

(11) Compliance schedules were submitted by the Department of Environmental Control on February 21, 1975.

(12) Compliance schedules were submitted by the Department of Environmental Control on May 23, 1975.

(13) Revision of regulations to include the second group of New Source Performance Standards and provide for granting of post-attainment variances and releasing of emission data was submitted on August 5, 1975, by the Governor.

(14) Compliance schedules were submitted by the Governor on August 27, 1975.

(15) Compliance schedules were submitted by the Governor on January 1, 1976.

(16) Compliance schedules were submitted by the Department of Environmental Control on January 15, 1976.

(17) Amended State law (LB1029) giving the Department of Environmental Control authority to require monitoring of emissions, require reporting of emissions and release emission data was submitted by the Governor on February 10, 1976.

(18) Compliance schedules were submitted by the Governor on April 23, 1976.

(19) Compliance schedules were submitted by the Governor on October 27, 1976.

(20) Revised Rule 17, requiring continuous opacity monitoring by power plants, was submitted on November 2, 1976, by the Governor.

(21) A plan revision to meet the requirements of 40 CFR 58.20, dealing with statewide air quality monitoring and data reporting, was submitted by the Governor on June 19, 1981.

(22) Revised Rule 13, granting an increase in the visible emission limitations for existing teepee waste wood burners and alfalfa dehydrators, was submitted by the Governor on December 29, 1977.

(23) Revision to the SIP concerning the adoption of the Lancaster County Air Pollution Control Resolution was submitted by the Governor on April 4, 1977.

(24) Revision to the SIP concerning the adoption of the revised local air pollution control ordinances for the cities of Omaha and Lincoln was submitted by the Governor on December 27, 1977.

(25) State plan revisions and corrections thereto to attain the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for total suspended particulate in Douglas and Cass Counties, designated as nonattainment under section 107 of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977, were submitted by the Governor on September 25, 1980, and on August 9, 1982. Included in the plan are revised Rule 6, and new Rule 5A.

(26) New Rule 18, "Compliance; Exceptions Due to Startup, Shutdown, or Malfunction," was submitted by the Governor on August 9, 1982.

(27) A plan revision to provide for Intergovernmental Consultation and Coordination and for Public Notification was submitted to EPA by the Governor of Nebraska on August 9, 1982.

(28) A plan revision for attaining and maintaining the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for Lead in the State of Nebraska was submitted to EPA on January 9, 1981, by the Governor. Additional material was submitted by the State on August 5, 1981 and January 11, 1983. All portions of the submittals are approved except the control strategy for Omaha and the request for a two year extension to attain the lead standard in Omaha.

(29) Revisions to Rule 1, "Definitions," and to Rule 4, "New and Complex Sources; Standards of Performance, Application for Permit, When Required;" and a new regulation: Rule 4.01, "Prevention of Significant Deterioration of Air Quality," were submitted by the Governor on May 23, 1983; clarifying letter dated May 30, 1984.

(30) On July 24, 1984, Nebraska submitted a lead SIP for Omaha. Additional portions of the Omaha lead SIP were submitted by the State on November 17, 1983, and August 1, 1984. EPA withheld action on the enforceable control measures contained in the Omaha lead SIP, but approved all other portions.

(31) Revisions to Chapter 10 "Incinerators; Emission Standards;" Chapter 12 "Sulfur Compound Emissions; Emission Standards;" Chapter 14 "Open Fires, Prohibited; Exceptions;" and Chapter 20 "Emission Sources; Testing: Monitoring" were submitted by the Governor on October 6, 1983.

(32) Revisions to Chapter 1, "Definitions"; Chapter 4, "Reporting and Operating Permits for Existing Sources; When Required"; and Chapter 5, "New, Modified, and Reconstructed Sources; Standards of Performance, Application for Permit, When Required", were submitted by the Governor on October 6, 1983. These revisions deleted the review requirements for complex sources of air pollution for the entire State. These review requirements were adopted by the State on February 22, 1974 (submitted on February 27, 1974) and were approved by EPA on September 9, 1975. See paragraph (c)(8) above. Approval action was taken on the deletion of these requirements except as they pertain to the Lincoln and Omaha CO nonattainment areas.

(33) A State Implementation Plan revision to provide for attainment of the carbon monoxide standard in Omaha was submitted by Governor Kerrey on April 3, 1985. Action was also taken to delete review requirements for complex sources of air pollution in Omaha; see paragraph (c)(32) of this section.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) An RFP curve from page 27 of the Carbon Monoxide State Implementation Plan for Omaha, Nebraska, dated January 18, 1985.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Narrative submittal entitled "Carbon Monoxide State Implementation Plan for Omaha, Nebraska", including an attainment demonstration.

(B) Emission Inventory for carbon monoxide sources.

(34) A State Implementation Plan revision to provide for attainment of the carbon monoxide standard in Lincoln was submitted by Governor Kerrey on April 3, 1985. Action was also taken to delete review requirements for complex sources of air pollution in Lincoln; see paragraph (c)(32) of this section.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) An RFP table from page 18 of the State Implementation Plan Revision for Carbon Monoxide for Lincoln, Nebraska, adopted on March 1, 1985.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Narrative submittal entitled, "State Implementation Plan Revision for Carbon Monoxide for Lincoln, Nebraska", including an attainment demonstration.

(B) Emission Inventory for carbon monoxide sources.

(35) On February 2, 1987, Nebraska submitted revisions to the lead SIP for Omaha. The revisions contained a revised demonstration of attainment of the lead standard in Omaha, a revised control strategy to provide the lead emission reductions claimed in the demonstration of attainment, and Administrative Order No. 753 dated August 22, 1985, as amended by Amended Administrative Order No. 753 dated May 9, 1986, and by Second Amended Administrative Order No. 753 dated November 12, 1986. All items in the revisions were approved.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Administrative Order 753 dated August 22, 1985, issued by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Control to ASARCO Incorporated.

(B) Amended Administrative Order 753 dated May 9, 1986, issued by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Control to ASARCO Incorporated.

(C) Second Amended Administrative Order 753 dated November 12, 1986, issued by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Control to ASARCO Incorporated.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) 1986 Revised Demonstration of Attainment and Control Measures for the Nebraska State Implementation Plan for Lead-Omaha, submitted by ASARCO Incorporated, October 3, 1986.

(36) Revisions to Chapter 1, "Definitions", paragraphs 024, 025, 030, 037, 049; and Chapter 5, "Stack Heights: Good Engineering Practice (GEP)", were submitted by the Governor on May 6, 1986.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to Chapter 1, "Definitions", paragraphs 024, 025, 030, 037, 049; and Chapter 5, "Stack Heights: Good Engineering Practice (GEP)", effective May 5, 1986.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) None.

(37) Revised Title 129 of Nebraska Air Pollution Control rules and regulations pertaining to PMand other rule revisions submitted by the Governor of Nebraska on June 15, 1988.

(i) Incorporation by reference.
