
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart DD - Nevada
###### ยง 52.1472 Approval status.

(a) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves Nevada's plan for the attainment and maintenance of the national standards under section 110 of the Clean Air Act.

(b) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves the plan with respect to Part D, Title I of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, for the nonattainment areas listed in this paragraph.

(1) Mason Valley/Fernley Area for TSP.

(2) Lower Reese River Valley/Clovers Area for TSP.

(3) Carson Desert for TSP.

(4) Winnemucca Segment for TSP.

(5) Truckee Meadows for TSP and CO.

(6) Las Vegas Valley for TSP and CO.

(7) Lake Tahoe Basin for CO.

(c) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves the plan with respect to Part D, Title I of the Clean Air Act, as amended in the 1977, for the nonattainment areas listed in this paragraph. In addition, continued satisfaction of the requirements of Part D for the ozone portion of the State Implementation Plan (SIP) depends on the adoption and submittal by January 1, 1981 of reasonably available control technology (RACT) requirements for sources covered by Control Technique Guidelines (CTG's) published between January 1978 and January 1979.

(1) Truckee Meadows for O.

(2) Las Vegas Valley for O.
