
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart EE - New Hampshire
###### ยง 52.1533 Emission inventories.

(a) The Governor's designee for the State of New Hampshire submitted a 1990 base year emission inventory for the entire state on January 26, 1993 as a revision to the State Implementation Plan (SIP). Subsequent revisions to the State's 1990 inventories were made, the last of which occurred on August 29, 1996. The 1990 base year emission inventory requirement of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, has been satisfied for the three nonattainment areas in the State. The three areas are the Portsmouth-Dover-Rochester serious area, the New Hampshire portion of the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester serious area, and the Manchester marginal area.

(b) The inventory is for the ozone precursors which are volatile organic compounds, nitrogen oxides, and carbon monoxide. The inventory covers point, area, non-road mobile, on-road mobile, and biogenic sources.

(c) The Portsmouth-Dover-Rochester serious nonattainment area includes all of Strafford County and part of Rockingham County. The New Hampshire portion of the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester serious area includes portions of Hillsborough and Rockingham Counties. The Manchester marginal area contains all of Merrimack County and portions of Hillsborough and Rockingham Counties.
