
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart EE - New Hampshire
###### ยง 52.1535 Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Implementation Plan for the State of New Hampshire" and all revisions submitted by New Hampshire that were federally approved prior to August 18, 2009.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 27, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Miscellaneous non-regulatory additions to the plan correcting minor deficiencies submitted on February 23, 1972, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.

(2) Non-regulatory provisions for retention and availability of air quality data submitted on March 23, 1972, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.

(3) Attainment dates of national primary and secondary air quality standards submitted on August 8, 1972, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.

(4) Revision of regulation No. 5, section 111.A, limiting sulfur content of fuels submitted on September 26, 1972, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.

(5) Compliance schedules submitted on February 14, 1973, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.

(6) Compliance schedules submitted on March 22, 1973, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.

(7) Revision exempting steam locomotives from the plan submitted on April 3, 1973, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.

(8) Regulation No. 20 requiring review of indirect sources submitted on December 13, 1973, by New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.

(9) AQMA identification material submitted on May 20, 1974, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.

(10) Miscellaneous revisions to Regulation numbers, 4, 6, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, and 17 submitted on June 6, 1974, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.

(11) Revision to Regulation 18, "Requirements for Recordkeeping at Facilities which Discharge Air Contaminants," submitted on May 28, 1975, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.

(12) Attainment plans to meet the requirements of Part D for carbon monoxide for Metropolitan Manchester and ozone for AQCR 121, programs for the review of construction and operation of new and modified major stationary sources of pollution in both attainment and non-attainment areas and certain miscellaneous provisions were submitted on May 29, 1979, November 6, 1979, and March 17, 1980.

(13) Attainment plans to meet the requirements of Part D for total suspended particulates and sulfur dioxide in Berlin were submitted by the Governor of New Hampshire on September 19, 1979.

(14) Revisions to Regulation 5, Prevention, Abatement, and Control of Sulfur Emission from Stationary Combustion Equipment, submitted by the Governor of New Hampshire on July 12, 1973 and April 11, 1975.

(15) A plan to provide comprehensive public participation and an analysis of the effects of the New Hampshire 1979 SIP revisions were submitted on February 28, 1980.

(16) Revised regulations to assure reasonable further progress and compliance by owners of proposed new sources with Federal as well as state regulations were submitted on July 8, 1980.

(17) A comprehensive air quality monitoring plan, intended to meet requirements of 40 CFR part 58, was submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resource Agency Director on January 30, 1980.

(18) A plan to attain and maintain the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for lead and to amend the state's air quality standards was submitted on April 15, 1980. A letter further explaining the state procedures for review of new major sources of lead emissions and confirming the use of reference methods was submitted on December 9, 1980 by the Director of the Air Resources Agency.

(19) Revisions to meet the requirements of Part D and certain other sections of the Clean Air Act, as amended, for attaining carbon monoxide standards in the City of Manchester which were submitted on January 12, 1981 and February 18, 1981. The revisions supplement the 1979 CO attainment plan (ยง 52.1520(c)(12)) and include three air quality-improving transportation projects and a schedule for submitting a plan which will demonstrate attainment by no later than December 31, 1987.

(20) Revisions to meet ozone attainment requirements of Part D (VOC Control Regulations) were submitted on August 17, 1981 and are approved as follows: Regulations Air 1204.03, 1204.11(d), 1204.12, 1204.13, 1204.18 and 1204.21.

(21) Operating permits with compliance schedules for VOC sources were submitted May 2, 1980, May 16, 1980, November 20, 1981 and January 8, 1982. Approved are operating permits for Mobil Oil Corporation; ATC Petroleum, Inc.; Velcro USA, Inc.; and Nashua Corporation's facility at Nashua.

(22) Revisions to (i) provide a new format and renumber the SIP regulations with associated miscellaneous language changes for purposes of consistency; (ii) to delete redundant regulations and definitions; (iii) amend several regulations; and (iv) to add additional regulations submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Commission on June 17, 1982 and August 31, 1982. The federally-approved regulations of the New Hampshire SIP are as follows:

(23) Carbon monoxide attainment plan revisions for the City of Manchester which meet the requirements of Part D of the Act for 1982 SIP revisions. The revisions were submitted on October 5, 1982 and December 20, 1982 by the New Hampshire Air Resources Agency.

(24) A revision specifying the State will follow Federal permit notice and hearing procedures for applications subject to PSD requirements was submitted by the Air Resources Commission on November 19, 1982.

(25) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan for ozone, consisting of emission limits and compliance schedules for Oak Materials Group, Ideal Tape Co., Markem Corp., Essex Group, and Nashua Corp.'s Merrimack Facility, were submitted on December 23, 1982, December 30, 1982, January 19, 1983, and March 18, 1983.

(26) Revisions to CHAPTER Air 400, Section Air 402.02 (formerly Regulation 5). raising the allowable sulfur-in-oil limit for all but ten sources, were submitted by New Hampshire on July 12, 1973, April 11, 1975, December 21, 1982 and March 29, 1983. The excluded sources are:

(27) Amendments to Regulation Air 1204.02(c), defining "equivalent" to include "solids-applied basis" and Air 1204.21(j), altering the maximum time for compliance schedule extensions from December 31, 1987 to July 1, 1985 were submitted on August 9, 1983. An additional regulation, Air 1204.17, "Emission Standards for Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products" was submitted on August 17, 1981.

(28) Revisions to Air 1204.01, updating the list of volatile organic compounds exempted from PART Air 1204, and a revision to Air 101.74, 'Process weight' were submitted on November 10, 1983.

(29) Revisions raising the allowable sulfur-in-oil limit to 2.0% for five sources excluded from revisions to CHAPTER Air 400, Section 402.02 (identified at subparagraph (c)(26) above), submitted on November 1, 1983. The five sources, and the source specific emission limits where applicable, are:

(30) Revisions to Air 1201.05 adding paragraph (e), concerning hazardous waste incinerators, was submitted on April 9, 1984. Approval of this regulation shall not be construed to supersede New Source Performance Standards; National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants; and the regulations controlling emissions from major new or modified stationary sources in attainment and non-attainment areas.

(31) Revisions raising the allowable sulfur-in-oil limit to 2.0% for two sources excluded from revisions to CHAPTER Air 400, Section 402.02 (identified at paragraph (c)(26) of this section), submitted on January 13, 1984. The two sources, and the source specific restrictions at each, are:

(i) Manchester Steam Station, Public Service Company of N.H., Manchester (The auxiliary boiler is allowed to burn 2.0% sulfur oil as long as the main boilers remain inactive. If either or both of the main boilers are reactivated, the maximum sulfur content of oil burned in any boiler shall not exceed 1.7% by weight. In addition, each main boiler shall not operate until its stack height is increased to 45 m.)

(ii) Hinsdale Products Co., Inc., Hinsdale (Limited to a maximum hourly fuel firing rate of 213 gallons.)

(32) A revision submitted on December 22, 1983 which requires Markem Corporation to install an incinerator. The installation of the incinerator must be completed by July 1, 1985.

(33) The TSP plan to attain primary standards in Berlin, New Hampshire and the administrative order issued May 2, 1984 to the James River Corporation which were submitted by the Air Resources Agency on May 9, 1984.

(34) Revisions to Part (Air) 610 of Chapter 600, "Statewide Permit System" for the preconstruction permitting of new major sources and major modifications in nonattainment areas submitted on April 9, 1984 and September 10, 1984 by the New Hampshire Air Resources Commission.

(35) A revision to approve operating limits for boilers at Dartmouth College, submitted on May 19, 1986 by the Director of the New Hampshire Air Resources Agency.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Permits to Operate issued by the State of New Hampshire Air Resources Agency to Dartmouth College, No. PO-B-1501.5, No. PO-B-1502.5, and No. PO-B-1503.5, and Temporary Permit TP-B-150.2, 3, and 4, dated January 6, 1986.

(36) Approval of a revision to allow the James River Corporation (Cascade Mill), Gorham, to burn oil having a 2.2% sulfur-by-weight limit in accordance with previously approved SIP regulation Chapter Air 400, Section Air 402.02, submitted on February 11, 1985. This sources was excluded from revisions pertaining to New Hampshire regulation Chapter Air 400, Section Air 402.02 (identified at paragraph (c)(26) of this section), but New Hampshire has now submitted adequate technical support for approval.

(37) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on April 26, 1985, January 20, 1986 and May 12, 1987 by the Air Resources Commission.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter dated April 26, 1985 from the New Hampshire Air Resources Commission submitting revisions to the State Implementation Plan for EPA approval.

(B) Revisions to New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules, Part Air 704.01, "Permit Review Fee for Large Fuel Burning Devices," Part Air 704.02, "Permit Review Fee for All Other Devices," Part Air 706.01, "Renewal Review Fee For Large Fuel Burning Devices," Part Air 706.02, "Renewal Review Fee For All Other Devices," Part Air 1202, "Fuel Burning Devices," effective on December 27, 1984.

(C) Certification from the State of New Hampshire dated April 26, 1985.

(D) Letter from the State of New Hampshire dated January 20, 1986.

(E) Letter from the State of New Hampshire dated May 12, 1987.

(38) Approval of a revision to allow the James River Corporation, Groveton, to burn oil having a 2.2% sulfur-by-weight limit in accordance with previously approved SIP regulation CHAPTER Air 400, Section Air 402.02, submitted on January 22, 1986. This source was previously excluded from revisions pertaining to New Hampshire regulation CHAPTER Air 400, Section Air 402.02 (identified at paragraph (c)(26) of this section), but New Hampshire has now submitted adequate technical support for approval.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) The conditions in the following five Permits to Operate issued by the State of New Hampshire Air Resources Agency on September 6, 1985, to the James River Corporation-Groveton Group: Permit No. PO-B-1550, Conditions 5B, 5C, and 5D; Permit No. PO-B-213, Conditions 2 and 5A; Permit No. PO-B-214, Conditions 2 and 5A; Permit No. PO-B-215, Conditions 2 and 5A; and Permit No. PO-BP-2240, Condition 5B. These conditions limit the sulfur-in-fuel content at the James River Corporation, Groveton, to 2.2% sulfur by weight.

(39) Attainment plans for carbon monoxide for the City of Nashua including an extension of the attainment date to December 31, 1990 as submitted on September 12, 1985, December 3, 1985, October 7, 1986, March 6, 1987, May 12, 1987 and October 15, 1987.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) The New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules, Department of Safety, Chapter 900, Emission Inspections, Part Saf-M, 901, Part Saf-M 902, Part Saf-M 903, Part Saf-M 904, Part Saf-M 905, Part Saf-M 906,Part Saf-M 907, Part Saf-M 908, Part Saf-M 909, and Part Saf-M 910, effective October 6, 1986.

(B) Section 715.02 Introductory Text and paragraph (1) of Part Saf-M-715, and ยง 716.01 Introductory Text and paragraph (g) of Part Saf-M-716, submitted to New Hampshire Department of Safety by the State of New Hampshire on August 14, 1985.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) A letter from Governor John H. Sununu to Michael R. Deland, dated March 6, 1987, committing to take legislative measures to convert the Inspection/Maintenance program in the Nashua area to the use of computerized emission analyzers in the event that the program is found to not be achieving the necessary emission reductions.

(B) Narrative submittals, including an attainment demonstration.

(40) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on July 6, 1989.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 6, 1989 submitting revisions to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(B) Revisions to New Hampshire's Rule Env-A 303.01 entitled "Particulate Matter," effective April 21, 1989.

(C) Revisions to New Hampshire's Rule Env-A 1001.02 entitled "permissible Open Burning," effective May 26, 1989.

(41) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on February 12, 1991.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated February 12, 1991 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(B) Env-A 802.09 and Env-A 802.10 of the New Hampshire Administrative Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution entitled "Continuous Emission Monitoring" and "CEM Recordkeeping Requirements," respectively. These regulations were effective on December 27, 1990.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Nonregulatory portions of the State submittal.

(42) [Reserved]

(43) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on November 21, 1989.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter form the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated November 21, 1989 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(B) Amendments to regulations for the State of New Hampshire's Administrative Rules Governing Air Pollution in Chapters Env-A 100, 800, 900 and 1200 which were effective November 16, 1989.

(C) Letter from Robert W. Varney, Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Services of New Hampshire, to John B. Hammond, Acting Director of the New Hampshire Office of Legislative Services, dated November 15, 1989, adopting final rules.

(44) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on September 12, 1990.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated September 12, 1990 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan that withdraws nine source-specific operating permits incorporated by reference at 40 CFR 52.1520(c)(21), (c)(25) and (c)(32).

(ii) Additional materials.

Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 2, 1991 submitting documentation of a public hearing.

(45) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan consisting of a readoption of the Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution for the State of New Hampshire submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on February 12, 1991.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated February 12, 1991 submitting revisions to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(B) The following portions of the Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution for the State of New Hampshire effective on December 27, 1990:

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letters from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated May 7, August 20, and August 26, 1991, March 6, and May 6, 1992 withdrawing certain portion of the February 12, 1991 SIP submittal.
