
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart EE - New Hampshire
###### ยง 52.1535 Original identification of plan section.
####### Emission Control Methods for Cutback and Emulsified Asphalt.

(B) The following portions of the Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution for the State of New Hampshire effective on January 17, 1992: Chapter Env-A 1200: PART Env-A 1204.12

(47) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on May 15, 1992.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated May 15, 1992 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(B) The following portions of the Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution for the State of New Hampshire effective on January 17, 1992:

(48) [Reserved]

(49) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on June 17, 1994, and December 21, 1992.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letters from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated June 17, 1994, and December 21, 1992, submitting revisions to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(B) Regulations Chapter Env-A 1200, Part Env-A 1211, "Nitrogen Oxides (NO)," effective on May 20, 1994, and Chapter Env-A 900, Part Env-A 901, sections Env-A 901.06 "NORecordkeeping Requirements," and Env-A 901.07, "NOReporting Requirements," effective on November 13, 1992.

(50) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on July 7, 1995, September 18, 1995, and October 18, 1995.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letters from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 7, 1995, September 18, 1995, and October 18, 1995, submitting revisions to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(B) New Hampshire NORACT Order ARD-95-001, concerning Groveton Paperboard Corporation, effective on May 10, 1995.

(C) New Hampshire NORACT Order ARD-95-002, concerning Plymouth Cogeneration Limited Partnership, effective September 12, 1995.

(D) New Hampshire NORACT Order ARD-95-003, concerning Waterville Valley Ski Area Limited, effective September 19, 1995.

(51) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on December 9, 1996, June 28, 1996, October 24, 1996, and July 10, 1995.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letters from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated December 9, 1996, June 28, 1996, October 24, 1996, July 10, 1995 and December 21, 1992 submitting revisions to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan (SIP), and a letter dated November 21, 1997 withdrawing Env-A 1204.06 from the SIP submittal.

(B) Regulations Part Env-A 801 "Purpose;" Part Env-A 802 "Testing and Monitoring for Stationary Sources: General Requirements;" Part Env-A 902 "Malfunctions and Breakdowns of Air Pollution Control Equipment;" and Part Env-A 903 "Compliance Schedules" all effective November 15, 1992.

(C) Regulations Part Env-A 803 "VOC Testing;" Part Env-A 804 "Capture Efficiency;" Sections Env-A 901.01 through 901.05, 901.08 and 901.09 of Part Env-A 901 "Recordkeeping and Reporting by Sources;" and Part Env-A 1204 "Stationary Sources of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) (except 1204.06)," all effective on August 31, 1995.

(D) New Hampshire VOC RACT Order ARD-94-001, concerning L.W. Packard, effective May 5, 1995.

(E) New Hampshire VOC RACT Order ARD-95-010, concerning Kalwall in Manchester, NH, effective September 10, 1996.

(F) New Hampshire VOC RACT Order ARD-96-001, concerning Textile Tapes Corporation, NH, effective October 4, 1996.

(52) A revision to the New Hampshire SIP regarding ozone monitoring. The State of New Hampshire will modify its SLAMS and its NAMS monitoring system to include a PAMS network design and establish monitoring sites. The State's SIP revision satisfies 40 CFR 58.20(f) PAMS requirements.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) State of New Hampshire Photochemical Assessment Monitoring Stations-Network Plan-Network Overview.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) NH-DES letter dated December 13, 1994, and signed by Thomas M. Noel, Acting Director, NH-DES.

(53) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on August 29, 1996. This revision is for the purpose of satisfying the rate-of-progress requirement of section 182(b) and the contingency measure requirement of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act, for the Portsmouth-Dover-Rochester serious ozone nonattainment area, and the New Hampshire portion of the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester serious ozone nonattainment area.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated August 29, 1996 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(54) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on April 14, 1997, May 6, 1997, and September 24, 1997.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letters from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated April 14, 1997, May 6, 1997, and September 24, 1997 submitting revisions to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(B) New Hampshire NORACT Order ARD-97-001, concerning Public Service Company of New Hampshire in Bow, effective on April 14, 1997.

(C) New Hampshire NORACT Order ARD-95-011, concerning Hampshire Chemical Corporation, effective on May 6, 1997.

(D) New Hampshire NORACT Order ARD-97-003, concerning Crown Vantage, effective September 24, 1997.

(55)-(56) [Reserved]

(57) Revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on July 27, 1998.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Regulation Chapter Env-A 3200 NOBudget Trading Program adopted and effective on July 17, 1998.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 27, 1998 submitting Chapter Env-A 3200 NOBudget Trading Program as a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(58) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on November 25, 1992.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated November 24, 1992 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(B) Part Env-A 1205 "Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC): Gasoline Dispensing Facilities and Gasoline Tank Trucks," effective in the State of New Hampshire on August 17, 1992.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services "Stage II Equivalency Demonstration," dated November 1992.

(B) Nonregulatory portions of the submittal.

(59) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on September 4, 1998 and November 20, 1998.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules, Part Saf-C 3221A "Emission Amendments to Official Motor Vehicle Inspection Requirements" as adopted on November 17, 1998; and Part Saf-C 5800 "Roadside Diesel Opacity Inspection Program Rules" as adopted on November 17, 1998.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Document entitled "Alternative New Hampshire Motor Vehicle Inspection/Maintenance State Implementation Plan Revision" dated September 4, 1998.

(B) Letters from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated September 4, 1998 and November 20, 1998 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(60) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division August 6, 2001 and April 26, 1995.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Section 623.01 and sections 623.03 through 623.06 of New Hampshire's rule PART Env-A 623 rule entitled, "Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Of Air Quality Permit Requirements." This regulation was adopted in the State of New Hampshire on July 23, 2001.

(B) New Hampshire's rules PART Env-A 205.03, "Applications Subject to PSD Requirements," and PART Env-A 205.04, "Applications Subject to Nonattainment Requirements." These regulations were adopted in the State of New Hampshire on February 22, 1995 and amended on July 23, 2001.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated August 6, 2001 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(B) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated April 26, 1995 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(C) Nonregulatory portions of the State submittal.

(61) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services on July 9, 1998.

(i) Additional materials.

(A) "New Hampshire Stage II Comparability Analysis," prepared by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, dated July 1, 1998.

(62) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services on June 7, 1994.

(i) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services dated June 7, 1994 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(B) "Clean Fuel Fleet Equivalency Demonstration," prepared by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, dated May, 1994.

(63) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan Submitted by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services on July 10, 1996.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services dated July 10, 1996 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(B) Part Env-A 1502 of Chapter Env-A 1500 of the New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules titled "Conformity of General Federal Actions," adopted in the State of New Hampshire on April 25, 1996.

(64) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on July 27, 1998.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Order ARD 98-001 issued by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services to Public Service Company of New Hampshire on July 17, 1998, with attachments: Discrete emission reduction protocol for Public Service of New Hampshire's Schiller Station, Units 4, 5 and 6, submitted to the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services on April 10, 1998; and Discrete emission reduction protocol for Public Service of New Hampshire's Newington Station, Unit 1, submitted to the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services on April 10, 1998.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 17, 1998 submitting Final RACT Order 98-001 as a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(65) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services on August 16, 1999.

(i) Incorporation by reference. New Hampshire regulation Chapter Env-A 3600, entitled "National Low Emission Vehicle (National LEV) Program" adopted July 21, 1999.

(ii) Additional material. Letter from the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services dated August 16, 1999 submitting the Low Emission Vehicle program as a revision to the State Implementation Plan.

(66) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on July 29, 1993 and July 2, 1999.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) New Hampshire's PART Env-A 610 "Additional Requirements in Non-attainment Areas and the New Hampshire Portion of the Northeast Ozone Transport Region" adopted on May 21, 1993.

(B) New Hampshire's PART Env-A 622 (Formally Env-A 610) "Additional Requirements in Non-attainment Areas and the New Hampshire Portion of the Northeast Ozone Transport Region" incorporating the "Plant-wide Source," adopted on June 26, 1997.

(C) New Hampshire's PART Env-A 622 (Formally Env-A 610) "Additional Requirements in Non-attainment Areas and the New Hampshire Portion of the Northeast Ozone Transport Region," addition of the requirements for section 173(a)(4) and (5) of the CAA, adopted on January 29, 1999.

(D) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 29, 1993 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(E) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 2, 1999 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.

(67) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on September 11, 1998.

(i) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services dated September 11, 1998 stating a negative declaration for the aerospace coating operations Control Techniques Guideline category.

(68) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on June 28, 1996 and April 15, 2002.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Order ARD-00-001 issued by the New Hampshire DES to Anheuser-Busch Incorporated, effective April 15, 2002.

(B) Env-A 1204.27, "Applicability Criteria and Compliance Options for Miscellaneous and Multi-category Stationary VOC Sources," effective August 21, 1995, is granted full approval for the New Hampshire portion of the eastern Massachusetts serious ozone nonattainment area.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from the DES, dated April 15, 2002, submitting revised Anheuser-Busch order to EPA as a SIP revision and withdrawing previous submittal for this facility dated June 20, 2000.

(B) Letter from the DES, dated March 22, 2002, containing information on New Filcas of America.
