
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart EE - New Hampshire
###### ยง 52.1534 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Determination of Attainment.

(h)Effective November 29, 2012, EPA is determining that the Manchester one-hour ozone nonattainment area met the one-hour ozone standard, by the area's applicable attainment date of November 15, 1993, based on 1991-1993 complete, certified, quality-assured ozone monitoring data at all monitoring sites in the area. Separate from and independent of this determination, EPA is determining that the Manchester marginal one-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the one-hour ozone standard, since 1993, and that it continues to attain based on complete quality-assured ozone monitoring data through 2011.

(i) Approval-EPA is approving a redesignation request for the Boston-Manchester-Portsmouth (SE), New Hampshire moderate 1997 8-hour ozone nonattainment area. New Hampshire submitted this request on March 2, 2012, and supplemented this submittal on September 21, 2012. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision as required by the Clean Air Act. The ozone maintenance plan also establishes 2008 and 2022 Motor Vehicle Emission Budgets (MVEBs) for the area. New Hampshire is establishing 2008 MVEBs of 17.8 tons per summer weekday (tpswd) of VOC and 37.2 tpswd of NO, for the Boston-Manchester-Portsmouth (SE), New Hampshire 1997 8-hour ozone maintenance area. In addition, New Hampshire is establishing MVEBs for 2022 at 9.2 tpswd of VOC and 11.8 tpswd of NO, for the same area. The 2008 and 2022 MVEBs were prepared with the MOVES model. Previously SIP-approved 2009 MVEBs prepared with MOBILE6.2 are being withdrawn. Finally, EPA is also approving a comprehensive 2008 emission inventory for this area.

(j) Approval-EPA is approving the Clean Air Act section 110(a)(1) maintenance plan for the 1997 8-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard in the area of the New Hampshire required to have such a plan. This area includes portions of Hillsborough, Merrimack, Rockingham, and Strafford Counties, and all of Cheshire County. This maintenance plan was submitted to EPA on March 2, 2012.
