
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1577 Compliance schedules.
####### Regulation for increments of progress.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the owner or operator of any stationary source in the State of New Jersey to which an exception extending beyond January 31, 1974, is applicable under Chapter 7, section 7.1(c) of the New Jersey Air Pollution Control Code shall, no later than 120 days following the effective date of this paragraph, submit to the Administrator for approval, a proposed compliance schedule that demonstrates compliance with the emission limitations prescribed by Chapter 7 of the New Jersey Air Pollution Control Code as expeditiously as practicable but no later than July 31, 1975. The compliance schedule shall provide for periodic increments of progress towards compliance. The dates for achievement of such increments shall be specified. Increments of progress shall include, but not be limited to: Submittal of the final control plan to the Administrator; letting of necessary contracts for construction or process changes or issuance of orders for the purchase of component parts to accomplish emission control or process modification; initiation of onsite construction or installation of emission control equipment or process change; completion of onsite construction or installation of emission control equipment or process modification; and final compliance.

(2) Where any such owner or operator demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Administrator that compliance with the applicable regulations will be achieved on or before January 31, 1974, no compliance schedule shall be required.

(3) Any owner or operator required to submit a compliance schedule pursuant to this paragraph shall within 5 days after the deadline for each increment of progress, certify to the Administrator whether or not the required increment of the approved compliance schedule has been met.

(4) Any compliance schedule adopted by the State and approved by the Administrator shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph for the affected source.
