
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1582 Control strategy and regulations: Ozone.
####### January 6, 2010.

(2) Atlantic City (consisting of Atlantic and Cape May Counties) as of

(m)(1) The 2008 Reasonable Further Progress Plans and associated 2008 ozone projection year emission inventories for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT and the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-MD-DE nonattainment areas included in New Jersey's October 29, 2007 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.

(2) The contingency measures for failure to meet the 2008 RFP Plan milestones for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT and the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-MD-DE nonattainment areas included in New Jersey's October 29, 2007 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.

(3) The moderate area Reasonably Available Control Measure Analysis for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT and the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-MD-DE nonattainment areas included in New Jersey's October 29, 2007 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.

(4) The 2008 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT and the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-MD-DE nonattainment areas included in New Jersey's October 29, 2007 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.

(5) The general conformity budgets for McGuire AFB and Lakehurst NAS included in New Jersey's October 29, 2007 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.

(6) The Statewide reasonably available control technology (RACT) analysis for the 8-hour ozone standard included in the August 1, 2007 State Implementation Plan revision is approved based on EPA's approval of the April 9, 2010 and April 21, 2010 SIP revisions.
