
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1582 Control strategy and regulations: Ozone.
####### Attainment determination.

(n)(1)EPA has determined, as of March 26, 2012, that based on 2008 to 2010 ambient air quality data, Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-MD-DE 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area has attained the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.918, suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual 8-hour ozone NAAQS.

(2) EPA has determined, as of June 18, 2012, that based on 2007 to 2009 complete, quality-assured and certified ambient air quality data, additional data showing continued attainment through 2011, the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, eight-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area has attained the 1997 eight-hour ozone NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.918, suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual eight-hour ozone NAAQS.

(o)(1) The 1997 8-hour ozone attainment demonstration for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT nonattainment area included in New Jersey's October 29, 2007 State Implementation Plan revision is approved and satisfies the requirements of section 182(c)(2)(A) of the Clean Air Act.

(2) The 1997 8-hour ozone attainment demonstration for the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-MD-DE nonattainment area included in New Jersey's October 29, 2007 State Implementation Plan revision is approved and satisfies the requirements of section 182(c)(2)(A) of the Clean Air Act.
