
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1582 Control strategy and regulations: Ozone.

(a) Subchapter 16 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, entitled "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Substances," N.J.A.C. 7:27-16.1 et seq. as revised on December 31, 1981 and effective March 1, 1982, is approved with the following provisions and conditions:

(1) Subsections 16.6(c)(4) and 16.6(c)(5) are approved. The State must comply with the public participation procedures it submitted to EPA on December 19, 1980 and must supply to EPA a copy of each notice of a proposed bubble that it supplies the public. In addition, the State must promptly transmit to EPA notice setting forth each set of emission limits approved by the state pursuant to subsections 16.6(c)(4) and 16.6(c)(5) as well as the emission limitations previously applicable. Finally, the State must transmit any relevant additional material EPA may request, and it must notify the public of an approved set of emission limits at the time it transmits notice of those limits to EPA.

(2) Emission limitations required by subsections 16.5(a), 16.6(a) and 16.6(b) are applicable requirements of the New Jersey SIP for the purposes of section 113 of the Clean Air Act and shall be enforceable by EPA and by citizens in the same manner as other requirements of the SIP; except that emission limitations adopted by the State under and which comply with subsections 16.6(c) (4) and (5) shall be the applicable requirements of the New Jersey SIP in lieu of those contained in subsections 16.5(a), 16.6(a) and 16.6(b) and shall be enforceable by EPA and by citizens, if the State meets the requirements set out in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(3) Although EPA approves the variance provisions in subchapter 7:27-16.9 and 7:27-16.10, in order to be considered as part of the SIP, each variance issued under these provisions must be submitted to and approved by EPA as a SIP revision.

(4) The December 17, 1979 version of Subchapter 16 is approved as a part of the SIP only to the extent that it addresses compliance dates for Group I Control Techniques Guideline source categories.

(b) Subchapter 17 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, entitled "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Toxic Substances," N.J.A.C. 7:27-17.1 et seq. as revised on October 17, 1979 and effective December 17, 1979, is approved for the regulation of perchloroethylene dry cleaners, as further clarified in a New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection memorandum "Subchapter 17 Requirements for Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning Systems" dated October 25, 1982.

(c) The November 15, 1993 SIP revision submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and Energy demonstrates the fulfillment of section 182(b)(2)(B) of the Clean Air Act for states to adopt RACT regulations for all sources for which EPA has issued a CTG before enactment of the 1990 Clean Air Act.

(d)(1) The base year ozone precursor emission inventory requirement of section 182(a)(1) of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments has been satisfied for the Atlantic City, New York/ Northern New Jersey/Long Island, Philadelphia/Wilmington/ Trenton, and Allentown/Bethlehem/Easton areas of New Jersey. The inventory was submitted on November 15, 1993 and amended on November 21, 1994 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection as a revision to the ozone State Implementation Plan (SIP). Revisions to the 1990 base year emission inventory dated December 31, 1996 for the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island and Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment areas of New Jersey have been approved. Revisions to the 1990 base year emission inventory dated February 10, 1999 for the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island and Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment areas of New Jersey have been approved.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The 1996 and 1999 ozone projection year emission inventories included in New Jersey's July 30, 1998 addendum and February 10, 1999 State Implementation Plan revision for the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island and Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment areas have been approved.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) The photochemical assessment monitoring stations network included in New Jersey's December 31, 1996 State Implementation Plan revision for the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island and Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment areas has been approved.

(6) The demonstration that emissions from growth in vehicle miles traveled will not increase motor vehicle emissions and, therefore, offsetting measures are not necessary which was included in New Jersey's December 31, 1996 State Implementation Plan revision for the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island and Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment areas has been approved.

(7) The enforceable commitments to: participate in the consultative process to address regional transport; adopt additional control measures as necessary to attain the ozone standard, meet rate of progress requirements, and eliminate significant contribution to nonattainment downwind; identify any reductions that are needed from upwind areas for the area to meet the ozone standard; and implement the Ozone Transport Commission NOMemorandum of Understanding included in New Jersey's December 31, 1996 State Implementation Plan revision for the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island and Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment areas have been approved.

(e) The State of New Jersey's March 27, 1996 submittal for an enhanced motor vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program, as amended on November 27, 1996 and April 1997, is approved pursuant to section 110 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7410. However, since New Jersey failed to start its program by November 15, 1997, the interim approval granted under the provisions of Section 348 of the National Highway Systems Designation Act of 1995 (NHSDA), 23 U.S.C. 348, which allowed the State to take full credit in its 15 Percent ROP Plan for all the emission reduction credits in its proposal, converted to a disapproval when EPA sent finding letters to the State on December 12, 1997. The finding letters also informed the state that the underlying enhanced I/M program approval, pursuant to Section 110 of the Act, remained in effect as part of the federally enforceable SIP.

(f) The State of New Jersey's June 5, 1998 submittal for the conversion of the inspection frequency of the current inspection and maintenance (I/M) program from annual to biennial in order to facilitate the upgrade of the existing state lanes to accommodate the testing equipment for the enhanced program has been approved by EPA. The State will be adding a gas cap inspection to the current I/M program, which will result in a net increase in overall emissions reductions.

(g) The 15 Percent Rate of Progress (ROP) Plans and the recalculation of the 9 Percent ROP Plans included in the July 30, 1998 addendum and the February 10, 1999 State Implementation Plan revision for the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island and Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment areas have been approved.

(h)(1) The statewide 1996 periodic emission inventory included in New Jersey's April 11, 2001 State Implementation Plan revision is approved.

(2) The 2002 and 2005 ozone projection year emission inventories for the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment area and the 2002, 2005 and 2007 ozone projection year emission inventories for the New Jersey portion of the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island nonattainment area included in New Jersey's April 11, 2001 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.

(3) The 2002 and 2005 Reasonable Further Progress Plans for the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment area and the 2002, 2005 and 2007 Reasonable Further Progress Plans for the New Jersey portion of the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island nonattainment area included in New Jersey's April 11, 2001 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.

(4) The contingency measures for the New Jersey portions of the Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment area and the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island nonattainment area included in New Jersey's April 11, 2001 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) The Reasonably Available Control Measure Analysis for the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton and New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment areas included in New Jersey's October 16, 2001 State Implementation Plan revision is approved.

(7) The revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by New Jersey on August 31, 1998, October 16, 1998, and April 26, 2000 are approved. The revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(c)(2)(A) of the Clean Air Act for the New Jersey portions of the Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton and New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island severe ozone nonattainment areas. The revisions establish attainment dates of November 15, 2005 for the Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment area and November 15, 2007 for the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island ozone nonattainment area. The revisions include the enforceable commitments for future actions associated with attainment of the 1-hour ozone national ambient air quality:

(i) To adopt additional control measures by October 31, 2001 to meet the level of reductions identified by EPA for attainment of the 1-hour ozone standard;

(ii) To submit revised State Implementation Plan and motor vehicle emissions budgets by October 31, 2001 if additional adopted measures affect the motor vehicle emissions inventory;

(i)(1) The revised 1996, 2005 and 2007 motor vehicle emission inventories calculated using MOBILE6 included in New Jersey's April 8, 2003 State Implementation Plan revision is approved.

(2) The 2005 conformity emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment area included in New Jersey's April 8, 2003 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) The revised commitment to perform a mid-course review and submit the results by December 31, 2004 included in the April 8, 2003 SIP revision is approved.

(j)(1) The revised 1997, 2005, 2007 and 2014 motor vehicle emission inventories calculated using MOBILE6 included in New Jersey's May 21, 2004 State Implementation Plan revision is approved.

(2) The 2005 conformity emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia/Wilmington/Trenton nonattainment area and the 2005 and 2007 conformity emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island nonattainment area included in New Jersey's May 21, 2004 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.

(k)(1) The Statewide 2002 base year ozone precursor emission inventories included in New Jersey's May 18, 2006 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.

(2) The revisions to the 2005 and 2007 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the New Jersey portion of the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island nonattainment area included in New Jersey's May 18, 2006 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.

(3) The conformity emission budgets for the McGuire Air Force Base included in New Jersey's May 18, 2006 State Implementation Plan revision are approved.
