
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1581 Control strategy: Carbon monoxide.

(a) Approval-The September 28, 1995 revision to the carbon monoxide state implementation plan for Camden County and the Nine not-classified areas (the city of Trenton, the City of Burlington, the Borough of Penns Grove (part), the Borough of Freehold, the City of Morristown, the City of Perth Amboy, the City of Toms River, the Borough of Somerville, and the City of Atlantic City). This revision included a maintenance plan which demonstrated continued attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for carbon monoxide through the year 2007.

(b) The base year carbon monoxide emission inventory requirement of section 187(a)(1) of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments has been satisfied for the entire State. The inventory was submitted on November 15, 1992 and amended on September 28, 1995 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection as a revision to the carbon monoxide State Implementation Plan.

(c) Approval-The November 15, 1992, October 4, 1993, and August 7, 1998 revisions to the carbon monoxide state implementation plan for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island Carbon Monoxide nonattainment area. This included an attainment demonstration and the control measures needed to attain the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for carbon monoxide. The January 15, 2002, request to redesignate the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island Carbon Monoxide nonattainment area from nonattainment to attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for carbon monoxide. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan which demonstrated continued attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for carbon monoxide through the year 2014.

(d) The 1997 and 2007 carbon monoxide motor vehicle emission budgets for Camden County and the Nine Not Classified Areas included in New Jersey's May 21, 2004 SIP revision are approved.

(e)(1) Approval-The May 18, 2006 revision to the carbon monoxide maintenance plan for Camden County and the Nine Not Classified Areas. This revision contains a second ten-year maintenance plan that demonstrates continued attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for carbon monoxide through the year 2017.

(2) The 2007 and 2014 carbon monoxide conformity emission budgets for five counties in the New York/Northern New Jersey/Long Island carbon monoxide maintenance area included in New Jersey's May 18, 2006 SIP revision are approved.

(f) Approval-The June 11, 2015 and February 8, 2016 revisions to the carbon monoxide (CO) maintenance plan for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NYNNJLI, CO area. These revisions contain a second ten-year limited maintenance plan that demonstrates continued attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for CO through the year 2024, a 2007 CO base year emissions inventory, and the shutdown of five CO maintenance monitors.
