
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1587 Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Implementation Plan for the State of New Jersey" and all revisions submitted by New Jersey that were Federally approved prior to October 1, 2016.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 26, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Miscellaneous non-regulatory additions to the plan submitted on April 17, 1972, by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(2) List of permits issued to sources allowing them particulate emissions in excess of 25 tons per year submitted on May 15, 1972, by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(3) Legal opinion of State Attorney General on State's authority to make available to the public emission data reported by sources submitted on June 23, 1972, by the New Jersey Department of Law and Public Safety.

(4) Copies of the permits and certificates issued to sources exceeding 25 tons per year of particulate emissions submitted on July 6, 1972, by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(5) Revisions correcting deficiencies in the new source review procedure submitted on March 22, 1973, by the Governor.

(6) Legal opinion of the State Attorney General on the State's authority to deny a permit to construct or modify a source submitted on April 18, 1973, by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(7) Revision to sulfur-in-fuel regulation, section 7:1-3.1 of New Jersey Air Pollution Control Code, submitted on November 20, 1973, by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(8) Revision to the control of open burning regulation, section 7:27-2.1 of the New Jersey Air Pollution Control Code, submitted on November 19, 1975, by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(9) Letter, dated January 16, 1976, from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection stating that there would be no net increase in hydrocarbon emissions as a result of the revisions to N.J.A.C. 7:27-2.1.

(10) Regulation entitled: "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Substances," New Jersey Administrative Code (N.J.A.C.) 7:27-16.1 et seq., submitted on January 8, 1976 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(11) Technical justification supporting N.J.A.C. 7:27-16 et seq. submitted on March 3, 1976.

(12) Revisions consisting of 16 administrative orders issued pursuant to the New Jersey Administrative Code (N.J.A.C.) 7:27-9.5(a) and technical support for these orders received on April 27, 1976 from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(13) An administrative order directed to Hunt-Wesson Foods, Inc. in Bridgeton, Cumberland County and issued pursuant to the New Jersey Administrative Code (N.J.A.C.) 7:27-9.5(a), dated June 15, 1976, and technical support for this order received by EPA on April 27, 1976, both from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(14) Revision to the Permits and Certificates regulation of the New Jersey Air Pollution Control Code, N.J.A.C. 7:27-8.1 et seq., submitted on June 8, 1976 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(15) Revision consisting of an administrative order issued on September 14, 1976 to Owens Illinois, Inc., Cumberland County, New Jersey pursuant to the New Jersey Administrative Code (N.J.A.C.) 7:27-9.5(a) and submitted on September 17, 1976 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(16) A revision submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection consisting of an October 27, 1976 letter indicating the extension, to July 12, 1977, of "variances" to the provisions of the New Jersey Administrative Code (N.J.A.C.) 7:27-9.1 et seq., Sulfur in Fuel, for 18 facilities; and supplemental technical information submitted in a November 22, 1976 letter. The extended "variances" including all their terms and conditions are made a part of the New Jersey State Implementation Plan. The facilities affected by these "variances", their location and applicable sulfur in fuel oil limitation until July 12, 1977 are as follows:

(17) A revision submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection consisting of a January 10, 1978 letter indicating the extension, to July 12, 1978, of "variances" to the provisions of the New Jersey Administrative Code (N.J.A.C.) 7:27-9.1 et seq., Sulfur in Fuel, for 17 facilities and accompanying supplemental information. The extended "variances" including all their terms and conditions are made a part of the New Jersey State implementation plan. The facilities affected by these "variances," their locations, and applicable sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitations until July 12, 1978 are as follows:
