
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1587 Original identification of plan section.
####### et seq.,

(50) Regulation entitled "Volatile Organic Substances in Consumer Products" N.J.A.C. 7-27-23.1dated July 30, 1990, submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and Energy (NJDEPE).

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Title 7, Chapter 27, Subchapter 23 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, entitled "Volatile Organic Substances in Consumer Products" effective February 21, 1989.

(B) Amendment to Title 7, Chapter 27, Subchapter 23 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, entitled "Volatile Organic Substances in Consumer Products" effective December 12, 1989.

(C) Amendment to Title 7, Chapter 27, Subchapter 23 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, entitled "Volatile Organic Substances in Consumer Products" effective August 9, 1990.

(ii) Additional material:

(A) July 30, 1990 letter from Anthony J. McMahon, NJDEPE, to Conrad Simon, EPA, requesting EPA approval of Subchapter 23.

(51) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning the control of volatile organic compounds from stationary sources, dated March 31, 1987, December 7, 1989, and March 13, 1992, submitted by the New Jersey State Department of Environmental Protection and Energy (NJDEPE).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments to Chapter 27, Title 7 of the New Jersey Administrative Code Subchapter 16, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Substances," effective September 22, 1986,

(B) Amendments to Chapter 27, Title 7 of the New Jersey Administrative Code Subchapter 16, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Substances," effective June 19, 1989,

(C) Amendments to Chapter 27, Title 7 of the New Jersey Administrative Code: Subchapter 8, "Permits and Certificates, Hearings, and Confidentiality," effective March 2, 1992; Subchapter 16, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Compounds," effective March 2, 1992, Subchapter 17, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Toxic Substances," effective March 2, 1992; Subchapter 23, "Prevention of Air Pollution by Architectural Coatings and Consumer Products," effective March 2, 1992; Subchapter 25, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution from Vehicular Fuels," effective March 2, 1992; and Subchapter 3, "Air Test Method 3: Sampling and Analytic Procedures for the Determination of Volatile Organic Compounds from Source Operations," effective March 2, 1992.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) March 31, 1987, letter from Jorge Berkowitz, NJDEP, to Conrad Simon, EPA requesting EPA approval of the amendments to Subchapter 16.

(B) December 7, 1989, letter from Anthony McMahon, NJDEP, to Conrad Simon, EPA requesting EPA approval of the amendments to Subchapter 16.

(C) March 13, 1992, letter from Nancy Wittenberg, NJDEPE, to Conrad Simon, EPA requesting EPA approval of the amendments to Subchapter 16.

(52) Amendments submitted on April 21, 1993 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and Energy to New Jersey Air Code 7:27-25 revising the testing requirements to gasoline providers in New Jersey are subject.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Amendments to Chapter 27, Title 7 of the New Jersey Administrative Code Subchapter 25, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution from Vehicular Fuels," effective September 3, 1991.

(53) A revision to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for an Emission Statement Program dated February 19, 1993, submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and Energy.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Title 7, Chapter 27, Subchapter 21, of the New Jersey Administrative Code entitled, "Emission Statements," effective March 15, 1993.

(ii) Additional information:

(A) May 24, 1993 letter from John Elston to Conrad Simon, EPA, transmitting supporting documentation necessary for approval of the SIP revisions. These items included:
