
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1587 Original identification of plan section.
####### 2

() Justification of Gasoline Dispensing Facility Exemption.

(B) October 29, 1993 letter from John Elston to Conrad Simon, EPA, transmitting legislative language to reflect change in New Jersey's Air Pollution Control Act regarding confidentiality provisions.

(C) February 3, 1994 letter from John Elston to Conrad Simon, EPA, requesting the use of EPA's Emission Statement waiver provision.

(54) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for carbon monoxide concerning the control of carbon monoxide from mobile sources, dated November 15, 1992 and November 21, 1994 submitted by the New Jersey State Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Chapter 27, Title 7 of the New Jersey Administrative Code Subchapter 18, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution from New or Altered Sources Affecting Ambient Air Quality (Emission Offset Rules)," effective March 15, 1993.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) November 21, 1994, Technical update to the New Jersey Carbon Monoxide SIP.

(55)-(56) [Reserved]

(57) The redesignation and maintenance plan for Camden County and the Nine not-classified areas (the City of Trenton, the City of Burlington, the Borough of Penns Grove (part), the Borough of Freehold, the City of Morristown, the City of Perth Amboy, the City of Toms River, the Borough of Somerville, and the City of Atlantic City) submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection on September 28, 1995, as part of the New Jersey SIP. The 1990 Baseline CO Emission Inventory for the State of New Jersey was submitted on November 15, 1992 and a Technical Update was submitted on November 21, 1994.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) "New Jersey Carbon Monoxide State Implementation Plan Redesignation And Maintenance Plan For Camden County," section 5.f, effective date September 28, 1995.

(B) "New Jersey Carbon Monoxide State Implementation Plan Redesignation and Maintenance Plan for the Nine Not-Classified Nonattainment Areas," section 5.f, effective date September 28, 1995.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) "New Jersey Carbon Monoxide State Implementation Plan Redesignation And Maintenance Plan For Camden County" with appendices, September 28, 1995.

(B) "New Jersey Carbon Monoxide State Implementation Plan Redesignation and Maintenance Plan for the Nine Not-Classified Nonattainment Areas" with appendices, September 28, 1995.

(58) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for carbon monoxide concerning the oxygen content of motor vehicle gasoline, dated November 15, 1992 submitted by the New Jersey State Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments to Chapter 27, Title 7 of the New Jersey Administrative Code Chapter 27, Subchapter 25, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Vehicular Fuels," effective October 5, 1992 (as limited in ยง 52.1605).

(59) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection on May 26, 1995, November 8, 1995, January 10, 1996 and October 10, 1996.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Conditions of Approval Documents (COAD):

The following facilities have been issued conditions of approval documents by New Jersey:
