
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1587 Original identification of plan section.
####### et seq., Sulfur in Fuels,

(33) A revision submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection on December 16, 1982 consisting of amendments to the provisions of the New Jersey Administrative Code (N.J.A.C.) 7:27-9.1to provide for "sulfur dioxide bubbles" and "clean conversion incentives."

(34) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan submitted on November 23, 1982, January 18, 1983, February 14, 1983, July 11, 1983, July 28, 1983 and September 26, 1983 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(35) A supplementary submittal dated July 11, 1983, from the Department of Environmental Protection consisting of adopted revisions to: Subchapter 3-"Control and Prohibition of Smoke from Combustion of Fuel," dated October 12, 1977, Subchapter 4-"Control and Prohibition of Particles from Combustion of Fuel," dated October 12, 1977, and Subchapter 5-"Prohibition of Air Pollution," dated October 12, 1977, of Title 7, Chapter 27 of the New Jersey Administrative Code; the proposed Regulatory Amendments; the Report of the Public Hearing; and the Order of Adoption.

(36) A revision submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection to allow U.S. Gypsum Co. temporarily to burn fuel oil with a sulfur content of 2.0 percent, by weight, at either Boiler #1, #2, or #3 at its Clark, New Jersey plant. The New Jersey submittal consists of an April 14, 1983 letter transmitting a State issued February 14, 1983 Public Notice and a letter dated March 14, 1983 transmitting an Administrative consent order detailing procedures to be used by the State to determine compliance. This revision will remain in effect until March 31, 1985 or until Boiler #4 is ready to burn coal, whichever occurs first.

(37) Three permanently adopted regulations were submitted on January 27, 1984 and February 1, 1984 regarding the operation of the inspection and maintenance program. These regulations pertain specifically to operating procedures for private inspection stations (New Jersey Administrative Code (N.J.A.C.) 13:20-33.1, 33.2, 33.50, and 33.51.), mechanic certification requirements (N.J.A.C. 13:20-32.4, 32.14, and 32.15), and specifications for exhaust gas analyzers (N.J.A.C. 7:27-15.1).

(38) The New Jersey State Implementation Plan for attainment and maintenance of the lead standards was submitted on May 1 and August 15, 1984, and on April 22, April 29, May 17, and July 16, 1985 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to N.J.A.C. 7:27-8, "Permits and Certificates," effective April 5, 1985.

(B) Revisions to N.J.A.C. 7:27-13, "Ambient Air Quality Standards," effective June 25, 1985.

(C) Revisions to N.J.A.C. 7:27-18, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution from New or Altered Sources Affecting Ambient Air Quality (Emission Offset Rule)," effective March 11, 1985.

(D) A July 16, 1985 letter from the Department of Environmental Protection; with attachment of letter dated July 15, 1985, contains schedules for revising N.J.A.C. 7:27-6, "Control and Prohibition of Particles from Manufacturing Process," to incorporate maximum allowable emission rates for lead and for adopting a new section, N.J.A.C. 7:27-19, to govern the combustion of liquid fuels, if necessary.

(E) "RACT-plus studies" to determine strategies to eliminate violation of the lead standards in the vicinity of Heubach, Inc., Newark and Delco Remy, New Brunswick will be completed by November 1, 1985 and control measures will be selected by January 1986.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Narrative submittal of the Lead SIP, including attainment demonstration, air quality data and summary of both current and projected lead emissions.

(39) A revision to the plan for attainment of the particulate matter standards submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection on February 21, March 14, and November 18, 1985.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to N.J.A.C. 7:27-14, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution from Diesel-Powered Motor Vehicles," effective July 1, 1985.

(B) Adoption of a new section of N.J.A.C. 7:27B-4 entitled "Air Test Method 4, Testing Procedures for Motor Vehicles," effective July 1, 1985.

(C) The following sections of N.J.A.C. 16:53 "Autobus Specifications which was effective on October 17, 1983:

(40) A revision to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan for attainment and maintenance of the ozone standards was submitted on April 22, 1985 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Table 2 in section 18.4(b) of N.J.A.C. 7:27-18, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution from New or Altered Sources Affecting Ambient Air Quality (Emission Offset Rule)," effective March 11, 1985.

(41) A revision to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for lead was submitted on December 1, 1986, by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) The following operating permit amendments for the Delco Remy facility in New Brunswick:

(B) The following operating permit amendments for the Heubach Inc. facility in Newark:

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Technical documentation of ambient modeling and monitoring for lead in the vicinity of Delco Remy, New Brunswick.

(B) Technical documentation of ambient modeling and monitoring for lead in the vicinity of Heubach Inc., Newark.

(42) A revision to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for lead submitted on July 23, 1987 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) and finalized on September 25, 1987.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) A March 4, 1986 Administrative Order and Notice of Civil Administrative Penalty Assessment (Log # A860244) from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection to the United States Metals Refining Company (USMR).

(B) Letter of March 11, 1987 from Greenberg and Prior, attorneys for USMR, to Anthony J. McMahon, Department of Environmental Protection, Trenton, New Jersey.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) July 1987 Modeling Analysis for the Anchor Abrasives facility.

(B) Summary of public comments and response to comments for the revision of the N.J. SIP for lead in the vicinity of USMR.

(C) USMR's comments on the revised N.J. SIP for lead in the vicinity of USMR.

(43) [Reserved]

(44) A revision to the State Implementation Plan for Ozone submitted on October 13, 1987 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

Subchapter 2A of chapter 26, title 7 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, "Additional, Specific Disposal Regulations for Sanitary Landfills," effective June 1, 1987.

(ii) Additional material.

New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection memorandum on landfill gas emissions and control, dated October 7, 1987.

(45) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone submitted on January 27, 1989 by the New Jersey State Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) for its state gasoline volatility program, including any waivers that may be granted under the program by the state. In 1989, the control period will begin on June 30.

(i) Incorporation by reference. Subchapter 25 of chapter 27, title 7 of the New Jersey Administrative Code entitled "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Vehicular Fuels," adopted on January 27, 1989 and effective on February 21, 1989.

(ii) Additional material. April 27, 1989 letter from Christopher Daggett, NJDEP, to William Muszynski, EPA Region II.

(46) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning motor vehicle refueling controls dated February 22, 1988, submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP).

(i) Incorporation by reference: Amendments to sections 16.1 and 16.3 of subchapter 16 of title 7 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, entitled "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Substances," effective January 19, 1988.

(ii) Additional material:

(A) February 22, 1988 letter from Jorge Berkowitz, NJDEP, to Conrad Simon, EPA, requesting EPA approval of the amendments to subchapter 16.

(B) April 18, 1988 letter from Jorge Berkowitz, NJDEP, to Conrad Simon, EPA, providing copies of the test methods and permit approval conditions applicable to Stage II vapor recovery systems in New Jersey.

(47) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning the motor vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program dated March 6, 1987, submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments to title 7, chapter 27, subchapter 15 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, entitled "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution From Gasoline-Fueled Motor Vehicles," effective January 21, 1985.

(B) Amendments to title 13, chapter 20, subchapter 28 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, entitled "Enforcement Service Inspection of New Passenger Vehicles and New Motorcycles," effective January 21, 1985.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) July 24, 1990 letter from David West, NJDEP, to Rudolph Kapichak, EPA, submitting the results of the study by Pacific Environmental Services on the health risks of performing the fuel inlet restrictor inspections.

(B) July 1, 1990 letter from David West, NJDEP, to Rudolph Kapichak, EPA, notifying of the resumption of fuel inlet restrictor inspections.

(48) A revision submitted on June 3, 1988 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) to revise its implementation plan to include revised testing procedures.

(i) Incorporation by reference: New Jersey Administrative Code 7:27B-3, "Air Test Method 3-Sampling and Analytical Procedures for the Determination of Volatile Organic Substances from Source Operations," effective 9/8/86.

(ii) Additional material: October 15, 1990 letter from William O'Sullivan, NJDEP to William S. Baker, EPA.

(49) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning the control of fugitive gasoline vapors resulting from the loading of marine transport vessels, dated June 20, 1990, submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and Energy (NJDEPE).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments to Title 7, Chapter 27, Subchapter 16 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, entitled "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Substances," effective February 6, 1989.

(B) Amendment to Title 7, Chapter 27, Subchapter 16 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, entitled "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Substances," effective December 4, 1989.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) June 20, 1990, letter from Anthony J. McMahon, NJDEPE, to Conrad Simon, EPA, requesting EPA approval of the amendments to subchapter 16.
