
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1587 Original identification of plan section.
####### 21

() Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation's internal combustion engines, Union County, NJ COAD approval dated May 9, 1995.

(ii) Additional information. Documentation and information to support NORACT facility-specific emission limits or alternative emission limits in four letters addressed to Regional Administrator Jeanne M. Fox from New Jersey Commissioner Robert C. Shinn, Jr. dated:

(A) May 26, 1995 for two SIP revisions;

(B) November 8, 1995 for eight SIP revisions;

(C) January 10, 1996 for ten SIP revisions; and

(D) October 10, 1996 for two SIP revisions.

(60) A revision to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone for adoption of rules for application of reasonably available control technology (RACT) for oxides of nitrogen (NOdated November 15, 1993, submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and Energy.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Title 7, Chapter 27, Subchapter 19, of the New Jersey Administrative Code entitled "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution from Oxides of Nitrogen," effective December 20, 1993.

(ii) Additional information:

(A) November 15, 1993 letter from Jeanne Fox, NJDEPE, to William J. Muszynski, EPA, requesting EPA approval of Subchapter 19.

(61) [Reserved]

(62) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning the control of volatile organic compounds from consumer and commercial products, dated January 25, 1996 submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Title 7, Chapter 27, Subchapter 24, of the New Jersey Administrative Code entitled "Control and Prohibition of Volatile Organic Compounds from Consumer and Commercial Products" effective November 6, 1995.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) January 25, 1996 letter from Robert C. Shinn, Jr., NJDEP, to Jeanne M. Fox, EPA, requesting EPA approval of Subchapter 24.

(63) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning the control of volatile organic compounds from stationary sources, dated November 15, 1993 and two revisions dated June 21, 1996 submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP).

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Amendments effective December 20, 1993 to Title 7, Chapter 27 of the New Jersey Administrative Code Subchapter 16, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Compounds."

(B) Amendments effective June 20, 1994 to Title 7, Chapter 27 of the New Jersey Administrative Code: Subchapter 8, "Permits and Certificates" (sections 8.1 and 8.2), Subchapter 16, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Compounds," Subchapter 17, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Toxic Substances," Subchapter 23, "Prevention of Air Pollution From Architectural Coatings and Consumer Products," and Subchapter 25, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Vehicular Fuels." Amendments effective June 20, 1994 to Title 7, Chapter 27B, Subchapter 3 of the New Jersey Administrative Code Air Test Method 3-"Sampling and Analytical Procedures for the Determination of Volatile Organic Compounds from Source Operations."

(C) Amendments effective December 5, 1994 to Title 7, Chapter 27 of the New Jersey Administrative Code Subchapter 16, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Compounds."

(D) Amendments effective May 15, 1995 to Title 7, Chapter 27 of the New Jersey Administrative Code Subchapter 16, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Compounds."

(E) Amendments effective July 17, 1995 to Title 7, Chapter 27 of the New Jersey Administrative Code Subchapter 16, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Volatile Organic Compounds."

(ii) Additional material:

(A) November 15, 1993 letter from Jeanne Fox, NJDEP, to William J. Muszynski, EPA, requesting EPA approval of Subchapter 16.

(B) June 21, 1996 letter from Robert C. Shinn, Jr., NJDEP, to Jeanne M. Fox, EPA, requesting EPA approval of Subchapters 8, 16, 17, 23, 25 and Air Test Method 3.

(C) June 21, 1996 letter from Robert C. Shinn, Jr., NJDEP, to Jeanne M. Fox, EPA, requesting EPA approval of Subchapter 16.

(64) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection on June 18, 1996, July 10, 1996, December 17, 1996 and May 2, 1997.

(i) Incorporation by reference.
