
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1587 Original identification of plan section.
####### 4

() March 25, 1998 Memo from Colleen Woods, Acting Director, Motor Vehicle Services, to Sharon Haas, Principal Environmental Specialist, NJDEP.

(66) A revision to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning revisions to the rule for requiring reasonably available control technology (RACT) for sources emitting oxides of nitrogen (NO) dated March 24, 1995, submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Title 7, Chapter 27, Subchapter 19, of the New Jersey Administrative Code entitled "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution from Oxides of Nitrogen," effective April 17, 1995.

(ii) Additional information:

(A) June 21, 1996 letter from Robert C. Shinn, Jr., NJDEP, to Jeanne M. Fox, EPA, requesting EPA approval of revisions to Subchapter 19.

(67) Revision to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone, submitting amended New Jersey Ozone Transport Commission-Low Emission Vehicle (OTC-LEV) program, Opting into the National Low Emission Vehicle (National LEV) Program, dated February 22, 1999, submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP).

(i) Incorporation by reference: Title 7, Chapter 27, Subchapter 26, "Ozone Transport Commission-Low Emission Vehicles Program," effective March 1, 1999.

(ii) Additional information: Letter from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection Commissioner Shinn, dated February 22, 1999, submitting a revision to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan for the National Low Emission Vehicle program.

(68) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for carbon monoxide concerning the oxyfuel program, dated August 7, 1998, submitted by the New Jersey State Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP).

(i) Incorporation by reference: Amendments to Title 7, Chapter 27 of the New Jersey Administrative Code Subchapter 25, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Vehicular Fuels," effective August 17, 1998 (as limited in section 52.1605).

(69) A revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted on April 26, 1999 and supplemented on July 31, 2000 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection that establishes the NOBudget Trading Program.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Title 7, Chapter 27, Subchapter 31, of the New Jersey Administrative code entitled "NOBudget Program" adopted on June 17, 1998, and effective on July 20, 1998.

(ii) Additional information.

(A) Letter from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection dated April 26, 1999, submitting the NOBudget Trading Program as a revision to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan for ozone.

(B) Letter from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection dated July 29, 1999, committing to correcting the violation definition deficiency within one year of EPA's final action.

(C) Letter from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection dated July 31, 2000, supplementing the April 26, 1999 SIP submittal with the amended violation provisions.

(D) Guidance for Implementation of Emissions Monitoring Requirements for the NOBudget Program, dated January 28, 1997.

(E) NOBudget Program Monitoring Certification and Reporting Requirements, dated July 3, 1997.

(F) Electronic Data Reporting, Acid Rain/NOBudget Program, dated July 3, 1997.

(G) Measurement Protocol for Commercial, Industrial and Residential Facilities, April 28, 1993.

(70) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on December 10, 1999 and July 31, 2000 by the State of New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection that establishes the NOBudget Trading Program, a 2007 Statewide NOemissions budget, and a commitment by New Jersey to comply with the section 51.122 reporting requirements.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Regulation Subchapter 31 of Title 7, Chapter 27 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, entitled "NOBudget Program," adopted on July 31, 2000 and effective on August 21, 2000.

(ii) Additional material:

(A) Letter from State of New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection dated December 10, 1999, requesting EPA approval of the Ozone SIP, entitled "State Implementation Plan (SIP) Revision for the Attainment and Maintenance of the Ozone and Carbon Monoxide National Ambient Air Quality Standards; Meeting the Requirements of the Regional NOCap Program and Transportation Conformity Budgets Related to the Attainment of the Ozone and Carbon Monoxide National Ambient Air Quality Standards; December 1, 1999," as a revision to the State of New Jersey Implementation Plan for ozone.

(B) Letter from State of New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection dated July 31, 2000, requesting EPA approval of the NOBudget Program as a revision to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan for ozone. This submittal also contains 2007 State-wide NOemissions budget information that is supplemental to the December 10, 1999 SIP submittal.

(71) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) concerning the Enhanced Inspection and Maintenance Program, submitted on August 20, 2001 by the New Jersey State Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP).

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Amendments to Title 7, Chapter 27 of the New Jersey Administrative Code (NJAC) Subchapter 15, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution From Gasoline-Fueled Motor Vehicles," effective November 15, 1999.

(B) Amendments to Title 7, Chapter 27B of the NJAC Subchapter 4, "Air Test Method 4: Testing Procedures for Motor Vehicles," effective November 15, 1999.

(C) Amendments to Title 13, Chapter 20 of the NJAC Subchapter 28, "Inspection of New Motor Vehicles" (Sections: 28.3, 28.4, 28.6), effective December 6, 1999.

(D) Title 13, Chapter 20 of the NJAC: Subchapter 7, "Vehicle Inspection" (Sections: 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6); Subchapter 24, "Motorcycles" (Section: 24.20); Subchapter 26, "Compliance With Diesel Emission Standards and Equipment, Periodic Inspection Program for Diesel Emissions, and Self-Inspection of Certain Classes of Motor Vehicles" (Section: 26.16); Subchapter 29, "Mobile Inspection Unit" (Sections: 29.1, 29.2, 29.3); Subchapter 32, "Inspection Standards and Test Procedures To Be Used By Official Inspection Facilities"; Subchapter 33, "Inspection Standards and Test Procedures To Be Used By Licensed Private Inspection Facilities"; Subchapter 43, "Enhanced Motor Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program"; Subchapter 44, "Private Inspection Facility Licensing"; and Subchapter 45, "Motor Vehicle Emission Repair Facility Registration", effective December 6, 1999.

(E) Title 13, Chapter 21 Subchapter 5, "Registrations" (Section: 5.12) and Subchapter 15, "New Jersey Licensed Motor Vehicle Dealers" (Section: 15.7), effective December 6, 1999.

(72) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) concerning the Enhanced Inspection and Maintenance Program, submitted on December 3, 2002 by the New Jersey State Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP).

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) New Jersey Revised Statutes.
