
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1587 Original identification of plan section.
####### 3

() Subchapter 25, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution by Vehicular Fuels," 25.1 Definitions.

(C) Repeal to NJAC 7:27 with effective date of December 1, 2008 and Operative date of December 29, 2008: Subchapter 24, "Prevention of Air Pollution From Consumer Products," section 24.11 Portable fuel containers and spill-proof spouts: testing, repealed without replacement and reserved.

(ii) Additional information.

(A) Letter dated April 9, 2009 from Acting Commissioner Mark N. Mauriello, NJDEP, to George Pavlou Acting Regional Administrator, EPA Region 2, submitting the SIP revision containing Subchapters 23, 24, 25, 26, and 34.

(90) Revision to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning the control of nitrogen oxides from Naval Weapons Station Earle dated May 14, 2009 and supplementary information dated May 21, 2009 submitted by the New Jersey State Department of Environmental Protection.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) A letter from Mr. Frank Steitz, Chief, Bureau of Air Permits, New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, addressed to Captain G.A. Maynard, Commanding Officer, Naval Weapons Station Earle titled "Alternative Maximum Emission Rate (AEL) for Nitrogen Oxides (NO) Pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:27-19.13 and Significant Modification of Operating Permit," dated and approved May 21, 2009 including Attachment 1 "Conditions of Approval Alternative Maximum Emission Rate For NOFor Two (2) Detroit Diesel Distillate Oil Fuel Fired 2-Stroke Diesel Internal Combustion Engines, Naval Weapons Station Earle."

(91) A revision submitted on July 28, 2009, as supplemented on December 9, 2010, March 2, 2011 and December 7, 2011, by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) that addresses the regional haze requirements of Clean Air Act section 169A. The December 9, 2010 submittal also addresses an element of the PMSIP revision.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Amendments to New Jersey Administrative Code, Title 7, Chapter 27 (NJAC 7:27) Subchapter 9, "Sulfur In Fuels," Section 9.2 Sulfur content standards, with effective date of September 20, 2010 and operative date of October 25, 2010.

(B) The following Air Pollution Control Operating Permit, Significant Modifications and Preconstruction Approvals:
