
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1601 Control strategy and regulations: Sulfur oxides.
######## Determination of Attainment.

(f)EPA has determined, as of January 7, 2013, that based on 2008 to 2010 and 2009 to 2011 ambient air quality data, the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE fine particulate (PM) nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PMnational ambient air quality standard (NAAQS). This determination suspends the requirements for the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE PMnonattainment area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS.

(g) Approval-The maintenance plan submitted on December 26, 2012, and supplemented on May 3, 2013, for the 1997 PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard and the 2006 PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PMnonattainment area and the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE, PMnonattainment area has been approved.

(1) The maintenance plan establishes 2009 motor vehicle emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PMnonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: North Jersey Transportation Planning Authority: 67,272 tons per year for NOand 2,736 tons per year for PM; Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission (Mercer County): 5,835 tons per year for NOand 224 tons per year for PM.

(2) The maintenance plan establishes 2025 motor vehicle emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PMnonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: North Jersey Transportation Planning Authority: 25,437 tons per year for NOand 1,509 tons per year for PM; Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission (Mercer County): 2,551 tons per year for NOand 119 tons per year for PM.

(3) The maintenance plan establishes 2009 motor vehicle emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE, PMnonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission (Burlington, Camden, and Gloucester Counties): 18,254 tons per year for NOand 680 tons per year for PM.

(4) The maintenance plan establishes 2025 motor vehicle emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE, PMnonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission (Burlington, Camden, and Gloucester Counties): 8,003 tons per year for NOand 363 tons per year for PM.

(h) Approval-The 2007 attainment year emissions inventory for the New Jersey portions of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PMnonattainment area and the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE, PMnonattainment area consisting of NO, VOC, NH, directly emitted PM, and SOemissions. This inventory satisfies the comprehensive emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3).
