
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart FF - New Jersey
###### ยง 52.1587 Original identification of plan section.
####### 5

() BL England Generating Station dated December 16, 2010, Permit BOP100003, Program Interest 73242 for units: GR2 U2, U1-OS Summary, U1-OS1, U2-OS Summary, U2-OS1, U3-OS Summary, U3-OS1, U6-OS Summary, U6-OS1, U7-OS1, U7-OS2, U7-OS4, U7-OS5, U7-OS6, U7-OS7, U7-OS10, U7-OS11, U7-OS12, U8-OS Summary, and U8-OS1.

(ii) Additional information.

(A) Letter dated December 9, 2010 from Commissioner Bob Martin, NJDEP, to Regional Administrator Judith A. Enck, EPA Region 2, submitting the SIP revision containing Subchapter 9.

(B) December 7, 2011, letter from Director William O'Sullivan, NJDEP, to Acting Director John Filippelli, Division of Environmental Planning and Protection, EPA Region 2, submitting a supplement to the 2009 Regional Haze SIP which contains the Best Available Retrofit Technology (BART) determinations and enforceable BART emission limits for five facilities.

(92) Revisions to the New Jersey State Implementation Plan (SIP) submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection for New Jersey's enhanced inspection and maintenance (I/M) program, dated December 15, 2009.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Amendments to Chapter 27, Title 7 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, Subchapter 15, "Control and Prohibition of Air Pollution from Gasoline-Fueled Motor Vehicles," effective November 16, 2009, and Appendix B-5, "Air Test Method 5: Testing Procedures for Gasoline-Fueled Motor Vehicles," effective November 16, 2009.

(B) Amendments to Chapter 20, Title 13 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, Subchapter 7, "Vehicle Inspection" (Sections: 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6); Subchapter 24, "Motorcycles" (Section: 24.20); Subchapter 26, "Compliance With Diesel Emission Standards and Equipment, Periodic Inspection Program for Diesel Emissions, and Self-Inspection of Certain Classes of Motor Vehicles" (Sections: 26.2 and 26.16); Subchapter 28, "Inspection of New Motor Vehicles" (Sections 28.3, 28.4 and 28.6); Subchapter 29, "Mobile Inspection Unit" (Sections: 29.1, 29.2, 29.3); Subchapter 32, "Inspection Standards and Test Procedures To Be Used By Official Inspection Facilities"; Subchapter 33, "Inspection Standards and Test Procedures To Be Used By Licensed Private Inspection Facilities"; Subchapter 43, "Enhanced Motor Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program"; Subchapter 44, "Private Inspection Facility Licensing"; and Subchapter 45, "Motor Vehicle Emission Repair Facility Registration," all effective October 19, 2009.

(C) Amendments to Chapter 21, Title 13 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, Subchapter 15, "New Jersey Licensed Motor Vehicle Dealers" (Sections: 15.8 and 15.12), effective October 19, 2009.

(D) Amendments to Chapter 8, Title 39 of the Revised Statutes of the State of New Jersey at R.S. 39:8-1, 39:8-2, and 39:8-3, effective July 1, 2010.

(ii) Additional material:

(A) December 15, 2009, letter from Mark N. Mauriello, Acting Commissioner, NJDEP, to Judith A. Enck, Regional Administrator, EPA, requesting EPA approval of a revision to the State of New Jersey's I/M program SIP.

(B) October 12, 2010, letter from Bob Martin, Commissioner, NJDEP, to Judith A. Enck, Regional Administrator, EPA, requesting EPA approval of the supplemental revision to the State of New Jersey's I/M program SIP.

(C) July 8, 2010, letter from Bob Martin, Commissioner, NJDEP, to Judith A. Enck, Regional Administrator, EPA, requesting EPA approval of the supplemental revision to the State of New Jersey's I/M program SIP.
