
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart GG - New Mexico
###### ยง 52.1634 Significant deterioration of air quality.

(a) The plan submitted by the Governor of New Mexico on February 21, 1984 (as adopted by the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Board (NMEIB) on January 13, 1984), August 19, 1988 (as revised and adopted by the NMEIB on July 8, 1988), and July 16, 1990 (as revised and adopted by the NMEID on March 9, 1990), Air Quality Control Regulation 707-Permits, Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and its Supplemental document, is approved as meeting the requirements of part C, Clean Air Act for preventing significant deterioration of air quality. Additionally, on November 2, 1988, EPA approved New Mexico's stack height regulation into the SIP (53 FR 44191), thereby satisfying the conditions of EPA's conditional approval of the State's PSD program on February 27, 1987 (52 FR 5964). Therefore, the conditional approval was converted to a full approval on July 15, 2011.

(b) The requirements of section 160 through 165 of the Clean Air Act are not met for federally designated Indian lands. Therefore, the provisions of ยง 52.21 except paragraph (a)(1) are hereby incorporated and made a part of the applicable implementation plan, and are applicable to sources located on land under the control of Indian governing bodies.

(c) The plan submitted by the Governor in paragraph (a) of this section for Prevention of Significant Deterioration is not applicable to Bernalillo County. Therefore, the following plan described below is applicable to sources located within the boundaries of Bernalillo County (including the City of Albuquerque). This plan, submitted by the Governor of New Mexico on April 14, 1989, August 7, 1989, May 1, 1990, May 17, 1993, May 24, 2006, August 16, 2010, and December 15, 2010 and respectively adopted on March 8, 1989, July 12, 1989, April 11, 1990, February 10, 1993, December 22, 2005, April 13, 2006, July 28, 2010, and December 10, 2010, by the Albuquerque/Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Board, containing Part 61-Prevention of Significant Deterioration is approved as meeting the requirements of part C of the Clean Air Act for the prevention of significant deterioration of air quality.
