
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart GG - New Mexico
###### ยง 52.1640 Original identification of plan section.
####### Nonferrous Smelters-Sulfur,

(C) Revisions to New Mexico Air Quality Control Regulation 652-Section B.2, Section C.1, Section D, Section G, Section H, Section I, Section J, Section K and Section L, as filed with the State Records and Archives Center on November 17, 1993.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) The document entitled "Hidalgo Smelter Sulfur Recovery Procedures," including appendix 1, "Physical Inventory for Sulfur Recovery Calculations," and appendix 2, "Monthly Sulfur Recovery Calculation."

(59) A revision to the New Mexico State Implementation Plan for Transportation Conformity: Albuquerque/Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Regulation (AQCR) No. 42 "Transportation Conformity" as adopted on November 9, 1994 and filed with the State Records and Archives Center on December 16, 1994, was submitted by the Governor on December 19, 1994. No action is taken on AQCR No. 42 Section 11.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Albuquerque/Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Regulation (AQCR) No. 42 "Transportation Conformity" as adopted on November 9, 1994 and filed with the State Records and Archives Center on December 16, 1994. No action is taken on AQCR No. 42 Section 11.

(ii) Additional material. None.

(60) A revision to the New Mexico State Implementation Plan for General Conformity: Albuquerque/Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Regulation No. 43 "General Conformity" as adopted on November 9, 1994, and filed with the State Records and Archives Center on December 16, 1994, was submitted by the Governor on December 19, 1994.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Albuquerque/Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Regulation No. 43 "General Conformity" as adopted on November 9, 1994, and filed with the State Records and Archives Center on December 16, 1994.

(61) A revision to the New Mexico SIP to update the Supplement to the New Mexico State Implementation Plan to Control Air Pollution in Area(s) of Bernalillo County Designated Nonattainment to reflect EPA's approval for lifting the construction ban in Bernalillo County, superseding the supplement dated April 14, 1993.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) October 12, 1994 Supplement to the New Mexico State Implementation Plan to Control Air Pollution in Area(s) of Bernalillo County Designated Nonattainment as approved by the Albuquerque/Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Board on November 9, 1994.

(62) The Governor of New Mexico submitted revisions to 20 New Mexico Administrative Code 2.74 on June 26, 1995, to incorporate changes in the Federal PSD permitting regulations for PM-10 increments.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to 20 New Mexico Administrative Code 2.74, effective July 20, 1995.

(63) A revision to the New Mexico SIP approving a request for redesignation to attainment, a vehicle inspection and maintenance program, and the required maintenance plan for the Albuquerque/Bernalillo County CO nonattainment area, submitted by the Governor on May 11, 1995. The 1993 emissions inventory and projections were included in the maintenance plan.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) A letter from the Governor of New Mexico to EPA dated April 14, 1995, in which the Governor requested redesignation to attainment based on the adopted Carbon Monoxide Redesignation Request and Maintenance Plan for Albuquerque/Bernalillo County New Mexico.

(B) Albuquerque/Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Board Regulation No. 28, Motor Vehicle Inspection, as amended April 12, 1995 and effective on July 1, 1995.

(ii) Additional material. Carbon Monoxide Redesignation Request and Maintenance Plan for Albuquerque/Bernalillo County New Mexico, approved and adopted by the Air Quality Control Board on April 13, 1995.

(64)-(65) [Reserved]

(66) Recodified and revised regulations of the New Mexico Administrative Code submitted by the Governor on January 8, and July 18, 1996.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) New Mexico Administrative Code, Title 20, Chapter 2, Parts 1 and 2, adopted by the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Board September 22, 1995, and filed with the State Records and Archives Center on September 27, 1995.

(B) New Mexico Administrative Code, Title 20, Chapter 2, Parts 3, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 40, 41, 60, 61, 72 (Subparts I, II and III; Subpart V, Sections 501 and 502), 73, 75, 79, and 80; adopted by the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Board on October 20, 1995, and filed with the State Records and Archives Center on October 30, 1995.

(C) Revised New Mexico Administrative Code, Title 20, Chapter 2, Part 3, Sections 109 and 111 and; Part 61, Section 111 and; repeal of Part 3, Section 112, adopted by the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Board December 8, 1995, and filed with the State Records and Archives Center on December 11, 1995.

(D) New Mexico State Records Center transmittals repealing Air Quality Control Regulations 705 and 706; adopted by the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Board December 8, 1995; and filed with the State Records and Archives Center on December 11, 1995.

(E) Revised New Mexico Administrative Code, Title 20, Chapter 2, Part 72, Section 103; adopted by the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Board on June, 18, 1996, and filed with the State Records and Archives Center on June 19, 1996.

(ii) Additional material. None.
