
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 27 - PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES
##### ยง 27.16 Disqualification of the reviewing official or presiding officer.

(a) A reviewing official or presiding officer in a particular case may disqualify himself or herself at any time.

(b) A party may file a motion for disqualification of a reviewing official or presiding officer with the hearing clerk. Such motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit alleging personal bias or other reason for disqualification.

(c) Such motion and affidavit shall be filed within 15 days of the party's discovery of reasons requiring disqualification, or such objections shall be deemed waived.

(d) Such affidavit shall state specific facts that support the party's belief that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists and the time and circumstances of the party's discovery of such facts. It shall be accompanied by a certificate of the representative of record that it is made in good faith.

(e) Upon the filing of such a motion and affidavit, the presiding officer shall proceed no further in the case until he or she resolves the matter of disqualification in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.

(f)(1) If the presiding officer determines that the reviewing official is disqualified because the reviewing official could not have made an impartial determination pursuant to ยง 27.5(a), the presiding officer shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.

(2) If the presiding officer disqualifies himself or herself, the case shall be reassigned promptly to another presiding officer.

(3) If the presiding officer denies a motion to disqualify, the Environmental Appeals Board may determine the matter only as part of its review of the initial decision upon appeal, if any.
