
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart HH - New York
###### ยง 52.1677 Compliance schedules.
####### b

() October 1, 1975-Final compliance with the requirements of Subchapter A, Title 6 of New York State's official compilation of codes, rules, and regulations.

(v) If a performance test is necessary for a determination as to whether compliance with subpart (3)(iv)(a) or (b) has been achieved, such a test must be completed by June 30, 1975, or October 1, 1975, respectively. Ten days prior to such a test, notice must be given to the Administrator to afford him the opportunity to have an observer present.

(4) The owner or operator of any boiler or furnace of more than 250 million Btu per hour heat input subject to the requirement of section 230.2(d) of Subchapter A, Chapter III, Title 6 of the New York State's official compilation of codes, rules, and regulations shall notify the Administrator no later than October 1, 1973, of his intent to utilize either low-sulfur fuel or stack gas desulfurization to meet the requirements of said regulation.

(5) Any owner or operator of a stationary source subject to paragraph (d)(4) of this section who elects low-sulfur fuel shall be subject to the following compliance schedule:

(i) November 1, 1973-Submit to the Administrator a projection of the amount of fuel, by types, that will be substantially adequate to enable compliance with section 230.2(d) of the codes, rules, and regulations cited in paragraph (4) of this paragraph (d) on October 1, 1974, and for at least one year thereafter.

(ii) December 31, 1973-Sign contracts with fuel suppliers for fuel requirements as projected above.

(iii) January 31, 1974-Submit a statement as to whether boiler modifications will be required. If modifications will be required, submit plans for such modifications.

(iv) March 15, 1974-Let contracts for necessary boiler modifications, if applicable.

(v) June 15, 1974-Initiate onsite modifications, if applicable.

(vi) September 3, 1974-Complete onsite modifications, if applicable.

(vii) October 1, 1974-Final compliance with the low-sulfur fuel requirements of section 230.2(d) of Subchapter A, Chapter III, Title 6 of New York State's official compilation of codes, rules, and regulations.

(6) Any owner or operator of a stationary source subject to paragraph (d)(5) of this section who elects to utilize stack gas desulfurization shall be subject to the following compliance schedule:

(i) November 1, 1973-Let necessary contracts for construction.

(ii) December 31, 1973-Initiate onsite construction.

(iii) September 1, 1974-Complete onsite construction.

(iv) October 1, 1974-Final compliance with the requirements of section 230.2(d) of Subchapter A, Chapter III, Title 6 of New York State's official compilation of codes, rules, and regulations.

(v) If a performance test is necessary for a determination as to whether compliance has been achieved, such a test must be completed by October 1, 1974. Ten days prior to such a test, notice must be given to the Administrator to afford him the opportunity to have an observer present.

(7) The owner or operator of any petroleum refinery subject to the requirements of section 223.1(a) of Subchapter A, Chapter III, Title 6 of New York State's official compilation of codes, rules, and regulations shall comply with the compliance schedule in paragraph (d)(8) of this section.

(8) Any owner or operator of a petroleum refinery subject to paragraph (d)(7) of this section shall be subject to the following compliance schedule:

(i) November 1, 1973-Submit final control plan to the Administrator.

(ii) February 28, 1974-Let necessary contracts for construction or installation of emission control equipment.

(iii) June 30, 1974-Initiate onsite construction or installation of emission control equipment.

(iv) November 30, 1974-Complete onsite construction or installation of emission control equipment.

(v) December 31, 1974-Final compliance with the requirements of section 223.1(a) of Subchapter A, Chapter III, Title 6 of New York State's official compilation of codes, rules, and regulations.

(9) The owner or operator of any coke oven battery subject to the requirements of Part 214, sections 214.2 and 214.4, of Subchapter A, Chapter III, Title 6 of the New York State's official compilation of codes, rules, and regulations for a facility with an environmental rating B as determined by Part 212 of Subchapter A, Chapter III, Title 6 of the New York State official compilation of codes, rules, and regulations, shall comply with the compliance schedule in paragraph (d)(10) of this section.

(10) Any owner or operator of a coke oven battery subject to paragraph (d)(9) of this section shall be subject to the following compliance schedule:

(i) November 1, 1973-Submit final control plan to the Administrator.

(ii) February 1, 1974-Let necessary contract for construction or installation of control equipment.

(iii) April 15, 1974-Initiate onsite construction or installation of control equipment.

(iv) November 30, 1974-Complete onsite construction or installation of control equipment.

(v) December 31, 1974-Final compliance with the requirements of Part 214, sections 214.2 and 214.4, of the Subchapter A, Chapter III, Title 6 of the New York State's official compilation of codes, rules, and regulations.

(11) Any owner or operator subject to a compliance schedule above shall certify to the Administrator, within five days after the deadline for each increment of progress in that schedule, whether or not the increment has been met.

(12) (i) None of the above paragraphs shall apply to a source which is presently in compliance with applicable regulations and which has certified such compliance to the Administrator by October 1, 1973. The Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary for proper certification.

(ii) Any compliance schedule adopted by the State and approved by the Administrator shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph for the affected source.

(iii) Any owner or operator subject to a compliance schedule in this paragraph may submit to the Administrator no later than October 1, 1973, a proposed alternative compliance schedule. No such compliance schedule may provide for final compliance after the final compliance date in the applicable compliance schedule of this paragraph. If promulgated by the Administrator, such schedule shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph for the affected source.

(13) Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the Administrator from promulgating a separate schedule for any source to which the application of the compliance schedule in paragraphs (d)(2), (3), (5), (6), (8), and (10) of this section fails to satisfy the requirements of ยง 51.15 (b) and (c) of this chapter.
