
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart HH - New York
###### ยง 52.1683 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Rescission of clean data determination for the 1997 eight-hour ozone standard.,see

(n)Effective June 3, 2016, the EPA is determining that complete quality-assured and certified ozone monitoring data for 2012 to 2014 show the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT 1997 eight-hour ozone nonattainment area did not meet the 1997 eight-hour ozone standard. Therefore, the EPA is rescinding the clean data determination for the 1997 eight-hour ozone standard only. The prior determination (paragraph (f)(2)(viii) of this section) is in accordance with 40 CFR 51.918. The prior determination suspended the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual eight-hour ozone NAAQS. This rescission of the clean data determination will result in a SIP Call for a new ozone attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard, for this area only. If the revised plan is approved by the EPA as demonstrating reasonable further progress and attainment for the more stringent 2008 NAAQS by the Moderate area attainment date, and is approved by the EPA as containing adequate contingency measures for the 2008 NAAQS, then the plan would be deemed to have also satisfied requirements of the SIP Call associated with violations for the 1997 NAAQS.

(o) The portion of the SIP submitted on April 4, 2013 addressing Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) for the 2008 ozone NAAQS is disapproved.

(p)(1) The December 22, 2014 New York reasonably available control technology (RACT) analysis plan, as supplemented on September 6, 2017, submitted pursuant to the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS), which applies to the entire State, including the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island (NY-NJ-CT) and the Jamestown 8-hour ozone marginal nonattainment areas, is conditionally approved as it applies to the Clean Air Act control techniques guidelines (CTG) requirements for major sources of volatile organic compounds (VOC).

(2) The remainder of New York's December 22, 2014 RACT analysis plan, pursuant to the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS as applied to the entire State, including the New York portion of the NY-NJ-CT and the Jamestown 8-hour ozone marginal nonattainment areas, and as it applies to non-CTG major sources of VOCs and to major sources of oxides of nitrogen (NO), is approved.

(3) The December 22, 2014 New York plan submittal providing a nonattainment new source review (NNSR) certification as sufficient for purposes of the state-wide 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS, including the New York portion of the NY-NJ-CT and the Jamestown 8-hour ozone nonattainment areas, is approved.

(q) EPA is determining that the Jamestown marginal nonattainment area (consisting of Chautauqua County) has attained the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS). This determination (informally known as a Clean Data Determination) is based upon complete, quality assured, and certified ambient air monitoring data that show the Jamestown Area has monitored attainment of the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS for the 2012-2014 and 2015-2017 monitoring periods. Under the provisions of EPA's ozone implementation rule (see 40 CFR 51.918), this determination suspends the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act for this area as long as the area does not monitor any violations of the 8-hour ozone standard. If a violation of the ozone NAAQS is monitored in this area, this determination shall no longer apply.

(r) New York's Section 185 Equivalency Demonstration State Implementation Plan revision submittal on January 31, 2014, and supplemented on April 7, 2014, October 13, 2016, and April 3, 2018, for the use of the State of New York's Low Emissions Vehicle (LEV II) program as an alternative program to fulfill the Clean Air Act section 185 requirement for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT nonattainment area for the revoked 1979 1-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard is approved.

(s) Determination of attainment by the attainment date. Effective August 30, 2021. On February 4, 2019, the EPA determined that certain areas in New York attained the revoked 1997 8-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of June 15, 2010. The determination was based upon complete quality-assured and certified data for the 3 calendar years 2007-2009 for the following areas:

(1) Buffalo-Niagara Falls, NY (consisting of Erie and Niagara Counties).

(2) Jamestown, NY (consisting of Chautauqua County).

(3) Jefferson County, NY (consisting of Jefferson County).

(4) Poughkeepsie, NY (consisting of Dutchess, Orange and Putnam Counties).

(t) The 1997 8-hour ozone attainment demonstration for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT nonattainment area included in New York's November 13, 2017 State Implementation Plan revision is approved and satisfies the requirements of section 182 of the Clean Air Act.

(u) The SIP revision submitted on September 25, 2018, addressing Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) (prongs 1 and 2) for the 2008 ozone NAAQS is disapproved. These requirements are being addressed by ยง 52.1684.
