
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart HH - New York
###### ยง 52.1678 Control strategy and regulations: Particulate matter.
####### Determination of Attainment.

(g)EPA has determined, as of December 2 2013, that the New York County fine particle (PM) nonattainment area has attained the PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard. This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, reasonable further progress plans, and contingency measures for as long as the area continues to attain the PMNAAQS.

(h) Approval-The maintenance plan submitted on June 27, 2013, and supplemented on September 18, 2013 and February 27, 2014, for the 1997 PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard and the 2006 PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PMnonattainment area has been approved.

(1) The maintenance plan establishes 2009 motor vehicle emission budget for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PMnonattainment area. The budget is allocated as follows: 5,516.75 tons per year for PMand 106,020.09 tons per year for NO.

(2) The maintenance plan establishes 2017 motor vehicle emission budget for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PMnonattainment area. The budget is allocated as follows: 3,897.71 tons per year for PMand 68,362.66 tons per year for NO.

(3) The maintenance plan establishes 2025 motor vehicle emission budget for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PMnonattainment area. The budget is allocated as follows: 3,291.09 tons per year for PMand 51,260.81 tons per year for NO.

(i) Approval-The 2007 attainment year emissions inventory for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PMnonattainment area. This inventory satisfies the comprehensive emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3).

(j) Approval-The 2007 base year inventory for PMto establish a PMemissions inventory for New York County.
