
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart HH - New York
###### ยง 52.1689 Original Identification of plan section.
####### 3

() February 2, 1998 letter to Mr. Ronald Borsellino, Chief of the Air Programs Branch from Mr. Patrick Lentlie, supplementing the SIP revision with the amended special permit conditions for Champion International Corporation.

(95) A revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted on April 29, 1999 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation that establishes the NOBudget Trading Program.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Regulation Subpart 227-3 of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, entitled "Pre-2003 Nitrogen Oxides Emissions Budget and Allowance Program" adopted on January 12, 1999, and effective on March 5, 1999.

(B) Amendments to Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, Part 200, "General Provisions," Subpart 227-1, "Stationary Combustion Installations," and Subpart 227-2, "Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) for Oxides of Nitrogen (NO)" adopted on January 12, 1999, and effective on March 5, 1999.

(ii) Additional information:

(A) Letter from the New York Department of Environmental Conservation dated April 29, 1999, submitting the NOBudget Trading Program as a revision to the New York State Implementation Plan for ozone.

(B) Guidance for Implementation of Emissions Monitoring Requirements for the NOBudget Program, dated January 28, 1997.

(C) NOBudget Program Monitoring Certification and Reporting Requirements, dated July 3, 1997.

(D) Electronic Data Reporting, Acid Rain/NOBudget Program, dated July 3, 1997.

(96) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for carbon monoxide concerning the oxyfuel program, dated August 30, 1999, submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC).

(97) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on January 20, 1994 and April 29, 1999 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation that establishes NORACT requirements Statewide for combustion sources.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Regulation Subpart 227-2 of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, entitled "Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) for Oxides of Nitrogen (NO)" adopted on January 19, 1994, and effective on February 18, 1994.

(B) Amendments to Subpart 227-2 adopted on January 12, 1999 and effective on March 5, 1999.

(ii) Additional information

(A) Letters from the New York State Department of Environmental Department Conservation dated January 20, 1994 and April 29, 1999, submitting the NORACT Regulation and amendments as revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan for ozone.

(B) Letter from the New York State Department of Environmental Department Conservation dated April 27, 1999 submitting an analysis of mass NOemissions from generic sources throughout the State as well as resolution of other approvability issues.

(98) [Reserved]

(99) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for the Motor Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, submitted on March 6, 1996, May 24, 1999, October 7, 1999, October 29, 1999, and May 22, 2000 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.

(i) Incorporation by reference. Revision to 6NYCRR Part 217, Motor Vehicle Emissions, Subparts 217-1, 217-2, and 217-4, that became effective on May 22, 1997 and revisions to 15NYCRR Part 79, Motor Vehicle Inspection, Sections 79.1-79.15, 79.17, 79.20, 79.21, 79.24-79.26, that became effective on June 4, 1997.

(ii) Additional material:

(A) March 6, 1996, submittal of revisions to the enhanced motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program.

(B) May 24, 1999, submittal of the demonstration of the effectiveness of New York's decentralized inspection and maintenance program network.

(C) October 7, 1999, supplemental submittal of the demonstration of the effectiveness of New York's decentralized inspection and maintenance program network.

(D) October 29, 1999, letter clarifying October 7, 1999, supplemental submittal.

(E) May 22, 2000, Instrumentation/Protocol Assessment Pilot Study analysis of the NYTEST.

(100) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on April 3, 2000, April 18, 2000 and as supplemented on May 16, 2000 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation that establishes the NOBudget Trading Program, a 2007 Statewide NOemissions budget, and a commitment by New York to comply with the ยง 51.122 reporting requirements.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Regulation Part 204 of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, entitled "NOBudget Trading Program," adopted on January 18, 2000 and effective on February 25, 2000.

(B) Amendments to Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, Part 200, "General Provisions," Subpart 227-1, "Stationary Combustion Installations," and Subpart 227-2, "Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) for Oxides of Nitrogen (NO)" adopted on January 18, 2000 and effective on February 25, 2000.

(ii) Additional material:

(A) Letter from New York State Department of Environmental Conservation dated April 3, 2000, requesting EPA approval of the NOBudget Trading Program as a revision to the New York State Implementation Plan for ozone.

(B) Letter from New York State Department of Environmental Conservation dated April 18, 2000, requesting EPA approval of the Oxides of Nitrogen (NO) SIP, entitled "New York State Implementation Plan For Ozone; Meeting The Statewide Oxides of Nitrogen ( NO) Budget Requirements Contained In The NOSIP Call (63 FR 57356, October 27, 1998)," as a revision to the New York State Implementation Plan for ozone.

(C) Letter from New York State Department of Environmental Conservation dated May 16, 2000, transmitting supplemental information to the Oxides of Nitrogen (NO) SIP submitted on April 18, 2000.

(101) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on July 8, 1994 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation that establishes VOC and NOReasonably Available Control Technology requirements statewide for general process emission sources.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Regulation Part 212 of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, entitled "General Process Emission Sources" filed on August 23, 1994 and effective on September 22, 1994.

(ii) Additional information.

(A) Letter from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation dated July 8, 1994, submitting the Part 212 Regulation and amendments as revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan for ozone.

(B) Letter from the New York State Department of Environmental Department Conservation dated August 31, 2001 submitting an analysis of mass NOemissions from generic sources throughout the State.

(C) Letter from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation dated July 11, 2001 affirming that there are no sources regulated by Parts 214, "Byproduct Coke Oven Batteries," 216, "Iron and/or Steel Processes," and 220, "Portland Cement Plants" in, or considered in the attainment demonstration for, the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area.

(102) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation on November 20, 1996 as supplemented on February 24, 1997.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Permits to Construct/Certificates to Operate: The following facilities have been issued permits to construct/certificates to operate and/or special permit conditions by New York State and such permits and/or certificates are incorporated for the purpose of establishing NOemission limits consistent with Subpart 227-2:
