
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart HH - New York
###### ยง 52.1689 Original Identification of plan section.
####### 3

() Algonquin Gas Transmission Company's four gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion engines, emission points R0100, R0200, R0300, and R0400, Rockland County; New York permit and Special Conditions approval dated September 23, 1991; New York Special Conditions documents dated March 18, 1996 for emission points RO100, RO200, and RO300; and March 29, 1996 for emission point RO400; and Permit Correction dated August 8, 1996.

(ii) Additional information. Documentation and information to support NORACT alternative emission limits in three letters addressed to EPA from New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and dated as follows:

(A) February 22, 1996 letter to Regional Administrator Jeanne Fox from Commissioner Michael D. Zagata for a SIP revision for Morton International, Inc.

(B) June 21, 1996 letter to Mr. Conrad Simon, Director of the Air and Waste Management Division from Deputy Commissioner David Sterman for a SIP revision for the Algonquin Gas Transmission Company.

(C) June 25, 1996 letter to Mr. Conrad Simon, Director of the Air and Waste Management Division from Deputy Commissioner David Sterman for a SIP revision for the University of Rochester.

(92) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning the control of volatile organic compounds from Gasoline Dispensing Sites and Transport Vehicles, dated July 8, 1994, submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC).

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Amendments to Part 230 of title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations of the State of New York, entitled "Gasoline Dispensing Sites and Transport Vehicles," effective September 22, 1994.

(ii) Additional material:

(A) July 8, 1994, letter from Langdon Marsh, NYSDEC, to Jeanne Fox, EPA, requesting EPA approval of the amendments to Part 230.

(93) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning the control of volatile organic compounds from petroleum and volatile organic compound storage and transfer, surface coating and graphic arts sources, dated March 8, 1993 submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC).

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Amendments to Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations (NYCRR) Part 200 "General Provisions," Part 201 "Permits and Certificates," Part 228 "Surface Coating Processes," and Part 229 "Petroleum and Volatile Organic Liquid Storage and Transfer," Part 233 "Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic Manufacturing Processes," and Part 234, "Graphic Arts," effective April 4, 1993.

(94) A revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation on April 9, 1996 and supplemented on October 17, 1996 and February 2, 1998 that allows Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation and Champion International Corporation to trade emissions to meet the requirements of NORACT.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Permits to Construct and/or Certificates to Operate: The following facilities have been issued permits to construct and/or certificates to operate by New York State and such permits and/or certificates are incorporated for the purpose of establishing an emission trade to be consistent with Subpart 227-2:
