
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart JJ - North Dakota
###### ยง 52.1833 Section 110(a)(2) infrastructure requirements.

(a) On November 23, 2009, Tom Bachman, Senior Environmental Engineer, North Dakota Department of Health, submitted a completeness criteria checklist which provides the State of North Dakota's SIP provisions which meet the requirements of CAA Section 110(a)(1) and (2). The following elements are approved for the 1997 ozone NAAQS: (A), (B), (C), (D)(ii), (E)(i), (E)(iii), (F), (G), (H), (J), (K), (L), and (M). The following element is conditionally approved for the 1997 ozone NAAQS: (E)(ii).

(b) On August 12, 2010, Tom Bachman, Senior Environmental Engineer, North Dakota Department of Health, submitted a completeness criteria checklist which provides the State of North Dakota's SIP provisions which meet the requirements of CAA Section 110(a)(1) and (2). The following element is approved for the 2006 PMNAAQS: (D)(i)(I).

(c) EPA is approving the following infrastructure elements for the 1997 and 2006 PMNAAQS: CAA section 110(a)(2)(A), (B), (C) with respect to minor NSR and PSD requirements, (D)(ii), (E), (F), (G), (H), (J), (K), (L), and (M). EPA is approving (D)(i)(II) with respect to PSD requirements for the 2006 PMNAAQS.

(d) EPA is approving the following infrastructure elements for the 2008 ozone, 2008 Pband 2010 NONAAQS: CAA 110(a)(2) (A), (B), (C) with respect to minor NSR and PSD requirements, (D)(i)(II) elements 3 and 4, (D)(ii), (E), (F), (G), (H), (J), (K), (L), and (M). EPA is approving element 4 of 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(II) for the 2006 PMNAAQS. Finally, EPA is approving D(i)(I) elements 1 and 2 for the 2008 Pb and 2010 NONAAQS.

(e) EPA is approving both elements of CAA section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) for the 2008 ozone NAAQS, which was submitted to EPA on March 8, 2013.

(f) The North Dakota Department of Health provided submissions to meet infrastructure requirements for the State of North Dakota for the 2010 SOand 2012 PMNAAQS on March 7, 2013 and August 23, 2015, respectively. The State's Infrastructure SIP for the 2010 SOand 2012 PMNAAQS is approved with respect to section (110)(a)(1) and the following elements of section (110)(a)(2): (A), (B), (C) with respect to minor NSR and PSD requirements, (D)(i)(II), (D)(ii), (E), (F), (G), (H), (J), (K), (L), and (M).

(g) EPA is approving the North Dakota 2012 PMNAAQS Infrastructure Certification, submitted to EPA on August 23, 2015, for both elements of CAA section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) for the 2012 PMNAAQS.

(h) EPA is approving the North Dakota 2010 SONAAQS Infrastructure Certification, submitted to EPA on March 7, 2013, for both elements of CAA section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) for the 2010 SONAAQS.

(i) The North Dakota Department of Environmental Quality submitted certification of North Dakota's infrastructure SIP for the 2015 ONAAQS on November 6, 2018. North Dakota's infrastructure certification demonstrates how the State, where applicable, has plans in place that meet the requirements of section 110 for (A), (B), (C), (D)(i)(I) (Prongs 1 and 2), (D)(i)(II) (Prong 3), (D)(ii), (E), (F), (G), (H), (J), (K), (L), and (M). The EPA is disapproving (D)(i)(II) (Prong 4).
