
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart KK - Ohio
###### ยง 52.1875 Attainment dates for achieving the sulfur dioxide secondary standard.

The attainment date for achieving the sulfur dioxide (SO) secondary national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) is August 27, 1979 except as follows. The following sources are required to achieve the secondary SONAAQS by June 17, 1980: Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co.; PPG Industries, Inc.; Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp.; Pittsburgh-Canfield Corporation; The Timken Company; The Sun Oil Co.; Sheller-Globe Corp.; The B.F. Goodrich Company; Phillips Petroleum Co.; Shell Oil Co.; Federal Paper Board Co.; The Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.; Republic Steel Corp.; Chase Bag Co.; White-Westinghouse Corp.; U.S. Steel Corp.; Interlake, Inc.; Austin Power Co.; Diamond Crystal Salt Co.; The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.; The Gulf Oil Co.; The Standard Oil Co.; Champion International Corp.; Koppers Co., Inc.; General Motors Corp.; E.I. duPont de Nemours and Co.; Coulton Chemical Corp.; Allied Chemical Corp.; Specialty Chemical Division; The Hoover Co.; Aluminum Co. of America; Ohio Greenhouse Asso.; Armco Steel Corp.; Buckeye Power, Inc.; Cincinnati Gas and Electric; Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co.; Columbus and Southern Ohio Electric; Dayton Power and Light Co.; Duquesne Light Co.; Ohio Edison Co.; Ohio Electric Co.; Pennsylvania Power Co.; Toledo Edison Co.; Ohio Edison Co.; RCA Rubber Co. The Ashland Oil Company is subject to a secondary SONAAQS attainment date of September 14, 1982. The following sources located in Summit County are required to achieve the secondary SONAAQS by January 4, 1983: Diamond Crystal Salt; Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.; General Tire & Rubber Co.; General Tire & Rubber; B.F. Goodrich Co.; Goodyear Aerospace Corp.; Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.; Chrysler Corp.; PPG Industries Inc.; Seiberling Tire & Rubber; Terex Division of General Motors Corp.; Midwest Rubber Reclaiming; Kittinger Supply Co. The boiler of PPG Industries, Inc. located in Summit County must achieve attainment of the secondary SONAAQS by August 25, 1983. The Portsmouth Gaseous Diffusion Plant in Pike County is required to attain the secondary SONAAQS by November 5, 1984. The Ohio Power Company Galvin Plant located in Gallia County is required to attain the secondary SONAAQS by August 25, 1985.
