
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart KK - Ohio
###### ยง 52.1880 Control strategy: Particulate matter.
####### Determination of Attainment.

(r)EPA has determined, as of May 14, 2012, that based on 2008 to 2010 ambient air quality data, the Steubenville-Weirton nonattainment area has attained the 24-hour 2006 PMNAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 24-hour 2006 PMNAAQS.

(s) Approval-The 2006 24-hour PMmaintenance plans for the following areas have been approved:

(1) The Ohio portion of the Steubenville-Weirton nonattainment area (Jefferson County). The maintenance plan establishes a determination of insignificance for both NOand primary PMfor conformity purposes.

(2) The Cleveland-Akron-Lorain area (Cuyahoga, Lake, Lorain, Medina, Portage, and Summit Counties), as submitted on May 30, 2012. The maintenance plan establishes 2015 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain area of 1,371.35 tpy for primary PMand 35,094.70 tpy for NOand 2022 motor vehicle emissions budgets of 880.89 tpy for primary PMand 17,263.65 tpy for NO.

(3) The Canton-Massillon nonattainment area (Stark County). The maintenance plan establishes motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Canton-Massillon area of 204.33 tpy for primary PMand 7,782.84 tpy for NOfor 2015, and 101.50 tpy for primary PMand 4,673.83 tpy for NOfor 2025.

(t) Approval-The 2006 24-hour PMcomprehensive emissions inventories for the following areas have been approved:

(1) Ohio's 2005 and 2008 NO, directly emitted PM, SO, VOC, and ammonia emissions inventory satisfies the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) for the Steubenville-Weirton area.

(2) Ohio's 2005 and 2008 NO, primary PM, and SOemissions inventories and 2007/2008 VOC and ammonia emission inventories, as submitted on May 30, 2012 and supplemented on April 30, 2013, satisfy the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain area.

(3) Ohio's 2005 and 2008 NO, directly emitted PM, SO, VOC, and ammonia emissions inventory satisfies the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) for the Canton-Massillon area.

(u) Approval-On August 20, 2014, the State of Ohio submitted a revision to their Particulate Matter State Implementation Plan. The submittal established transportation conformity "Conformity" criteria and procedures related to interagency consultation, and enforceability of certain transportation related control and mitigation measures.

(v) Approval-Ohio's RACM/RACT analysis that was submitted as part of their July 18, 2008, attainment demonstration satisfies the RACM/RACT requirements of section 172(c)(1) for the Cincinnati-Hamilton area.
