
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart KK - Ohio
###### ยง 52.1880 Control strategy: Particulate matter.
####### Determination of Attainment.

(o)EPA has determined, as of September 29, 2011, that based upon 2007-2009 air quality data, the Cincinnati-Hamilton, Ohio-Kentucky-Indiana nonattainment Area has attained the 1997 annual PMNAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this Area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this Area continues to meet the 1997 annual PMNAAQS.

(p) Approval-The 1997 annual PMmaintenance plans for the following areas have been approved:

(1) The Cincinnati-Hamilton nonattainment area (Butler, Clermont, Hamilton, and Warren Counties), as submitted on January 25, 2011. The maintenance plan establishes 2015 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Cincinnati-Hamilton area of 1,678.60 tpy for primary PMand 35,723.83 tpy for NOand 2021 motor vehicle emissions budgets of 1,241.19 tpy for primary PMand 21,747.71 tpy for NO.

(2) The Ohio portion of the Huntington-Ashland nonattainment area (Lawrence and Scioto Counties and portions of Adams and Gallia Counties). The maintenance plan establishes a determination of insignificance for both NOand primary PMfor conformity purposes.

(3) The Ohio portion of the Parkersburg-Marietta, WV-OH nonattainment area (Washington County), as submitted on February 29, 2012, and supplemented on April 30, 2013. The maintenance plan determines the insignificance of motor vehicle emissions budgets for Washington County.

(4) The Ohio portion of the Wheeling, WV-OH nonattainment area (Belmont County), as submitted on April 16, 2012, and supplemented on April 30, 2013. The maintenance plan determines the insignificance of motor vehicle emissions budgets for Belmont County.

(5) The Ohio portion of the Steubenville-Weirton nonattainment area (Jefferson County). The maintenance plan establishes a determination of insignificance for both NOand primary PMfor conformity purposes.

(6) The Cleveland-Akron-Lorain area (Cuyahoga, Lake, Lorain, Medina, Portage, and Summit Counties and Ashtabula Township in Ashtabula County), as submitted on October 5, 2011. The maintenance plan establishes 2015 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain area of 1,371.35 tpy for primary PMand 35,094.70 tpy for NOand 2022 motor vehicle emissions budgets of 880.89 tpy for primary PMand 17,263.65 tpy for NO.

(7) The Dayton-Springfield, Ohio nonattainment area (Clark, Greene, and Montgomery Counties), as submitted on June 1, 2011, and on April 30, 2013. The maintenance plan establishes 2015 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Dayton-Springfield area of 404.43 ton per year (tpy) PMand 12,865.54 tpy nitrogen oxides (NO) and 2022 motor vehicle emissions budgets of 261.33 tpy PMand 6,270.64 tpy NO.

(8) The Canton-Massillon nonattainment area (Stark County). The maintenance plan establishes motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Canton-Massillon area of 204.33 tpy for primary PMand 7,782.84 tpy for NOfor 2015, and 101.50 tpy for primary PMand 4,673.83 tpy for NOfor 2025.

(9) Approval-The 1997 annual PMmaintenance plan for the Columbus, Ohio nonattainment area (including Coshocton, Delaware, Licking, Fairfield, and Franklin Counties) has been approved as submitted on June 3, 2011. The maintenance plan establishes 2015 and 2022 motor vehicle emissions budgets for this area of 25,084.11 tons per year for NOand 873.46 tons per year for primary PMin 2015 and 12,187.50 tons per year for NOand 559.13 tons per year for primary PMin 2022.

(q) Approval-The 1997 annual PMcomprehensive emissions inventories for the following areas have been approved:

(1) Ohio's 2005 NO, directly emitted PM, and SOemissions inventory; and 2007 VOCs and ammonia emissions inventory, satisfy the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) for the Cincinnati-Hamilton area.

(2) Ohio's 2005 and 2008 NO, directly emitted PM, and SOemissions inventory satisfies the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) for the Huntington-Ashland area.

(3) Ohio's 2005 NO, primary PM, and SOand 2007/2008 ammonia and VOC emissions inventories satisfy the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for Washington County.

(4) Ohio's 2005 NO, primary PM, and SOand 2007/2008 ammonia and VOC emissions inventories satisfy the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for Belmont County.

(5) Ohio's 2005 and 2008 NO, directly emitted PM, SO, VOC, and ammonia emissions inventory satisfies the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) for the Steubenville-Weirton area.

(6) Ohio's 2005 and 2008 NO, primary PM, and SOemissions inventories and 2007/2008 VOC and ammonia emission inventories, as submitted on October 5, 2011 and supplemented on April 30, 2013, satisfy the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain area.

(7) Ohio's 2005 and 2008 NO, primary PM, and SOand 2007/2008 ammonia and VOC emissions inventories satisfy the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for the Dayton-Springfield area.

(8) Ohio's 2005 and 2008 NO, directly emitted PM, SO, VOC, and ammonia emissions inventory satisfies the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) for the Canton-Massillon area.

(9) Ohio's 2005 NO, primary PM, and SOemissions inventories as, as submitted on June 3, 2011, and 2007 VOC and ammonia emission inventories, as submitted on April 30, 2013, satisfy the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for the Columbus area.
