
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart KK - Ohio
###### ยง 52.1885 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Determination of attainment.

(oo)As required by section 181(b)(2)(A) of the Clean Air Act, EPA has determined that the Cleveland, OH marginal 2008 ozone nonattainment area has attained the NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of July 20, 2016.

(pp) Approval-The 2008 8-hour ozone standard maintenance plans for the following areas have been approved:

(1) Approval-On April 21, 2016, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a request to redesignate the Ohio portion of the Cincinnati, OH-KY-IN area to attainment of the 2008 ozone NAAQS. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. The 2020 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Ohio and Indiana portions of the Cincinnati, OH-KY-IN area are 30.00 tons per summer day (TPSD) for VOC and 26.77 TPSD for NO. The 2030 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Ohio and Indiana portions of the area are 18.22 TPSD for VOC and 16.22 TPSD for NO.

(2) Approval-On June 16, 2016, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a request to redesignate the Columbus area to attainment of the 2008 ozone NAAQS. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in eight years as required by the Clean Air Act. The 2020 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Columbus area are 50.66 tons per summer day (TPSD) for VOC and 90.54 TPSD for NO. The 2030 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Columbus area are 44.31 TPSD for VOC and 85.13 TPSD for NO.

(3) Approval-On July 6, 2016, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a request to redesignate the Cleveland area to attainment of the 2008 ozone NAAQS. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in eight years as required by the Clean Air Act. The 2020 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Cleveland area are 38.85 tons per summer day (TPSD) for VOC and 61.56 TPSD for NO. The 2030 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Cleveland area are 30.80 TPSD for VOC and 43.82 TPSD for NO.
