
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart KK - Ohio
###### ยง 52.1887 Control strategy: Carbon monoxide.

(a) Part D-Approval-The following portions of the Ohio plan are approved:

(1) The carbon monoxide portions of rules 01, 02, 03, 04 (except the portion disapproved in ยง 52.1877(c)), 05, 06, 07, 08, 09 (except the portions conditionally approved in ยง 52.1877(b)) and 10 of Chapter 3745-21 of the Ohio Administrative Code.

(2) The transportation control plans for the following urban areas: Akron (ozone component only), Canton, Cincinnati, Columbus, Dayton, Steubenville, Toledo (ozone component only), Cleveland.

(3) The carbon monoxide attainment and reasonable further progress demonstrations for the following urban areas: Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus and Youngstown.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) Part D-No Action-USEPA at this time takes no action on the carbon monoxide portions of the plan submitted for the urban areas of Akron and Toledo nor on the vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program required for those nonattainment areas which have requested an extension to demonstrate carbon monoxide attainment.

(d) Disapproval-On June 9, 1982 (draft), and November 9, 1982 (final), the State of Ohio submitted a revised demonstration that attempts to show attainment by December 31, 1982, of the carbon monoxide (CO) National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for the Cleveland urban area. Supplemental information was submitted on March 8, 1983, March 16, 1983, December 5, 1983, and May 9, 1985. The June 9, 1982, and March 8, 1983, submittals also requested that the 5-year extension for meeting the NAAQS requested on July 29, 1979, and granted by USEPA on October 31, 1980, and June 18, 1981, be rescinded for this area. The attainment demonstration and rescission request are disapproved by USEPA because they do not meet the requirements of ยง 51.10(b).

(e) Approval-On October 20, 2005, Ohio submitted a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision of the Cuyahoga County carbon monoxide (CO) maintenance plan. The CO maintenance plan revision is an update to the current approved maintenance plan and continues to demonstrate maintenance of the CO National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for an additional 10 years. The maintenance plan revision is submitted as a limited maintenance plan for the Cuyahoga County, Ohio carbon monoxide area and provides an unlimited motor vehicle emissions budget as long as the ambient CO levels remain below the 7.65 parts per million design value specified as the criterion for the limited maintenance plan.
