
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart KK - Ohio
###### ยง 52.1885 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### 8-hour Emissions Inventories.

(hh)(1) Approval-Ohio's 2002 inventory satisfies the base year emissions inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for the Columbus area under the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.

(2) Approval-Ohio's 2002 inventory satisfies the base year emissions inventory requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act for the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain area under the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.

(ii) Approval-The 15 percent Volatile Organic Compound reasonable further progress plan for the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain 1-hour ozone area, submitted by Ohio on June 15, 2007, and February 22, 2008, satisfies the requirements of section 182(b)(1) of the Clean Air Act.

(3) Approval-Ohio's 2005 inventory satisfies the base year emissions inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for the Ohio portion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton, OH-KY-IN area under the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.

(jj) Approval-EPA is approving exemptions under section 182(f) from requirements for reasonably available control technology for oxides of nitrogen for the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain 8-hour ozone nonattainment area with respect to the 1997 ozone standards. This waiver was requested by Ohio on March 17, 2009.
