
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart KK - Ohio
###### ยง 52.1885 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Part D-No Action.

(d)USEPA at this time takes no action on the vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program required for those non-attainment areas which have requested an extension to demonstrate ozone attainment.

(e)-(q) [Reserved]

(r) Approval-USEPA is approving two exemption requests submitted by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency on September 20, 1993, and November 8, 1993, for the Toledo and Dayton ozone nonattainment areas, respectively, from the requirements contained in Section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act. This approval exempts the Lucas, Wood, Clark, Greene, Miami, and Montgomery Counties from the requirements to implement reasonably available control technology (RACT) for major sources of nitrogen oxides (NO), nonattainment area new source review (NSR) for new sources and modifications that are major for NO, and the NO-related requirements of the general and transportation conformity provisions. For the Dayton ozone nonattainment area, the Dayton local area has opted for an enhanced inspection and maintenance (I/M) program. Upon final approval of this exemption, the Clark, Greene, Miami, and Montgomery Counties shall not be required to demonstrate compliance with the enhanced I/M performance standard for NO. If a violation of the ozone NAAQS is monitored in the Toledo or Dayton area(s), the exemptions from the requirements of Section 182(f) of the Act in the applicable area(s) shall no longer apply.

(s) Approval-The 1990 base-year ozone emissions inventory requirement of Section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act has been satisfied for the following ozone nonattainment areas: Toledo (Lucas and Wood Counties) and Dayton (Clark, Greene, Miami, and Montgomery Counties).

(t) [Reserved]

(u) Approval-The 1990 base-year ozone emissions inventory requirement of Section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act has been satisfied for the Columbus ozone nonattainment area (which includes the Counties of Delaware, Franklin, and Licking).

(v) Approval-The 1990 base-year ozone emissions inventory requirement of Section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act has been satisfied for the Canton (Stark County); Cincinnati-Hamilton (Butler, Clermont, Hamilton and Warren Counties); Cleveland-Akron-Lorain (Ashtabula, Cuyahoga, Geauga, Lake, Lorain, Medina, Portage and Summit Counties); and Youngstown-Warren-Sharon (Mahoning and Trumbull Counties) areas.

(w) Determination-USEPA is determining that, as of May 7, 1996, the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain ozone nonattainment area (which includes the Counties of Ashtabula, Cuyahoga, Geauga, Lake, Lorain, Medina, Portage and Summit) have attained the ozone standard and that the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act do not apply to the area.

(x) Approval-EPA is approving requests submitted by the State of Ohio on March 18, November 1, and November 15, 1994, for exemption from the requirements contained in section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act. This approval exempts the following counties in Ohio from the NOrelated general and transportation conformity provisions; nonattainment area NSR for new sources and modifications that are major for NO: Clinton, Columbiana, Delaware, Franklin, Jefferson, Licking, Mahoning, Preble, Stark, and Trumbull. This approval also exempts the following counties in Ohio from the NOrelated general and transportation conformity provisions; nonattainment area NSR for new sources and modifications that are major for NO; NORACT; and a demonstration of compliance with the enhanced I/M performance standard for NO: Ashtabula, Cuyahoga, Geauga, Lake, Lorain, Medina, Portage, and Summit.

(y) Approval-The 1990 base-year ozone emissions inventory requirement of Section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act has been satisfied for Clinton County.

(z) The 15 percent rate-of-progress requirement of section 182(b) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, is satisfied for the Ohio portion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton ozone nonattainment area.

(aa) [Reserved]

(bb) Ohio's November 7, 1996, request for a one-year attainment date extension for the Ohio portion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan moderate ozone nonattainment area which consists of Hamilton, Butler, Clermont and Warren Counties is approved. The date for attaining the ozone standard in these counties is November 15, 1997.

(cc) Ohio's November 14, 1997, request for a one-year attainment date extension for the Ohio portion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan moderate ozone nonattainment area which consists of Hamilton, Butler, Clermont and Warren Counties is approved. The date for attaining the ozone standard in these counties is November 15, 1998.

(dd) Determination-EPA is determining that, as of July 5, 2000, the Ohio portion of Cincinnati-Hamilton ozone nonattainment area (which includes the Counties of Butler, Clermont, Hamilton and Warren) has attained the 1-hour ozone standard and that the attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1), 182(j), and 172(c)(1), along with the section 172(c)(9) contingency measure requirements, do not apply to the area.

(ee) Approval-EPA is approving an exemption from the requirements contained in section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act. This approval exempts Butler, Clermont, Hamilton, and Warren counties in Ohio from the NOrelated general conformity provisions; the nitrogen oxides nonattainment NSR for new sources and modifications that are major for NO; NORACT; and a demonstration of compliance with the enhanced automobile inspection and maintenance performance standard for NO.

(ff) Approval-The 1997 8-hour ozone standard maintenance plans for the following areas have been approved:

(1) Jefferson County, as submitted on July 31, 2006 and supplemented on October 3, 2006. The maintenance plan establishes 2009 motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for Jefferson County of 2.63 tons per day (tpd) of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and 4.10 tpd of oxides of nitrogen (NO), and 2018 motor vehicle emission budgets of 1.37 tpd of VOCs and 1.67 tpd of NO.

(2) Belmont County, as submitted on June 20, 2006, and supplemented on August 24, 2006, and December 4, 2006. The maintenance plan establishes 2009 MVEBs for Belmont County of 2.60 tpd of VOC and 4.69 tpd of NO, and 2018 MVEBs of 1.52 tpd of VOCs and 1.91 tpd of NO.

(3) Allen County and Stark County, as submitted on June 20, 2006, and supplemented on August 24, 2006, and December 4, 2006. The maintenance plan establishes 2009 MVEBs for Allen County of 5.08 tpd of VOCs and 8.28 tpd of NO, and 2018 MVEBs for Allen County of 2.89 tpd of VOCs and 3.47 tpd of NO. For Stark County the 2009 MVEBs are 10.02 tpd of VOCs and 18.03 tpd of NO, and the 2018 budgets are 5.37 tpd of VOC and 7.08 tpd of NO.

(4) Washington County, as submitted on September 22, 2006, and supplemented on November 17, 2006. The maintenance plan establishes 2009 MVEBs for Washington County of 2.59 tpd of VOCs and 3.58 tpd of NO, and 2018 MVEBs for Washington county of 1.67 tpd of VOCs and 1.76 tpd of NO.

(5) Mahoning, Trumbull and Columbiana Counties, as submitted on February 15, 2007. The maintenance plan establishes 2009 and 2018 motor vehicle emission budgets for Mahoning, Trumbull and Columbiana Counties. The 2009 motor vehicle emission budgets are 19.58 tons per day for volatile organic compounds (VOC) and 33.71 tons per day for oxides of nitrogen (NO). For 2018 the budgets are 10.36 tons per day for VOC and 13.29 tons per day for NO.

(6) On December 22, 2006, and supplemented on March 9, 2007, the State of Ohio submitted a redesignation request and maintenance plan for the Toledo area, including Lucas and Wood Counties. The maintenance plan for this area establishes motor vehicle emission budgets (MVEB) for 2009 and 2018. The 2009 MVEBs are 18.99 tons/day of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and 33.75 tons/day for Oxides of Nitrogen (NO). The 2018 MVEBs are 11.20 tons/day of VOCs and 14.11 tons/day for NO.

(7) The Dayton-Springfield area which includes Clark, Greene, Miami, and Montgomery Counties, as submitted on November 6, 2006, and supplemented on November 29, 2006, December 4, 2006, December 13, 2006, January 11, 2007, March 9, 2007, March 27, 2007, and May 31, 2007. The maintenance plan for this area establishes Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) for 2005 and 2018. The 2005 MVEBs are 29.19 tpd of VOC and 63.88 tpd of NO. The 2018 MVEBs are 14.73 tpd of VOCs and 21.42 tpd of NO.

(8) Approval-On March 17, 2009, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a request to redesignate the Columbus area to attainment of the 8-hour ozone NAAQS. As part of the redesignation request, the state submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. The 2012 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Columbus area are 54.86 tpd for VOC and 91.64 tpd for NO. The 2020 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the area are 36.60 tpd for VOC and 46.61 tpd for NO.

(9) Approval-On March 17, 2009, and April 24, 2009, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a request to redesignate the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain area to attainment of the 8-hour ozone NAAQS. As part of the redesignation request, the state submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. The 2012 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain area are 46.64 tpd for VOC and 95.89 tpd for NO. The 2020 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the area are 31.48 tpd for VOC and 42.75 tpd for NO.

(10) Approval-On December 14, 2009, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a request to redesignate the Ohio portion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton, OH-KY-IN area to attainment of the 8-hour ozone NAAQS. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. The 2015 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Ohio and Indiana portions of the Cincinnati-Hamilton, OH-KY-IN area are 31.73 tpd for VOC and 49.00 tpd for NO. The 2020 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Ohio and Indiana portions of the area are 28.82 tpd for VOC and 34.39 tpd for NO.

(11) Approval-On July 6, 2010, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a request to revise the maintenance plan for the Ohio portion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton, OH-KY-IN 8-hour ozone area. The submittal revises 2015 and 2020 NOpoint source emissions projections for Butler County.

(12) Approval-On June 29, 2012, Ohio submitted a request to revise the approved MOBILE6.2 motor vehicle emission budgets (budgets) in the 1997 8-hour ozone maintenance plan for the Ohio and Indiana portions of the Cincinnati-Hamilton, OH-KY-IN 8-hour ozone area. The budgets are being revised with budgets developed with the MOVES2010a model. The 2015 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Ohio and Indiana portions are 56.06 tpd VOC and 94.25 tpd NO. The 2020 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Ohio and Indiana portions of the area are 42.81 tpd VOC and 73.13 tpd for NO.

(13) Approval-On October 30, 2012, and December 12, 2012, Ohio submitted a request to revise the approved MOBILE6.2 motor vehicle emission budgets (budgets) in the 1997 8-hour ozone maintenance plans for the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain and Columbus, Ohio areas. The budgets are being revised with budgets developed with the MOVES2010a model. The 2012 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain, Ohio area are 81.54 tpd VOC and 189.27 tpd NO. The 2020 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Cleveland-Akron-Lorain, Ohio area are 43.17 tpd VOC and 108.36 tpd NO. The 2012 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Columbus, Ohio area are 93.99 tpd VOC and 188.85 tpd NO. The 2020 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Columbus, Ohio area are 50.34 tpd VOC and 99.12 tpd NO.

(14) Approval-On December 7, 2012, Ohio submitted a request to revise the approved MOBILE6.2 motor vehicle emission budgets (budgets) in the 1997 8-hour ozone maintenance plan for the Canton-Massillon, Ohio area. The budgets are being revised with budgets developed with the MOVES2010a model. The 2009 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Canton-Massillon, Ohio area are 19.17 tpd VOC and 28.36 tpd NO. The 2018 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Canton-Massillon, Ohio area are 9.02 tpd VOC and 11.37 tpd NO.

(15) Approval-On December 7, 2012, Ohio submitted a request to revise the approved MOBILE6.2 motor vehicle emission budgets (budgets) in the 1997 8-hour ozone maintenance plan for the Ohio portion of the Wheeling area. The budgets are being revised with budgets developed with the MOVES2010a model. The 2009 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Ohio portion of the Wheeling area are 4.70 tpd VOC and 13.30 tpd NO. The 2018 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Ohio portion of the Wheeling area are 2.15 tpd VOC and 5.18 tpd NO.

(16) Approval-On January 11, 2013, Ohio submitted a request to revise the approved MOBILE6.2 motor vehicle emission budgets (budgets) in the 1997 8-hour ozone maintenance plan for the Lima, Ohio area. The budgets are being revised with budgets developed with the MOVES2010a model. The 2009 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Lima, Ohio area are 5.39 tpd VOC and 10.65 tpd NO. The 2018 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Lima, Ohio area are 2.38 tpd VOC and 6.18 tpd NO.

(17) Approval-On February 11, 2013, Ohio submitted a request to revise the approved MOBILE6.2 onroad mobile source emissions inventories and motor vehicle emission budgets (budgets) in the 1997 8-hour ozone maintenance plan for the Dayton-Springfield, Ohio area. The inventories and budgets are being revised with inventories and budgets developed with the MOVES2010a model. The 2005 budgets for the Dayton-Springfield, Ohio area are 53.37 tons per day (tpd) VOC and 84.66 tpd NO. The 2018 budgets for the Dayton-Springfield, Ohio area are 22.35 tpd VOC and 32.47 tpd NO.

(18) Approval-On March 15, 2013, Ohio submitted a request to revise the approved MOBILE6.2 onroad mobile source emissions inventories and motor vehicle emission budgets (budgets) in the 1997 8-hour ozone maintenance plan for the Ohio portion of the Steubenville-Weirton, West Virginia-Ohio area. The inventories and budgets are being revised with inventories and budgets developed with the MOVES2010a model. The 2009 budgets for the Ohio portion of the Steubenville-Weirton, West Virginia-Ohio area are 4.83 tons per day (tpd) VOC and 5.91 tpd NO. The 2018 budgets for the Ohio portion of the Steubenville-Weirton, West Virginia-Ohio area are 2.14 tpd VOC and 2.43 tpd NO.

(19) Approval-On April 18, 2013, Ohio submitted a request to revise the approved MOBILE6.2 onroad inventories and motor vehicle emission budgets (budgets) in the 1997 8-hour ozone maintenance plan for the Toledo, Ohio area. The inventories and budgets are being revised with budgets developed with the MOVES2010a model. The 2009 budgets for the Toledo, Ohio area are 21.61 tons per day (tpd) VOC and 46.78 tpd NO. The 2018 budgets for the Toledo, Ohio area are 9.36 tpd VOC and 17.64 tpd NO.

(20) Approval-On April 26, 2013, Ohio submitted a request to revise the approved MOBILE6.2 onroad mobile source emissions inventories and motor vehicle emission budgets (budgets) in the 1997 8-hour ozone maintenance plan for the Ohio portion of the Parkersburg-Marietta, West Virginia-Ohio area. The inventories and budgets are being revised with inventories and budgets developed with the MOVES2010a model. The 2009 budgets for the Ohio portion of the Parkersburg-Marietta, West Virginia-Ohio area are 4.15 tons per day (tpd) VOC and 7.33 tpd NO. The 2018 budgets for the Ohio portion of the Parkersburg-Marietta, West Virginia-Ohio area are 1.93 tpd VOC and 3.25 tpd NO.

(gg) Approval-EPA is approving requests submitted by the State of Ohio on April 4, 2005, and supplemented on May 20, 2005, February 14, 2006, May 9, 2006, October 6, 2006, and February 19, 2008, to discontinue the vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program in the Cincinnati-Hamilton and Dayton-Springfield areas. The submittal also includes Ohio's demonstration that eliminating the I/M programs in the Cincinnati-Hamilton and Dayton-Springfield areas will not interfere with the attainment and maintenance of the ozone NAAQS and the fine particulate NAAQS and with the attainment and maintenance of other air quality standards and requirements of the CAA. We are further approving Ohio's request to modify the SIP such that I/M is no longer an active program in these areas and is instead a contingency measure in these areas' maintenance plans.
