
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart KK - Ohio
###### ยง 52.1885 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Part D-Approval.

(a)The following portions of the Ohio plan are approved:

(1) The ozone portions of rules 01, 02, 03, 04 (except the portion disapproved below), 05, 06, 07, 08, 09 (except the portions conditionally approved below) and 10 of Chapter 3745-21 of the Ohio Administrative Code.

(2) The Attainment Demonstrations for the following urban areas: Akron, Canton, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Dayton, Toledo and Youngstown.

(3) The Reasonable Further Progress Demonstration for the following areas: Akron, Canton, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Dayton, Toledo and Youngstown.

(4) The ozone nonattainment area plan for the rural nonattainment areas.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) Approval-On June 10, 1997, Ohio submitted revisions to the maintenance plans for the Toledo area (including Lucas and Wood counties), the Cleveland/Akron/Lorain area (including Lorain, Cuyahoga, Lake, Ashtabula, Geauga, Medina, Summit and Portage counties), and the Dayton-Springfield area (including Montgomery, Clark, Greene, and Miami counties). The revisions consist of an allocation of a portion of the safety margin in each area to the transportation conformity mobile source budget for that area. The mobile source budgets for transportation conformity purposes for Toledo are now: 35.85 tons per day of volatile organic compound emissions for the year 2005 and 35.19 tons per day of oxides of nitrogen emissions for the year 2005. The mobile source budgets for transportation conformity purposes for Cleveland-Akron-Lorain are now: 82.7 tons per day of volatile organic compound emissions for the year 2006 and 104.4 tons per day of oxides of nitrogen emissions for the year 2006. For the Dayton-Springfield area, the oxides of nitrogen mobile source budget remains the same and the mobile source budget for volatile organic compounds is now 34.1 tons per day.

(7) Approval-On October 20, 1997, Ohio submitted a revision to the maintenance plan for the Jefferson County area. The revision consists of an allocation of a portion of the safety margin in the area to the transportation conformity mobile source budget for that area. The mobile source budget for transportation conformity purposes for Jefferson County are now: 5.1 tons per day of volatile organic compound emissions for the year 2005 and 4.4 tons per day of oxides of nitrogen emissions for the year 2005.

(8) Approval-On April 27, 1998, Ohio submitted a revision to remove the air quality triggers from the ozone maintenance plans for the following areas in Ohio: Canton (Stark County), Cleveland (Lorain, Cuyahoga, Lake, Ashtabula, Geauga, Medina, Summit and Portage Counties), Columbus (Franklin, Delaware and Licking Counties), Steubenville (Jefferson County), Toledo (Lucas and Wood Counties), Youngstown (Mahoning and Trumbull Counties) as well as Clinton County, Columbiana County, and Preble County.

(9) Approval-On March 13, 1998, Ohio submitted a revision to the maintenance plan for the Columbus area. The revision consists of establishing a new out year for the area's emissions budget. The new out year emissions projections include reductions from point and area sources; the revision also defines new safety margins according to the difference between the areas 1990 baseline inventory and the out year projection. Additionally, the revision consists of allocating a portion of the Columbus area's safety margins to the transportation conformity mobile source emissions budget. The mobile source budgets for transportation conformity purposes for the Columbus area are now: 67.99 tons per day of volatile organic compound emissions for the year 2010 and 70.99 tons per day of oxides of nitrogen emissions for the year 2010.

(10) Approval-On April 27, 1998, Ohio submitted a revision to remove the air quality triggers from the ozone maintenance plan for the Dayton-Springfield, Ohio Area (Miami, Montgomery, Clark, and Greene Counties).

(11) Approval-On March 18, 1999, Ohio submitted a revision to the maintenance plan for the Stark County (Canton) area. The revision consists of allocating a portion of the Stark County area's safety margins to the transportation conformity mobile source emissions budgets. The mobile source budgets for transportation conformity purposes for the Stark County area are now: 17.34 tons per day of volatile organic compound emissions for the year 2005 and 13.00 tons per day of oxides of nitrogen emissions for the year 2005.

(12) Approval-On June 1, 1999, Ohio submitted a revision to the ozone maintenance plan for the Dayton/Springfield area. The revision consists of revising the point source growth estimates and allocating 5.5 tons per day of VOCs to the transportation conformity mobile source emissions budget. The mobile source VOC budget for transportation conformity purposes for the Dayton/Springfield area is now: 39.6 tons per day of volatile organic compound emissions for the year 2005. The approval also corrects a typographical error in the maintenance plan point and area source numbers for 2005.

(13) Approval-On August 19, 1999, Ohio submitted a revision to the ozone maintenance plan for the Columbiana County area. The revision consists of allocating a portion of the Columbiana County area's NOsafety margin to the transportation conformity mobile source emissions budget. The mobile source emissions budgets for transportation conformity purposes for the Columbiana County area are now: 5.65 tons per day of volatile organic compound emissions for the year 2005 and 5.55 tons per day of oxides of nitrogen emissions for the year 2005. This approval only changes the NOtransportation conformity emission budget for Columbiana County.

(14) Approval-EPA is approving the 1-hour ozone maintenance plan for the Ohio portion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton area submitted by Ohio on May 20, 2005. The approved maintenance plan establishes 2015 mobile source budgets for the Ohio portion of the area (Butler, Clermont, Hamilton, and Warren Counties) for the purposes of transportation conformity. These budgets are 26.2 tons per day for volatile organic compounds and 39.5 tons per day for nitrogen oxides for the year 2015.

(15) Approval-On May 31, 2001, Ohio submitted a revision to the ozone maintenance plan for the Cleveland/Akron/Lorain area. The revision consists of allocating a portion of the Cleveland/Akron/Lorain area's NOsafety margin to the transportation conformity mobile source emissions budget. The mobile source emissions budgets for transportation conformity purposes for the Cleveland/Akron/Lorain area are now: 92.7 tons per day of volatile organic compound emissions for the year 2006 and 104.4 tons per day of oxides of nitrogen emissions for the year 2006. This approval only changes the VOC transportation conformity emission budget for Cleveland/Akron/Lorain.

(16) Approval-On April 19, 2004, Ohio submitted a revision to the ozone maintenance plan for the Cincinnati, Ohio area. The revision consists of allocating a portion of the area's NOsafety margin to the transportation conformity motor vehicle emissions budget. The motor vehicle emissions budget for NOfor the Cincinnati, Ohio area is now 62.3 tons per day for the year 2010. This approval only changes the NOtransportation conformity emission budget for Cincinnati, Ohio.

(17) Approval-On March 1, 2005, Ohio submitted a revision to the 1-hour ozone maintenance plan for Clinton County, Ohio. The revision consists of allocating a portion of the area's oxides of nitrogen (NO) safety margin to the transportation conformity motor vehicle emissions budget. The motor vehicle emissions budget for NOfor the Clinton County, Ohio area is now 3.45 tons per day for the year 2006. This approval only changes the NOtransportation conformity emission budget for Clinton County, Ohio.

(b) The maintenance plans for the following counties are approved:

(1) Preble County.

(2) Columbiana County.

(3) Jefferson County.

(4) Montgomery, Greene, Miami, and Clark Counties. This plan includes implementation of Stage II vapor recovery and an enhanced vehicle inspection and maintenance program.

(5) Lucas and Wood Counties.

(6) Franklin, Delaware, and Licking Counties.

(7) Stark County.

(8) Mahoning and Trumbull Counties.

(9) Clinton County

(10) Lorain, Cuyahoga, Lake, Ashtabula, Geauga, Medina, Summit, and Portage Counties.

(11) Butler, Clermont, Hamilton, and Warren Counties.
