
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart KK - Ohio
###### ยง 52.1894 Original Identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Implementation Plan for the State of Ohio" and all revisions submitted by Ohio that were federally approved prior to September 1, 2015.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 31, 1972.

(c) The revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Request for extensions and a revision of monitoring network was submitted on March 20, 1972, by the Ohio Air Pollution Control Board.

(2) State provisions for making emissions data available to the public was outlined in a letter of May 8, 1972, by the Ohio Department of Health.

(3) On May 9, 1972, the State provided assurance that action is being taken in the Assembly to secure authority for controlling auto emissions.

(4) Amendments to air pollution regulations AP-3-11, 12, 13, 14, and AP-9-04 were forwarded on July 7, 1972, by the Governor.

(5) Revisions to AP-2-01, 02, 04, 05; AP-3-01, 08, 09, 13; AP-9-01, 02, 03 were submitted on August 4, 1972 by the Governor.

(6) New regulations AP-13-01 and 13-02 were submitted on October 12, 1972 by the Governor.

(7) Letter from the Director of the Ohio EPA was submitted on June 6, 1973, indicating that portions of AP-3-11, and AP-3-12 are for informational purposes only.

(8) The Governor of Ohio submitted on July 2, 1973, the "Implementation Plan to Achieve Ambient Air Quality Standard for Photochemical Oxidant in the Cincinnati Air Quality Control Region" and the "Implementation Plan to Achieve Ambient Air Quality Standard for Photochemical Oxidant in the Toledo Air Quality Control Region."

(9) The Governor of Ohio submitted on July 24, 1973, the "Implementation Plan to Achieve Ambient Air Quality Standards for Photochemical Oxidants-Dayton Air Quality Control Region."

(10) On January 25, 1974, Ohio submitted a secondary particulate plan for three AQCR's in Ohio.

(11) On July 16, 1975, Ohio submitted regulations revising the attainment dates for particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and photochemical oxidants.

(12) The Governor of Ohio submitted on May 30, 1974 and August 10, 1976, revisions to the Ohio Implementation for the control of open burning.

(13) Consent and Abatement Order regarding Columbus and Southern Ohio Electric Company's Picway Units 3 and 4, submitted by Governor on October 17, 1975, supplemented on November 17, 1976 and June 1, 1977.

(14) On July 27, 1979 the State submitted its nonattainment area plan for specific areas designated as nonattainment for ozone and carbon monoxide in the March 3, 1978 and October 5, 1978(43 FR 8962 and 43 FR 45993). The submittal contained Ohio's Part D nonattainment plans for the following ozone and carbon monoxide urban nonattainment areas: Akron, Canton, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Dayton, Steubenville and Toledo. The submittal contained transportation control plans and demonstrations of attainment (for carbon monoxide and/or ozone) for each of the above mentioned urban nonattainment areas. Regulations for the control of volatile organic compound emissions were not included with this submittal but were submitted separately on September 13, 1979.

(15) On September 13, 1979, the State submitted regulations for the control of volatile organic compound and carbon monoxide emissions from stationary sources.

(16) On December 28, 1979, the State amended the attainment demonstration submitted on July 27, 1979 for the Cleveland Urban area. On November 24, 1980 and July 21, 1981, the State submitted additional information on the transportation control plans for the Cleveland Urban area.

(17) On January 8, 1980, the State amended the carbon monoxide attainment demonstration submitted on July 27, 1979 for the Steubenville urban area.

(18) On January 15, 1980, the State amended the attainment demonstrations submitted on July 27, 1979 for the urban areas of Cincinnati, Toledo and Dayton.

(19) On April 7, 1980 the State of Ohio committed to correct the deficiencies presented in the March 10, 1980 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.

(20) On April 15, 24, 28, May 27, July 23 and August 6, 1980 the State submitted comments on, technical support for, and commitments to correct the deficiencies cited in the March 10, 1980 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. In addition to this the May 27, 1980 letter also contained a commitment by the State to adopt and submit to USEPA by each subsequent January, reasonable available control technology requirements for sources covered by the control techniques guidelines published by USEPA the preceding January.

(21) On December 28, 1979 the State of Ohio submitted its Part D carbon monoxide and ozone nonattainment area plan for the Youngstown urban area. The submittal contained transportation control plans and demonstrations of attainment (for carbon monoxide and/or ozone). On February 12, 1980 the State amended the ozone attainment demonstration submitted on December 28, 1979.

(22) On June 12, 1980 and August 6, 1980, the State submitted technical support and commitments to correct the deficiencies cited in the May 16, 1980 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. On November 20, 1980 and July 21, 1981, the State submitted additional information on implementor commitments for the Youngstown Urban area.

(23) On May 8, 1979, Ohio submitted revisions to regulations 3745-25-01 through 3745-25-04 (previously codified as AP-11-01 through AP-11-04) containing emergency episode procedures.

(24) On July 25, 1980 the State of Ohio submitted its Part D revision to the New Source Review portion of the State Implementation Plan. On September 25, 1980 the State submitted a response to the August 26, 1980notice of proposed rulemaking. The response contained information which corrects certain deficiencies and commits to correct by a specified date other deficiencies.

(25) The following information was submitted to USEPA regarding the Ohio Sulfur Dioxide Standards

(i) On February 12, 1980 the Director of the Ohio EPA submitted the Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rules 3745-18-01 to 3745-18-94, Sulfur Dioxide Standards adopted on November 14, 1979 effective December 28, 1979.

(ii) Ohio EPA sent technical support for the Ohio Sulfur Dioxide Standards on September 12, 1979, October 23, 1979, May 16, 1980, March 27, 1981, May 5, 1981, July 15, 1981 and September 24, 1981.

(iii) The following regulations were withdrawn by the Governor of Ohio on May 16, 1980; OAC Rules 3745-18-08(H), 3745-18-15(B), 3745-18-53(E), 3745-18-63(K), 3745-18-77(B) and 3745-18-90(C). These rules are applicable to the following plants:

(iv) The following regulations were withdrawn by the Governor of Ohio on December 19, 1980 only as it applies to the B.F. Goodrich Company, Avon Lake Chemical Plant in Lorain County; OAC 3745-18-53(A). These regulations are still applicable to other facilities in Lorain County.

(v) The following regulations were withdrawn by the Governor of Ohio on February 13, 1981; OAC Rules 3745-18-49(J) which is applicable to the Ohio Rubber Company in Lake County and 3745-18-80(D) which is applicable to the Union Carbide Corporation in Seneca County.

(vi) The Governor of Ohio submitted a revised OAC Rule 3745-18-80(D) which is applicable to the Union Carbide Corporation in Seneca County on April 30, 1981.

(26) On February 8, 1980, the State of Ohio submitted a revision to provide for modification of the existing air quality surveillance network.

(27) On February 18, and March 13, 1981, the Governor of Ohio submitted Rule 08 of Chapter 3745-17 of the Ohio Administrative Code for Middletown and the operating permits for the fugitive sources located at ARMCO's Middletown Works Plant.

(28) On October 21 and November 21, 1980 the State submitted comments on, technical support for, and commitments to correct the deficiencies cited in the March 10, 1980 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.

(29) On September 17, 1980 the State of Ohio submitted a vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program developed for the urbanized area of Cleveland and the Ohio portion of the Cincinnati metropolitan area. On December 5, 1980 the State submitted comments on, and commitments for correcting, the deficiencies cited in the November 7, 1980 Supplemental Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.

(30) On February 18, 1981, the State of Ohio committed itself to submit by December 31, 1981, the corrective materials for the Middletown, Ohio total suspended particulate plan.

(31) On March 27, 1981 and March 10, 1982 the State of Ohio submitted revisions to the total suspended particulate (TSP) portion of its State Implementation Plan (SIP). These revisions are in the form of an alternative emissions reduction plan (bubble) for the General Motors (GM) Central Foundry located in Defiance County, Ohio. Incorporated into Ohio's SIP are the emission limitations, interim and final compliance milestones, control equipment requirements and testing procedures specified in the variances and permits submitted for the GM bubble.

(32) On July 27, 1979, the State of Ohio submitted materials to satisfy the general requirements of the Clean Air Act under sections 110(a)(2)(K); 126, 127, and 128. On January 30, 1981, the State of Ohio also submitted an amended substitute Senate Bill 258, which was enacted into law on December 19, 1980, amending Ohio Revised Code 3704.

(33) Revision to plan allowing Standard Oil Company of Ohio Toledo refinery variances from State Regulations 3745-21-09(M) (1) and (2) submitted April 10, 1981 by the State.

(34) Revision to plan allowing Standard Oil Company of Ohio Lima refinery variance from State Regulation 3745-21-09(M)(2) submitted April 10, 1981 by the State.

(35) On August 27, 1981, the State of Ohio submitted a variance for the Pipeline Working Tank at the ARCO Pipeline Refinery in Summit County, Ohio.

(36)-(37) [Reserved]

(38) The Governor of Ohio on June 15, 1981 submitted a revision to the ozone portion of the Ohio State Implementation Plan. This revision is for six coating lines located at the Speciality Materials Division of Fasson-Avery located in Lake County, Ohio.

(39) On August 27, 1981, the State of Ohio submitted a variance for the Pipeline Working Tank at the ARCO Pipeline Refinery in Lucas County, Ohio.

(40) On February 12, 1981, the State of Ohio submitted its Lead SIP Plan which contains a discussion of ambient monitoring results, an attainment demonstration and stationary and mobile source controls for lead.

(41) On April 10, 1981, the Governor of Ohio submitted revised requirements for Republic Steel Corporation's Youngstown Sinter Plant.

(42) On February 25, 1980, the State of Ohio submitted the revised Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rules 3745-35-01 through 3745-35-04 which set forth requirements for air permits to operate and variances. These rules were adopted on September 28, 1979 and became effective in Ohio on November 7, 1979. Rescinded in 2008; see paragraph (c)(156) of this section.

(43) On February 12, 1981, the State of Ohio submitted adopted amended Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rules 3745-21-01, 04, 09 and 10, Emission Standards and Technology Requirements for Certain Sources of Volatile Organic Compounds Emissions. The following portions of these rules were withdrawn by the State of Ohio on March 27, 1981; OAC Rules 3745-21-04(C)(19)(a) and 3745-21-09(R)(3)(a). On January 8, 1982, the State of Ohio submitted additional materials pertaining to OAC Rules 3745-21-09 (H), (U) and (X).

(44) On April 16, 1981, the Ohio EPA submitted a variance which would extend for Presto Adhesive Paper Company in Montgomery County, Ohio the deadline for complying with applicable Ohio VOC emission limitations from April 1, 1982 to April 1, 1983 for water-based adhesive paper coatings and to April 1, 1984 for water-based silicone paper coatings.

(45) On February 25, 1980, the State submitted revisions to rules 01 through 06, 08 and 09 of Chapter 15 of the Ohio Administrative Code. These rules establish general provisions for the control of air pollution and were previously codified and approved as AP-2-01 through 06, 08 and 09. Rules 01 through 04, 06, 08 and 09 are approved as revisions to the Ohio SIP and rule 05 is deleted from the Ohio SIP.

(46) On August 26, 1982, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a variance which would establish an alternative emission control program (weighted averaging bubble) for eight vinyl coating lines at Uniroyal Plastic Products in Ottawa County, Ohio, and an alternative compliance schedule which will allow Uniroyal Plastic Products additional time to convert to waterborne coatings and inks. The final compliance date is October 1, 1987.

(47) On June 29, 1982, the State submitted an amendment to the definition of air contaminant as contained in section 3704.01(B) of the Ohio Revised Code.

(48) On August 31, 1982, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a variance which would establish an alternative emission control program (weighted averaging bubble) for five rotogravure printing lines at Packaging Corporation of America (PCA) in Wayne County, Ohio and an alternative compliance schedule which will allow PCA additional time to convert to waterborne coatings and inks. The final compliance date is July 1, 1987.

(49) On September 10, 1982 the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a revision to its ozone SIP for the Mead Paper Corporation, Chilpaco Mill in Ross County, Ohio. This revision is in the form of three variances for the three flexographic printing lines at Mead Paper and contains revised emission limits and compliance schedules for each of the lines. Technical Support for this revision was also submitted on April 27, 1982.

(50) On October 22, 1982, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a revision to its Ozone SIP for the Standard Register Company. The revision request is in the form of a variance for an extended compliance time schedule for a surface coating line and spray boot for painting miscellaneous metal parts. Final compliance is changed from December 31, 1982 to December 31, 1983.

(51) On October 1, 1982, and February 28, 1983 the State of Ohio submitted revisions to Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rules 3745-35-03 which set forth requirements for obtaining variances. Rescinded in 2008; see paragraph (c)(156) of this section.

(52)-(55) [Reserved]

(56) On January 5, 1983 the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a revision to its ozone SIP for the U.S. Steel Supply Division, Sharon Plant in Trumbull County, Ohio. Technical support for this revision was also submitted on November 12, 1982.

(57) On January 4, 1982, amended December 23, 1982, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA) submitted a revision to its ozone SIP for the Chrysler Plastic Products Corporation, Sandusky Vinyl Product Division, in Erie County, Ohio. This revision amends the emission limitations and extends the compliance dates for five vinyl coating lines at this facility. Technical support for this revision was also submitted on June 28, 1982.

(58) On July 14, 1982, the State submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plan for TSP and SO2 for Toledo Edison Company's Bay Shore Station in Lucas County, Ohio, except that the equivalent visible emission limitations in this submittal are no longer in effect.

(59) On March 9, 1983, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a variance which would establish an alternative emission control program (bubble) for eight vinyl coating lines at B.F. Goodrich in Washington County, Ohio, and an alternative compliance schedule which will allow B.F. Goodrich additional time to achieve final compliance through conversion to waterborne coatings and inks by December 31, 1985. If the company is unable to achieve compliance by December 1, 1985, through reformulation, the company must install add-on controls no later than December 1, 1987.

(60) The State of Ohio submitted a revised demonstration that showed attainment by December 31, 1982, of the Carbon Monixide (CO) National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for the Cincinnati area (Hamilton County) on May 24, 1982. Supplemental information was submitted on September 23, 1982, November 4, 1982, and March 16, 1983. The May 24, 1982, submittal also requested that the five year extension for meeting the NAAQS requested on July 29, 1979, and granted on October 31, 1980, be rescinded for this area. EPA has rescinded this extension only for the Cincinnati demonstration area for CO.

(61) On January 11, 1983, the Ohio EPA submitted justification and supportive documentation for the two categories of gasoline dispensing facilities and cutback asphalt. On March 2, 1983, Ohio EPA submitted demonstrations of reasonable further progress in the Canton and Youngstown areas. This information was submitted to satisfy the conditions on the approval of the 1979 ozone SIP.

(62) [Reserved]

(63) On January 3, 1984, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a revision to the Ohio Administrative Code 3745-15-07, Air Pollution Nuisance Prohibited.

(64) On September 2, 1982, the State of Ohio submitted a revision to the total suspended particulate State Implementation Plan for the B.F. Goodrich Chemical Plant in Avon Lake, Lorain County, Ohio. This revision is being disapproved. (See ยง 52.1880(g))

(65) [Reserved]

(66) On March 16, 1984, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted commitments for satisfying the conditions of approval to the ozone [52.1885 (b)(2)] and particulate matter [52.1880 (d)(1)] State Implementation Plans.

(67) [Reserved]

(68) On May 6, 1983, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA) submitted materials constituting a proposed revision to Ohio's ozone SIP for Harrison Radiator. Harrison Radiator has two metal coating facilities; one is the North facility located in downtown Dayton and the other is the South facility located in the City of Moraine.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) The Ohio Environmental Protection Director's final Findings and Orders, May 6, 1983.

(B) Letters of September 10, 1984, and September 4, 1984, to USEPA from OEPA.

(C) The Ohio Environmental Protection Director's final Findings and Orders, September 4, 1984.

(69) On September 13, 1983, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a variance which would establish an alternative emission control program (bubble) for Volatile Organic Compound emissions from a gasoline and aviation fuel loading rack located at Standard Oil Company in Trumbull County, Ohio.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) An August 26, 1983, Permit and Variance to Operate an Air Contaminant Source Terms and Conditions, Application No. 02 78 06 0355 J001 and 02 78 06 0355 J002, for Niles Terminal Station N. 234, Niles Aviation Gasoline Bulk Terminal.

(70) On April 8, 1982, June 22, 1982, November 8, 1982, May 24, 1985, and November 12, 1986, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a revision to the sulfur dioxide SIP for the Ohio Power Muskingum River Power Plant located in Morgan and Washington Counties. USEPA approves an emission limit of 8.6 lbs/MMBTU to protect the primary NAAQS with a compliance date of June 17, 1980. In addition, USEPA approves an emission limit of 7.6 lbs/MMBTU to protect the secondary NAAQS with a compliance date of July 1, 1989.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) rule 3745-18-03(C)(3)(gg)(vi) effective in Ohio December 28, 1979; rule 3745-18-64(B) and rule 3745-18-90(B) effective in Ohio on October 1, 1982.

(B) Director's Final Findings and Orders dated October 18, 1982, before the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.

(C) Director's Findings and Order dated November 18, 1986, before the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.

(ii) Additional information.

(A) Technical Support Document for emission limitations including dispersion modeling for the Muskingum River Plant submitted by the State on April 8, 1982.

(B) Muskingum River Plant Supplementary Technical Support Document submitted by the State on June 22, 1982.

(C) Air Monitoring Data submitted by the State on June 22, 1982.

(71) On July 1, 1980, the State of Ohio submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan amending ยง 3704.11 of the Ohio Revised Code. This revision expands the authority given to a political subdivision in relation to certain open burning activities. Additional information for the revision was also submitted on September 30, 1980 and January 16, 1981.

(72) On March 16, 1982, the State of Ohio submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan for TSP for the Southerly Wastewater Treatment Plant in Columbus, Ohio.

(73) On March 28, 1983, the State of Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA) submitted amendments to the Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Chapter 3745-21 and supporting data to USEPA as a proposed revision to the ozone portion of its SIP. OAC Chapter 3745-21, entitled "Carbon Monoxide, Photochemically Reactive Materials, Hydrocarbons, and Related Material Standards", contains Ohio's VOC RACT I and II regulations. The amendments to these regulations are embodied in the OAC as follows: Definitions, Rule 3745-21-01; Attainment dates and compliance time schedules, Rule 3745-21-04; Control of emissions of organic compounds from stationary sources, Rule 3745-21-09; and Compliance test methods and procedures, Rule 3745-21-10. See (c)(15). USEPA is not taking action on the applicability of Rule 3745-21-09 to new sources of VOC, to the gasoline throughout exemption level for gasoline dispensing facilities, and to the compliance date extension for Honda of America Manufacturing, Inc. auto and motorcycle assembly plant in Marysville. USEPA is not taking action on OAC Rule 3745-21-09(AA))(2)(a) which exempts any dry cleaning facility in which less than 60,000 pounds of fabrics are cleaned per year. USEPA is not taking action on OAC Rule 3745-21-09(U)(2)(f) (i) and (ii) which apply to new sources (surface coating lines). USEPA is identifying deficiencies in the existing Rule 3745-21-09(D)(3) which contains an alternative daily emission limitation for can coating facilities. USEPA identified the following deficiencies within this rule: This rule presents equations for determining an alternative daily emission limitation. USEPA finds that the equations are incorrect in that they are based on volume of coating used (in gallons, excluding water), which in many cases can lead to erroneous results. Equivalency calculations for coatings should be performed on a basis of volume of coating solids used rather than volume of coating used. (45 FR 80824 gives an example calculation for can coating done on a volume solids basis.)

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments to OAC Chapter 3745-21, dated June 21, 1982 and January 24, 1983.
