
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart KK - Ohio
###### ยง 52.1894 Original Identification of plan section.
####### "Control of emissions of volatile organic compounds from stationary sources and perchloroethylene from dry cleaning facilities,"

(A) The following paragraphs of OAC 3745-21-09, entitledas adopted by Ohio on October 25, 2002, effective on November 5, 2002:

(1) Paragraphs (A)(4), (B)(3)(a), (B)(3)(d), (B)(3)(e), (B)(3)(f), (B)(3)(h), (B)(3)(j), (B)(3)(l), (B)(4)(a), (B)(4)(b), (C)(4), (H)(1), (H)(3), (O)(5)(b), (O)(6), (R)(4), (U)(2)(h), (Y)(1)(a)(i), (AA)(1)(b), (AA)(1)(c), (FF)(1), (II)(2), (II)(3), (II)(4), (KK)(1), (NN), (OO), (PP)(2), (UU)(3), (DDD), and Appendix A.

(2) Within paragraph (U), the undesignated paragraph following (U)(2)(e).

(B) October 25, 2002, "Director's Final Findings and Orders", signed by Christopher Jones, Director, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.

(ii) Additional Information. The following permits to install authorizing exemptions under OAC Rule 3745-21-09(U)(2)(f) were issued by Ohio during the time period when the State had unilateral authority to issue them.

(A) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to Chase Industries, Inc, Cincinnati, OH, on June 24, 1998, for emissions unit K002, pursuant to application number 14-4578.

(B) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to CAE Ransohoff, Inc., Union, OH, on March 5, 1997, for emissions units K001 and K002, pursuant to application number 14-4268.

(C) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to Phoenix Presentations, Inc., Butler County, OH, on January 21, 1999, for emissions units R001, R002, and R003, pursuant to application number 14-4612.

(D) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to CTL Aerospace, Inc., Cincinnati, OH, on August 19, 1998, for emissions unit R005, pursuant to application number 14-4572.

(E) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to Hamilton Fixture, Hamilton, OH, on April 24, 1996, for emissions unit R006, pursuant to application number 14-4014.

(F) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to Lt. Moses Willard, Inc., Milford, OH, on December 23, 1997, for emissions units K001 and K002, pursuant to application number 14-4220.

(G) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to WHM Equipment Co., Cincinnati, OH, on May 28, 1997, for emissions unit K001, pursuant to application number 14-4348.

(H) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to Panel-Fab, Inc., Cincinnati, OH, on June 12, 1996, for emissions unit K001, pursuant to application number 14-4027.

(I) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to Cincinnati Fan & Ventilator, Mason, OH, on June 15, 1995, for emissions unit K003, pursuant to application number 14-3774.

(J) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to Honda of America Manufacturing, Inc., Marysville, OH, on December 24, 1997, for emissions units R003, and R103, pursuant to application number 01-6743.

(K) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to Durr Ecoclean, Inc. (formerly Henry Filters, Inc.), Bowling Green, OH, on June 26, 1996, for emissions unit K001 pursuant to application number 03-9510.

(L) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to Honda of America Manufacturing, Inc., East Liberty, OH, on April 17, 1996, for emissions units K009 and K013, pursuant to application number 05-7923.

(M) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to American Trim, LLC (formerly Stolle Corporation, Stolle Products Division), Sidney, OH, on September 13, 1995, K045, pursuant to application number 05-7329.

(N) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to American Trim, LLC (formerly Stolle Products), Sidney, OH, on December 3, 1998, for emissions unit K048, pursuant to application number 05-9516.

(O) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to Hawkline Nevada, LLC (formerly Trinity Industries, Inc.), Plant 101, Mt. Orab, OH, on February 28, 1996, for emissions unit K001, pursuant to application number 07-407.

(P) Permit To Install issued by the State Of Ohio to American Trim, LLC (formerly Superior Metal Products), Lima, OH, on July 23, 1997, for emissions unit K002, pursuant to application number 03-0397.

(150) On August 22, 2008, Ohio submitted revisions to

Ohio Administrative Code Chapter 3745-17, Rules 3745-17-01 through 3745-112-14. The revisions contain particulate matter standards in the State of Ohio necessary to attain and maintain the 2006 24-hour PM, annual PMand 24-hour PMNAAQS.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-17-01 Definitions: (A) and (B), Rule 3745-17-02 Ambient air quality standards, Rule 3745-17-04 Compliance time schedules, Rule 3745-17-07 Control of visible particulate emissions from stationary sources, Rule 3745-17-08 Restriction of emission of fugitive dust, Rule 3745-17-09 Restrictions on particulate emissions and odors from incinerators, Rule 3745-17-10 Restrictions on particulate emissions from fuel burning equipment, Rule 3745-17-12 Additional restrictions on particulate emissions from specific air contaminant sources in Cuyahoga county, Rule 3745-17-13 Additional restrictions on particulate emissions from specific air contaminant sources in Jefferson county, and Rule 3745-17-14 Contingency plan requirements for Cuyahoga and Jefferson counties. The rules became effective on February 1, 2008.

(B) January 22, 2008, "Director's Final Findings and Orders", signed by Chris Korleski, Director, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.

(ii) Additional Information.

(A) Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-17-01 Definitions: (C), effective on February 1, 2008.

(151) On September 10, 2009, Ohio EPA submitted amendments to the OAC with the intent to consolidate Ohio's Ambient Air Quality Standards into a single rule to provide greater accessibility for the regulated community and to the citizens of Ohio. EPA is approving the request because the revisions clarify the state's rules and thus better serve the purpose of providing for meeting these standards.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Paragraph (A) of Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-17-03, "Measurement methods and procedures.", effective April 18, 2009.

(B) Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-17-14 "Contingency plan requirements for Cuyahoga and Jefferson counties.", effective April 18, 2009.

(C) Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-18-03 "Attainment dates and compliance time schedules.", effective April 18, 2009.

(D) Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-23-01 "Definitions.", effective April 18, 2009.

(E) Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-23-02 "Methods of measurement.", effective April 18, 2009.

(F) Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-25-01 "Definitions.", effective April 18, 2009.

(G) Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-25-02 "Ambient air quality standards.", effective April 18, 2009.

(H) Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-25-03 "Air pollution emergencies and episode criteria.", effective August 21, 2009.

(I) Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-25-04 "Air pollution emergency emission control action programs.", effective April 18, 2009.

(J) Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-25-05 "Air pollution emergency orders.", effective April 18, 2009.

(K) April 8, 2009, "Director's Final Findings and Orders", signed by Chris Korleski, Director, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.

(L) August 11, 2009, "Director's Final Findings and Orders", signed by Chris Korleski, Director, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.

(152) On March 9, 2010, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) submitted revisions to its previously approved offset lithographic and letterpress printing volatile organic compound (VOC) rule for approval into its state implementation plan (SIP). This submittal revises certain compliance dates and recordkeeping requirements.
