
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart KK - Ohio
###### ยง 52.1894 Original Identification of plan section.
####### 6

() 3745-21-09(U)(1)(a)(vii) (relaxation for miscellaneous metal coatings).

(D) Amendments to Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-21-10, effective May 9, 1996.

(91) On September 30, 1983, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA) submitted a revision request to the ozone SIP for Ludlow Flexible Packaging, Inc. (Ludlow), located in Mt. Vernon (Knox County), Ohio. This revision was in the form of variances and permits that established a bubble with monthly averaging between 22 paper coating and printing lines (sources K001-K022) and a compliance date extension to June 30, 1987. On January 13, 1987, the OEPA submitted additional information concerning this revision stating that several of the printing lines have been or will be permanently shut down and the remaining lines will be controlled by thermal incineration in accordance with OAC Rule 3745-21-09(Y). In addition, four of the paper coating lines (K017-K019, K022) have been removed from the plant. Therefore, only eight paper coating lines (K011-K016, K020 and K021) remain under the bubble. This revision exempts these lines from the control requirements contained in Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rules 3745-21-09(F) and 3745-21-09(Y). These variances and permits expire on April 22, 1996.

The accommodative SIP for Knox County will be canceled upon approval of this SIP revision.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Condition Number 8 (which references Special Terms and Conditions Numbers 1-7 within each of the 5 "State of Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Variance to Operate an Air Contaminant Source," Application Numbers 0342010111K011-0342010111K015, as they apply to Ludlow Flexible Packaging, Inc., located in Mt. Vernon, Ohio. The Date of Issuance is September 23, 1983.

(B) Condition Number 8 (which references Special Terms and Conditions Numbers 1-7) within each of the 3 "State of Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Permit to Operate an Air Contaminant Source," Application Numbers 0342010111K016, 0342010111K020, and 0342010111K021, as they apply to Ludlow Flexible Packaging, Inc., located in Mt. Vernon, Ohio. The Date of Issuance is September 23, 1983.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) January 13, 1987, letter from Patricia P. Walling, Chief, Division of Air Pollution Control, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency; to Steve Rothblatt, Chief, Air and Radiation Branch, U.S. Environmental Protection agency.

(92) On October 16, 1991, and March 17, 1993, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA) submitted revisions to the State Implementation Plan for sulfur dioxide for sources in Hamilton County, Ohio.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rule 3745-18-03 Attainment dates and compliance time schedules, Sections (A)(2)(c); (B)(7)(a); (B)(7)(b); (C)(8)(a); (C)(8)(b); (C)(9)(a); (C)(9)(b); (D)(1); (D)(2); dated October 11, 1991, and effective on October 31, 1991.

(B) Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rule 3745-18-04 Measurement methods and procedures, Sections (D)(7); (D)(8)(a) to (D)(8)(e); (E)(5); (E)(6)(a); (E)(6)(b); (F); (G)(1) to (G)(4); (I); dated October 11, 1991, and effective on October 31, 1991.

(C) Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rule 3745-18-37, Hamilton county emission limits, dated February 22, 1993, and effective on March 10, 1993.

(D) Director's Final Findings and Order for Cincinnati Gas and Electric Company, Miami Fort Station, dated February 22, 1993.

(93) In a letter dated October 16, 1992, the OEPA submitted a revision to the Carbon Monoxide State Implementation Plan for Cuyahoga County. This revision contains a maintenance plan that the area will use to maintain the CO NAAQS. The maintenance plan contains an oxygenated fuels program as a contingency measure to be implemented if the area violates the CO NAAQS.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter dated October 16, 1992, from Donald R. Schregardus, Director, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5 and its enclosures entitled "Table 1 Cuyahoga County Carbon Monoxide Emission Inventory", Enclosure B "Cuyahoga County carbon monoxide SIP submittal", and section 6.0 of Enclosure C "Cuyahoga County Carbon Monoxide Modeling Study Final Report."

(ii) Additional information.

(A) Letter dated January 14, 1993, from Donald R. Schregardus, Director, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5.

(B) Letter dated February 10, 1993, from Robert F. Hodanbosi, Chief, Division of Air Pollution Control, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency to David Kee, Director, Air and Radiation Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5.

(C) Letter dated July 29, 1993, from Robert F. Hodanbosi, Chief, Division of Air Pollution Control, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency to David Kee, Director, Air and Radiation Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5.

(94) On June 24, 1985, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted revisions to its ozone control State Implementation Plan which would establish a volatile organic compounds (VOC) bubble and alternative VOC reasonably available control technology for vinyl and U-frame vinyl coating lines at Columbus Coated Fabrics in Franklin County, Ohio.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Condition Number 8 (which references special Terms and Conditions Numbers 1 through 7) within each of 15 State of Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Permits and Variances to Operate an Air Contaminant Source, Application Numbers 0125040031 K001 through 0125040031 K015 for Columbus Coated Fabrics. The date of issuance is November 2, 1983. These permits and variances are approved for the period 12/12/85 to 1/6/92.

(B) Condition Number 8 (which references special Terms and Conditions Numbers 1 through 4) within each of 11 State of Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Variances to Operate an Air Contaminant Source, Application Numbers 0125040031 K016 through 0125040031 K026 for Columbus Coated Fabrics. The date of issuance is November 2, 1983. These variances are approved for the period 4/1/82 to 1/6/92.

(C) State of Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Orders to Modify Variances to Operate modifying Special Condition Number 1 of Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Variances to Operate an Air Contaminant Source, Application Numbers 0125040031 K016 through 0125040031 K026 for Columbus Coated Fabrics. The date of issuance is May 21, 1985. These orders are approved for the period 4/1/82 to 1/6/92.

(95) On October 16, 1992, the State of Ohio submitted the tailpipe test inspection and maintenance program revisions to its carbon monoxide implementation plan for Cuyahoga County.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Ohio Administrative Code: amended rules, 3745-26-01 through 3745-26-09, effective May 15, 1990, and new rules, 3745-26-10 and 3745-26-11, effective May 15, 1990.

(ii) Additional materials-Remainder of the State submittal.

(A) Letter from the Director, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, dated November 18, 1992, and additional materials.

(96) On June 9, 1988, and August 24, 1990, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA) submitted revisions to the State Implementation Plan for ozone. The revisions consist of new non-Control Technique Guideline volatile organic compound (VOC) rules and corrections to existing VOC rules.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) OEPA Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rule 3745-21-01, Definitions, Paragraphs (A), (B), (C), (D)(1) through (5), (D)(7), (D)(9) through (62), (E) through (S); effective August 22, 1990.

(B) OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-04, Attainment Dates and Compliance Time Schedules, Paragraphs (A), (B), (C); effective August 22, 1990.

(C) OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-09, Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds from Stationary Sources, Paragraphs (A), (B), (C) through (H), (J), (K), (M), (P), (S), (T), (V), (X), (Y), (BB), (CC), (FF) through (NN), (PP), effective August 22, 1990.

(D) OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-10, Compliance Test Methods and Procedures, Paragraphs (B), (D), (F), (G), (I) through (N), (P); effective August 22, 1990.

(97) On November 14, 1991, December 4, 1991, and January 8, 1992, OEPA submitted revisions to its particulate matter plan, including Statewide rule revisions, rule revisions for specific facilities in Cuyahoga and Jefferson Counties, and supplemental materials to address the requirements of part D of title I of the Clean Air Act for the Cuyahoga and Jefferson County nonattainment areas. Rules 3745-17-03(B)(10)(c) and 3745-17-12(P)(6)(a) (concerning quench water limits) are not approved.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule 3745-17-01-Definitions, effective December 6, 1991.

(B) Rule 3745-17-02-Ambient air quality standards, effective June 14, 1991.

(C) Rule 3745-17-03-Measurement methods and procedures, effective December 6, 1991, except for paragraph (B)(10)(c) which is disapproved.

(D) Rule 3745-17-04-Compliance time schedules, effective December 6, 1991.

(E) Rule 3745-17-07-Control of visible particulate emissions from stationary sources, effective June 14, 1991.

(F) Rule 3745-17-08-Restriction of emission of fugitive dust, effective June 14, 1991.

(G) Rule 3745-17-09-Restrictions on particulate emissions and odors from incinerators, effective July 9, 1991.

(H) Rule 3745-17-10-Restrictions on particulate emissions from fuel burning equipment, effective June 14, 1991.

(I) Rule 3745-17-11-Restrictions on particulate emissions from industrial processes, effective June 14, 1991.

(J) Rule 3745-17-12-Additional restrictions on particulate emissions from specific air contaminant sources in Cuyahoga County, effective December 6, 1991, except for paragraph (P)(6)(a) which is disapproved.

(K) Rule 3745-17-13-Additional restrictions on particulate emissions from specific air contaminant sources in Jefferson County, effective December 6, 1991.

(L) Rule 3745-17-14-Contingency plan requirements for Cuyahoga and Jefferson Counties, effective December 6, 1991.

(M) Rule 3745-75-01-Applicability and definitions, effective July 9, 1991.

(N) Rule 3745-75-02-Emission limits, effective July 9, 1991.

(O) Rule 3745-75-03-Design parameters and operating restrictions, effective July 9, 1991.

(P) Rule 3745-75-04-Monitoring requirements, effective July 9, 1991.

(Q) Rule 3745-75-05-Recordkeeping, effective July 9, 1991.

(R) Rule 3745-75-06-Certification and compliance time schedules, effective July 9, 1991.

(ii) Additional information.

(A) Appendices A through P to a letter from Donald Schregardus to Valdas Adamkus dated November 14, 1991, providing emissions inventories and modeling demonstrations of attainment for the Cleveland and Steubenville areas and providing other related information.

(B) A letter from Donald Schregardus to Valdas Adamkus dated December 4, 1991, and attachments, supplementing the November 14, 1991, submittal.

(C) A letter from Donald Schregardus to Valdas Adamkus dated January 8, 1992, and attachments, supplementing the November 14, 1991, submittal.

(98) On April 20, 1994, and March 7, 1995, Ohio submitted Rule 3745-35-07, entitled "Federally Enforceable Limitations on Potential to Emit," and requested authority to issue such limitations as conditions in State operating permits.

(i) Incorporation by reference. Rule 3745-35-07, adopted November 3, 1994, effective November 18, 1994. Rescinded in 2008; see paragraph (c)(156) of this section.

(99) [Reserved]

(100) On March 22, 1994, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a revision request to Ohio's ozone SIP for approval of the State's emissions statement program. The emissions statement program requirements apply to sources in the following counties: Ashtabula, Butler, Clark, Clermont, Cuyahoga, Delaware, Franklin, Geauga, Greene, Hamilton, Lake, Licking, Lorain, Lucas, Mahoning, Medina, Miami, Montgomery, Portage, Stark, Summit, Trumbull, Warren, and Wood.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Ohio Administrative Code rules 3745-24-01, 3745-24-02, 3745-24-03, and 3745-24-04, effective April 1, 1994.

(101) On November 12, 1993 the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a vehicle inspection and maintenance program in accordance with section 110 of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990. The new program replaces I/M programs in operation in the Cleveland and Cincinnati areas and establishes new programs in Dayton and any area designated moderate nonattainment or any area where local planning authorities have requested the State to implement a program.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Ohio Administrative Code Amended Rules 3745-26-01, 3754-26-02, 3745-26-10, and rules 3745-26-12, 3745-26-13, and 3745-26-14, all made effective on June 13, 1994.

(ii) Other material.

(A) Certification letter from the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency regarding the State process in developing the I/M rules and the I/M program.

(B) Letter dated June 22, 1994, from the Director of OEPA regarding implementation of an I/M program in the Toledo area in the event the State's request for redesignation to attainment for that area is not approved by USEPA.

(102) On June 7, 1993, and February 17, 1995, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA) submitted revisions to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone. The revisions include 19 new non-Control Technique Guideline volatile organic compound (VOC) rules, Findings and Orders for 5 companies, and two permits to install.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-01, Definitions, Paragraphs (Q); (T); effective January 17, 1995.

(B) OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-04, Attainment Dates and Compliance Time Schedules, Paragraphs (C)(40); (C)(41); (C)(46); (C)(48); (C)(49); (C)(50); (C)(51); (C)(53); (C)(54); (C)(59); (C)(60); (C)(61); (C)(62); effective January 17, 1995.

(C) OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-09, Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds from Stationary Sources, Paragraphs (FF), (GG), (HH), (II), (JJ), (KK), (LL), (MM), (NN), (OO), (PP), (QQ), (SS), (TT), (YY), (ZZ), (AAA); (BBB); effective January 17, 1995.

(1) Previously approved on October 31, 1995 in paragraph (c)(102)(i)(C) of this section and now deleted without replacement: OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-09, Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds from Stationary Sources, Paragraph (AAA), as adopted by Ohio on October 25, 2002, effective on November 5, 2002.

(D) Director's Final Findings and Orders for AK Steel Corporation (Middletown), International Paper Company (Cincinnati), Midwest Mica & Insulation Company (Cleveland), Reilly Industries, Inc. (Cleveland), and Sprayon Products, Inc. (Bedford Heights), Issued by Ohio Environmental Protection Agency on August 18, 1995.

(E) Permit to Install, Application Number 13-2396, for Excello Specialty Company, APS Premise Number 1318607686. The date of issuance is December 11, 1991.

(F) Permit to Install, Application Number 14-2096, for Hilton Davis Company, APS Premise Number 1431070039. The date of issuance is June 12, 1991.

(103) On June 7, 1993, and February 17, 1995, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA) submitted revisions to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone. The revisions include one new non-Control Technique Guideline volatile organic compound (VOC) rule, corrections to existing VOC rules, and two permits-to-install.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) OEPA Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rule 3745-21-01, Definitions, Paragraphs (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(6), (D)(6), (D)(8), (D)(22), (D)(45), (D)(48), (D)(58), (M)(8); effective January 17, 1995.

(B) OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-04, Attainment Dates and Compliance Time Schedules, Paragraphs (B), (C)(3)(c), (C)(4)(b), (C)(5)(b), (C)(6)(b), (C)(8) (b) and (c), (C)(9)(b), (C)(10)(b), (C)(19) (b), (c), and (d), (C)(28)(b), (C)(38), (C)(39), (C)(42), (C)(43), (C)(44), (C)(45), (C)(47), (C)(55), (C)(65); effective January 17, 1995.

(C) OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-09, Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds from Stationary Sources, Paragraphs (A), (C) through (L), (N) through (T), (X), (Y), (Z), (BB), (CC), (DD), (UU), Appendix A; effective January 17, 1995.

(D) OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-09, Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds from Stationary Sources, Paragraph (B) except (B)(3)(d) and (e) for the Ohio Counties of Ashtabula, Butler, Clermont, Cuyahoga, Geauga, Hamilton, Lake, Lorain, Medina, Portage, Summit, and Warren; effective January 17, 1995.

(E) OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-09, Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds from Stationary Sources, Paragraph (U) except (U)(1)(h) statewide and (U)(2)(e)(ii) for the Ohio Counties of Ashtabula, Butler, Clermont, Cuyahoga, Geauga, Hamilton, Lake, Lorain, Medina, Portage, Summit, and Warren; effective January 17, 1995.

(F) OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-10, Compliance Test Methods and Procedures, Paragraphs (A), (B), (C), (E), (O); effective January 17, 1995.

(G) Permit to Install, Application Number 04-204, for Abitibi-Price Corporation, APS Premise Number 0448011192. The date of issuance is July 7, 1983.

(H) Permit to Install, Application Number 08-3273, for General Motors Corporation Delco Chassis Division, APS Premise Number 0857040935. The date of issuance is February 13, 1995.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) On June 7, 1993, the OEPA submitted negative declarations for the source categories of polypropylene or high density polyethylene resin manufacturing, natural gas/gasoline processing plants, and surface coating of flat wood paneling. These negative declarations are approved into the Ohio ozone SIP.

(B) On February 21, 1995, the OEPA submitted a list of facilities subject to the post-enactment source categories listed in Appendix E to the General Preamble. 57 FR 18070, 18077 (April 28, 1992). This list is approved into the Ohio ozone SIP.

(104) On June 7, 1993, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA) submitted a revision request to Ohio's ozone SIP for approval of the State's Stage II vapor recovery program. The Stage II program requirements apply to sources in the following areas: Cincinnati-Hamilton; Cleveland-Akron-Lorain; and Dayton-Springfield.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) OEPA Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rule 3745-21-04, Attainment Dates and Compliance Time Schedules, Paragraph (C)(64); effective date March 31, 1993.

(B) OEPA OAC Rule 3745-21-10, Compliance Test Methods and Procedures, Paragraphs (Q), (R), (S), Appendices A, B, C; effective date March 31, 1993.

(C) Ohio Administrative Code rules 3745-21-09(DDD)(1)-(4), effective date March 31, 1993.

(105) On September 17, 1993, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency requested the redesignation of Lucas and Wood Counties to attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for ozone. To meet the redesignation criteria set forth by section 107(d)(3)(E) (iii) and (iv), Ohio credited emissions reductions from the enclosure of the "oily ditch" at the British Petroleum Refinery in Oregon, Ohio. The USEPA is approving the Director's Finding and Order which requires the enclosure of the "oily ditch" into the SIP for Lucas and Wood Counties.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter dated June 2, 1994, from Donald R. Schregardus, Director, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, USEPA, Region 5, and one enclosure which is the revised Director's Final Findings and Orders in the matter of BP Oil company, Toledo Refinery, 4001 Cedar Point Road, Oregon, Ohio, Fugitive Emissions from the Refinery Waste Water System "Oily Ditch", effective June 2, 1994.

(106) On October 7, 1994, Ohio submitted four rules in Chapter 3745-71 of the Ohio Administrative Code, entitled "Lead Emissions," and submitted a modeling demonstration that the limitations in these rules assure attainment of the lead standard in central Cleveland.

(i) Incorporation by reference. Rules 3745-71-01, 3745-71-03, 3745-71-05, and 3745-71-06, all adopted September 22, 1994, and effective October 4, 1994.

(ii) Additional material. A submittal letter from the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, with attachments documenting a modeling analysis of lead concentrations near the Master Metals secondary lead smelter.

(107)-(108) [Reserved]

(109) On July 17, 1995, Ohio submitted a Particulate Matter (PM) contingency measures State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision request. The submittal includes Final Findings and Orders for 5 companies. The Findings and Orders provide PM emission reductions which will take effect if an area fails to attain the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for PM.

(i) Incorporation by reference. Director's Final Findings and Orders for Ford Motor Company (Cleveland Casting Plant), T&B Foundry Company, International Mill Service, Luria Brothers, and United Ready Mix, issued by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency on July 10, 1995.

(110) On November 3, 1995, December 21, 1995, and March 21, 1996, OEPA submitted revisions to its particulate matter plan, addressing prior deficiencies in its plans for Cuyahoga and Jefferson Counties.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule 3745-17-03-Rule 3745-17-03-Measurement methods and procedures, effective November 15, 1995.

(B) Rule 3745-17-04-Compliance time schedules, effective November 15, 1995.

(C) Rule 3745-17-12-Additional restrictions on particulate emissions from specific air contaminant sources in Cuyahoga County, effective November 15, 1995.

(D) Findings and Orders issued to the Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation, signed by Donald Schregardus and effective on October 31, 1995.

(ii) Additional material-Dispersion modeling analyses for the Steubenville area and for Cuyahoga County near Ford's Cleveland Casting Plant.

(111) On July 18, 1996, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a site specific State Implementation Plan revision for Ohio Edison's Sammis and Toronto plants for Sulfur Dioxide. The revisions for the Sammis plant provide "as an alternative" to the existing boiler specific regulations a limit of "2.91 lbs./MMBTU actual heat input from each boiler". The regulation for the Toronto plant reduces allowable emissions to 2.0 lbs./MMBTU.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rule 3745-18-47, effective July 25, 1996.

(112) On August 29, 1996, the United States Environmental Protection Agency received from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, changes to the approved vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program which control the release of volatile organic compounds from vehicles. These changes provide a repair spending cap of $300 and a temporary hardship extension of time up to 6 months for owners to perform needed repairs on vehicles which fail the I/M program test.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule 3745-26-01-Definitions effective May 15, 1996.

(B) Rule 3745-26-12-Requirements for motor vehicle owners in the enhanced or opt-in enhanced automobile inspection and maintenance program, effective May 15, 1996.

(113) On August 30, 1996, Ohio submitted a request to extend the exemption from opacity limits for the boilers at Ford's Cleveland Engine Plant 1 to six hours after start-up.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Findings and Orders for boilers number 1 through number 5 at Ford's Cleveland Engine Plant 1, signed by Donald Schregardus on May 31, 1996.

(114) On November 12, 1996, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a request to incorporate section(G)(9)(g) of Rule 3745-21-07 of the Ohio Administrative Code into the Ohio State Implementation Plan (SIP). Section (G)(9)(g) provides an additional exemption from organic compound emission controls for qualifying new sources. Because, in the process of adopting section(G)(9)(g), minor editorial changes were made to other parts of Rule 3745-21-07, the United States Environmental Protection Agency is incorporating all of Rule 3745-21-07 into the Ohio SIP. This will avoid confusion by making the SIP approved rule identical to the current State rule.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule 3745-21-07 of the Ohio Administrative Code, adopted October 7, 1996, effective October 31, 1996, as certified by Donald R. Schregardus, Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. Rescinded in 2008; see paragraph 154 of this section.

(115) On January 3, 1997, the Ohio EPA submitted a revision to the Hamilton County sulfur dioxide implementation plan for the Procter and Gamble Company, Ohio Administrative Code 3745-18-37(GG)(2), which limits combined average operating rate of all boilers (B001, B008, B021, and B022) to a maximum of 922 million BTU per hour for any calendar day. Boilers B001 and B008 are each allowed to emit 1.1 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU actual heat input. Boiler B021 is limited to 1.50 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU; and boiler B022 is limited to 2.0 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU average heat input.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) Rule 3745-18-37(GG)(2), Hamilton County emission limits, dated December 17, 1996, for Procter and Gamble Company.

(B) Director's Findings and Orders in the matter of the adoption of amended Rule 3745-18-37 of the Ohio Administrative Code, dated December 17, 1996.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter from Ohio EPA Director Donald R. Schregardus to Regional Administrator Valdas Adamkus, dated January 3, 1997.

(B) Letter from Ohio EPA Air Pollution Control Division Chief, Robert Hodanbosi to EPA dated August 11, 1997.

(116) On December 9, 1996, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted two revisions to its sulfur dioxide rules. The first revision provides adjusted, State adopted limits for a Sun Oil Company facility. The second revision, applicable Statewide, exempts sources from operating hour limits on days when only natural gas is burned. Further, by letter of December 15, 1997, the State requested that U.S. Environmental Protection Agency address the addition of emission limits for stationary gas turbines and stationary internal combustion engines in rule 3745-18-06 that have been adopted previously.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) rule 3745-18-54 (O) and OAC rule 3745-18-06, adopted October 7, 1996, effective October 31, 1996.

(117) On August 1, 1997 the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted a requested revision to the Ohio State Implementation Plan. This revision constituted amendments to the emissions statement reporting regulations approved on October 13, 1994 and codified in paragraph (c)(100) of this section. The revision is intended to limit the applicability of these rules to stationary sources located within the State's marginal and above ozone nonattainment areas.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-24-02 Applicability. Effective July 31, 1997.

(118) On August 20, 1998, Ohio submitted material including State adopted limits for Lake County, and requested approval of limits for the Ohio First Energy Eastlake Plant and the Ohio Rubber Company Plant.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule 3745-18-49 (G) and (H) of the Ohio Administrative Code, effective May 11, 1987.

(119) On September 21, 1998, Ohio submitted revisions to its Permit to Operate rules as a revision to the State implementation plan.

(i) Incorporation by reference

(A) Ohio Administrative Code 3745-35-02, adopted April 4, 1994, effective April 20, 1994. Rescinded in 2008; see paragraph (c)(156) of this section.

(120) On January 3, 1999, Ohio submitted, as a State implementation plan revision, de minimis exemption provisions for its permitting rules.

(i) Incorporation by reference

(A) Ohio Administrative Code 3745-15-05, adopted April 4, 1994, effective April 20, 1994.

(121) On March 20, 2000, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted rules to control sulfur dioxide emissions in Coshocton, Gallia and Lorain Counties.

(i) Incorporation by reference. Rules OAC 3745-18-22; OAC 3745-18-33; and OAC 3745-18-53. Adopted March 1, 2000; effective March 21, 2000.

(122) On October 6, 1999, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency submitted revised Transportation Conformity rules for the State of Ohio. The submittal made revisions to the current State plan for the implementation of the federal transportation conformity requirements at the State and local level in accordance with 40 CFR part 51, subpart T-Conformity to State or Federal Implementation Plans of Transportation Plans, Programs, and Projects Developed, Funded or Approved Under Title 23 U.S.C. or the Federal Transit Act. Only certain sections of the submittal are approved.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Ohio Administrative Code: amended rules, OAC 3745-101-02, OAC 3745-101-03 (A), (B), (C), (D), (G), (H), (I), (J), (K), (L), except (E) and (F), OAC 3745-101-05, OAC 3745-101-06, OAC 3745-101-07 (A), (B), (C) except for (C)(1)(a) and (C)(2)(a), (D), (E), (F), (G), (H), (I), (J), OAC 3745-101-08, OAC 3745-101-09, OAC 3745-101-10, OAC 3745-101-11, OAC 3745-101-12 except for (A)(2), OAC 3745-101-13 except (A)(1), OAC 3745-101-14, OAC 3745-101-15, OAC 3745-101-17, OAC 3745-101-18, OAC 3745-101-19, effective on February 16, 1999.

(B) No action is being taken on: OAC 3745-101-04.

(123) On July 6, 2000, the State of Ohio submitted a site-specific State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision affecting Volatile Organic Compound control requirements at Morgan Adhesives Company in Stow, Ohio. The SIP revision establishes an alternative control strategy for limiting volatile organic compound emissions from coating lines at its pressure sensitive tape and manufacturing plant in Stow.

(i) Incorporation by reference. July 5, 2000, Director's Final Findings and Orders of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency in the matter of: Morgan Adhesives Company, effective on July 5, 2000.

(124) On November 9, 2000, Ohio submitted Director's Final Findings and Orders revising sulfur dioxide emissions regulations for the Lubrizol Corporation facility in Lake County, Ohio. The revisions include the adjustment of six short-term emissions limits, the addition of an annual emissions limit, and the addition of a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS). These state implementation plan revisions do not increase allowable sulfur dioxide emissions.
