
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart LL - Oklahoma
###### ยง 52.1931 Petroleum storage tank controls.

(a) Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in the Oklahoma implementation plan, the petroleum storage tanks listed in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section shall be subject to the requirements of section 15.211 of the Oklahoma Air Pollution Control Regulations and to the monitoring, inspection, reporting, and other procedural requirements of the Oklahoma implementation plan and the Clean Air Act. The owner or operator of each affected facility shall secure compliance with section 15.211 in accordance with the schedule set forth below.

(b) Tanks 121 and 122 for crude oil storage at the Sun Oil Company refinery at Duncan, Oklahoma, shall be in compliance with section 15.211 no later than August 1, 1979.

(c) Tanks 118 and 119 for gasoline storage at the Apco Oil Corporation refinery at Cyril, Oklahoma, shall be in compliance with section 15.211 no later than February 1, 1979.

(d) Tank 286 for crude oil storage at the Continental Pipe Line Company property in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma (section 32-12N-2W) shall be in compliance with section 15.211 no later than February 1, 1979.

(e) The three 80,000 barrel capacity crude oil storage tanks at the Champlin Petroleum Company, Noble Station, 13th and Bryan Streets, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, shall be in compliance with section 15.211 no later than September 1, 1979.

(f) Action on the part of Sun Oil Company, Apco Oil Corporation, Continental Pipe Line Company and Champlin Petroleum Company of controlling hydrocarbon emissions creditable as offsets for General Motors Corporation, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, in no way relieves these companies from meeting all requirements under the Oklahoma Air Quality Implementation Plan or under the Federal Clean Air Act as amended.
