
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart LL - Oklahoma
###### ยง 52.1960 Original Identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original "State of Oklahoma Air Quality Control Implementation Plan" and all revisions submitted by Oklahoma that were federally approved prior to June 1, 2000.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 28, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) An opinion of the State Attorney General concerning the State's legal authority in emergency episode prevention and public disclosure was submitted February 15, 1972. (Non-regulatory)

(2) Letter from State Department of Health concerning emergency episode prevention, sampling site locations and governmental cooperation was submitted on February 25, 1972. (Non-regulatory)

(3) Letter of May 4, 1972, from the State Department of Health clarifies Regulations 4, 13, 14, and Title 63 of the State air quality regulations concerning emission data, emergency episodes, compliance schedules and new source review. (Non-regulatory)

(4) Revisions concerning Regulations 4 through 8, 13 and 15 through 18 were submitted by the Governor on July 14, 1972.

(5) Certification on October 4, 1972, of amendments to Regulation 14 of the State regulations was submitted by the Governor. (Non-regulatory)

(6) Corrections of the plan submitted previously and consolidated were submitted on October 16, 1972. (Non-regulatory)

(7) Sections 16.1, 16.3, and 16.5 of Regulation No. 16, "Control of Emissions of Sulfur Compounds," the Control Strategy which relates to sulfur oxides control under the applicable sections of Regulation 16, and emission limitations on existing sources as adopted on December 1, 1974 and submitted by the Governor on March 4, 1975.

(8) Revision to Oklahoma Regulation 4.2 (public availability of emission data) was submitted by the Governor on October 7, 1975.

(9) Administrative revisions to Oklahoma SIP Chapter 1, Table 2, Oklahoma Ambient Air Quality Standards, Chapter 8, Source Surveillance and Enforcement System, section 8 A, B, and C relating to permits, and addition of Appendix Q, relating to Oklahoma Air Quality Standards, were submitted by the Oklahoma State Department of Health on May 16, 1975, with clarification submitted on June 17, 1977. (Nonregulatory).

(10) Consent agreements creditable as emission offsets were submitted by the Governor on March 28, 1977 as Addendum 1 to Chapter IV of the Oklahoma Air Quality Implementation Plan.

(11) Revisions of Oklahoma Regulation No. 15 for control of emissions of organic materials were adopted (effective date) December 31, 1974, and submitted by the Governor on June 16, 1975.

(12) Revision to Oklahoma Regulation No. 3, Defining Terms Used in Oklahoma Air Pollution Control Regulations, were submitted by the Governor on November 28, 1977. The revisions include amendments adopted by the State on June 2, 1974 and June 11, 1977. (See ยง 52.1926(a).)

(13) A general update of Chapter 7: Air Quality Surveillance, was submitted by the Governor on July 19, 1978. (Non-regulatory).

(14) Revisions to the plan for attainment of standards for ozone, carbon monoxide, and particulate matter (Part D requirements) were submitted by the Governor on April 2, 1979.

(15) A revised schedule including specific dates of the overall TSP program was submitted by the State on March 28, 1980.

(16) Revisions to Regulation No. 17, Regulation No. 14 section 14.313, Regulation No. section 14.313(b), Regulation No. 14 section 14.313(c)(i), Regulation No. 15 section 15.50, Regulation No. 15 section 15.53, and Regulation No. 3 (Part D requirements) were submitted by the Governor on April 11, 1980.

(17) Revisions to the plan for intergovernmental consultation, interstate pollution abatement, public notification, and the State Board were submitted by the Governor on April 2, 1979; a letter of commitment for new source notification was submitted by the Acting Chief of the Oklahoma Air Quality Service on March 31, 1982; a Public Notification Workplan was submitted by the Chief of the Oklahoma Air Quality Service on January 14, 1980; the Oklahoma Code of Ethics for State Officials and Employees, with a clarification letter, was submitted by the Oklahoma Commissioner of Health on March 9, 1982; and a clarification letter was submitted by the Acting Chief of the Oklahoma Air Quality Service on February 23, 1982.

(18) The Oklahoma State Implementation Plan for lead was submitted to EPA on March 5, 1980, by the Governor of Oklahoma as adopted by the State Air Quality Council on November 13, 1979. Letters of clarification dated October 19 and December 9, 1981, also were submitted.
