
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart LL - Oklahoma
###### ยง 52.1960 Original Identification of plan section.
####### Defining Terms Used in Oklahoma Air Pollution Control Regulations,i.e.

(26) On April 2, 1979, the State of Oklahoma submitted an amendment to Regulation 1.3(, Table II) and on April 12, 1982, and on May 19, 1983, the State submitted revisions to the State's Permit Regulation 1.4 including adding 1.4.4 [Major Sources-Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Requirements for Attainment Areas] to provide for PSD new source review. A Letter of Clarification of October 6, 1982, was also submitted.

(27) Revision to Oklahoma Regulation 3.8 (Control of Emission of Hazardous Air Contaminants) submitted by the Governor on February 8, 1983.

(28) Revision to Oklahoma Regulation 3.4-Control of Emission of Sulfur Compounds was submitted by the Governor on May 19, 1983, which changed subsections 3.4(c)(1)(A)(i)(a)(3) and 3.4(c)(1)(C)(i)(a). The revision was adopted by the Oklahoma State Board of Health on May 12, 1983. A letter of clarification on subsection 3.4(c)(1)(C)(i)(a) was submitted by the State on October 14, 1983.

(29) Revision of Oklahoma Regulation 1.4-Air Resources Management-Permits Required was submitted by the Governors on May 19, 1983. A letter of clarification on subsection 1.4.1(c)(3) was submitted by the State on September 23, 1983.

(30) Revision to Oklahoma Regulation No. 1.5-Reports Required: Excess Emissions During Startup, Shutdown and Malfunction of Equipment was submitted by the Governor on February 8, 1983. Letters of clarification were submitted by the State on October 18, 1982 and May 24, 1983.

(31) Revision to Regulation 1.4 "Air Resources Management-Permits Required" and variance and extension for Mesa Petroleum Company submitted by the Governor on February 6, 1984. A letter of clarification on section 1.4.2(f) Cancellation of Authority to Construct or Modify was submitted by the State on February 17, 1984.

(32) [Reserved]

(33) Revision to Regulation 3.1 "Pertaining to the Control of Smoke, Visible Emissions and Particulates" submitted by the Governor on February 6, 1984. On May 16, 1984, the Oklahoma State Department of Health submitted a letter of clarification on Regulation 3.1.

(34) Oklahoma Air Pollution Control Regulation 1.4.2(b) "Stack Height Limitation" and amendments to OAPCR 1.4.2(e) "Public Review" as adopted on May 8, 1986, and submitted by the Governor on April 30, 1986, to meet the requirements of the Federal stack height regulations.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Oklahoma Air Pollution Control Regulation (OAPCR) 1.4.2(b) "Stack Height Limitation" as adopted on May 8, 1986, and amendments to OAPCR 1.4.2(b) section 1.4.2(b)(1)(G) as adopted on July 9, 1987, and effective August 10, 1987. In addition, amendments to OAPCR 1.4.2(b) section 1.4.2(b)(1)(C); and amendments to OAPCR 1.4.2(e) "Public Review" section 1.4.2(e)(1)(A) as adopted March 23, 1989, effective June 11, 1989, by the Oklahoma Board of Health.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Commitment letter dated July 8, 1988, from the Director of the Permits and Enforcement Division of the Oklahoma Air Quality Service, Oklahoma State Department of Health.

(35) May 8, 1985, revisions to Oklahoma Air Pollution Control Regulation 3.4.(c)(1)(C) "Gas Sweetening and Sulfur Recovery Plants" were submitted by the Governor on March 31, 1986.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments to Oklahoma Air Pollution Control Regulation 3.4(c)(1)(C) (Gas Sweetening and Sulfur Recovery Plants); adopted May 8, 1985, by the Oklahoma Air Quality Council.

(36) On March 9, 1990, the Governor submitted Oklahoma Air Pollution Control Regulation 3.7.5-4(h) "Control of VOS Emissions from Aerospace Industries Coatings Operations." This regulation was adopted by the Oklahoma Air Quality Council on December 5, 1989, and by the Oklahoma Board of Health on February 8, 1990. The regulation became effective when it was signed by the Governor as an emergency rule on February 12, 1990. Also on March 9, 1990, the Governor of Oklahoma submitted four source specific alternate RA.T determination Orders issued by the Oklahoma Commissioner of Health for the Rockwell International, McDonnell Douglas-Tulsa. American Airlines and Nordam facilities in Tulsa County.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Oklahoma Air Pollution Control Regulation 3.7.5-4(h) "Control of VOS Emissions from Aerospace Industries Coatings Operations" as adopted by the Oklahoma Air Quality Council on December 5, 1989, and the Oklahoma Board of Health on February 8, 1990, and approved by the Governor on February 12, 1990.

(B) Oklahoma Commissioner of Health Order issued and effective February 21, 1990, for Rockwell International, Tulsa approving an Alternate Reasonably Available Control Technology (ARACT).

(C) Oklahoma Commissioner of Health Order issued and effective February 21, 1990, for McDonnell Douglas-Tulsa approving an Alternate Reasonably Available Control Technology (ARACT).

(D) Oklahoma Commissioner of Health Order issued and effective February 21, 1990, for American Airlines approving an Alternate Reasonably Available Control Technology (ARACT).

(E) Oklahoma Commissioner of Health Order issued and effective February 21, 1990, for Nordam's Lansing Street facility approving an Alternate Reasonably Available Control Technology (ARACT).

(ii) Additional material.
