
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart NN - Pennsylvania
###### § 52.2023 Approval status.

(a) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves Pennsylvania's plan for attainment and maintenance of the national standards.

(b) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves Pennsylvania's plan for the attainment and maintenance of the national ambient air quality standards under section 110 of the Clean Air Act. Furthermore, the Administrator finds that the plan satisfies all requirements of part D, Title 1, of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1977.

(c) -(l) [Reserved]

(m) EPA conditionally approves Pennsylvania's 25 Pa Code sections 129.98 and 129.99 submitted on May 16, 2016 to address the reasonably available control technology (RACT) requirements under CAA sections 182(b)(2)(C), 182(f), and 184 under the 1997 and 20088-hour ozone NAAQS. Pursuant to CAA section 110(k)(4), this conditional approval is based upon a September 26, 2017 letter from Pennsylvania to submit to EPA, no later than 12 months from EPA's final conditional approval, additional SIP revisions to address the deficiencies identified. The SIP revisions, to be submitted by Pennsylvania, include:

(1) All facility-wide or system-wide averaging plans approved by PADEP under 25 Pa Code 129.98 including but not limited to any terms and conditions that ensure the enforceability of the averaging plan as a practical matter, and

(2) All source-specific RACT determinations approved by PADEP under 25 Pa Code 129.99, including any alternative compliance schedules approved under §§ 129.97(k) and 129.99(i); the source-specific RACT determinations submitted to EPA for approval into the SIP shall include any terms and conditions that ensure the enforceability of the source-specific RACT emission limitation as a practical matter.

(n) EPA conditionally approves the Contingency Measures element (Section 8) of the Attainment Plan (dated September 12, 2019) for the Allegheny County Area for the 2012 PMNAAQS, as submitted to EPA as a SIP revision by Pennsylvania on September 30, 2019. Pennsylvania shall submit a SIP revision within one year of EPA's final conditional approval to remedy this condition, which satisfies all related requirements for contingency measures under CAA section 172(c)(9) and the PMImplementation Rule (specifically, 40 CFR 51.1003 and 40 CFR 51.1014). Pursuant to CAA section 110(k)(4), this conditional approval is based upon April 20, 2020 and April 7, 2020 letters from Pennsylvania and Allegheny County committing to submit a SIP to EPA to remedy the deficiencies of this conditional approval within 12 months of EPA's conditional approval action.

(o) EPA disapproves 25 Pa. Code 129.97(g)(1)(viii), submitted on May 16, 2016 to address the RACT requirements under CAA sections 182(b)(2)(C), 182(f), and 184 under the 1997 and 2008 ozone NAAQS.
