
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart NN - Pennsylvania
###### ยง 52.2036 Base year emissions inventory.

(a) EPA approves as a revision to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan the 1990 base year carbon monoxide emission inventory for Philadelphia County, submitted by the Secretary, Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, on September 8, 1995 and October 30, 1995. This submittal consists of the 1990 base year stationary, area, non-road mobile and on-road mobile emission inventories in Philadelphia County for the pollutant carbon monoxide (CO).

(b) The U.S. Steel-Fairless Hills 1990 VOC and NOemissions for six emission units (no. 3 blast furnace, no.1 open hearth furnace, no. 1 soaking pits and no. 2 soaking pits (units 1-8 and units 9-16), and 80 in. hot strip mill), submitted August 11, 1995, are approved. U.S. Steel-Fairless Hills is located in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, which is part of the Philadelphia severe ozone nonattainment area. The VOC and NO1990 emissions from the no. 3 blast furnace are zero for both pollutants. The VOC and NO1990 emissions from the no. 1 open hearth furnace are 6.9 TPY and 455.5 TPY, respectively. The VOC and NOemissions from the no. 1 soaking pits are 6.6 TPY and 91.8 TPY, respectively. The VOC and NOemissions from the no. 2 soaking pits (units 1-8) are 1.10 TPY and 21.0 TPY, respectively. The VOC and NOemissions from the no. 2 soaking pits (units 9-16) are 1.10 TPY and 21.0 TPY, respectively. The VOC and NOemissions from the 80 in. hot strip mill are 1.9 TPY and 688.6 TPY, respectively.

(c) The 1990 NOemissions for the no. 2 glass melting furnace at the General Glass-Jeannette plant, located in Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania is 508.2 tons per year. Westmoreland County is part of the Pittsburgh moderate ozone nonattainment area. The 1990 NOemissions for the four kilns (no. 1 through 4) is 11.8 tons per year. This facility does not contain any other NOemitting units.

(d) EPA grants full approval to the 1990 VOC emission inventory for the Pittsburgh ozone nonattainment area, which was provided by Pennsylvania as an element of a March 22, 1996 submittal of the 15 Percent Rate-of-Progress Plan for the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley ozone nonattainment area. Supplemental 1990 VOC inventory information and estimates were submitted by the Secretary of the Department of Environmental Protection on February 19, 1997 and on July 22, 1998, as formal amendments to the Pittsburgh 15 Percent Plan for Pittsburgh. EPA grants full approval to the final 1990 VOC emissions inventory estimates contained in Pennsylvania's July 22, 1998 SIP revision (which serves to supplement the 1990 VOC inventory information contained in Pennsylvania's March 22, 1996 and February 19, 1997 Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley 15% plan SIP revisions). The approved plan contains 1990 base year point, area, highway, and non-road mobile VOC emissions estimates for the 7-county Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley ozone nonattainment area (Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Fayette, Washington, and Westmoreland Counties).

(e) EPA approves as a revision to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan (SIP) the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Reading, Pennsylvania area (Berks County) submitted by the Secretary of the Environment, on January 28, 1997. This submittal consists of the 1990 base year point, area, non-road mobile, biogenic and on-road mobile source emission inventories in the area for the following pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO), and oxides of nitrogen (NO).

(f) Sharon Steel Company 1990 VOC and NOemissions for three emission units (Blast Furnace Operations, Basic Oxygen Furnace Shop, Blast Furnace Casthouse), submitted June 10, 1996, are approved. Sharon Steel Company is located in Mercer County, Pennsylvania, which is in a marginal ozone nonattainment area. The 1990 VOC and NOemissions from the Blast Furnace Operations (flame suppression, heaters and torpedo cars, flare stack, tuyeres) are 0.4 TPY and 49.3 TPY, respectively. The 1990 VOC and NOemissions from the Basic Oxygen Furnace Shop (scrap preheating, ladle preheating and heaters) are 1.4 TPY and 39.6 TPY, respectively. The 1990 VOC and NOemissions from the Blast Furnace Casthouse are 205.4 TPY and 11.0 TPY, respectively.

(g)-(h) [Reserved]

(i) The 1990 VOC emission inventory for the Philadelphia ozone nonattainment area, submitted on September 12, 1996 by Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, is approved, with the exception of the revisions to the emission inventory for those sources at United States Steel-Fairless that were approved in ยง 52.2036 (b) on April 9, 1996.

(j) EPA is approving Pennsylvania's request that the 1990 emissions inventory for VOCs from R.R. Donnelley & Sons-East Plant be corrected to accurately reflect the 1990 emissions. The 1990 baseyear VOC emissions inventory will be corrected to 864 tons. Justification for the change in VOC emissions is described as follows:

(1) For rotogravure operations, R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (East Plant) initially assumed a 5% retention of solvent in the web, and then revised their assumption to 2% based on the amount of solvent actually being recovered by the six bed carbon adsorption system. Based on VOC emissions data submitted to PADEP for the year 1990, the actual VOC emissions from rotogravure operations was 794.51 tons. The figures were taken from data submitted to PADEP from the facility dated May 6, 1996 (subsequently submitted to EPA from PADEP via letter dated December 13, 1996).

(2) For heatset web offset lithographic operations, boilers, and associated solvent cleaning equipment, R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company provided data calculating estimates for actual 1990 VOC emissions of 69.83 tons. The figures were taken from the facility's RACT proposal submitted to PADEP dated March 29, 1995.

(k) Rockwell Heavy Vehicle, Inc., New Castle Forge Plant, Lawrence County-On April 8, 1998 the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection requested that EPA include the CO, VOC and NOemissions from this facility in the 1990 base year emission inventory. The CO, VOC and NOemissions from the natural gas units and the spray booth of this facility are hereby approved as part of the 1990 point source inventory. The 1990 CO, VOC and NOemissions from the natural gas units are 8.3 TPY, 1.2 TPY and 64.2 TPY, respectively. The 1990 VOC emissions from the spray booth is 12.1 TPY.

(l) EPA approves, as a revision to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan, the 1990 NOx emission inventory for the Philadelphia area, submitted on July 31, 1998 by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. The submittal consists of 1990 base year point, area, highway, and non-road mobile NOx emissions inventories for the five-county Philadelphia area (Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Montgomery, and Philadelphia Counties).

(m) EPA approves the 1990 NObase year emission inventory for the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley area, submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on March 22, 1996 and supplemented on February 18, 1997.

(n) EPA approves as a revision to the Pennsylvania SIP the 1990 base year CO emissions inventory for Southwestern Pennsylvania, including Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Fayette, Washington and Westmoreland counties, submitted by the Secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on November 12, 1992, and as revised on August 17, 2001. This submittal consists of the 1990 base year inventory for point, area, off-road, and highway emissions for these counties, for the pollutant CO.

(o) EPA approves as a revision to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventories for the Pennsylvania portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-DE-MD-NJ 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on August 29, 2007 (as formally amended by Pennsylvania on December 10, 2009 and on April 12, 2010). This submittal consists of the 2002 base year point, area, non-road mobile, and on-road mobile source emission inventories for this area, for the following pollutants: Volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxides (NO).

(p) EPA approves as a revision to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventory for the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley 1997 fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on November 10, 2009. The base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and non-road mobile sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are PM, coarse particles (PM), nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), ammonia (NH), and sulfur dioxide (SO).

(q) EPA approves as a revision to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventory for the Liberty-Clairton 1997 annual fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on June 17, 2011. The base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and non-road mobile sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are PM, nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), ammonia (NH), and sulfur dioxide (SO).

(r) EPA approves as revisions to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan the 2007 base year emissions inventory for the Harrisburg-Lebanon-Carlisle and York 1997 annual fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment areas, and the Harrisburg-Lebanon-Carlisle-York 2006 24-hour PMnonattainment area submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on April 22, 2014. The emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point, area, nonroad, and onroad sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), PM, ammonia (NH), and sulfur dioxide (SO).

(s) EPA approves as revisions to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan the 2007 base year emissions inventory for the Reading 1997 annual fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on November 25, 2014. The emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point, area, nonroad, and onroad sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are PM, nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), ammonia (NH), and sulfur dioxide (SO).

(t) EPA approves as revisions to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan the 2007 base year emissions inventory for the Allentown 2006 24-hour fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on September 5, 2014. The emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point, area, nonroad, and onroad sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are PM, nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), ammonia (NH), and sulfur dioxide (SO).

(u) EPA approves as revisions to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan the 2007 base year emissions inventory for the Pennsylvania portion of the Philadelphia Area for the 2006 24-hour fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on September 5, 2014. The emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point, area, nonroad, and onroad sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are PM, nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), ammonia (NH), and sulfur dioxide (SO).

(v) EPA approves as a revision to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan the 2011 base year lead emission inventory for the Lyons, Pennsylvania nonattainment area for the 2008 lead NAAQS. This SIP revision was submitted by the Acting Secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, on February 9, 2015. This submittal consists of the 2011 base year inventories for all relevant sources in the Lyons, Pennsylvania nonattainment area for the pollutant lead (Pb).

(w) EPA approves as a revision to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan the 2007 base year emissions inventory for the Johnstown 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on December 3, 2014. The emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point, area, nonroad, and onroad sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are PM, nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), ammonia (NH), and sulfur dioxide (SO).

(x) EPA approves as a revision to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan the 2007 base year emissions inventory for the Lancaster 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on April 30, 2014. The emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point, area, nonroad, and onroad sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are PM, nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), ammonia (NH), and sulfur dioxide (SO).

(y) EPA approves as a revision to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan the 2007 base year emissions inventory for the Liberty-Clairton 2006 24-hour PMnonattainment area submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, on behalf of Allegheny County Health Department, on June 21, 2013. The emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point, area, nonroad, and onroad sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are PM, NO, VOCs, NH, and SO.

(z) EPA approves as a revision to the Pennsylvania state implementation plan the 2010 base year emissions inventory for the North Reading, Pennsylvania nonattainment area for the 2008 lead NAAQS. This SIP revision was submitted by the Secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on August 10, 2015. This submittal consists of the 2010 base year emissions inventories for all relevant sources in the North Reading nonattainment area for the pollutant lead (Pb).

(aa) EPA approves as a revision to the Pennsylvania state implementation plan the 2010 base year emissions inventory for the Lower Beaver Valley, Pennsylvania nonattainment area for the 2008 lead NAAQS. This SIP revision was submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on January 15, 2015. This submittal includes the 2010 base year emissions inventory for all relevant sources in the Lower Beaver Valley nonattainment area for the pollutant lead.

(bb) EPA approves, as a revision to the Pennsylvania State Implementation Plan, the 2011 base year emissions inventories for the Allentown-Bethlehem-Easton, Lancaster, Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley, and Reading nonattainment areas, and the Pennsylvania portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City nonattainment area for the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of the Environmental on September 30, 2015. The 2011 base year emissions inventories includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, nonroad mobile sources, area sources, onroad mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOC), and carbon monoxide (CO).
