
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart NN - Pennsylvania
###### ยง 52.2056 Determinations of attainment.

(a) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the Harrisburg-Lebanon-Carlisle (Harrisburg) fine particle (PM) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Harrisburg PMnonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(b) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the Johnstown fine particle (PM) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Johnstown PMnonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(c) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the Lancaster fine particle (PM) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Lancaster PMnonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(d) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the York fine particle (PM) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the York PMnonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(e) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the Reading fine particle (PM) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Reading PMnonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(f) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2008 to 2010, EPA determined that Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-MD-DE 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area (the Philadelphia Area) attained the 1997 8-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of June 15, 2011. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2)(A) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Philadelphia Area nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date under section 181(b)(2)(A).

(g) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE fine particle (PM) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE PMnonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(h) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley fine particle (PM) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley PMnonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(i) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley, PA moderate nonattainment area has attained the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of June 15, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2)(A) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley, PA moderate nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date pursuant to section 181(b)(2)(A).

(j) EPA has determined, based on quality-assured air monitoring data for 2009-2011, that the Liberty-Clairton, PA fine particle (PM) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMnational ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of December 31, 2011. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement of CAA section 188(b)(2) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the 1997 annual PMNAAQS.

(k) The EPA has determined, as of June 3, 2016, that based on 2012 to 2014 ambient air quality data, the Allentown-Bethlehem-Easton, PA 2008 ozone Marginal nonattainment area has attained the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of July 20, 2015. Therefore, the EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2)(A) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS. The EPA also determined that the Allentown-Bethlehem-Easton, PA marginal nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date pursuant to section 181(b)(2)(A).

(l) The EPA has determined, as of June 3, 2016, that based on 2012 to 2014 ambient air quality data, the Lancaster, PA 2008 ozone Marginal nonattainment area has attained the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of July 20, 2015. Therefore, the EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2)(A) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS. The EPA also determined that the Lancaster, PA Marginal nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date pursuant to section 181(b)(2)(A).

(m) The EPA has determined, as of June 3, 2016, that based on 2012 to 2014 ambient air quality data, the Reading, PA 2008 ozone Marginal nonattainment area has attained the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of July 20, 2015. Therefore, the EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2)(A) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS. The EPA also determined that the Reading, PA Marginal nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date pursuant to section 181(b)(2)(A).

(n) EPA has determined based on 2013 to 2015 ambient air quality monitoring data, that the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley, Pennsylvania marginal ozone nonattainment area has attained the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of July 20, 2016. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2)(A) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS. EPA also determined that the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley, Pennsylvania marginal nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date pursuant to section 181(b)(2)(A).

(o) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2013 to 2015, Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-MD-DE marginal ozone nonattainment area has attained the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of July 20, 2016. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2)(A) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-MD-DE marginal ozone nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date pursuant to section 181(b)(2)(A).
