
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart NN - Pennsylvania
###### ยง 52.2059 Control strategy: Particulate matter.
####### (q) Determination of attainment.

EPA has determined, as of July 10, 2015, based on quality-assured ambient air quality data for 2012 to 2014, that the Liberty-Clairton, PA nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour fine particle (PM) national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS). This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS. If EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for that area shall be withdrawn.

(r) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Johnstown nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on December 3, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PMand NOmobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Johnstown nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS.

(s) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Lancaster nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour fine particulate matter (PM) NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on April 30, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PMand nitrogen oxides (NO) mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Lancaster nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS.

(t) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Pittsburgh nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on December 22, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PMand NOmotor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Pittsburgh nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS.
