
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart NN - Pennsylvania
###### ยง 52.2059 Control strategy: Particulate matter.
####### Determination of Clean Data.

(j)EPA has determined, as of May 2, 2014, that based on 2010-2012 ambient air quality data, the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley, Pennsylvania fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PMnational ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) and approves the motor vehicle emission budgets used for transportation conformity purposes. This determination suspends the requirements for the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley, Pennsylvania PMnonattainment area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS. If EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for that area shall be withdrawn.

(k) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Harrisburg-Lebanon-Carlisle nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PMNAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on April 22, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PMand NOmobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Dauphin, Lebanon and Cumberland Counties to be applied to all future transportation conformity determination and analyses for the Harrisburg-Lebanon-Carlisle nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PMNAAQS.

(l) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the York nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PMNAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on April 22, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PMand NOmobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the York County to be applied to all future transportation conformity determination and analyses for the York nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PMNAAQS.

(m) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Harrisburg-Carlisle-Lebanon-York PMnonattainment area for the 2006 24-hour PMsubmitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on April 22, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PMand NOmobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Dauphin, Lebanon, Cumberland, and York Counties be applied to all future transportation conformity determination and analyses for the Harrisburg-Carlisle-Lebanon-York nonattainment area for the 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS.

(n) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Reading nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PMNAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on November 25, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PMand NOmobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for Berks County to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Reading nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PMNAAQS.

(o) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Allentown nonattainment area for the 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on September 5, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PMand NOmobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for Lehigh and Northampton Counties to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Allentown nonattainment area for the 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS.

(p) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Pennsylvania portion of the Philadelphia nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on September 5, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PMand NOmobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Pennsylvania portion of the Philadelphia nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS.
