
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart NN - Pennsylvania
###### ยง 52.2059 Control strategy: Particulate matter.
####### Determination of Attainment.

(w)EPA has determined based on 2014 to 2016 ambient air quality monitoring data, that the Lebanon County, Pennsylvania moderate nonattainment area has attained the 2012 annual fine particulate matter (PM) primary national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS). This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1015, suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning state implementation plan revisions related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2012 annual PMNAAQS.

(x) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Delaware County nonattainment area for the 2012 annual fine particulate matter (PM) NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on January 23, 2019. The maintenance plan includes the 2014, 2022, and 2030 PMand nitrogen oxides (NO) mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Delaware County area for the 2012 annual PMNAAQS.

(y) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Lebanon County nonattainment area for the 2012 annual fine particulate matter (PM) NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on February 11, 2019. The maintenance plan includes the 2014, 2022, and 2030 PMand nitrogen oxides (NO) mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Lebanon County area for the 2012 annual PMNAAQS.
