
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart NN - Pennsylvania
###### ยง 52.2065 Federal implementation plan addressing reasonably available control technology requirements for certain sources.
####### Monitoring of NO

(g)emissions. (1) In determining the Facility-wide 30-Day Rolling Average NOEmission Rate, the Facility shall use CEMS in accordance with the procedures of 40 CFR parts 60 and 75, appendix F, Procedure 1.

(2) For purposes of calculating the Unit-specific Daily NOMass Emissions Limits, the Facility shall use CEMS in accordance with the procedures at 40 CFR part 75. Emissions rates, mass emissions, and other quantitative standards set by or under this section must be met to the number of significant digits in which the standard or limit is expressed. For example, an Emission Rate of 0.100 is not met if the actual Emission Rate is 0.101. The Facility shall round the fourth significant digit to the nearest third significant digit, or the sixth significant digit to the nearest fifth significant digit, depending upon whether the limit is expressed to three or five significant digits. For example, if an actual emission rate is 0.1004, that shall be reported as 0.100, and shall be in compliance with an emission rate of 0.100, and if an actual emission rate is 0.1005, that shall be reported as 0.101, and shall not be in compliance with an emission eate of 0.100. The Facility shall report data to the number of significant digits in which the standard or limit is expressed.
