
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 27 - PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES
##### ยง 27.39 Appeal to authority head.

(a) Any defendant who has filed a timely answer and who is determined in an initial decision to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment may appeal such decision to the Environmental Appeals Board by filing a notice of appeal with the hearing clerk in accordance with this section.

(b)(1) A notice of appeal may be filed at any time within 30 days after the presiding officer issues an initial decision. However, if another party files a motion for reconsideration under ยง 27.38, consideration of the appeal shall be stayed automatically pending resolution of the motion for reconsideration.

(2) If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal may be filed within 30 days after the presiding officer denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies.

(3) The Environmental Appeals Board may extend the initial 30 day period for an additional 30 days if the defendant files a request for an extension within the initial 30 day period and shows good cause.

(c) If the defendant filed a timely notice of appeal, and the time for filing motions for reconsideration under ยง 27.38 has expired, the presiding officer shall forward the record of the proceeding to the Environmental Appeals Board.

(d) A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decision and reasons supporting the exceptions.

(e) The representative for the Government may file a brief in opposition to exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief.

(f) There is no right to appear personally before the Environmental Appeals Board.

(g) There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the presiding officer.

(h) In reviewing the initial decision, the Environmental Appeals Board shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the presiding officer unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.

(i) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Environmental Appeals Board that additional evidence not presented at such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at such hearing, the Environmental Appeals Board shall remand the matter to the presiding officer for consideration of such additional evidence.

(j) The Environmental Appeals Board may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment, determined by the presiding officer in any initial decision.

(k) The Environmental Appeals Board shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of the decision of the Environmental Appeals Board and a statement describing the right of any person determined to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment to seek judicial review.

(l) Unless a petition for review is filed as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3805 after a defendant has exhausted all administrative remedies under this part and within 60 days after the date on which the Environmental Appeals Board serves the defendant with a copy of the Environmental Appeals Board's decision, a determination that a defendant is liable under ยง 27.3 is final and is not subject to judicial review.
