
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart OO - Rhode Island
###### ยง 52.2086 Emission inventories.

(a) The Governor's designee for the State of Rhode Island submitted the 1990 base year emission inventory for the Providence ozone nonattainment area on January 12, 1993 as a revision to the State Implementation Plan (SIP). The 1990 base year emission inventory requirement of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, has been satisfied for this area.

(b) The inventory is for the ozone precursors which are volatile organic compounds, nitrogen oxides, and carbon monoxide. The inventory covers point, area, non-road mobile, on-road mobile, and biogenic sources.

(c) The Providence nonattainment area is classified as serious and includes the entire state of Rhode Island.

(d) Minor revisions to the Rhode Island 1990 base year emission inventory were submitted to EPA on September 21, 1998. The revised emission estimates were prepared in accordance with EPA guidance, and are approved into the State's SIP.

(e) The state of Rhode Island submitted base year emission inventories representing emissions for calendar year 2002 from the Providence moderate ozone nonattainment area on April 30, 2008 as revisions to the State's SIP. The 2002 base year emission inventory requirement of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, has been satisfied for this area. The inventory consists of emission estimates of volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides, and cover point, area, non-road mobile, on-road mobile and biogenic sources. The inventory was submitted as a revision to the SIP in partial fulfillment of obligations for nonattainment areas under EPA's 1997 8-hour ozone standard.
