
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart OO - Rhode Island
###### ยง 52.2088 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management on September 21, 1998.

(a)These revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the rate of progress requirement of section 182(c)(2)(B), and the contingency measure requirements of section 182(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act, for the Providence serious ozone nonattainment area.

(b) Approval-Revisions to the state implementation plan submitted by the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management on March 24, 2003. The revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the one-hour ozone attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(c)(2)(A) of the Clean Air Act, for the Rhode Island serious ozone nonattainment area. The revision establishes a one-hour attainment date of November 15, 2007 for the Rhode Island serious ozone nonattainment area, and approves the contingency measures for purposes of attainment. This revision establishes motor vehicle emissions budgets for 2007 of 30.68 tons per day of volatile organic compounds and 33.97 tons per day of nitrogen oxides to be used in transportation conformity in the Rhode Island serious ozone nonattainment area. Rhode Island also commits to conduct a mid-course review to assess modeling and monitoring progress achieved towards the goal of attainment by 2007, and to submit the results to EPA by December 31, 2004.
