
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart PP - South Carolina
###### ยง 52.2122 Approval status.

(a) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves South Carolina's plan for the attainment and maintenance of the national standards under section 110 of the Clean Air Act. Furthermore, the Administrator finds that the plan satisfies all requirements of part D, title 1, of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1977.

(b) EPA disapproved South Carolina's generic bubble regulation submitted for approval into the State Implementation Plan (SIP) on June 5, 1985.

(c)(1) Insofar as the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) provisions found in this subpart apply to stationary sources of greenhouse gas (GHGs) emissions, the Administrator approves that application only to the extent that GHGs are "subject to regulation", as provided in this paragraph (c), and the Administrator takes no action on that application to the extent that GHGs are not "subject to regulation."

(2) Beginning January 2, 2011, the pollutant GHGs is subject to regulation if:

(i) The stationary source is a new major stationary source for a regulated NSR pollutant that is not GHGs, and also will emit or will have the potential to emit 75,000 tpy COe or more; or

(ii) The stationary source is an existing major stationary source for a regulated NSR pollutant that is not GHGs, and also will have an emissions increase of a regulated NSR pollutant, and an emissions increase of 75,000 tpy COe or more; and,

(3) Beginning July 1, 2011, in addition to the provisions in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the pollutant GHGs shall also be subject to regulation:

(i) At a new stationary source that will emit or have the potential to emit 100,000 tpy COe; or

(ii) At an existing stationary source that emits or has the potential to emit 100,000 tpy COe, when such stationary source undertakes a physical change or change in the method of operation that will result in an emissions increase of 75,000 tpy COe or more.

(4) For purposes of this paragraph (c)-

(i) The term greenhouse gas shall mean the air pollutant defined in 40 CFR 86.1818-12(a) as the aggregate group of six greenhouse gases: Carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, methane, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, and sulfur hexafluoride.

(ii) The term tpy COequivalent emissions (COe) shall represent an amount of GHGs emitted, and shall be computed as follows:

(A) Multiplying the mass amount of emissions (tpy), for each of the six greenhouse gases in the pollutant GHGs, by the gas's associated global warming potential published at Table A-1 to subpart A of 40 CFR part 98-Global Warming Potentials.

(B) Sum the resultant value from paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section for each gas to compute a tpy COe.

(iii) The term emissions increase shall mean that both a significant emissions increase (as calculated using the procedures in South Carolina Air Pollution Control Regulations and Standards (South Carolina Regulations) 61-62.5, Standard No. 7, paragraph (a)(2)(iv)) and a significant net emissions increase (as defined in South Carolina Air Pollution Control Regulations and Standards (South Carolina Regulations) 61-62.5, Standard No. 7, paragraphs (b)(34) and (b)(49)(i)) occur. For the pollutant GHGs, an emissions increase shall be based on tpy COe, and shall be calculated assuming the pollutant GHGs is a regulated NSR pollutant, and "significant" is defined as 75,000 tpy COe instead of applying the value in South Carolina Air Pollution Control Regulations and Standards (South Carolina Regulations) 61-62.5, Standard No. 7, paragraph (b)(49)(ii).

(d) Regulation 61-62.5 Standard No. 7-This regulation (submitted on July 1, 2005) includes two portions of EPA's 2002 NSR Reform Rules that were vacated by the D.C. Circuit Court-Pollution Control Projects (PCPs) and clean units. As a result, EPA is disapproving all rules and/or rule sections in the South Carolina PSD rules referencing clean units or PCPs. Specifically, the following South Carolina rules are being disapproved: (a)(2)(iv)(e); (a)(2)(iv)(f) (second sentence only); (a)(2)(vi); (b)(12); (b)(30)(iii)(h); (b)(34)(iii)(b); (b)(34)(vi)(d); (b)(35); (r)(6)-only the reference to the term "clean unit" is being disapproved. The remainder of this regulatory provision is being approved); (r)(7)-only the reference to the term "clean unit" is being disapproved. The remainder of this regulatory provision is being approved); (x); (y) and (z).

(e) Regulation 61-62.5 Standard No. 7.1-EPA is disapproving two provisions of South Carolina's NNSR program (submitted on July 1, 2005) that relate to provisions that were vacated from the federal program by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit on June 24, 2005. The two provisions vacated from the federal rules pertain to Pollution Control Projects (PCPs) and clean units. The PCP and clean unit references are severable from the remainder of the NNSR program. Specifically, the following sections of South Carolina Regulation 61-62.5 Standard No. 7.1 are being disapproved: (b)(5); (b)(6)-Second sentence only; (b)(8); (c)(4); (c)(6)(C)(viii); (c)(8)(C)(iii); (c)(8)(E)(v); (c)(10); (d)(1)(C)(ix); (d)(1)(C)(x); (d)(3)-Only the reference to the term "clean unit" is being disapproved. The remainder of this regulatory provision is being approved; (d)(4)-Only the reference to the term "clean unit" is being disapproved. The remainder of this regulatory provision is being approved; (f); (g) and (h). These disapprovals were amended in 73 FR 31371, (June 2, 2008)
