
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart RR - Tennessee
###### ยง 52.2231 Control strategy: Sulfur oxides and particulate matter.
####### Determination of attainment.

(f)Effective June 9, 2017, the EPA has determined that, based on 2013 to 2015 ambient air quality data, the Knoxville-Sevierville-La Follette, Tennessee PMnonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PMNAAQS by the applicable attainment date of December 31, 2015. Therefore, the EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 188(b)(2) to determine whether the area attained the standard. The EPA also has determined that the Knoxville-Sevierville-La Follette, Tennessee nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date under section 188(b)(2).

(g) Effective May 5, 2022, EPA has determined that the Sullivan County SOnonattainment area (NAA) has failed to attain the 2010 1-hour primary sulfur dioxide (SO) national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of October 4, 2018. This determination triggers the requirements of CAA section 179(d) for the State of Tennessee to submit a revision to the Tennessee State Implementation Plan (SIP) for the Sullivan County SONAA to EPA by April 5, 2023. The SIP revision must, among other elements, provide for the attainment of the 1-hour primary SONAAQS in the Sullivan County SONAA as expeditiously as practicable but no later than April 5, 2022.
