
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart SS - Texas
###### ยง 52.2276 Control strategy and regulations: Particulate matter.
####### Part D conditional approval.

(a)The Texas plan for total suspended particulate (TSP) for the nonattainment area of Dallas 3 is conditionally approved until the State satisfactorily completes the following items:

(1) Draft SIP revision supplement submitted to EPA by March 3, 1980.

(2) Public hearing completed by May 5, 1980.

(3) Adopt revision and revised Regulation I as it pertains to control of nontraditional sources, if necessary, and submit to EPA by August 1, 1980.

(b) Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in the Texas Implementation Plan, the control measures listed in paragraph (c) of this section shall be implemented in accordance with the schedule set forth below.

(c) No later than January 1, 1980, Parker Brothers and Co., Inc., at its limestone quarry facilities near New Braunfels, Comal County, Texas shall install fabric filters on the primary crusher and on the secondary crusher and screens, meeting the requirements of Appendix A of the Texas Air Control Board Order 78-8 adopted August 11, 1978. After the date of installation of the fabric filters, Parker Brothers and Co., Inc., shall not emit particulate matter in excess of 0.03 grains per standard cubic foot from the exhaust stack of the fabric filter on its primary crusher and shall not emit particulate matter in excess of 0.03 grains per standard cubic foot from the exhaust stack of the fabric filter on its secondary crusher and screens.
