
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart SS - Texas
###### ยง 52.2285 Control of evaporative losses from the filling of gasoline storage vessels in the Houston and San Antonio areas.
####### Source

(6)means both storage containers and delivery vessels.

(b) This section is applicable to the following counties in Texas: Harris, Galveston, Brazoria, Fort Bend, Waller, Montgomery, Liberty, Chambers, Matagorda, Bexar, Comal, and Guadalupe.

(c) No person shall transfer or permit the transfer of gasoline from any delivery vessel into any stationary storage container with a nominal capacity greater than 1,000 gallons (3,785 liters) unless such container is equipped with a submerged fill pipe and unless the displaced vapors from the storage container are processed by a system that prevents release to the atmosphere of no less than 90 percent by weight of total hydrocarbon compounds in said vapors.

(1) The vapor recovery system shall include one or more of the following:

(i) A vapor-tight return line from the storage container to the delivery vessel and a system that will ensure that the vapor return line is connected before gasoline can be transferred into the container.

(ii) Other equipment that prevents release to the atmosphere of no less than 90 percent by weight of the total hydrocarbon compounds in the displaced vapor provided that approval of the proposed design, installation, and operation is obtained from the Regional Administrator prior to start of construction.

(2) The vapor recovery system shall be so constructed that it will be compatible with a vapor recovery system, which may be installed later, to recover vapors displaced by the filling of motor vehicle tanks.

(3) The vapor-laden delivery vessel shall meet the following requirements:

(i) The delivery vessel must be so designed and maintained as to be vapor-tight at all times.

(ii) If any gasoline storage compartment of a vapor-laden delivery vessel is refilled in one of the counties listed in paragraph (b) of this section, it shall be refilled only at a facility which is equipped with a vapor recovery system, or the equivalent, which prevents release to the atmosphere of at least 90 percent by weight of the total hydrocarbon compounds in the vapor displaced from the delivery vessel during refilling.

(iii) Gasoline storage compartments of one thousand gallons or less in gasoline delivery vehicles presently in use on November 6, 1973 will not be required to be retrofitted with a vapor return system until January 1, 1977.

(iv) Facilities which have a daily throughput of 20,000 gallons of gasoline or less are required to have a vapor recovery system in operation no later than May 31, 1977. Delivery vessels and storage vessels served exclusively by facilities required to have a vapor recovery system in operation no later than May 31, 1977, also are required to meet the provisions of this section no later than May 31, 1977.

(d) The provisions of paragraph (c) of this section shall not apply to the following:
