
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart SS - Texas
###### § 52.2285 Control of evaporative losses from the filling of gasoline storage vessels in the Houston and San Antonio areas.
####### used on a farm for farming purposes,

(1) Storage containers used for the storage of gasolineas that expression is used in the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. section 6420.

(2) Any container having a nominal capacity less than 2,000 gallons (7,571 liters) installed prior to November 6, 1973.

(3) Transfers made to storage containers equipped with floating roofs or their equivalent.

(4) Any facility for loading and unloading of volatile organic compounds (including gasoline bulk terminals) in Bexar, Brazoria, Galveston and Harris Counties, any gasoline bulk plants in Harris County, and any filling of gasoline storage vessels (Stage I) for motor vehicle fuel dispensing facilities in Bexar, Brazoria, Galveston, and Harris Counties which is subject to Texas Air Control Board Regulation V subsections 115.111-115.113, 115.121-115.123, and 115.131-115.135, respectively.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the owner or operator of a source subject to paragraph (c) of this section shall comply with the increments contained in the following compliance schedule:

(1) Contracts for emission control systems or process modifications must be awarded or orders must be issued for the purchase of component parts to accomplish emission control or process modification not later than March 31, 1975.

(2) Initiation of onsite construction or installation of emission control equipment or process change must begin not later than July 1, 1975.

(3) On-site construction or installation of emission control equipment or process modification must be completed no later than June 30, 1976.

(4) Final compliance is to be achieved no later than August 31, 1976.

(5) Any owner or operator of sources subject to the compliance schedule in this paragraph shall certify in writing to the Regional Administrator whether or not the required increment of progress has been met. The certification shall be submitted within five days after the deadlines for each increment. The certification shall include the name(s) and street address(es) of the facility (facilities) for which the certification applies, and the date(s) the increment(s) of progress was (were) met-if met. The Regional Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary for proper certification.

(f) Paragraph (e) of this section shall not apply to the owner or operator of:

(1) A source which is presently in compliance with paragraph (c) of this section and which has certified such compliance to the Regional Administrator by January 1, 1974. The certification shall include the name(s) and street address(es) of the facility (facilities) for which the certification applies. The Regional Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary for proper certification.

(2) To a source for which a compliance schedule is adopted by the State and approved by the Administrator.

(3) To a source whose owner or operator receives approval from the Administrator by June 1, 1974, of a proposed alternative schedule. No such schedule may provide for compliance after August 31, 1976. If approval is promulgated by the Administrator, such schedule shall satisfy the requirements of this section for the affected source.

(g) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Administrator from promulgating a separate schedule for any source to which the application of the compliance schedule in paragraph (e) of this section fails to satisfy the requirements of §§ 51.261 and 51.262(a) of this chapter.

(h) After August 31, 1976 paragraph (c) of this section shall be applicable to every storage container (except those exempted in paragraph (d) of this section) located in the counties specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Every storage container installed after August 31, 1976 shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section from the time of installation. In the affected counties, storage containers which were installed, or converted to gasoline storage after November 6, 1973, but before August 31, 1976 shall comply with paragraph (c) of this section in accordance with the schedule established in paragraph (e) of this section.
