
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart SS - Texas
###### § 52.2299 Original identification of plan section.
####### General Rules,,Emission Inventory Requirements,

(A) TNRCC, Part III, Chapter 101,section 101.10,as adopted by the TNRCC on August 20, 1992.

(B) TNRCC Order No. 92-20, as adopted by the TNRCC on August 20, 1992.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) TNRCC certification letter dated October 8, 1992, and signed by William R. Campbell, Executive Director, TNRCC.

(83) A revision to the Texas SIP to include an alternate particulate control plan for certain unpaved industrial roadways at the ASARCO copper smelter in El Paso, submitted by the Governor by cover letter dated March 30, 1994.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission Order No. 94-01, as adopted by the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission on March 9, 1994.

(B) TNRCC Attachment 3 containing the Texas Air Control Board permit number 20345 for the ASARCO primary copper smelter in El Paso, Texas, issued May 11, 1992.

(C) TNRCC Attachment 4 containing the June 8, 1993, letter from Mr. Troy W. Dalton, Texas Air Control Board (TACB), to Mr. Thomas Diggs, U.S. EPA Region 6, addressing the ASARCO Inc. (El Paso) waiver request from TACB Regulation I, Section 111.147(1)(A), including the enclosure entitled "Waiver Provisions to Texas Air Control Board Regulation 111.147(1)(A) for ASARCO, Incorporated, El Paso Account No. EE-0007-G."

(ii) Additional material.

(A) March 9, 1994, SIP narrative addressing the alternate particulate control plan (in lieu of paving) for certain unpaved industrial roadways at the ASARCO copper smelter in El Paso.

(84) A revision to the Texas SIP for the El Paso moderate carbon monoxide nonattainment area which has a design value less than 12.7 parts per million was submitted by the Governor of Texas to meet the November 15, 1992, CAA deadline. The elements in this incorporation include the general SIP revision and the oxygenated fuels regulations submitted to the EPA on October 23, 1992, and the completed emissions inventory submitted to the EPA on November 17, 1992.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Addition of a new Section 114.13, "Oxygenated Fuels" to the Texas Air Control Board (TACB), Regulation IV.

(B) TACB Board Order Number 92-15, as adopted by the TACB on September 18, 1992.

(C) SIP narrative plan entitled "Revisions to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Carbon Monoxide (CO), 1992 CO SIP for Moderate Area-El Paso," adopted by the Texas Air Control Board September 18, 1992, addressing: 3. 1992 CO SIP Revisions for Moderate Area El Paso (new.) e. Attainment Demonstration, pages 9-10; f. Oxygenated Fuels 3) Administrative Requirements, page 13, b) Clerical Reviews, page 15, c) Field Inspections, page 15; and e) enforcement (i)-(iv), pages 17-19.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) SIP narrative plan entitled "Revisions to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Carbon Monoxide (CO), 1992 CO SIP for Moderate Area-El Paso," adopted by the Texas Air Control Board September 18, 1992.

(B) Governor of Texas submittal of November 13, 1992, regarding the El Paso CO emissions inventory.

(C) The TACB certification letter dated October 1, 1992, and signed by William R. Campbell, Executive Director, TACB.

(85) The State is required to implement a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program (PROGRAM) as specified in the plan revision submitted by the Governor on November 13, 1992. This plan submittal, as adopted by the Texas Air Control Board (TACB) on November 6, 1992, was developed in accordance with section 507 of the Clean Air Act (CAA).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Texas Clean Air Act (TCAA), TEXAS HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE ANN. (Vernon 1992), § 382.0365, "Small Business Stationary Source Assistance Program", enacted by the Texas 1991 legislative session and effective September 1, 1991. Included in TCAA, § 382.0365, are provisions establishing a small business assistance program (SBAP), an Ombudsman, and a Compliance Advisory Panel (CAP); establishing membership of the CAP; and addressing the responsibilities and duties of the SBAP, Ombudsman, and the CAP.

(B) TACB Order No. 92-22, as adopted by the TACB on November 6, 1992.

(C) Appendix C, "Schedule of Implementation", appended to the narrative SIP Revision entitled, "Revisions to the State Implementation Plan for the Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program, Texas Air Control Board; November 1992".

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Narrative SIP Revision entitled, "Revisions to the State Implementation Plan for the Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program, Texas Air Control Board; November 1992".

(B) TACB certification letter dated November 10, 1992, and signed by William R. Campbell, Executive Director, TACB.

(C) Legal opinion letter dated October 15, 1992 from Kirk P. Watson, Chairman, TACB, to Mr. B.J. Wynne, III, Regional Administrator, EPA Region 6, regarding the composition of the Small Business Compliance Advisory Panel for Texas.

(86) [Reserved]

(87) A revision to the Texas SIP to include revisions to Texas Regulation IV, 31 TAC § 114.3-Vehicle Emissions Inspection and Maintenance Program, adopted by the State on November 10, 1993, and February 16, 1994, regulations effective December 8, 1993, and revisions to Texas Department of Transportation, Chapter 17. Vehicle Titles and Registration-Vehicle Emissions Verification System, 43 TAC § 17.80, adopted by the State on October 28, 1993, effective November 22, 1993, and submitted by the Governor by cover letters dated November 12, 1993 and March 9, 1994.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) House Bill 1969 an act relating to motor vehicle registration, inspections and providing penalties amending:
