
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart SS - Texas
###### ยง 52.2299 Original identification of plan section.
####### 10

()(5) Contingency Plan, page 84.

(D) TX82SIP, appendix AG, Emission Reduction Commitments for Transportation Control Measures in Post-1982 SIP Areas, as adopted by the Texas Air Control Board on December 18, 1987.

(E) Texas Air Control Board Order No. 85-06, as adopted July 26, 1985.

(F) Texas Air Control Board Order No. 87-18, as adopted December 18, 1987.

(G) Texas Air Control Board Order No. 88-10, as adopted October 14, 1988.

(ii) Additional Material.

(A) A letter dated September 25, 1989, from Allen Eli Bell, Executive Director, Texas Air Control Board to Robert E. Layton Jr., P.E., Regional Administrator, EPA Region 6.

(B) TX82SIP, (c) Additional Control Technique Guidelines (CTGs), pages 48-49.

(C) TX82SIP, appendix AL, Transportation Control Measure Evaluation and Documentation of Highway Vehicle Data adopted by the Texas Air Control Board on December 18, 1987.

(70) On March 12, 1982, the Governor of Texas submitted a request to revise the Texas SIP to include an Alternative Emission Reduction Plan for the E.I. Du Pont de Nemours & Company's Sabine River Works at Orange, Orange County, Texas. This Bubble uses credits obtained from the shutdown of sixteen methanol storage tanks and a methanol truck and railcar loading terminal in lieu of controls on one cyclohexane storage tank and two methanol storage tanks.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Texas Air Control Board Order No. 82-1, entitled "E.I. Du Pont de Nemours and Company Incorporated" passed and approved by the Board on January 8, 1982.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter dated October 23, 1989, from the Director of the Texas Air Control Board (TACB) Technical Support and Regulation Development Program, giving assurances that the State has resources and plans necessary to strive toward attainment and maintenance of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for ozone taking into account the influence of this Bubble on air quality.

(B) Letter dated May 31, 1988, from the Director of the TACB Technical Services Division, giving quantification of emissions and developmental information relative to volatile organic compound emissions from the storage and terminal facilities at the Du Pont plant.

(C) Letter dated June 21, 1988, from the Director of the TACB Technical Services Division, giving the throughput basis for emission calculations for the tanks and discussing status of the equipment in the trade.
