
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart SS - Texas
###### ยง 52.2302 Federal implementation plan for regional haze.
####### Testing and monitoring.

(5)(i) No later than the compliance date as set out in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain and operate Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems (CEMS) for SOon the units listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in accordance with 40 CFR 60.8 and 60.13(e), (f), and (h), and appendix B of part 60 of this chapter. No later than the compliance date as set out in paragraph (a)(2), San Miguel must submit a letter to the Regional Administrator that informs the EPA which compliance option it elects, as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. San Miguel must then adhere to the compliance method set forth in that letter to the Regional Administrator. All owners or operators shall comply with the quality assurance procedures for CEMS found in 40 CFR part 75. Compliance with the emission limits for SOshall be determined by using data from a CEMS.

(ii) Continuous emissions monitoring shall apply during all periods of operation of the coal burning equipment, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, except for CEMS breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments. Continuous monitoring systems for measuring SOand diluent gas shall complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period. Hourly averages shall be computed using at least one data point in each fifteen minute quadrant of an hour. Notwithstanding this requirement, an hourly average may be computed from at least two data points separated by a minimum of 15 minutes (where the unit operates for more than one quadrant in an hour) if data are unavailable as a result of performance of calibration, quality assurance, preventive maintenance activities, or backups of data from data acquisition and handling system, and recertification events. When valid SOpounds per hour, or SOpounds per million Btu emission data are not obtained because of continuous monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, or zero and span adjustments, emission data must be obtained by using other monitoring systems approved by the EPA to provide emission data for a minimum of 18 hours in each 24 hour period and at least 22 out of 30 successive boiler-operating-days.
