
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart SS - Texas
###### ยง 52.2302 Federal implementation plan for regional haze.
####### Emissions limitations,SO,emission limit

(4)-. The individual sulfur dioxide emission limit for a unit shall be as listed in the table in this paragraph (a)(4) in pounds per million British thermal units (lb/MMBtu) as averaged over a rolling 30-boiler-operating-day period.

(i) For each unit, SOemissions for each calendar day shall be determined by summing the hourly emissions measured in pounds of SO. For each unit, heat input for each boiler-operating-day shall be determined by adding together all hourly heat inputs, in millions of BTU. Each boiler-operating-day of the thirty-day rolling average for a unit shall be determined by adding together the pounds of SOfrom that day and the preceding 29-boiler-operating-days and dividing the total pounds of SOby the sum of the heat input during the same 30-boiler-operating-day period. The result shall be the 30-boiler-operating-day rolling average in terms of lb/MMBtu emissions of SO. If a valid SOpounds per hour or heat input is not available for any hour for a unit, that heat input and SOpounds per hour shall not be used in the calculation of the 30-boiler-operating-day rolling average for SO.

(ii) In lieu of paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, and if San Miguel meets paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, it may install a CEMS at the inlet of the scrubber system. The 30 BOD SOaverage from the existing outlet CEMS must read at or below 6.0% (94% control) of a 30 BOD SOaverage from the inlet CEMS.
