
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart TT - Utah
###### § 52.2324 Original identification of plan.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Implementation Plan for the State of Utah" and all revisions submitted by Utah that were federally approved prior to March 1, 2016.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 25, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Clarifications of the plan relating to particulate regulations, CO and NOcontrol strategies, new source review, emergency episodes, availability of emission data, and source surveillance submitted May 18, 1972, by State Division of Health.

(2) Revision of State new source review regulation, section 1.3.3 of the Utah Code of Air Conservation Regulations, submitted on September 13, 1972, by the Governor.

(3) Transportation control plan submitted April 13, 1973, by the Governor.

(4) Reenacted legislation providing for public availability of emission data submitted on June 13, 1974, by the State Division of Health.

(5) The Revised Utah Air Conservation Regulations on July 10, 1975, by the Governor.

(6) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part D and other sections of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, were submitted on December 28, 1978, by the Governor.

(7) On November 5, 1979, the Governor submitted a plan revision to meet the requirements of Air Quality Monitoring, 40 CFR part 58, subpart C, § 58.20.

(8) Provisions to meet the transportation control requirements of Part D and other sections of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, were submitted on November 5, 1979, and August 11, 1980, by the Governor.

(9) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part D for particulates and to attain the national standard for lead were submitted on March 11, 1980, July 25, 1980, November 13, 1980, December 26, 1980, and April 8, 1981.

(10) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part C of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, were submitted on August 17, 1981.

(11) Provisions to meet the requirements of section 127 and Part D for carbon monoxide and ozone were submitted on August 11, 1980.

(12) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, for particulates and volatile organic compounds, were submitted on April 8, 1981.

(13) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, for particulates were submitted on March 1, 1982.

(14) A revision to the definition of volatile organic compound was submitted on April 29, 1982.

(15) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, for carbon monoxide in Provo and Ogden, Utah were submitted on September 20, 1982.

(16) Additional information regarding stack monitoring at the main stack at the Kennecott Copper Smelter in Salt Lake City was submitted on December 27, 1982, and February 3, 1984.

(17) Provision to meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1977 providing for implementing automobile inspection and maintenance in Salt Lake and Davis Counties were submitted on December 9, 1983, December 19, 1983, February 6, 1984, and March 1, 1984. A revision providing for the commitment to adopt regulations for VOC sources covered by future CTG's (Group III) was submitted on February 6, 1984.

(18) A revision to the SIP was submitted by the Governor for attainment of the SOstandard on August 17, 1981. Additional submittals January 25, 1983, and September 5, 1984.

(19) A revision to the SIP was submitted by the Governor on April 26, 1985, for visibility monitoring and new source review.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter dated April 26, 1985, from Governor Norman Bangerter submitting the Utah Visibility SIP and Regulations.

(B) The Visibility SIP and the Utah Air Conservation Regulations 1.1.7 and 3.11.1 were adopted on April 15, 1985 referred to in the Governor's letter as April 12, 1985.

(20) A revision to the SIP was submitted by the Governor on December 12, 1985, for attaintment of the CO standard in Utah County.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter and attachments dated December 12, 1985, from Governor Norman H. Bangerter submitting the SIP Revision for attainment of NAAQS for CO in Utah County. The attachments included Section 9, Part C; Section 9, Appendices A, C, H, and I; and Technical Support Document-Provo.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter dated May 8, 1986, from Brent C. Bradford to Irwin Dickstein; Re: Response to questions on I/M with anti-tampering program.

(B) Letter and attachment dated May 15, 1986, from Brent Bradford to Irwin Dickstein transmitting Appendix D of the Technical Support Document.

(21) A revision to the SIP was submitted by the Governor on December 11, 1987, for visibility general plan requirements and long-term strategies.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter dated December 2, 1988, from the Utah Bureau of Air Quality to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region VIII.

(B) A revised section 16, Visibility Protection, of the Utah SIP was adopted on November 12, 1987, except for the first three paragraphs of § 16.1, the fifth and sixth paragraph of § 16.4, and the second and third paragraphs of § 16.5.

(22) In a letter dated May 2, 1986, the Governor submitted revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations addressing GEP stack heights/dispersion techniques and a new Section 17 to the SIP addressing GEP stack height demonstration analysis.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations adopted April 18, 1986. The revisions consist of adding stack height definitions (UACR 1.1.128 through UACR 1.1.133) and updating stack height exemptions (UACR 3.8).

(B) Stack height demonstration analysis submitted by the State in a letter dated May 2, 1986.

(23) On May 2, 1991 the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the plan. The revisions include amendments to the prevention of significant deterioration (PSD) portion of the plan to incorporate the nitrogen dioxide (NO) increments, and several "housekeeping" changes to definitions, new source review, and PSD regulations.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, section R446-1-1, Foreword and Definitions, section R446-1-3, Control of Installations, and section R446-2-1, Utah State Implementation Plan Incorporation by Reference, effective January 1, 1991.

(B) Letter dated May 1, 1991, from Kenneth Hansen of the Utah Division of Administrative Rules to Dave McNeill of the Utah Bureau of Air Quality, confirming a codification change to paragraph R446-1-3.6.5, effective May 1, 1991. This letter contains a reprinted version of R446-1-3.6.5.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) February 26, 1991, letter from F. Burnell Cordner, Executive Secretary, Utah Air Conservation Committee, to Douglas M. Skie, EPA, transmitting administrative materials for the SIP revision.

(B) May 2, 1991, letter from Norman H. Bangerter, Governor, State of Utah, to James J. Scherer, EPA. Official SIP submittal, transmitting the SIP narrative modifying section 8, Prevention of Significant Deterioration, and other administrative materials.

(24) On May 4, 1990, and July 25, 1991, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the plan. The revisions include amendments to the ozone nonattainment area regulations for stationary sources of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), contained within Regulation R446-1-4.9 of the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, "Emission Standards. Non-Attainment Area Requirements-Ozone," and the definitions applicable to the VOC regulations, contained within Regulation R446-1-1, "Foreward and Definitions." The amendments were made to conform Regulations R446-1-1 and R446-1-4.9 to statutory requirements for application of reasonably available control technology (RACT) to stationary sources of VOC's, as required by section 182(a)(2)(A) of the 1990 Clean Air Act, and to improve the clarity and enforceability of the regulations.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to the following Utah Air Conservation Regulations, Section R446-1-1, Foreward and Definitions, effective January 1, 1991: R446-1-1.10, 1.16, 1.40, 1.60, 1.109, 1.126, 1.140, 1.150, 1.151, 1.159, 1.160, 1.161, 1.162, 1.163, 1.164, 1.165, 1.166, 1.167, 1.168, 1.169, 1.170, 1.171, 1.172, 1.173, 1.174, 1.175, 1.176, 1.177, 1.178, 1.180, 1.182, 1.183, 1.184.
