
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart TT - Utah
###### ยง 52.2324 Original identification of plan.
####### De minimis

(B) UACR R307-6, a portion ofEmissions from Air Strippers and Soil Venting Projects, nonsubstantive wording changes, effective October 1, 1995.

(41) On July 11, 1994 the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP) to revise the definition for "Sole Source of Heat" under UACR R307-1-1, "Foreword and Definitions," to allow the exemption of those households with small portable heating devices from mandatory no-burn periods. This revision also made changes to the residential woodburning regulations under UACR R307-1-4.13.3 "No-Burn Periods," which specifies the actions which must be taken if contingency measures are implemented in the Salt Lake, Davis or Utah County nonattainment areas. These plans were requested to be withdrawn by the Governor in a November 9, 1998, letter to the Regional Administrator. EPA returned the portions of these plans with a letter to the Governor on January 29, 1999. A nonsubstantive change was made in this section as a result of the revision which moves section 4.13.3 D to section 4.13.3.E; this change was also approved by EPA. On February 6, 1996 the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan to revise Utah's open burning regulations, under UACR R307-1-2.4, to require that the local county fire marshal establish 30-day open burning windows during the spring and fall closed burning seasons in areas outside of Salt Lake, Davis, Weber, and Utah Counties as granted by the state forester. There were also minor changes made to the open burning regulations under UACR R307-1-2.4, "General Burning" and minor changes made to UACR R307-1-2.5 "Confidentiality of Information." On July 9, 1998 the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the Utah SIP to add a definition for "PMNonattainment Area," under UACR R307-1-1, "Foreword and Definitions."

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UACR R307-1-1, a portion of "Foreword and Definitions," revision of definition for "Sole Source of Heat," as adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on December 9, 1993, effective on January 31, 1994.

(B) UACR R307-1-4, a portion of "Emissions Standards," as adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on December 9, 1993, effective on January 31, 1994.

(C) UACR R307-1-2, a portion of "General Requirements," open burning changes and nonsubstantive wording changes, as adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on September 6, 1995, effective on October 31, 1995.

(D) UACR R307-1-1, a portion of "Foreword and Definitions," addition of definition for "PMNonattainment Area," as adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on January 7, 1998, effective on January 8, 1998.

(ii) Additional Material.

(A) July 20, 1998, fax from Jan Miller, Utah Department of Air Quality, to Cindy Rosenberg, EPA Region VIII, transmitting Utah Code 65A-8-9, regarding closed fire seasons.

(B) October 21, 1998, letter from Richard R. Long, Director, EPA Air and Radiation Program, to Ursula Trueman, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, requesting that Utah withdraw the submitted Salt Lake and Davis County PMContingency Measure SIP revisions, the Utah County PMContingency Measure SIP revisions, and the Residential Woodburning in Salt Lake, Davis and Utah Counties PMContingency Measure SIP revision.

(C) November 9, 1998, letter from the Governor of Utah, to William Yellowtail, EPA Region VIII Administrator, requesting that the submitted Salt Lake and Davis County and Utah County PMContingency Measure SIP revisions and the Residential Woodburning in Salt Lake, Davis and Utah Counties PMContingency Measure SIP revision be withdrawn.

(D) December 16, 1998, letter from Larry Svoboda, EPA Region VIII, to Ursula Trueman, Utah Department of Air Quality, clarifying revisions that were made to UACR R307-1-4.

(E) January 5, 1999, letter from Ursula Trueman, Utah Department of Air Quality, to William Yellowtail, EPA Region VIII Administrator, concurring on EPA's clarification of revisions that were made to UACR R307-1-4.

(F) January 29, 1999, letter from William Yellowtail, EPA Region VIII Administrator, to the Governor of Utah returning the Salt Lake and Davis County and Utah County PMContingency Measure SIP revisions and the Residential Woodburning in Salt Lake, Davis and Utah Counties PMContingency Measure SIP revision.

(42) On February 12, 1996, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions submitted revisions to the SIP that incorporate the General Conformity requirements of 40 CFR part 93, subpart B into the SIP and State regulation.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UACR R307-2-30, Section XXII, General Conformity, as adopted on October 4, 1995, effective October 12, 1995.

(B) UACR R307-19, General Conformity, as adopted on October 4, 1995, effective October 12, 1995.

(43) On February 1, 1995 the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the Utah SIP to revise the provisions for road salting and sanding in Section 9, part A of the SIP and in UACR R307-1-3, updating the incorporation by reference in R307-2-1, deleting obsolete measures for nonferrous smelters in R307-1-3, and making nonsubstantive changes to UACR R307-1-1 and R307-1-3.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UACR R307-1-3, a portion of "Control of Installations," revisions to road salting and sanding requirements and deletion of non ferrous smelter orders, as adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on November 5, 1993, effective on January 3, 1994.

(B) UACR R307-2-1, "Incorporation by Reference," revised date for incorporation by reference of the State Implementation Plan, as adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on January 31, 1994.

(C) UACR R307-1-1, "Foreword and Definitions," nonsubstantive change made to definition of "PMprecursor," effective on June 1, 1994.

(D) UACR R307-1-3, "Control of Installations," nonsubstantive changes to road salting and sanding, effective on June 1, 1994.

(ii) Additional Material.

(A) February 22, 1999 letter from Ursula Trueman, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, to Richard Long, Director, EPA Region VIII Air and Radiation Program, transmitting nonsubstantive change correction to R307-2-1, "Incorporation by Reference," that was left out of the February 1, 1995 SIP submittal.

(B) March 16, 1999 letter from Larry Svoboda, Unit Leader, EPA Region VIII Air and Radiation Program, to Ursula Trueman, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, explaining EPA's interpretation of nonsubstantive revision to definition of "PMprecursor."

(C) April 28, 1999 letter from Richard Sprott, Planning Branch Manager, Utah Division of Air Quality, to Larry Svoboda, Unit Leader, EPA Region VIII Air and Radiation Program, providing explanation for and background to the "PMprecursor" definition.

(D) August 26, 1999 fax from Jan Miller, Utah Division of Air Quality, to Cindy Rosenberg, EPA Region VIII Air and Radiation Program, transmitting documentation for effective date of the "PMprecursor" definition.

(44) On February 29, 2000, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to Section XI of the SIP that incorporate a new transportation control measure for Utah County into the SIP and State regulation.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UACR R307-110-19, Section XI, Other Control Measures for Mobile Sources, as adopted on February 9, 2000, effective February 10, 2000.

(B) Revisions to Section XI of the Utah SIP, Other Control Measures for Mobile Sources, adopted February 9, 2000, effective February 10, 2000.

(45) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part C, Carbon Monoxide ("Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Ogden City") as submitted by the Governor on December 9, 1996, excluding section IX, part C.8.f.(3) of the plan, "Emissions Credit Allocation," as EPA is not taking any action on that section of the plan. UACR R307-8; Oxygenated Gasoline Program as submitted by the Governor on July 8, 1998.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UACR R307-2-12, section IX, part C of the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP), adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on August 7, 1996, and September 4, 1996, effective November 1, 1996. EPA's incorporation by reference of UACR R307-2-12 only extends to the following Utah SIP provisions and excludes any other provisions that UACR R307-2-12 incorporates by reference:

Section IX, part C.8 (except for section IX, part C.8.f.(3)), "Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Ogden City," adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on August 7, 1996, and September 4, 1996, effective November 1, 1996.

(B) UACR R307-8, Oxygenated Gasoline Program, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on April 21, 1998, effective April 22, 1998.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) February 19, 1998, letter from Ursula Trueman, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality to Richard R. Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region VIII, entitled "DAQS-0188-98; Technical Support Documents-Ogden City and Salt Lake City CO Maintenance Plans." This letter confirmed that all the emission projections contained in the technical support documents for both the Salt Lake City and Ogden City redesignation requests were properly adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board in accordance with the Utah Air Quality Rules.

(B) July 17, 2000, letter from Richard Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region VIII, to Ursula Kramer, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality, entitled "Federal Register Action for the Ogden City Carbon Monoxide (CO) Redesignation-Resolution of Issues with the Conformity Budgets."

(C) September 11, 2000, letter from Rick Sprott, Acting Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality, to Richard Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region VIII, entitled "DAQP-131-00; Ogden City Carbon Monoxide (CO) Redesignation-Resolution of Issues with the Conformity Budgets." This letter provided clarification regarding the transportation conformity budgets in section IX.C.8 of the Ogden City maintenance plan SIP revision.

(46) On April 19, 2000, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the State's Air Conservation Regulations to update the definitions for "significant" and "volatile organic compound" to be in agreement with the federal definitions found at 40 CFR 51.166(23)(i) and 40 CFR 51.100(s)(1), July 1, 1998, respectively.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Utah Air Conservation Regulations section R307-101-2, definitions of "significant" and "volatile organic compound" (VOC), effective April 8, 1999.

(47) The Governor of Utah submitted a request to repeal sections R307-1-4.11 and R307-2-28, and revise R307-7of the Utah Air Conservation Regulations (UACR) on June 17, 1998. R307-1-4.11 is removed from the SIP. No action was taken on the repeal of R307-2-28 because it was never approved into the SIP.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UACR R307-7 effective November 15, 1996.

(48) On August 14, 2001, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Utah's SIP to update UACR R307-110-33, Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part C, Salt Lake County. The changes involve a demonstration that Salt Lake County's test and repair I/M network is as effective as a test only I/M network.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UACR R307-110-33, which incorporates by reference Utah SIP, Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part C, Salt Lake County and appendices 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c, adopted by the UAQB August 1, 2001 and State effective on August 2, 2001.

(49) On August 15, 2001, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Utah's SIP to update UACR R307-110-31, Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability. This revision required the mandatory implementation of the inspection of vehicle On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) systems starting January 1, 2002 in all areas implementing an I/M program.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UACR R-307-110-31 which incorporates by reference Utah SIP, Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability adopted by the UAQB on August 1, 2001 and State effective on August 2, 2001.

(50) The Governor of Utah submitted Rule R307-110-34 and Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part D, Utah County as part of the Utah State Implementation Plan on December 7, 2001.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule R307-110-34 and Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part D, Utah County, including appendices 1 through 6, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on August 1, 2001, effective October 2, 2001, published in the Utah State Bulletin issue of September 1, 2001.

(ii) Additional Material.

(A) Letter dated December 7, 2001 from Governor Michael O. Leavitt submitting Utah County's inspection and maintenance program state implementation plan revision.

(B) Evaluation of the Utah County Inspection/Maintenance Program, dated May 20, 1999.

(51) On May 13, 2002, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Utah's SIP involving a new rule R307-310 "Salt Lake County: Trading of Emission Budgets for Transportation Conformity." R307-310 allows trading from the motor vehicle emissions budget for primary Particulate Matter of 10 microns or less in diameter (PM) in the Salt Lake County PMSIP to the motor vehicle emissions budget for Nitrogen Oxides (NO) in the Salt Lake County PMSIP. This trading mechanism allows Salt Lake County to increase their NObudget in the Salt Lake County PMSIP by decreasing their PMbudget by an equivalent amount. These adjusted budgets in the Salt Lake County PMSIP would then be used for transportation conformity purposes.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule R307-310 "Salt Lake County: Trading of Emission Budgets for Transportation Conformity", as adopted on May 13, 2002, by the Utah Air Quality Board, and State effective on May 13, 2002.

(52) [Reserved]

(53) On September 27, 2001, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Utah's SIP involving R307-301 "Utah and Weber Counties: Oxygenated Gasoline Program." Specifically, the State revised R307-301-3 "Average Oxygen Content Standard" to only require the implementation of a 2.7% oxygen by weight program and not a 3.1% program that the State had mandated in a 1998 revision.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule R307-301-3 "Average Oxygen Content Standard", as adopted on September 5, 2001, by the Utah Air Quality Board, and State effective on September 10, 2001. This rule supersedes and replaces R307-8-3.1.B.

(54) On July 3, 2002, the Governor of Utah submitted a SIP revision revising the SIP for the Utah County nonattainment area for particulates of 10 microns in size or smaller (PM). The Governor's submittal, among other things, revises the existing attainment demonstration in the approved PMSIP based on a short-term emissions inventory, establishes 24-hour emission limits for the major stationary sources in the Utah County PMnonattainment area and establishes motor vehicle emission budgets based on EPA's most recent mobile source emissions model, Mobile6.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Rule R307-110-10, which incorporates revisions to portions of the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, "Control Measures for Area and Point Sources," Part A, "Fine Particulate Matter" as adopted on July 3, 2002, by the Utah Air Quality Board, and State effective on September 5, 2002. (Section IX of the Utah SIP was formerly designated Section 9. The revisions to Section IX, Part A we are incorporating by reference with this action do not replace Section 9, Part A entirely, but revise portions of Section 9.A.3., 9.A.6, 9.A.7, 9.A.8, 9.A.9 of the previously approved Utah SIP and add a new Section IX.A.10.)

(B) Rule R307-110-17, which incorporates revisions to portions of the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, "Control Measures for Area and Point Sources," Part H, "Emission Limits," as adopted on June 5, 2002, by the Utah Air Quality, and State effective on September 5, 2002. (Section IX, Part H of the Utah SIP was formerly designated Section 9, Appendix A. The revisions to Section IX, Part H we are incorporating by reference with this action replace the following sections of Section 9, Appendix A of the previously approved Utah SIP: Section 1.1 (General Requirements (Utah County)) and all subsections thereof; Section 1.2 (Particulate Emission Limitations (company specific)) and all subsections thereof.)

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter dated August 9, 2002 from Richard Sprott, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, to Richard Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region 8, transmitting the chronology of how the Utah County PMSIP revision was adopted over two Utah Air Quality Board meetings (June 5, 2002 and July 3, 2002) and the justification for the nonsubstantive revisions made between the two adoption dates.

(B) Letter dated July 3, 2002 from Governor Michael O. Leavitt, State of Utah, to Robert E. Roberts, Regional Administrator, EPA Region 8, requesting EPA's approval of the Utah State Implementation Plan for PMin Utah County.

(C) Commitment letter dated April 18, 2002 from Richard Sprott, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, to Richard Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region 8, committing to work with us to address remaining issues with the PMSIPs for both the Utah and Salt Lake County nonattainment areas and with the Utah SIP in general. Utah will address these ongoing issues in a SIP revision (which may be in the form of a maintenance plan) that will be submitted by March 1, 2004.

(D) Letter dated March 15, 2002 from, Richard Sprott, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, to Richard Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region 8, accompanied by three volumes of Technical Support Documentation titled "Supplement II-02 to the Technical Support Documentation for the State Implementation Plan for PM" for the Utah County PMSIP revision.

(E) Utah's General Definition rule R307-101-2 as in effect at the time Utah adopted Section IX, Part H of the SIP revision on June 5, 2002.

(F) All portions of the July 3, 2002 Utah PMSIP revision submittal, other than any documents or provisions mentioned in paragraph (c)(54)(i) of this section.

(55) [Reserved]

(56) On June 27, 1994 and April 28, 2000, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the State Implementation Plan. On December 31, 2002, the State of Utah submitted Supplemental Administrative Documentation. The June 27, 1994 submittal revises the numbering and format of Utah's State Implementation Plan (SIP). The April 28, 2000 and December 31, 2002 submittals contain non-substantive changes to correct minor errors in the June 27, 1994 submittal. The provisions identified below are approved into the SIP and supersede and replace the corresponding prior codification of the provisions of the SIP.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Utah State Implementation Plan Section I; Section II; Section III (except III.C); Section IV; Section V; Section VI; Section VII (except VII.D); Section IX, Part IX.B (except the title, IX.B.3.a, IX.B.3.d, IX.B.3.e, and IX.B.4); Section IX, Parts C, E, F and G (except the titles); Section IX, Part D.1 (except for the title and IX.D.1.d (5)); Section XI (Appendix 1 and Appendix 2 only); Section XII; Section XIII; Section XIV (except Table IX.9); Section XV; Section XVI; Section XVII (except XVII.A, XVII.D and XVII.E); Section XVIII (except XVIII.B); and Section XIX, effective 11/12/93.

(B) Utah State Implementation Plan Section IX, Part IX.B.3.d; Section IX, titles of Parts B, C, D.1, E, F and G; Section XIV, Table XIV.9; Section XVII, Parts XVII.A, XVII.D and XVII.E; and Section XVIII, Part XVIII.B, effective 2/25/2000.

(C) Utah State Implementation Plan Section III, Part III.C; Section VII, Part VII.D; Section VIII; Section IX, Parts IX.B.3.a, IX.B.3.e, IX.B.4, IX.C.7.b(3), IX.C.7.h(3), IX.C.8.b(3), IX.C.8.f(1)(a), IX.C.8.h(3)(a), IX.C.8.h(3)(c), IX.D.1.d(5), IX.D.2.b, IX.D.2.d(1)(a), IX.D.2.e(1), IX.D.2.f(1)(a), IX.D.2.h (except IX.D.2.h(2)), IX.D.2.i and IX.D.2.j; and Section XXII, effective January 1, 2003.

(ii) Additional Material.

(A) October 3, 2002 letter from Rick Sprott, Utah Department of Air Quality, to Richard Long, EPA Region VIII, to address typographical errors and missing pages in the January 27, 1994 submittal.

(B) [Reserved]

(57) On September 7, 1999 and February 11, 2003, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the SIP. The submittals revise Utah's Air Conservation Regulations (UACR), R307-170, Continuous Emission Monitoring Program, by repealing and re-enacting the rule to clarify requirements of the rule. The revisions are being approved into the SIP.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UACR R307-170, effective 4/1/1999, except sections R307-170-4, R307-170-5 and R307-170-9.

(B) UACR sections R307-170-4, R307-170-5 and R307-170-9, effective December 5, 2002.

(58) On November 9, 2001 and September 16, 2003 the State of Utah submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) to incorporate new and revise existing definitions in the new source review (NSR) rules. The revisions update the State's NSR rules so that they are consistent with the revisions EPA made to its NSR rules on July 21, 1992.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-101-2, the definitions "Actual Emissions," "Clean Coal Technology," "Clean Coal Technology Demonstration Project," "Electric Utility Steam Generating Unit," "Emissions Unit," "Pollution Control Project," and "Representative Actual Annual Emissions," effective 7/12/01.

(B) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-101-2, the definitions "Major Modification," "Reactivation of Very Clean Coal-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Unit," "Repowering," and "Temporary Clean Coal Technology Demonstration Project," effective 6/1/03.

(C) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-405-1, the definition "Major Modification" effective 6/1/03.

(59) On February 5, 2001, October 26, 2000, September 20, 1999, September 7, 1999, two State Implementation Plan (SIP) revisions submitted February 6, 1996 and one on January 27, 1995, the State of Utah submitted SIP revisions that recodifies Utah's rules that had previously been approved into Utah's SIP; removed from Utah's SIP language that is obsolete or is generally not related to attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) and is therefore not appropriate to be in Utah's SIP; and arranged rules to allow for a more coherent SIP structure.

(i) Incorporation by Reference.

(A) Utah Administrative Code (UAC) rule sections: R307-101-1 and 2 with the exception of the definitions for "actual emissions," "major modification," "part 70 source," "significant," and "volatile organic compound" effective September 15, 1998; R307-102-1 through R307-102-6 effective September 15, 1998 and R307-102-1(2) effective August 3, 2000; R307-105-1 and R307-105-2 effective September 15, 1998, R307-107-1 through R307-107-6 effective September 15, 1998; R307-110-1 through R307-110-9, R307-110-11, R307-110-13 through R307-110-15, R307-110-18, R307-110-20 through R307-110-28, R307-110-30, and R307-110-32 effective September 15, 1998; R307-115-1 effective September 15, 1998; R307-130-1 through R307-130-4 effective September 15, 1998; R307-165-1 through R307-165-4 effective September 15, 1998; R307-201-1 through R307-201-3 effective September 15, 1998; R307-202-1 through R307-202-6 effective September 15, 1998; R307-203-1 through R307-203-3 effective September 15, 1998; R307-206-1 through R307-206-5 effective September 15, 1998; R307-302-1, R302-302-2 (except paragraph (4)) and R307-302-4 effective September 15, 1998; R307-305-1 through R307-305-7 effective September 15, 1998; R307-307-1 through R307-307-3 effective September 15, 1998; R307-325-1 through R307-325-4 effective September 15, 1998; R307-326-1 through R307-326-7 effective September 15, 1998; R307-327-1 through R307-327-3 effective September 15, 1998; R307-328-1 through R307-328-5 effective September 15, 1998; R307-335-1 through R307-335-4 effective September 15, 1998; R307-340-1 through R307-340-13 effective September 15, 1998; R307-341-1 through R307-341-3 effective September 15, 1998; R307-342-1 through R307-342-7 effective September 15, 1998; R307-401-9 and R307-401-10(1) effective September 15, 1998; R307-403-1 through R307-403-9 effective September 15, 1998; R307-405-1 through R307-405-8 effective September 15, 1998; R307-406-1 through R307-406-6 effective September 15, 1998; R307-413-7 effective September 15, 1998; and R307-414-1 through R307-414-3 effective September 15, 1998.

(ii) Additional Material.

(A) Outline for Utah's Rules Reorganization effective September 15, 1998.

(B) July 6, 2000 letter from Richard Long, EPA Region VIII to Ursula Kramer, Director, Utah Division of Environmental Quality requesting Utah to withdraw Utah SIP submittals dated April 30, 1998, October 9, 1998, and April 19, 2000.

(C) October 6, 2000 letter from Richard Long, EPA Region VIII to Rick Sprott, Acting Director, Utah Division of Air Quality (UDAQ) notifying UDAQ of an October 6, 1995 EPA memorandum (included with the October 6, 2000 letter) stating that Clean Air Act section 172(c)(9) pertaining to contingency measures requirements would not apply to PM10 nonattainment areas that had attained the standard with at least 3 years of clean air quality and as long as the area continued to attain the standard.

(D) October 16, 2000 letter from Michael Leavitt, Governor of Utah to William Yellowtail, Regional Administrator, EPA Region VIII requesting the withdraw of Utah's SIP submittals dated April 30, 1998, October 9, 1998, and April 19, 2000.

(E) April 2, 2002 letter from Richard Long, EPA Region VIII to Rick Sprott, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality informing UDAQ of our intent to not act on Utah's SIP submittal dated October 26, 2000 and our intent to remove existing asbestos rule language (R701-1-8) from Utah's federally approved SIP.

(F) April 7, 2005 letter from Rick Sprott, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality agreeing with EPA on the exclusion of Utah rules R307-1-6, R307-121, R307-122, R307-135, R307-214, R307-215, R307-220, R307-221, R307-320, R307-332, R307-415, R307-417, and R307-1-8 from Utah's federally approved SIP.

(60) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, Part C.7, "Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Salt Lake City," as submitted by the Governor on October 19, 2004; revisions to UAC R307-110-12, "Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part C, Carbon Monoxide," as submitted by the Governor on October 19, 2004; revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section X, "Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part C, Salt Lake County," as submitted by the Governor on October 19, 2004; and revisions to UAC R307-110-33, "Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part C, Salt Lake County," as submitted by the Governor on October 19, 2004.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UAC R307-110-12, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on October 6, 2004, effective December 2, 2004. This incorporation by reference of UAC R307-110-12 only extends to the following Utah SIP provisions and excludes any other provisions that UAC R307-110-12 incorporates by reference: Section IX, Part C.7, "Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Salt Lake City," adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on October 6, 2004, effective December 2, 2004.

(B) UAC R307-110-33, "Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part C, Salt Lake County," as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on October 6, 2004, effective October 7, 2004.

(61) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, Part C.8, "Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Ogden," as submitted by the Governor on November 29, 2004; revisions to UAC R307-110-12, "Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part C, Carbon Monoxide," as submitted by the Governor on November 29, 2004; revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section X, "Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part E, Weber County," as submitted by the Governor on November 29, 2004; and revisions to UAC R307-110-35, "Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part E, Weber County," as submitted by the Governor on November 29, 2004.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UAC R307-110-12, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on November 3, 2004, effective January 4, 2005. This incorporation by reference of UAC R307-110-12 only extends to the following Utah SIP provisions and excludes any other provisions that UAC R307-110-12 incorporates by reference:

Section IX, Part C.8, "Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Ogden," adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on November 3, 2004, effective January 4, 2005.

(B) UAC R307-110-35, "Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part E, Weber County," as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on November 3, 2004, effective November 4, 2004.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) A July 28, 2005 letter from Jan Miller, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, to Kerri Fiedler, EPA Region VIII, to address typographical errors in the November 29, 2004 submittal.

(B) An August 2, 2005 letter from Richard Sprott, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, to Gary House, Weber-Morgan Board of Health, addressing limits on Weber County authority to revise vehicle emission cutpoints.

(62) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, "Section IX, Part C.6, Carbon Monoxide Provisions for Provo," as submitted by the Governor on April 1, 2004; revisions to UAC R307-110-12, "Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part C, Carbon Monoxide," as submitted by the Governor on April 1, 2004; revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, "Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability," as submitted by the Governor on April 1, 2004; revisions to UAC R307-110-31, "Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability," as submitted by the Governor on April 1, 2004; revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, "Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part D, Utah County," as submitted by the Governor on April 1, 2004; revisions to UAC R307-110-34, "Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part D, Utah County," as submitted by the Governor on April 1, 2004; the removal of UAC R307-301 from the Federally-approved SIP as requested by the Governor on April 1, 2004; and UAC R307-302-3, and UAC R307-302-4, "No-Burn Periods for Carbon Monoxide" and "Violations," respectively, as submitted by the Governor on September 20, 1999.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UAC R307-110-12, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on March 31, 2004, effective May 18, 2004. This incorporation by reference of UAC R307-110-12 only extends to the following Utah SIP provisions and excludes any other provisions that UAC R307-110-12 incorporates by reference: "Section IX, Part C.6, Carbon Monoxide Provisions for Provo," adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on March 31, 2004, effective May 18, 2004.

(B) UAC R307-110-31, "Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability," as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on March 31, 2004, effective May 18, 2004.

(C) UAC R307-110-34, "Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part D, Utah County," as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on March 31, 2004, effective May 18, 2004.

(D) UAC R307-302-3, "No-Burn Periods for Carbon Monoxide," as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on August 13, 1998, effective September 15, 1998.

(E) UAC R307-302-4, "Violations," as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on August 13, 1998, effective September 15, 1998.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) An August 2, 2005 letter from Richard Sprott, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, to Jerry Grover, Utah County Commission, addressing limits on Utah County authority to revise vehicle emission cut-points.

(B) An August 19, 2005 letter from Richard Sprott, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, to Richard Long, EPA Region VIII, providing supplemental Technical Support Documentation to Volumes 11 and 12 of the State's Technical Support Document for the Provo area's carbon monoxide attainment demonstration and maintenance plan that was submitted by Governor Walker on April 1, 2004.

(C) A September 8, 2005 letter from Jan Miller, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, to Kerri Fiedler, EPA Region VIII, to address typographical errors in "Section X, Part D, Utah County Vehicle Emissions Inspection and Maintenance Program" that was submitted by Governor Walker on April 1, 2004.

(63) Revisions to the definition of "Volatile Organic Compounds," in UAC rule R307-101-2, as submitted by the Governor on November 11, 2005. Revisions to the definition of "Clearing Index," in UAC rule R307-101-2, as submitted by the Governor on November 23, 2005.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Utah Administrative Code rule R307-101-2, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on July 6, 2005, effective on July 7, 2005. This incorporation by reference extends only to the definition of Volatile Organic Compounds and excludes any other provisions that R307-101-02 incorporates by reference.

(B) Utah Administrative Code rule R307-101-2, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on September 7, 2005, effective on September 8, 2005. This incorporation by reference extends only to the definition of the Clearing Index and excludes any other provisions that R307-101-2 incorporates by reference.

(64) Revisions to State Implementation Plan were submitted by the State of Utah on February 7, 2006. The revisions are to the Utah Administrative Code to revise the continuous emission monitoring requirements for performance audits of acid rain monitors and to correct several typographical and grammatical errors.

(i) Incorporation by reference.
