
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart TT - Utah
###### ยง 52.2324 Original identification of plan.
####### Emission Standards. Non-Attainment Area Requirements-Ozone,

(B) Revisions to the following rules of R446-1-4.9,effective June 15, 1991: 4.9.A through 4.9.E were added (disposal of VOCs; requirements for EPA concurrence on alternative test methods, alternative methods of control, alternative compliance periods, alternative emission limits, or alternative monitoring schedules; recordkeeping and reporting requirements; RACT requirements for major non-CTG sources; "once-in, always-in" requirements; and allowance for exclusion of non-reactive VOC's); revisions to 4.9.1 (Petroleum Liquid Storage), 4.9.2 (Gasoline Transfer/Storage), 4.9.3 (Control of Hydrocarbon Emissions in Refineries), 4.9.4 (Degreasing and Solvent Cleaning Operations), 4.9.5 (Cutback Asphalt), 4.9.6 (Volatile Organic Compounds Used for Coating Paper, Fabric, Vinyl, Metal Furniture, Large Appliances, Magnet Wire, Flat Wood Paneling, Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products, and Graphic Arts), 4.9.7 (Perchlorethylene Dry Cleaning Plants), 4.9.8 (Compliance Schedule); 4.9.9 (Compliance Schedule) was deleted.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) May 9, 1991, letter from F. Burnell Cordner, Executive Secretary, Utah Air Conservation Committee, to Douglas Skie, EPA. This letter provided final changes to R446-1-4.9, indicated that these changes would become effective on June 15, 1991, and indicated that the State would submit the Ozone SIP revision package to EPA after the changes become effective.

(B) July 25, 1991, letter from Norman H. Bangerter, Governor, State of Utah, to James Scherer, EPA. Official SIP submittal, transmitting revised Regulation R446-1-4.9, and other administrative materials. This letter provided a negative declaration for seven CTG source categories: large petroleum dry cleaners, manufacturers of high density polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene resins, manufacturers of synthesized pharmaceutical products, manufacturers of pneumatic rubber tires, natural gas/gas processing plants, and synthetic organic chemical manufacturing industries (SOCMI) with fugitive emissions and/or air oxidation processes.

(C) September 5, 1991, letter from F. Burnell Cordner, Executive Secretary, Utah Air Quality Board, to James Scherer, EPA. This letter provided a negative declaration for three CTG source categories: surface coating of cans, surface coating of metal coils, and surface coating of automobiles and light duty trucks.

(D) January 30, 1992, letter from F. Burnell Cordner, Executive Secretary, Utah Air Quality Board, to Doug Skie, EPA. This letter contained the State's commitment to conduct capture efficiency testing using the most recent EPA capture efficiency protocols, and the commitment to adopt federal capture efficiency test methods after they are officially promulgated by EPA.

(25) The Governor of Utah submitted a PMState Implementation Plan (SIP) for Salt Lake and Utah Counties, Utah with a letter dated November 15, 1991. The submittals were made to satisfy those moderate PMnonattainment area SIP requirements due for Salt Lake and Utah Counties as outlined in the Clean Air Act of 1990. The Governor's submittal also included revisions to the Utah Air Quality Rules and to other sections of the State-wide SIP. The Utah Air Conservation Regulations have been revised and renumbered over the past decade and are being replaced in its entirely with this Governor's submittal.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Utah Air Conservation Regulations, printed January 27, 1992.

(B) Utah State Implementation Plan, Section 1-7 and 10-15, effective March 31, 1992.

(C) Utah State Implementation Plan, Section 9, Part A and Section 9, Part A, Appendix A effective August 14, 1991.

(26) On November 9, 1992, Norman Bangerter, the Governor of Utah, submitted a SIP revision to the Utah Implementation Plan and Utah Air Conservation Regulations. This revision establishes and requires the implementation of oxygenated fuel programs in Provo-Orem and Salt Lake-Ogden Metropolitan Statistical Areas as required by section 211(m) of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) R307-8; Oxygenated Gasoline Program, of the Utah Air Conservation Regulations as adopted by the State, effective December 16, 1993.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) Letter dated November 9, 1992, from Governor Norman Bangerter submitting the oxygenated gasoline program SIP revision.

(B) Letter dated May 19, 1994, from Governor Michael O. Leavitt submitting the oxygenated gasoline program SIP revision.

(27) The Governor of Utah submitted a Section 16, Stack Height Demonstration and Section 9, Part B, Sulfur Dioxide of the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP) a letter dated December 23, 1991, and May 15, 1992, respectively. The Governor's submittal also included statewide SOregulations.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Utah State Implementation Plan, Section 16, effective December 16, 1991.

(B) Utah State Implementation Plan, Section 9, Part B effective June 15, 1992.

(C) Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-1-4. Emission Standards: changes to 4.2 Sulfur Content of Fuels and 4.6.2, effective June 15, 1992.

(28) On November 12, 1993, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to its permitting requirements to satisfy the nonattainment new source review provisions in the amended Clean Air Act for all of its nonattainment areas. On May 20, 1994, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Utah's definition of volatile organic compounds.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-1-1, the forward and the following definitions: "air contaminant," "air contaminant source," "air pollution," "allowable emissions," "ambient air," "best available control technology (BACT)," "board," "department," "dispersion technique," "emission limitation," "executive director," "executive secretary," "major modification," "major source," "PM-10 precursor," "person," "temporary," and "volatile organic compound (VOC);" effective November 15, 1993, printed June 24, 1994.

(B) Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-1-3.1.8, R307-1-3.1.10, and R307-1-3.3; effective August 16, 1993, printed May 26, 1994.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) Letter dated October 18, 1994 from Russell A. Roberts to Douglas M. Skie clarifying applicability of Utah's nonattainment new source review permitting requirements.

(29) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan for the 1990 Carbon Monoxide Base Year emission inventories for Ogden City, Salt Lake City, and Utah County were submitted by the Governor in a letter dated July 11, 1994.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Carbon Monoxide 1990 Base Year Emission Inventories for Ogden City, Utah SIP, Section IX, Part C.3., Table IX.C.5; Salt Lake City, Utah SIP, Section IX, Part C.3., Table IX.C.4; and Utah County, Utah SIP, Section IX, Part C.6., Table IX.C.10 all of which became effective on August 31, 1994.

(30) On November 9, 1992, the Governor of Utah submitted a plan for the establishment and implementation of a Small Business Assistance Program to be incorporated into the Utah State Implementation Plan as required by section 507 of the Clean Air Act.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Utah Code, Title 19, Chapter 2, Air Conservation Act, Sections 19-2-109.1 and 19-2-109.2, to establish and fund a small business stationary source technical and environmental compliance assistance program, effective April 27, 1992.

(ii) Additional materials.

(A) November 9, 1992 letter from the Governor of Utah submitting a Small Business Assistance Program plan to EPA.

(B) The State of Utah plan for the establishment and implementation of a Small Business Assistance Program, promulgated September 30, 1992 by the Utah Air Quality Board, effective December 1, 1992.

(31) On February 1, 1995, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the prevention of significant deterioration permitting regulations in R307-1-1 and R307-1-3 of the Utah Air Conservation Regulations to incorporate changes in the Federal PSD permitting regulations for PM-10 increments and to make other minor, administrative changes.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-1-1, the definitions of "baseline area," "baseline date," "net emissions increase," and "significant," effective 9/22/94, printed 10/24/94.

(B) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-1-3, Sections 3.6.2.B, 3.6.2.D, 3.6.2.E, 3.6.3.A, 3.6.3.B, 3.6.3.D.(2) and (3), 3.6.4.A.(1), 3.6.4.C, 3.6.4.D, 3.6.5.A, 3.6.5.B.(1)(a), 3.6.5.C, 3.6.5.D, 3.6.5.E, 3.6.5.F, and 3.6.6, effective 10/1/94, printed 10/24/94.

(32)-(33) [Reserved]

(34) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan for the Emission Statement Inventory regulation, UACR R307-1-3.5.4., revision of the ozone nonattainment area designation definition, UACR R307-1-3.3.3C, and other minor changes to definitions in UACR R307-1-1. were submitted by the Governor in a letter dated November 12, 1993.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Emission Statement Inventory regulation, UACR R307-1-3.5.4, ozone nonattainment area designation definition, UACR R307-1-3.3.3C, and the following definitions in UACR R307-1-1.; "Control Apparatus", "Emissions Information", "Peak Ozone Season", "Process Level", and "Process Rate". All were adopted on August 4, 1993, and became effective on November 15, 1993.

(B) A letter dated May 30, 1995, from Russell Roberts, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality to Douglas Skie, Chief, Air Programs Branch for Region 8.

(35) [Reserved]

(36) The Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Utah's State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Visibility Protection with a letter dated July 25, 1996. The revision was made to add a new subsection 15.10 to the SIP to include a policy statement regarding scenic views which was deleted from the Utah Air Conservation Regulations.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Utah State Implementation Plan, Subsection 15.10, Policy of the Air Conservation Committee Concerning the Protection of Scenic Views Associated with Mandatory Class I Areas from Significant Impairment for Visibility, adopted on March 26, 1993, and effective on March 29, 1993.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) A July 25, 1996 letter from Michael O. Leavitt, Utah Governor, to Jack McGraw, EPA Region VIII Acting Regional Administrator, in which it was communicated, among other things, that the Utah Air Quality Board deleted R307-5 from the Utah Air Conservation Regulations. The deletion was effective March 29, 1993.

(37) On November 20, 1996, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to the Utah State Implementation Plan. The submittal included a new Utah regulation which incorporates by reference the Federal new source performance standards in 40 CFR part 60, as in effect on March 12, 1996.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-18-1, "Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources (NSPS)," effective September 9, 1996, printed October 19, 1996.

(38) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part D, Ozone; Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability; Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part B, Davis County; Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part C, Salt Lake County; Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part E, Weber County; UACR R307-1-3.3.3.C., a portion of Control of Installations; UACR R307-1-3.5.3.B.(1), a portion of Emission Statement Inventory; all as submitted by the Governor on February 19, 1997. EPA approved the above provisions. In addition, EPA approved, for the limited purpose of strengthening the SIP, revisions to UACR R307-14, Requirements for Ozone Nonattainment Areas and Davis and Salt Lake Counties, as submitted by the Governor on February 6, 1996.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UACR R307-2-13 adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on January 8, 1997, effective March 4, 1997, including Section IX, Part D.2 of the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP) that such rule incorporates by reference (Ozone Maintenance Provisions for Salt Lake and Davis Counties, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on January 8, 1997), and excluding any other provisions that such rule incorporates by reference.

(B) The following State Approval Orders (AO): Pacificorp Gadsby Power Plant AO DAQE-0063-94 dated February 3, 1994, Kennecott Utah Copper Utah Power Plant AO DAQE-433-94 dated May 27, 1994, Hill Air Force Base (HAFB) AO DAQE-163-96 dated February 9, 1996, HAFB AO DAQE-1134-95 dated December 7, 1995, HAFB AO DAQE-860-95 dated September 20, 1995, HAFB AO DAQE-775-95 dated August 30, 1995, HAFB AO DAQE-403-95 dated May 8, 1995, HAFB AO DAQE-067-95 dated January 31, 1995, HAFB AO DAQE-068-95 dated January 30, 1995, HAFB AO DAQE-915-94 dated October 18, 1994, HAFB AO DAQE-824-94 dated September 29, 1994, HAFB AO DAQE-0752-93 dated August 27, 1993, HAFB AO DAQE-0719-93 dated August 20, 1993, HAFB AO DAQE-0103-93 dated February 11, 1993, HAFB AO DAQE-1171-92 dated January 4, 1993, HAFB AO DAQE-416-92 dated April 28, 1992, HAFB AO DAQE-167-92 dated February 19, 1992, HAFB AO DAQE-894-91 dated November 25, 1991, HAFB AO BAQE-039-91 dated February 7, 1991, HAFB AO BAQE-669-88 dated December 20, 1988, HAFB AO BAQE-525-88 dated October 13, 1988, HAFB AO BAQE-353-88 dated July 21, 1988, HAFB AO BAQE-026-88 dated January 20, 1988, HAFB AO for Industrial Wastewater Treatment Facility dated February 20, 1986, HAFB AO for Hydrazine Exhaust Incinerator dated February 5, 1985, HAFB AO for Paint Booth, HVAC Modification, Standby Generators, and Fuel Storage dated July 18, 1983, HAFB AO for Remodeling Base Exchange BX Service Station dated July 12, 1979, HAFB AO for Construction dated June 27, 1978, and the Olympia Sales Company AO DAQE-300-95 dated April 13, 1995.

(C) UACR R307-2-18, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on February 5, 1997, effective February 14, 1997. This rule incorporates by reference Section X, Part A of the Utah State Implementation Plan, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, General Requirements and Applicability.

(D) UACR R307-2-31, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on February 5, 1997, effective February 14, 1997. This rule incorporates by reference Section X, Part B of the Utah State Implementation Plan, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Davis County.

(E) UACR R307-2-32, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on February 5, 1997, effective February 14, 1997. This rule incorporates by reference Section X, Part C of the Utah State Implementation Plan, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Salt Lake County.

(F) UACR R307-2-34, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on February 5, 1997, effective February 14, 1997. This rule incorporates by reference Section X, Part E of the Utah State Implementation Plan, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Weber County.

(G) UACR R307-1-3.3.3.C., a portion of Control of Installations, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on January 8, 1997, effective January 15, 1997.

(H) UACR R307-1-3.5.3.B.(1), a portion of Emission Statement Inventory regulation, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on January 8, 1997, effective January 15, 1997.

(I) UACR R307-14-1, Requirements for Ozone Nonattainment Areas and Davis and Salt Lake Counties, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on August 9, 1995, effective on August 15, 1995.

(39) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part C, Carbon Monoxide as submitted by the Governor on December 6, 1996 (with minor mathematical corrections submitted by the Utah Division of Air Quality on August 12, 1998), excluding Section IX, Part C.7.f.(3) of the plan, "Emissions Credit Allocation," as EPA is not taking any action on that section of the plan. UACR R307-1-3.3 Requirements for Nonattainment and Maintenance Areas-New and Modified Sources; as submitted by the Governor on November 24, 1995.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UACR R307-2-12, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on August 7, 1996 and September 4, 1996, effective November 1, 1996, as modified through a notice of nonsubstantive rule change dated July 14, 1998, effective July 27, 1998, to correct minor mathematical errors in Section IX, Part C.7.f.(2) of the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP). UACR R307-2-12 incorporates by reference a number of provisions of the Utah SIP, only some of which are relevant to this rulemaking action. EPA's incorporation by reference of UACR R307-2-12 only extends to the following Utah SIP provisions and excludes any other provisions that UACR R307-2-12 incorporates by reference:

Section IX, Part C.7 (except for Section IX, Part C.7.f.(3)), Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Salt Lake City, adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on August 7, 1996, and September 4, 1996, effective November 1, 1996, as modified by the nonsubstantive rule change noted above.

(B) UACR R307-1-3.3, a portion of Requirements for Nonattainment and Maintenance Areas-New and Modified Sources, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on October 4, 1995, December 6, 1995, effective January 31, 1996.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) February 19, 1998, letter from Ursula Trueman, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality to Richard R. Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region VIII, entitled "DAQS-0188-98; Technical Support Documents-Ogden City and Salt Lake City CO Maintenance Plans." This letter confirmed that all the emission projections, contained in the technical support documents for both the Salt Lake City and Ogden City redesignation requests, were properly adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board in accordance with the Utah Air Quality Rules.

(B) Materials from Jan Miller, Utah Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality, received by Tim Russ, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region VIII, displaying the minor mathematical corrections to the on-road mobile source emission budgets in Section IX, Part C. 7.f.(2) of the Salt Lake City CO Maintenance Plan. These nonsubstantive changes were made in accordance with the Utah Air Quality Rules and were effective July 27, 1998.

(40) The Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan to revise Utah's definition of a volatile organic compound (VOC) and to include nonsubstantive wording changes regarding VOC emissions from air strippers and soil venting operations. The revisions to the VOC definition, found in UACR R307-1-1, were submitted by the Governor on November 8, 1995, February 12, 1996, November 20, 1996, May 15, 1997, and June 10, 1998. The revisions submitted November 8, 1995, February 12, 1996, November 20, 1996, and May 15, 1997, deleted volatile methyl siloxanes, parachlorobenzotrifluoride (PCBTF), acetone, perchloroethylene (PERC), HFC 43-10mee, HCFC 225ca and HCFC 225cb from the definition of VOCs. The June 10, 1998 submittal incorporated the deletion of 16 more pollutants from the federal list that were determined to have a negligible contribution to tropospheric ozone formation; the compounds are: HFC-32, HFC-161, HFC-236fa, HFC-245ca, HFC-245ea, HFC-245eb, HFC-245fa, HFC-236ea, HFC-365mfc, HCFC-31, HCFC-123a, HCFC-151a, CFOCH, (CF)CFCFOCH, CFOCH, and (CF)CFCFOCH(compound names only are listed here, refer to 62 FR 44901, August 25, 1997 for the chemical name and 62 FR 44903, August 25, 1997 for the complete list of exempted VOCs). A second February 12, 1996 Governor's submittal contained minor wording revisions which were made to UACR R307-6-1 regarding VOC emissions from air strippers and soil venting operations. The revision submitted November 20, 1996 also repealed UACR R307-14-8 which had addressed requirements for perchloroethylene dry cleaning plants located in ozone nonattainment and maintenance areas.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) UACR R307-1-1, a portion of Forward and Definitions, definition of VOC, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on January 7, 1998, effective January 8, 1998.
