
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart TT - Utah
###### ยง 52.2324 Original identification of plan.
####### Regional Haze State Implementation Pan.

(A) Section XX.G of the UtahEffective April 7, 2011. Published in the Utah State Bulletin February 1, 2011.

(73) On March 22, 2007, the Governor submitted revisions to Section IX, Part D of the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP) in the form of a maintenance plan for the 1997 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) for Salt Lake County and Davis County. On March 22, 2007, the Governor also submitted revisions to associated rules: UAC R307-101-2, R307-110-13, R307-320, R307-325, R307-326, R307-327, R307-328, R307-335, R307-340, R307-341, and R307-342. EPA is approving the maintenance plan, except for the following aspects, which EPA is disapproving: those contingency measures listed in section 6.d of the State's maintenance plan that are voluntary in nature, which consist of: "Alert Day Enhancements," "Heavy Equipment Emission Control Program," "Reduce Emissions of VOCs" (to the extent the State would adopt and implement the measure as a voluntary commitment rather than a regulatory measure), "Identification of High-Polluting Vehicles," and "Other VOC or NOemissions control measures as appropriate" (to the extent such measures would be voluntary); the contingency measure listed in section 6.d of the State's maintenance plan as "Establish an Offset Ratio for NO;" the State's proposal in section 5.a.(3)(b)of the maintenance plan to remove from the SIP the VOC RACT approval orders for Hill Air Force Base; the State's proposal in section 5.b.(1) of the maintenance plan to remove from the SIP the NORACT limits for the PacifiCorp Gadsby Power Plant; and section 5.g of the maintenance plan, which indicates that the employer-based trip reduction program is included as part of the plan. EPA is approving the revisions to UAC R307-110-13, which incorporates the maintenance plan into Utah's rules, but only to the extent we are approving the 1997 8-hour ozone maintenance plan. EPA is disapproving UAC R307-320, the employer-based trip reduction program. EPA is approving the revisions to UAC R307-325, R307-326, R307-327, R307-328, R307-335, R307-340, R307-341, and R307-342, subject to our interpretation of these rules expressed in the preamble to our rulemaking action. EPA is not acting on the revisions to UAC R307-101-2 because the revisions have been superseded by later revisions to the rule, which EPA approved at ยง 52.2320(c)(67).
