
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart TT - Utah
###### ยง 52.2324 Original identification of plan.
####### Environmental Quality, Air Quality,,Permit: New and Modified Sources,,Small Source Exemption,,Permits: Major Sources in Attainment or Unclassified Areas (PSD),,Definitions,

(A) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code (UAC),R307-401,R307-401-9,(5); and R307-405,R307-405-3,except (2)(a), (b), (f), (5), and (6); effective January 1, 2011, as published in the Utah State Bulletin on September 15, 2010 and December 15, 2010.

(77) On February 6, 1996, Utah submitted as a revision to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) a "Diesel Inspection and Maintenance Program," Section XXI of the Utah SIP. EPA is disapproving the Utah Diesel Inspection and Maintenance Program as submitted on February 6, 1996. On September 20, 1999 the State of Utah submitted revisions to its SIP that revised the numbering and format of the Utah Administrative Code rules within Utah's SIP. From the September 20, 1999 submittal, EPA is approving R307-110-16, "Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part G, Fluoride," and disapproving R307-110-29, "Section XXI, Diesel Inspection and Maintenance Program," which incorporated Utah's Diesel Inspection and Maintenance Program by reference into Utah's rules. EPA has previously acted on other provisions from the September 20, 1999 submittal.

(i) Incorporation by reference.
