
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart TT - Utah
###### ยง 52.2346 Significant deterioration of air quality.
####### Significant

(6)means, in reference to a net emissions increase or the potential of a source to emit any of the following pollutants, a rate of emissions that would equal or exceed any of the following rates:

(i) Carbon monoxide: 100 tons per year (tpy).

(ii) Nitrogen oxides: 40 tpy.

(iii) Sulfur dioxide: 40 tpy.

(iv) Particulate matter: 25 tpy of particulate matter emissions.

(v) PM: 15 tpy.

(vi) PM: 10 tpy of direct PMemissions; 40 tpy of sulfur dioxide emissions; 40 tpy of nitrogen oxide emissions unless demonstrated not to be a PMprecursor under 40 CFR 52.21(b)(50).

(vii) Ozone: 40 tpy of volatile organic compounds or nitrogen oxides.

(viii) Lead: 0.6 tpy.

(ix) Fluorides: 3 tpy.

(x) Sulfuric acid mist: 7 tpy.

(xi) Hydrogen sulfide (HS): 10 tpy.

(xii) Total reduced sulfur (including HS): 10 tpy.

(xiii) Reduced sulfur compounds (including HS): 10 tpy.

(xiv) Municipal waste combustor organics (measured as total tetra-through octa-chlorinated diebenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans): 3.2 x 10megagrams per year (3.5 x 10tons per year).

(xv) Municipal waste combustor metals (measured as particulate matter): 14 megagrams per year (15 tons per year).

(xvi) Municipal waste combustor acid gases (measured as sulfur dioxide and hydrogen chloride): 36 megagrams per year (40 tons per year).

(xvii) Municipal solid waste landfills emissions (measured as nonmethane organic compounds): 45 megagrams per year (50 tons per year).
