
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart TT - Utah
###### ยง 52.2348 National Highway Systems Designation Act Motor Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance (I/M) Programs.

(a) On March 15, 1996 the Governor of Utah submitted a revised I/M program for Utah County which included a credit claim, a basis in fact for the credit claimed, a description of the County's program, draft County ordinances, and authorizing legislation for the program. Approval is granted on an interim basis for a period of 18 months, under the authority of section 348 of the National Highway Systems Designation Act of 1995. If Utah County fails to start its program by November 15, 1997 at the latest, this approval will convert to a disapproval after EPA sends a letter to the State. At the end of the eighteen month period, the approval will lapse. At that time, EPA must take final rulemaking action upon the State's SIP, under the authority of section 110 of the Clean Air Act. Final action on the State/County's plan will be taken following EPA's review of the State/County's credit evaluation and final regulations (State and County) as submitted to EPA.

(b) On May 20, 1999, the State of Utah submitted an evaluation of the Utah County inspection and maintenance program. On December 7, 2001, the Governor of Utah submitted Rule R307-110-34 and Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part D, Utah County. These submittals satisfy the interim approval requirements specified under section 348 of the National Highway Systems Designation Act of 1995 (62 FR 31351, 63 FR 414). Under the authority of section 110 of the Clean Air Act, EPA is removing the interim status of Utah County's improved inspection and maintenance program and granting Utah County full final approval of their improved inspection and maintenance program.
