
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart TT - Utah
###### ยง 52.2352 Change to approved plan.

(a) Utah Air Conservation Regulation R307-18-1, New Source Performance Standards, is removed from the approved plan. On June 10, 2002, we issued a letter delegating responsibility for all sources located, or to be located, in the State of Utah subject to the NSPS in 40 CFR part 60. See the table in 40 CFR 60.4 for the status of NSPS delegated to the state of Utah.

(b) Utah Administrative Code (UAC) rule R307-1-8, Asbestos Work Practices, Contractor Certification, AHERA Accreditation and AHERA Implementation, is removed from Utah's approved State Implementation Plan (SIP). This rule language pertains to the regulation of asbestos and is generally not related to attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) and therefore it is not appropriate to be in Utah's SIP.

(c) Utah Administrative Code (UAC) rule R307-1-4.12, National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAPs), is removed from Utah's approved State Implementation Plan (SIP). Utah has delegation of authority for NESHAPs in 40 CFR part 61 (49 FR 36368), pursuant to 110(k)(6) of the Act.

(d) Utah Administrative Code (UAC) rule R307-1-6, Eligibility of Pollution Control Expenditures for Sales Tax Exemption, is removed from Utah's approved State Implementation Plan (SIP). This rule language pertains to State Sales Tax Exemptions for Pollution Control Expenditures and is not generally related to attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) and is therefore not appropriate to be in Utah's SIP.

(e) Utah Administrative Code (UAC) rule R307-102-3, Administrative Procedures and Hearings, and R307-414-3, Request for Review, are removed from Utah's approved State Implementation Plan (SIP). These provisions are not required by the CAA and are, therefore, not required to be in Utah's SIP. These provisions were last approved in 40 CFR 52.2320(c)(59)(i)(A).

(f) Utah Administrative Code (UAC) rule R307-1-4.06, Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems Program (CEMSP), is removed from Utah's approved State Implementation Plan (SIP). This rule has been superseded and replaced by rule R307-170, Continuous Emission Monitoring Program.
