
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart TT - Utah
###### ยง 52.2354 Interstate transport.

(a) CAA Section 110(a)(2)(D)(i) requirements for the 1997 8-hour ozone and PMstandards. Section XXIII, Interstate Transport, of the Utah SIP submitted by the Utah Governor on March 22, 2007, satisfies the requirements of the Clean Air Act Section 110(a)(2)(D)(i) for the 8-hour ozone and PMNAAQS promulgated by EPA in July 1997. Section XXIII, Interstate Transport, was adopted by the UAQB on February 9, 2007. The March 22, 2007 Governor's letter included as an attachment a set of replacement pages for the Interstate Transport text. The new pages reflect correctly that the Interstate Transport declaration is under Section XXIII of the Utah SIP and not under Section XXII as incorrectly indicated in the pages submitted with the Administrative Documentation for the adoption of this SIP section.

(b) Addition to the Utah State Implementation Plan regarding the 2008 Pb Standard for CAA section 110(a)(2)(D)(i) prongs 1, 2 and 4, submitted to EPA on January 19, 2012, and addition to the Utah SIP regarding the 2010 SOStandard for CAA section 110(a)(2)(D)(i) prong 4, submitted to EPA on June 2, 2013.

(c) Addition to the Utah State Implementation Plan regarding the 2008 ozone Standard for CAA section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) prong 1 submitted to EPA on January 31, 2013 and supplemented on December 22, 2015.

(d) Addition to the Utah State Implementation Plan regarding the 2010 NO, 2010 SO, and 2012 PMStandards for Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) prongs 1 and 2, submitted to EPA on January 31, 2013, June 2, 2013, December 22, 2015, and May 8, 2018.
