
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart UU - Vermont
###### ยง 52.2376 Identification of plan-conditional approvals.
####### Conditional approvals.

(a)(1) 1997 fine particulate (PM) National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS): The 110(a)(2) infrastructure SIP submitted on February 18, 2009, is conditionally approved for Clean Air Act sections 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), and (J) only as it relates to the aspect of the PSD program pertaining to adding NOand VOC as precursor pollutants to ozone in defining a "significant" increase in actual emissions from a source of air contaminants, and defining a method for determining the amount of PSD increments available to a new or modified major source. On November 21, 2016, the State of Vermont supplemented this submittal with a commitment to address these requirements for PSD.

(2) 1997 Ozone (NAAQS): The 110(a)(2) infrastructure SIP submitted on February 18, 2009, is conditionally approved for Clean Air Act sections 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), and (J) only as it relates to the aspect of the PSD program pertaining to adding NOand VOC as precursor pollutants to ozone in defining a "significant" increase in actual emissions from a source of air contaminants, and defining a method for determining the amount of PSD increments available to a new or modified major source. On November 21, 2016, the State of Vermont supplemented this submittal with a commitment to address these requirements for PSD.

(3) 2006 PMNAAQS: The 110(a)(2) infrastructure SIP submitted on May 21, 2010, is conditionally approved for Clean Air Act sections 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), and (J) only as it relates to the aspect of the PSD program pertaining to adding NOand VOC as precursor pollutants to ozone in defining a "significant" increase in actual emissions from a source of air contaminants, and defining a method for determining the amount of PSD increments available to a new or modified major source. On November 21, 2016, the State of Vermont supplemented this submittal with a commitment to address these requirements for PSD.

(4) 2008 Lead NAAQS: The 110(a)(2) infrastructure SIP submitted on July 29, 2014, is conditionally approved for Clean Air Act sections 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), and (J) only as it relates to the aspect of the PSD program pertaining to adding NOand VOC as precursor pollutants to ozone in defining a "significant" increase in actual emissions from a source of air contaminants, and defining a method for determining the amount of PSD increments available to a new or modified major source. On November 21, 2016, the State of Vermont supplemented this submittal with a commitment to address these requirements for PSD.

(5) 2008 Ozone NAAQS: The 110(a)(2) infrastructure SIP submitted on November 2, 2015, is conditionally approved for Clean Air Act sections 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), and (J) only as it relates to the aspect of the PSD program pertaining to adding NOand VOC as precursor pollutants to ozone in defining a "significant" increase in actual emissions from a source of air contaminants, and defining a method for determining the amount of PSD increments available to a new or modified major source. On November 21, 2016, the State of Vermont supplemented this submittal with a commitment to address these requirements for PSD.

(6) 2010 Nitrogen Dioxide NAAQS: The 110(a)(2) infrastructure SIP submitted on November 2, 2015, is conditionally approved for Clean Air Act sections 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), and (J) only as it relates to the aspect of the PSD program pertaining to adding NOand VOC as precursor pollutants to ozone in defining a "significant" increase in actual emissions from a source of air contaminants, and defining a method for determining the amount of PSD increments available to a new or modified major source. On November 21, 2016, the State of Vermont supplemented this submittal with a commitment to address these requirements for PSD.

(7) 2010 Sulfur Dioxide NAAQS: The 110(a)(2) infrastructure SIP submitted on November 2, 2015, is conditionally approved for Clean Air Act sections 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), and (J) only as it relates to the aspect of the PSD program pertaining to adding NOand VOC as precursor pollutants to ozone in defining a "significant" increase in actual emissions from a source of air contaminants, and defining a method for determining the amount of PSD increments available to a new or modified major source. On November 21, 2016, the State of Vermont supplemented this submittal with a commitment to address these requirements for PSD.

(b) [Reserved]
