
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart TT - Utah
###### ยง 52.2355 Section 110(a)(2) infrastructure requirements.

(a) On December 3, 2007 Jon L. Huntsman, Jr., Governor, State of Utah, submitted a certification letter which provides the State of Utah's SIP provisions which meet the requirements of CAA Section 110(a)(1) and (2) relevant to the 1997 Ozone NAAQS. On December 21, 2009 M. Cheryl Heying, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality for the State of Utah, submitted supporting documentation which provides the State of Utah's SIP provisions which meet the requirements of CAA Section 110(a)(1) and (2) relevant to the 1997 Ozone NAAQS.

(b) On December 3, 2007, Jon L. Huntsman, Jr. Governor, State of Utah, provided a submission to meet the infrastructure requirements for the State of Utah for the 1997 PMNAAQS. On April 17, 2008, M. Cheryl Heying, Director, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, provided a second submission to meet the infrastructure requirements for the State of Utah for the 1997 PMNAAQS. On September 21, 2010, M. Cheryl Heying, Director, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, provided a submission to meet the infrastructure requirements for the State of Utah for the 2006 PMNAAQS. The State's Infrastructure SIP is approved with respect to the 1997 and 2006 PMNAAQS with respect to CAA section 110(a)(1) and the following elements of section 110(a)(2): (A), (B), (C) with respect to PSD and minor NSR requirements, (D)(i)(II) with respect to PSD requirements, (E)(i), (E)(iii), (F), (G), (H), (J), (K), (L), and (M).

(c) Gary R. Herbert, Governor, State of Utah, provided submissions to meet the infrastructure requirements for the State of Utah for the 1997 PMNAAQS on December 3, 2007; 2006 PMNAAQS on September 21, 2010; 2008 Pb NAAQS on January 19, 2012; 2008 ozone NAAQS on January 31, 2013; 2010 NONAAQS on January 31, 2013; 2010 SONAAQS on June 2, 2013; and 2012 PMon December 4, 2015. The State's Infrastructure SIP is approved with respect to the 1997 and 2006 PMNAAQS with respect to CAA Section 110(a)(1) and element (D)(ii) of Section 110(a)(2). The State's Infrastructure SIP is approved with respect to the 2008 ozone NAAQS with respect to CAA Section 110(a)(1) and the following elements of Section 110(a)(2): (A), (B), (C), (D)(i)(II) prong 3, (D)(ii), (E), (F), (G), (H), (J), (K), (L), and (M). The State's Infrastructure SIP is approved with respect to the 2008 Pb, 2010 SO, 2010 NO, and 2012 PMNAAQS with respect to CAA Section 110(a)(1) and the following elements of Section 110(a)(2): (A), (C), (D)(i)(II) prong 3, (D)(ii), (E), (F), (G), (H), (J), (K), (L), and (M).

(d) The Utah Department of Environmental Quality submitted certification of Utah's infrastructure SIP for the 2008 Pb NAAQS on January 19, 2012; 2010 NONAAQS on January 31, 2013; 2010 SONAAQS on June 2, 2013; and 2012 PMon December 4, 2015. Utah's infrastructure certifications demonstrate how the State, where applicable, has plans in place that meet the requirements of section 110 for the 2008 Pb, 2010 NO, 2010 SOand 2012 PMNAAQS. The State's Infrastructure SIP for 2008 Pb, 2010 NO, 2010 SOand 2012 PMNAAQS is approved with respect to 110(a)(2)(B).

(e) Gary R. Herbert, Governor, State of Utah, provided submissions to meet the infrastructure requirements for the State of Utah for the 2015 ozone NAAQS on January 29, 2020. The State's Infrastructure SIP is approved with respect to the 2015 ozone NAAQS for the following CAA section 110(a)(2) infrastructure elements: (A), (B), (C), (D)(i)(II) Prong 3, (D)(ii), (E), (F), (G), (H), (J), (K), (L), and (M).
