
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart VV - Virginia
###### ยง 52.2423 Approval status.

(a) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves Virginia's plan for the attainment and maintenance of the national standards.

(b)-(e) [Reserved]

(f) Section 9VAC 5-40-20.A.4. of the Virginia Regulations for the Control and Abatement of Air Pollution is not considered part of the applicable plan because it contradicts a previously approved section of the SIP.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) In an April 19, 1991 request submitted by the Virginia Department of Air Pollution Control, the source-specific emission limitation for James River Paper which EPA had approved on August 18, 1983 is deleted. James River Paper Co. (now known as Custom Papers Group-Richmond, Inc.) located in Richmond, Virginia is now required to comply with the applicable Virginia SIP paper coating regulation.

(i) Pursuant to an October 31, 1991 request submitted by the Virginia Department of Air Pollution Control, the source-specific Alternate Control Program (bubble) for J.W. Fergusson & Sons, Inc. which EPA had approved on March 4, 1983, is removed from the plan. J.W. Fergusson & Sons, Inc. located in Richmond, Virginia is required to comply with the Virginia SIP graphic arts RACT regulation approved by EPA on January 25, 1984 (see 40 CFR 52.2420(c)(48) and (c)(74)).

(j)-(l) [Reserved]

(m) EPA approves as part of the Virginia State Implementation Plan the documents listed in Appendix M, Sections II.A. through II.E and Section II.G. (currently Regulation 5-20-21 E.1. through E.5 and E.7) of the Virginia Regulations for the Control and Abatement of Air Pollution submitted by the Virginia Department of Air Pollution Control on April 12, 1989.

(n) EPA approves as part of the Virginia State Implementation Plan the revised references to the documents listed in Appendix M, Sections II.A. and II.B. (currently Regulation 5-20-21E.1 and E.2) of the Virginia Regulations for the Control and Abatement of Air Pollution submitted by the Virginia Department of Air Pollution Control on February 12, 1993.

(o) EPA approves the revised confidentiality of information provisions of Sections 120-02-30, submitted by the Virginia Department of Air Pollution Control on March 18, 1993, as revisions to the Virginia SIP. However, should Virginia submit a SIP revision request on behalf of a source, which contains information that has been judged confidential under the provisions of Section 120-02-30, Virginia must request EPA to consider confidentiality according to the provisions of 40 CFR part 2. EPA is obligated to keep such information confidential only if the criteria of 40 CFR part 2 are met.
