
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart VV - Virginia
###### ยง 52.2428 Control Strategy: Carbon monoxide and ozone.

(a) Determination-EPA has determined that, as of November 5, 1997, the Richmond ozone nonattainment area, which consists of the counties of Chesterfield, Hanover, Henrico, and part of Charles City County, and of the cities of Richmonds, Colonial Heights and Hopewell, has attained the 1-hour .12 ppm ozone standard based on three years of air quality data for 1993, 1994 and 1995. EPA has further determined that the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act do not apply to the Richmond area for so long as the area does not monitor any violations of the 1-hour .12ppm ozone standard, or until the area is no longer designated nonattainment. If a violation of the ozone NAAQS is monitored in the Richmond ozone nonattainment area while the area is designated nonattainment, these determinations shall no longer apply.

(b) EPA approves the Commonwealth's 15 Percent Rate of Progress Plan for the Virginia portion of the Metropolitan Washington, D.C. ozone nonattainment area, submitted by the Acting Director of the Virginia Department of the Environmental Quality on April 14, 1998.

(c)-(d) [Reserved]

(e) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2003 to 2005, EPA has determined that the Washington, DC severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area attained the 1-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of November 15, 2005. EPA also has determined that the Washington, DC severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area is not subject to the imposition of the section 185 penalty fees.

(f) EPA approves revisions to the Virginia State Implementation Plan consisting of the 2008 reasonable further progress (RFP) plan, reasonably available control measures, and contingency measures for the Washington, DC-MD-VA 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Director of the Virginia Department of Environment Quality on June 12, 2007.

(g) EPA approves the following 2008 RFP motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Washington, DC-MD-VA 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Director of the Virginia Department of Environment Quality on June 12, 2007:
