
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart VV - Virginia
###### ยง 52.2425 Base Year Emissions Inventory.

(a) EPA approves as a revision to the Virginia Implementation Plan the 1990 base year emission inventory for the Washington Metropolitan Statistical Area, submitted by Director, Virginia Department of Environmental Quality, on November 1, 1993, April 3, 1995 and October 12, 1995. This submittal consists of the 1990 base year stationary, area and off-road mobile and on-road mobile emission inventories in the Washington Statistical Area for the pollutant, carbon monoxide (CO).

(b) EPA approves as a revision to the Virginia State Implementation Plan the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Richmond-Petersburg, Norfolk-Virginia Beach, and Smyth County ozone nonattainment areas submitted by the Director, Virginia Department of Environmental Quality on November 11, 1992, November 18, 1992, November 1, 1993, and December 15, 1994. These submittals consist of the 1990 base year point, area, non-road mobile, biogenic and on-road mobile source emission inventories in each area for the following pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO), and oxides of nitrogen (NO).

(c) EPA approves as a revision to the Virginia State Implementation Plan the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Northern Virginia ozone nonattainment areas submitted by the Director, Virginia Department Environmental Quality, on November 30, 1992, November 1, 1993, and April 3, 1995. These submittals consist of the 1990 base year point, area, non-road mobile, biogenic and on-road mobile source emission inventories in each area for the following pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO), and oxides of nitrogen (NO).

(d) EPA approves as a revision to the Virginia State Implementation Plan amendments to the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Northern Virginia ozone nonattainment area submitted by the Director, Virginia Department Environmental Quality, on December 17, 1997. This submittal consists of amendments to the 1990 base year point, area, non-road mobile, and on-road mobile source emission inventories for the following pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOC), and oxides of nitrogen (NO).

(e) EPA approves as a revision to the Virginia State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventories for the Washington, DC-MD-VA 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Director of the Virginia Department of Environment Quality on June 12, 2007. This submittal consists of the 2002 base year point, area, non-road mobile, and on-road mobile source inventories in area for the following pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxides (NO).

(f) EPA approves as a revision to the Virginia State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventory for the Virginia portion of the Washington DC-MD-VA 1997 fine particulate matter (PM) nonattainment area submitted by the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality on April 4, 2008. The 2002 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), PM, coarse particles (PM), ammonia (NH), and sulfur dioxide (SO).

(g) EPA approves as a revision to the Virginia State Implementation Plan the 2011 base year emissions inventory for the Virginia portion of the Washington, DC-MD-VA 2008 8-hour ozone nonattainment area submitted by the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality on July 17, 2014. The 2011 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NO) and volatile organic compounds (VOC).
