
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart VV - Virginia
###### ยง 52.2454 Prevention of significant deterioration of air quality for Merck & Co., Inc.'s Stonewall Plant in Elkton, VA.
####### Monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting.

(h)(1) The permit shall set forth monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the site-wide emissions caps. The monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements shall be structured in a tiered system, such that the requirements become more stringent as the site's emissions approach the total emissions cap.

(2) At a minimum, the permit shall require that the site submit to the permitting authority semi-annual reports of the site-wide criteria pollutant emissions (expressed as a 12-month rolling total) for each month covered by the report. These reports shall include a calculation of the total emissions cap, as well as, the emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, volatile organic compounds and PM.

(3) Any reports required by the permit to be submitted on an annual or semi-annual basis shall contain a certification by the site's responsible official that to his belief, based on reasonable inquiry, the information submitted in the report is true, accurate, and complete.

(4) Any records required by the permit shall be retained on site for at least five years.
