
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart VV - Virginia
###### ยง 52.2454 Prevention of significant deterioration of air quality for Merck & Co., Inc.'s Stonewall Plant in Elkton, VA.
####### Termination.

(j)(1) The permit may be terminated as provided in this paragraph for reasons which shall include the following, as well as any other termination provisions specified in the permit:

(i) If the Administrator or the permitting authority determines that continuation of the permit is an imminent and substantial endangerment to public health or welfare, or the environment;

(ii) If the permittee knowingly falsifies emissions data;

(iii) If the permittee fails to implement the powerhouse conversion pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section;

(iv) If the permittee receives four consent orders or two judgments adverse to the site arising from non-compliance with this permit in a five year period that are deemed material by the Administrator or the permitting authority; or

(v) If the total emissions cap is exceeded.

(2) In the event of termination, the Administrator or the permitting authority shall provide the permittee with written notice of its intent to terminate the permit. Within 30 calendar days of the site's receipt of this notice, the site may take corrective action to remedy the cause of the termination. If this remedy, which may include a corrective action plan and schedule, is deemed acceptable by the Administrator or the permitting authority (whichever agency provided written notice of its intent to terminate the permit), the action to terminate the permit shall be withdrawn. Otherwise, the permit shall be terminated in accordance with procedures specified in the permit.

(3) Termination of the permit does not waive the site's obligation to complete any corrective actions relating to non-compliance under the permit.
