
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart VV - Virginia
###### ยง 52.2454 Prevention of significant deterioration of air quality for Merck & Co., Inc.'s Stonewall Plant in Elkton, VA.
####### Installation of controls for significant modifications and significant new installations.

(4)(i) This paragraph applies to significant modifications and significant new installations. Significant modifications for the purposes of this section are defined as changes to an existing process unit that result in an increase of the potential emissions of the process unit, after consideration of existing controls, of more than the significance levels listed in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section. Significant new installations for the purposes of this section are defined as new process units with potential emissions before controls that exceed the significance levels listed in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section. For purposes of this section, potential emissions means process unit point source emissions that would be generated by the process unit operating at its maximum capacity.

(ii) The significance levels for determining significant modifications and significant new installations are: 100 tons per year of carbon monoxide; 40 tons per year of nitrogen oxides; 40 tons per year of sulfur dioxide; 40 tons per year of volatile organic compounds; and 15 tons per year of PM.

(iii) For any significant modification or significant new installation, the permit shall require that the site install, at the process unit, emission controls, pollution prevention or other technology that represents good environmental engineering practice in the pharmaceutical or batch processing industry, based on the emission characteristics (such as flow, variability, pollutant properties) of the process unit.
