
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart VV - Virginia
###### ยง 52.2454 Prevention of significant deterioration of air quality for Merck & Co., Inc.'s Stonewall Plant in Elkton, VA.
####### Administrative permit modification.

(2)(i) An administrative permit modification is a permit revision that:

(A) Corrects typographical errors;

(B) Identifies a change in the name, address, or phone number of any person identified in the permit, or provides a similar minor administrative change at the site;

(C) Requires more frequent monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting by the permittee;

(D) Allows for a change in ownership or operational control of a source where the permitting authority determines that no other change in the permit is necessary, provided that a written agreement containing a specific date for transfer of permit responsibility, coverage, and liability between the current and new permittee has been submitted to the permitting authority.

(E) Updates the emission calculation methods specified in the permit, provided that the change does not also involve a change to any site-wide emissions cap.

(F) Changes the monitoring, recordkeeping or reporting requirements for equipment that has been shutdown or is no longer in service.

(G) Any other change that is stipulated in the permit as qualifying as an administrative permit modification, provided that the permit condition which includes such stipulation has already undergone public participation in accordance with paragraph (m) of this section.

(ii) An administrative permit modification may be made by the permitting authority consistent with the following procedures:

(A) The permitting authority shall take final action on any request for an administrative permit modification within 60 days from receipt of the request, and may incorporate such changes without providing notice to the public, provided that the permitting authority designates any such permit revisions as having been made pursuant to this paragraph.

(B) The permitting authority shall submit a copy of the revised permit to the Administrator.

(C) The site may implement the changes addressed in the request for an administrative permit modification immediately upon submittal of the request to the permitting authority.
