
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart WW - Washington
###### ยง 52.2497 Significant deterioration of air quality.
####### Regulations for preventing significant deterioration of air quality.

(b)The provisions of ยง 52.21, except paragraph (a)(1), are hereby incorporated and made a part of the applicable plan for Washington for the facilities, emission sources, geographic areas, and permits listed in paragraph (a) of this section. For situations addressed in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, the EPA will issue a Federal PSD permit under ยง 52.21 to the new major stationary source or major modification addressing PSD requirements applicable to GHGs for all subject emission units at the source, regardless of whether COemissions resulted from the industrial combustion of biomass or from other sources of GHGs at the facility. For situations addressed in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the EPA will issue a Federal PSD permit under ยง 52.21 addressing PSD requirements applicable to GHGs for each subject emissions unit that is permitted to emit COfrom the industrial combustion of biomass.

(c) In accordance with section 164 of the Clean Air Act and the provisions of 40 CFR 52.21(g), the Spokane Indian Reservation is designated as a Class I area for the purposes of preventing significant deterioration of air quality.

(d) The regulations at 40 CFR 49.10191 through 49.10220 contain the Federal Implementation Plan for the Kalispel Indian Community of the Kalispel Reservation, Washington. The regulation at 40 CFR 49.10198(b) designates the original Kalispel Reservation, as established by Executive Order No. 1904, signed by President Woodrow Wilson on March 23, 1914, as a Class I area for purposes of prevention of significant deterioration of air quality.
