
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart WW - Washington
###### ยง 52.2502 Best available retrofit technology requirements for the Alcoa Inc. - Wenatchee Works primary aluminum smelter.
####### Recordkeeping.

(h)Except as provided in paragraph (h)(6) of this section, starting November 10, 2014, Alcoa must keep the following records:

(1) Alcoa must retain a copy of all calendar month Potline 5 SOemissions calculations.

(2) Alcoa must maintain records of the baked anode consumption and aluminum production data used to develop the carbon ratio.

(3) Alcoa must retain a copy of all calendar month carbon ratio and potline SOemission calculations.

(4) Alcoa must record the calendar day and calendar month production of aluminum.

(5) Alcoa must record the calendar month average sulfur content of the baked anodes.

(6) Starting January 7, 2015, Alcoa must retain a copy of all calendar month potline NOemission calculations.

(7) Alcoa must record the sulfur content of each shipment of coke and the quantity of each shipment of coke.

(8) Alcoa must keep fuel purchase records showing the type(s) of fuel combusted in the anode bake furnaces.

(9) Alcoa must keep fuel purchase records showing the type(s) of fuel combusted in the ingot furnaces.

(10) Records must be retained at the facility for at least five years and be made available to the EPA Region 10 upon request.
