
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart XX - West Virginia
###### ยง 52.2526 Control strategy: Particulate matter.
####### Determination of Attainment.,May 14, 2012,

(g)EPA has determined, as ofthat based on 2008 to 2010 ambient air quality data, the Steubenville-Weirton nonattainment area has attained the 24-hour 2006 PMNAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 24-hour 2006 PMNAAQS.

(h) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the West Virginia portion of the Parkersburg-Marietta, WV-OH 1997 PMNonattainment Area (Wood County and a portion of Pleasants County). The maintenance plan establishes a determination of insignificance for PM, NOand SOfor transportation conformity purposes.

(i) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the West Virginia portion of the Wheeling, WV-OH 1997 PMNonattainment Area (Marshall and Ohio Counties). The maintenance plan establishes a determination of insignificance for PM, NOand SOfor transportation conformity purposes.

(j) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Charleston PMNonattainment Area (Kanawha and Putnam Counties). The maintenance plan establishes a determination of insignificance for PMand NOfor transportation conformity purposes.

(k) EPA approves the 1997 annual PMmaintenance plan for the West Virginia portion of the Martinsburg WV-Hagerstown, MD Nonattainment Area (Berkeley County). The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PMand NOmobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for Berkeley County for transportation conformity purposes.
