
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart XX - West Virginia
###### ยง 52.2527 Determination of attainment.

(a) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007-2009, EPA determined that the Huntington-Ashland, West Virginia-Kentucky-Ohio PMnonattainment Area attained the 1997 annual PMNAAQS by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the Area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the Area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Huntington-Ashland PMnonattainment Area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(b) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the Steubenville-Weirton fine particle (PM) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Steubenville-Weirton PMnonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(c) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007-2009, EPA determined that the Charleston fine particle (PM) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Charleston PMnonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(d) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the Parkersburg-Marietta, WV-OH and Wheeling, WV-OH fine particle (PM) nonattainment areas attained the 1997 annual PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the areas' air quality as of the attainment date, whether the areas attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Parkersburg-Marietta, WV-OH and Wheeling, WV-OH PMnonattainment areas are not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).

(e) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the Martinsburg-Hagerstown, West Virginia-Maryland (WV-MD) fine particle (PM) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PMNational Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Martinsburg-Hagerstown, WV-MD PMnonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).
