
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart XX - West Virginia
###### ยง 52.2522 Identification of plan-conditional approval.

With the exceptions set forth below in this subpart, the Administrator approves West Virginia's plan for the attainment and maintenance of the national standards.

(a)-(f) [Reserved]

(g) The Administrator approves West Virginia's November 22, 1995 SIP submittal for the Follansbee, West Virginia PM-10 nonattainment area as fulfilling the section 189(a)(1)(B) requirement for a demonstration that the plan is sufficient to attain the PM-10 NAAQS.

(h) [Reserved]

(i)(1) EPA is fully approving WVDEP's August 31, 2011 submittal, except for the narrow issue of the requirement to include condensable emissions of particulate matter in the definition of "regulated NSR pollutant" found at 45CSR14 section 2.66. Except for this narrow issue, EPA is approving all other portions of the submittal, including but not limited to, the remainder of section 2.66. In approving West Virginia State Rule 45CSR14 with regard to all other CAA and Federal regulatory SIP requirements for PSD applicable as of the August 31, 2011 SIP revision submission date, EPA is acknowledging that it is consistent with the "Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule" (Tailoring Rule), which was promulgated on June 3, 2010 (75 FR 31514). EPA is not finalizing its proposed approval of WVDEP's August 31, 2011 submittal with respect to the narrow issue of the requirement to include condensable emissions of particulate matter in the definition of "regulated NSR pollutant" found at 45CSR14 section 2.66. In light of a comment received on its July 31, 2012 proposed rule (77 FR 45302), EPA is reviewing West Virginia State Rule 45CSR14 to determine the extent to which its definition of "regulated NSR pollutant" satisfies the corresponding Federal definition, and will address this issue in a separate action.

(2) EPA is also approving those portions of West Virginia's SIP submissions dated December 3, 2007, December 11, 2007, April 3, 2008, October 1, 2009, October 26, 2011, and February 17, 2012 which address the PSD-related requirements set forth in CAA section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(II) for the 1997 PMNAAQS, 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS, 2006 PMNAAQS, 2008 lead NAAQS, and 2008 ozone NAAQS, as well as CAA Section 110(a)(2)(C) and (J) for the 2008 lead NAAQS and 2008 ozone NAAQS, except for the narrow issue of the requirement to include condensable emissions of particulate matter in the definition of "regulated NSR pollutant" found at 45CSR14 section 2.66. EPA is not finalizing its July 31, 2012 proposed approval (77 FR 45302) of WVDEP's SIP submissions dated December 3, 2007, December 11, 2007, April 3, 2008, October 1, 2009, October 26, 2011, and February 17, 2012 submitted to meet the PSD-related infrastructure SIP obligations set forth at CAA sections 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II) and (J) with respect to the narrow issue of the requirement to include condensable emissions of particulate matter in the definition of "regulated NSR pollutant" found at 45CSR14 section 2.66. EPA will address this issue in a separate action.

(j)(1) EPA is disapproving a narrow portion of West Virginia's August 31, 2011 submittal because it does not satisfy the requirement that emissions of PMand PMshall include gaseous emissions which condense to form particulate matter at ambient temperatures. This disapproval extends only to the lack of condensable emissions within the definition of "regulated NSR pollutant," found at 45CSR14 section 2.66, and does not alter EPA's October 17, 2012 (77 FR 63736) approval of the remaining portions of West Virginia's August 2011 SIP submittal.

(2) EPA is disapproving specific portions of West Virginia's infrastructure SIP submissions dated December 3, 2007, December 11, 2007, April 3, 2008, October 1, 2009, October 26, 2011, and February 17, 2012 which address certain obligations set forth at CAA sections 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II) and (J) relating to the West Virginia PSD permit program. Because West Virginia's definition of "regulated NSR pollutant" in 45CSR14 does not address condensables for PMand PMemissions, EPA is determining that West Virginia's infrastructure SIP submissions do not meet certain statutory and regulatory obligations relating to a PSD permit program set forth at CAA sections 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II) and (J) for the narrow issue of condensables as set forth in the following table.

(k) EPA is conditionally approving two West Virginia State Implementation Plan (SIP) revisions submitted on July 1, 2014 and June 6, 2012 relating to revisions to 45CSR14 (Permits for Construction and Major Modification of Major Stationary Sources of Air Pollution for the Prevention of Significant Deterioration) for failure to include a significant monitoring concentration value (SMC) of zero micrograms per cubic meter for fine particulate matter (PM). The conditional approval is based upon a commitment from the State to submit an additional SIP revision with a revised regulation at 45CSR14-16.7.c which will incorporate a SMC value of zero micrograms per cubic meter for PMto address this discrepancy and to be consistent with federal requirements. If the State fails to meet its commitment by June 24, 2016, the approval is treated as a disapproval.
