
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart YY - Wisconsin
###### ยง 52.2570 Identification of plan.
####### Additional material.

(ii)Wisconsin Natural Resources Board January 27, 2016, Board Order AM-15-14 to repeal NR 420.02(8m), (26), (32), and (38m), 425.035, 439.06(3)(i), 484.05(4) and (5), and 494.04; as published in the Wisconsin Register July 2016, No. 727, effective August 1, 2016.

(139) On April 1, 2020, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted requests to incorporate Administrative Order AM-20-02 for Kieffer & Co. Inc. and Administrative Order AM-20-03 for Kohler Power Systems into the Wisconsin State Implementation Plan (SIP). These orders establish, through permanent and enforceable emission limits and other requirements, Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) equivalency demonstrations for the facilities located in Sheboygan County, Wisconsin.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Administrative Order AM-20-02, issued by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources on February 4, 2020, to the Kieffer & Co. Inc. facility located in Sheboygan, Wisconsin.

(B) Administrative Order AM-20-03, issued by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources on February 28, 2020, to the Kohler Power Systems facility located in Mosel, Sheboygan County, Wisconsin.

(140) On February 12, 2020, The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted a request to incorporate Administrative Order AM-20-01 into the Wisconsin State Implementation Plan (SIP). This order establishes, through permanent and enforceable emission limits and other requirements, a Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) equivalency demonstration for the Insinkerator facility located in Kenosha, Wisconsin. The effective date for the Administrative Order is January 9, 2020.

(i) Incorporation by reference. Wisconsin Administrative Order AM-20-01, issued by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources on January 9, 2020, to Insinkerator for its facility located in Kenosha, Wisconsin.

(ii) [Reserved]

(141) On December 13, 2019, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted a State Implementation Plan revision request regarding the state's volatile organic compound (VOC) reasonably available control technology (RACT) rules for offset lithographic printing operations. These revisions include amendments to Wisconsin Administrative Code Chapter NR 422 that are consistent with the latest CTG issued by EPA in 2006 and clarify and streamline the VOC RACT requirements for lithographic printing facilities located in nine counties in Wisconsin (Kenosha, Kewaunee, Manitowoc, Milwaukee, Ozaukee, Racine, Sheboygan, Washington, and Waukesha).
