
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart YY - Wisconsin
###### ยง 52.2570 Identification of plan.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) Wisconsin Administrative Code, NR 405.02 Definitions. NR 405.02(12)(b), and NR 405.02(25k), as published in the Wisconsin Administrative Register July 2008, No. 631, effective August 1, 2008.

(B) Wisconsin Administrative Code, NR 405.18 Plant-wide applicability limitations (PALs), NR 405.18(6)(e), as published in the Wisconsin Administrative Register July 2008, No. 631, effective August 1, 2008.

(C) Wisconsin Administrative Code, NR 408.02 Definitions. NR 408.02(29s), as published in the Wisconsin Administrative Register July 2008, No. 631, effective August 1, 2008.

(D) Wisconsin Administrative Code, NR 408.11 Plant-wide applicability limitations (PALs), NR 408.11(6)(e), as published in the Wisconsin Administrative Register July 2008, No. 631, effective August 1, 2008.

(ii) [Reserved]

(144) On March 29, 2021, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted a request to revise the Wisconsin State Implementation Plan for attaining the 2010 primary, health-based 1-hour SOnational ambient air quality standard for the Rhinelander SOnonattainment area. This submittal supplements the 2016 plan for the Rhinelander area and includes an attainment demonstration and a title I construction permit for Ahlstrom-Munksj&#xF6;'s Rhinelander facility. The revised plan also addresses the requirement for meeting reasonable further progress toward attainment of the national ambient air quality standard, reasonably available control measures and reasonably available control technology, and contingency measures.
