
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart YY - Wisconsin
###### ยง 52.2575 Control strategy: Sulfur dioxide.

(a) Part D-Approval-With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approved the Wisconsin sulfur dioxide control plan.

(1) Part D-No action-USEPA takes no action on the Wisconsin sulfur dioxide rules NR 154.12 (1), (2) and (3).

(2) Attainment demonstration-submitted on January 22, 2016, supplemented on July 18, 2016, and November 29, 2016, and revised on March 29, 2021 for the Rhinelander SOnonattainment area.

(b)(1) An SOmaintenance plan was submitted by the State of Wisconsin on June 9, 1992, for the City of Madison, Dane County.

(2) An SOmaintenance plan was submitted by the State of Wisconsin on June 12, 1992, for the City of Milwaukee, Milwaukee County.

(3) An SOmaintenance plan was submitted by the State of Wisconsin on November 5, 1999, for the City of Rhinelander, Oneida County.

(4) An SOmaintenance plan was submitted by the State of Wisconsin on November 17, 2000, for the villages of Rothschild and Weston and the Township of Rib Mountain, all located in central Marathon County.

(c) Approval-On July 28, 2021, Wisconsin submitted a request to redesignate the Rhinelander area, which consists of a portion of Oneida County (Crescent Township, Newbold Township, Pine Lake Township, Pelican Township, and the City of Rhinelander), to attainment of the 2010 primary 1-hour sulfur dioxide standard. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act (CAA). Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in eight years as required by the CAA.
