
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart YY - Wisconsin
###### ยง 52.2585 Control strategy: Ozone.
####### Determination of attainment.

(y)EPA has determined, as of March 1, 2011 that the Milwaukee-Racine, WI and Sheboygan, WI areas have attained the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. These determinations suspend the requirements for these areas to submit attainment demonstrations and associated reasonably available control measures (RACM), reasonable further progress plans (RFP), contingency measures, and other State Implementation Plan (SIP) revisions related to attainment of the standard for as long as the areas continue to attain the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. These determinations also stay the requirement for EPA to promulgate attainment demonstration and RFP Federal Implementation Plans (FIPs) for these areas. On July 15, 2019, EPA revised the designation for the Sheboygan, WI area for the 1997 8-hour ozone standard, by splitting the original area into two distinct nonattainment areas, called the Inland Sheboygan County, WI area and Shoreline Sheboygan County, WI area, that together cover the identical geographic area of the original nonattainment area. EPA's March 1, 2011 determination of attainment for the Sheboygan County, WI area applies to the Inland Sheboygan County, WI area and Shoreline Sheboygan County, WI area.

(z) Approval-Wisconsin submitted 2005 VOC and NOemissions inventories for the Milwaukee-Racine and Sheboygan areas on September 11, 2009, and supplemented the submittal on November 16, 2011. Wisconsin's 2005 inventories satisfy the emissions inventory requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act for the Milwaukee-Racine and Sheboygan areas under the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.

(aa) Approval-On September 11, 2009, Wisconsin submitted a request to redesignate the Milwaukee-Racine area to attainment of the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. The state supplemented this submittal on November 16, 2011. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. The ozone maintenance plan also establishes 2015 and 2022 Motor Vehicle Emission Budgets (MVEBs) for the area. The 2015 MVEBs for the Milwaukee-Racine area is 21.08 tpd for VOC and 51.22 tpd for NO. The 2022 MVEBs for the Milwaukee-Racine area is 15.98 tpd for VOC and 31.91 tpd for NO.

(bb) Approval-On August 1, 2013, the State of Wisconsin submitted a revision to their Ozone State Implementation Plan. The submittal established transportation conformity "Conformity" criteria and procedures related to interagency consultation, and enforceability of certain transportation related control and mitigation measures.

(cc) Approval-On January 16, 2015, the State of Wisconsin submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan for Sheboygan County, Wisconsin. The submittal established new Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) for Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and Oxides of Nitrogen (NO) for the year 2015. The MVEBs for Sheboygan County are now: 1.972 tons per day of VOC emissions and 4.435 tons per day of NOemissions for the year 2015.

(dd) On November 14, 2014, Wisconsin submitted 2011 volatile organic compounds and oxides of nitrogen emission inventories for the Sheboygan County and Wisconsin portion (Kenosha area) of the Chicago-Naperville, Illinois-Indiana-Wisconsin nonattainment areas for the 2008 ozone national ambient air quality standard as a revision of the Wisconsin state implementation plan. The documented emission inventories are approved as a revision of the State's implementation plan.

(ee) Approval-On January 16, 2015, the State of Wisconsin submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan for Kenosha County, Wisconsin. The submittal established new Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) for Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and Oxides of Nitrogen (NO) for the year 2015. The MVEBs for Kenosha County nonattainment area are now: 1.994 tons per day of VOC emissions and 4.397 tons per day of NOemissions for the year 2015.

(ff) Approval-On April 17, 2017, as supplemented on January 23, 2018, Wisconsin submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan along with a prior submission on August 15, 2016, to satisfy the emissions statement, emission inventory, reasonable further progress (RFP), RFP contingency measure, oxides of nitrogen (NO) reasonably available control technology (RACT), motor vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M), and transportation conformity requirements for the Wisconsin portion of the Chicago area for the 2008 ozone NAAQS moderate nonattainment plan. These elements of the plan meet the requirements of section 110 and part D of the CAA for the Wisconsin portion of the Chicago area, which was reclassified on May 4, 2016, as moderate nonattainment for the 2008 ozone NAAQS. The April 17, 2017, submittal as supplemented on January 23, 2018, also established new Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) for volatile organic compounds (VOC) and NOfor the years 2017 and 2018. The MVEBs for the Wisconsin portion of the Chicago 2008 ozone NAAQS nonattainment area, which is the portion of Kenosha County inclusive and east of Interstate 94, are now: 1.56 tons per summer day of VOC emissions and 3.05 tons per summer day of NOemissions for the year 2017, and 1.44 tons per summer day of VOC emissions and 2.75 tons per summer day of NOemissions for the year 2018.

(gg) Disapproval-EPA is disapproving Wisconsin's August 15, 2016, ozone redesignation request for the Wisconsin portion of the Chicago-Naperville, IL-IN-WI nonattainment area for the 2008 ozone standard. EPA is also disapproving Wisconsin's maintenance plan and motor vehicle emission budgets submitted with the redesignation request.

(hh) Approval-On July 19, 2018, Wisconsin submitted a SIP revision certifying that the existing SIP-approved nonattainment new source review regulations fully satisfy the nonattainment new source review requirements for marginal and moderate ozone nonattainment areas for the 2008 ozone NAAQS.
