
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart ZZ - Wyoming
###### ยง 52.2635 Original identification of plan section.
####### Visibility

(B) The SIP revision for visibility protection, "Section 28" of the Wyoming Air Quality Standards and Regulations, and "Wyoming State Implementation Plan for Class I Visibility Protection" was adopted by the Wyoming Environmental Quality Council on March 23, 1988, and became effective on May 10, 1988.

(18) On September 6, 1988, the Administrator of the Air Quality Division, as the Governor's designee, submitted a plan revising the stack height regulations, Wyoming Air Quality Standards and Regulations (WAQSR) section 21(d).

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Revisions to the Wyoming Air Quality Standards and Regulation section 21(d), stack heights, were adopted and effective on May 10, 1988.

(19) In a letter dated August 5, 1986, the Administrator of the Air Quality Division of Wyoming, submitted the stack height demonstration analysis. EPA is approving the demonstration analysis for all of the stacks.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Stack height demonstration analysis submitted by the State in a letter dated August 5, 1986.

(20) A revision to the SIP was submitted by the Administrator of the Wyoming Air Quality Division on March 14, 1989, to address the Group III PM-10 SIP requirements and Group II PM-10 SIP requirements for Lander, Wyoming.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Amendments to the Wyoming Air Quality Standards and Regulations: section 2 (Definitions) (a)(xxx), section 3 (Ambient Standards for Particulate Matter) (a), section 20 (Air Pollution Emergency Episodes) (b)(ii), section 21 (Permit Requirements for Construction, Modification, and Operation) (c)(ii) and section 24 (Prevention of Significant Deterioration) (a)(xx)(A), (b)(i)(E)(VI)(1.)(c.)(f.)(h.) & (1.), (b)(iii), (b)(iv), (b)(viii), and (b)(xii)(D)(E)(F) & (G), effective February 13, 1989.

(B) March 14, 1989 letter from Charles A. Collins, Administrator of the Wyoming Air Quality Division to James J. Scherer, EPA Region VIII Regional Administrator, identifying the effective date of the above regulation amendments.

(21) On November 20, 1990, the Governor of Wyoming submitted revisions to the plan. The revisions include amendments to the prevention of significant deterioration of air quality (PSD) regulations to incorporate the nitrogen dioxide (NO) increments, revisions to the new source review requirements and PSD regulations to make them federally enforceable, and revisions to the PSD regulations to allow establishment of multiple baseline areas which may have different baseline dates and different baseline concentrations.

(i) Incorporation by reference.
