
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart ZZ - Wyoming
###### ยง 52.2635 Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original "Air Implementation Plan for the State of Wyoming" and all revisions submitted by Wyoming that were federally approved prior to August 31, 2006.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 26, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Compliance schedule information in three plants submitted March 28, 1972, by the Department of Health and Social Services (DHSS). (Non-regulatory.)

(2) Procedural clarification to emergency episodes plan submitted May 3, 1972, by DHSS.

(3) Particulate compliance schedules submitted February 9, 1973, by DHSS.

(4) Emergency episode plan submitted February 27, 1973, by DHSS. (Non-regulatory).

(5) Compliance schedules submitted on March 1, 1973, by DHSS.

(6) Revision of Wyoming's Standards and Regulations (Chapter I, Section 1-20) submitted April 18, 1973, by DHSS.

(7) Revision of particulate control strategy to require compliance with particulate standards not later than January 31, 1974, except where approved by EPA and compliance schedule portions of the plan submitted May 29, 1973, by DHSS.

(8) Compliance schedule revisions, legal authority additions, update of Wyoming's Air Quality Standards and Regulations, non-regulatory source surveillance and new source review procedures submitted on August 7, 1974, by the Governor.

(9) Legal authority additions and compliance schedule revisions submitted on February 19, 1976, by the Governor.

(10) Requirements for continuous opacity monitoring by all fossil fuel fired steam generators with heat inputs in excess of 250 million Btu per hour and other miscellaneous revisions to the State regulations as submitted by the Air Quality Division (AQD) on May 9, 1978.

(11) Provisions to meet the requirements of Parts C and D and sections 110, 126, and 127 of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977 were submitted on January 26, 1979.

(12) A revision to Section 14 of the Wyoming Air Quality Standards and Regulations was submitted on July 18, 1980, and October 27, 1980.

(13) On August 26, 1981 and August 27, 1981, Wyoming submitted revisions to the requirements for Prevention of Significant Deterioration, the Air Quality Monitoring Plan, revisions to the Emergency Episode Contingency Plan, and revisions to stationary source permitting regulations.

(14) Revisions to the new source permit requirements in Sections 21 and 24 of the Wyoming regulations were submitted on April 30, 1981, and February 8, 1982.

(15) On August 30, 1984, the State of Wyoming submitted a plan revision for lead.

(16) Revisions to the new source permit requirements in sections 21 and 24 of the Wyoming regulation for visibility protection were submitted on April 12, 1985.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Letter from Randolph Wood, Administrator, Wyoming Air Quality Division, dated April 12, 1985, submitting the Wyoming Visibility SIP and Regulations.
