
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart ZZ - Wyoming
###### ยง 52.2636 Implementation plan for regional haze.
####### Compliance date.

(d)(1) The owners and operators of PacifiCorp Jim Bridger Units 1, 2, 3, and 4 shall comply with the NOemission limit of 0.26 lb/MMBtu and PM emission limit of 0.03 lb/MMBtu and other requirements of this section by March 4, 2019. The owners and operators of PacifiCorp Jim Bridger Units 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall comply with the NOemission limit of 0.07 lb/MMBtu by: December 31, 2022 for Unit 1, December 31, 2021 for Unit 2, December 31, 2015, for Unit 3, and December 31, 2016, for Unit 4.

(2) The owners and operators of Laramie River Station Unit 1 shall comply with the NOemission limit of 0.18 lb/MMBtu on June 19, 2019 and ending June 30, 2019. The owners and operators of Laramie River Station Unit 1 shall comply with the NOemission limit of 0.06 lb/MMBtu on July 1, 2019. The owners and operators of the Laramie River Station Units 2 and 3 shall comply with the NOemission limit of 0.18 lb/MMBtu on June 19, 2019 and ending on December 30, 2018. The owners and operators of Laramie River Station Units 2 and 3 shall comply with the NOemission limit of 0.15 lb/MMBtu on December 31, 2018. The owners and operators of Laramie River Station Units 1 and 2 shall comply with the SOemission limit of 0.12 lb/MMBtu averaged annually across the two units on December 31, 2018.

(3) The owners and operators of the other BART sources subject to this section shall comply with the emissions limitations and other requirements of this section by March 4, 2019.

(4)(i) The owners and operators of PacifiCorp Dave Johnston Unit 3 will meet a NOemission limit of 0.07 lb/MMBtu (30-day rolling average) by March 4, 2019; or

(ii) Alternatively, the owners and operators of PacifiCorp Dave Johnston Unit 3 will permanently cease operation of this unit on or before December 31, 2027.
