
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart ZZ - Wyoming
###### ยง 52.2636 Implementation plan for regional haze.
####### Method.

(ii)(A) For any hour in which fuel is combusted in a unit, the owner/operator of each unit shall calculate the hourly average NOemission rates in lb/MMBtu at the CEMS in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 75. At the end of each operating day, the owner/operator shall calculate and record a new 30-day rolling average emission rate in lb/MMBtu from the arithmetic average of all valid hourly emission rates from the CEMS for the current operating day and the previous 29 successive operating days.

(B) At the end of each calendar year, the owner/operator shall calculate the annual average SOemission rate in lb/MMBtu across Laramie River Station Units 1 and 2 as the sum of the SOannual mass emissions (pounds) divided by the sum of the annual heat inputs (MMBtu). For Laramie River Station Units 1 and 2, the owner/operator shall calculate the annual mass emissions for SOand the annual heat input in accordance with 40 CFR part 75 for each unit.

(C) An hourly average SOand/or NOemission rate in lb/MMBtu is valid only if the minimum number of data points, as specified in 40 CFR part 75, is acquired by both the pollutant concentration monitor (SOand/or NO) and the diluent monitor (Oor CO).

(D) Data reported to meet the requirements of this section shall not include data substituted using the missing data substitution procedures of subpart D of 40 CFR part 75, nor shall the data have been bias adjusted according to the procedures of 40 CFR part 75.

(2) For all Trona Plant BART units:
