
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart AAA - Guam
###### ยง 52.2673 Original identification of plan.
####### Control of Sulfur Dioxide Emission,

(i) Chapter 13-13.3, 13.4.

(ii) Deleted without replacement Rule 13.3 (submitted January 25, 1972).

(iii) Chapters 1 (except 1.18 and 1.19), 4, 10, 12 and 14; Rules 3.1-3.9, 5.3, 6.2, 7.1, 7.4, 7.5, 8.3-8.7, 13.1, 13.2 and 18.1-18.4; and deletion of Rules 3.12, 3.17 and 12.3.

(3) Amendments to the Guam Air Pollution Control Standards and Regulations submitted on April 1, 1980 by the Governor's designee.

(i) Addendum to 13.1-Compliance Order for the Guam Power Authority's Power Barge "Inductance".

(4) Amendments to the Guam Air Pollution Control Standards and Regulations submitted on January 6, 1982 by the Governor's designee.

(i) Chapter 17-Appeals Procedures, Circumvention, Severability, and Effective Date.

(5) Amendments to the Guam Air Pollution Control Standards and Regulations submitted on June 30, 1982 by the Governor's designee.

(i) "Territory of Guam NAP for SO," consisting of the narrative or Control Strategy portion of the Piti NAP; Addendum B, "Preliminary Results of SODispersion Modeling;" and "Official Report of Public Hearing." The remaining portions of the addenda are for informational purposes only.

(5) Amendments to the Guam Air Pollution Standards and Regulations submitted on May 22, 1984.

(i) Section X. Air Quality Surveillance Network.

(6) The following amendments to the plan were submitted on November 24, 1982, by the Governor.

(i) Negative declaration indicating no Lead Sources in Guam.
