
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart BBB - Puerto Rico
###### ยง 52.2720 Identification of plan.

(a) Title of plan: "Clean Air for Puerto Rico."

(b) The plan was submitted on January 31, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the date specified.

(1) Compliance schedules submitted on April 5, 1973, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(2) Compliance schedules submitted on April 9, 1973, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(3) Compliance schedules submitted on April 17, 1973, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(4) Compliance schedules submitted on May 30, 1973, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(5) Compliance schedules submitted on June 18, 1973, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(6) Compliance schedules submitted on September 10, 1973, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(7) Compliance schedules submitted December 6, 1973, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(8) Information on procedures followed in adoption of compliance schedules submitted on February 1, 1974, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(9) Compliance schedules submitted February 7, 1974, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(10) Compliance schedules submitted February 7, 1974, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(11) Information on procedures followed in adoption of compliance schedules submitted on February 12, 1974, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(12) Information on procedures followed in adoption of compliance schedules submitted on March 13, 1974, by the Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(13) Information on procedures followed in adoption of compliance schedules submitted on March 15, 1974, by the Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(14) Information on procedures followed in adoption of compliance schedules submitted on March 20, 1974, by the Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(15) AQMA designations were submitted on May 5, 1974, by the Governor of Puerto Rico.

(16) Compliance schedules submitted June 11, 1974, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(17) Compliance schedules submitted on September 6, 1974, by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board.

(18) Revised Article 6 (Control of Sulfur Compound Emissions) was submitted on January 3, 1975, by the Governor of Puerto Rico.

(19) Public hearing information regarding revised Article 6 was submitted on January 17, 1975, by the Executive Director of the Environmental Quality Board.

(20) Information regarding Guayanilla and Aguirre Air Basins was submitted on February 14, 1975, by the Environmental Quality Board.

(21) Emission limitation for one source in the Ponce Air Basin was submitted on March 26, 1976, by the Environmental Quality Board.

(22) Predicted SOconcentrations for Aguirre Air Basin was submitted on May 8, 1975, by the Environmental Quality Board.

(23) Additional information regarding revised Article 6 was submitted on May 15, 1975, by the Environmental Quality Board.

(24) Predicted SOambient concentrations for Barceloneta and Ensenada submitted on June 2, 1975, by the Environmental Quality Board.

(25) Predicted SOambient concentrations for Barceloneta and Ensenada submitted on January 8, 1976, by the Environmental Quality Board.

(26) A document entitled, "Clean Air for Puerto Rico," submitted, pursuant to requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act, on June 29, 1979 by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

(27) Supplementary submittals of SIP revision material from the Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board, dated:

(i) October 30, 1979, containing policy statements of EQB with regard to: Its objective to attain both the primary and secondary particulate matter air quality standards by December 31, 1982, assurances with regard to meeting the requirements of reasonable further progress, verification of the detail of its annual reporting effort, clarification of the operation of its offset program and correction of the related inventory and graphical presentations.

(ii) July 24, 1980, providing a comprehensive set of adopted regulations, entitled "Regulation for the Control of Atmospheric Pollution." Rules 115 and 116 revised in 2011; see paragraph 38 of this section.

(iii) August 6, 1980, providing a commitment to submit "external offsets" as SIP revisions.

(28) A submittal by the Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board entitled, "Revised Provisions for SIP Air Quality Monitoring Plan," April 1980.

(29) Revision submitted by the Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board on April 26, 1982, as modified by a July 8, 1982 letter, which grants a visible emissions standard variance to ovens "A" and "B" of the Owens-Illinois, Inc. Vega Alta plant. This variance remains in effect until November 2, 1985.

(30) Revision submitted on March 3, 1981 by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico's Environmental Quality Board which establishes fuel oil sulfur content limitations (known as "sulfur assignments") applicable to the 110 sources. On October 20, 1983, 78 of these 110 sources had their sulfur assignments approved by EPA.

(31) Revision submitted on May 30, 1984 by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico's Environmental Quality Board which establishes fuel oil sulfur content limitations (known as "sulfur assignments") applicable to the Bristol Alpha Corporation.

(32) An Implementation Plan for attainment of the lead standard was submitted on September 28, 1984 by the Chairman of the Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board. On December 12, 1984, the Chairman submitted a schedule for establishing a program to review new sources of lead.

(33) Revision submitted by the Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board on September 6, 1983, which grants a visible emissions variance from Commonwealth Rule 403, "Visible Emissions," from 20 percent to 45 percent for the crude unit and from 20 percent to 35 percent for the hot oil/final lube unit located at the Yabucoa Sun Oil Company's plant in Yabucoa.

(34) Revision submitted by the Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board on December 31, 1986, which grants a visible emissions standard variance to Owen-Illinois, Inc. Vega Alta plant.

(i) Incorporation by reference. Resolution and notification announcing a Certificate of Renewal to Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Law 403 of the Regulation for Control of Atmospheric Pollution; adopted on July 9, 1986.

(ii) Additional material. Documents submitted on December 31, 1986 in support of the above resolution.

(35) A revision submitted on November 14, 1993 by the Chairman of the Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board (EQB) for the Municipality of Guaynabo. The submittal was made to satisfy those moderate PMnonattainment area SIP requirements due for the Municipality of Guaynabo as outlined in the Clean Air Act of 1990.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Regulations:
