
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart CCC - Virgin Islands
###### ยง 52.2770 Identification of plan.

(a) Title of plan: "Air Quality Implementation Plan for the U.S. Virgin Islands."

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 31, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Procedures for making emission data available to the public submitted April 26, 1972, by the Division of Environmental Health, Virgin Islands Department of Health.

(2) Revision to construction permit regulation, Rule 12, section 206-26(a) of the Virgin Islands Rules and Regulations, submitted on August 17, 1972, by the Governor.

(3) Sections 206-30 (Review of new sources and modifications) and 206-31 (Review of new or modified indirect sources) were submitted on February 12, 1974, by the Governor of Virgin Islands.

(4) Additional information on sections 206-30 and 206-31 was submitted on April 10, 1975, by the Governor of the Virgin Islands.

(5) Exemption of the St. John Municipal Incinerator from the requirements of section 204-23, paragraph (c)(2) of the Virgin Islands Air Pollution Control Code submitted on July 9, 1975, by the Governor.

(6) Revised Section 204-26 (Sulfur Compounds Emissions Control) submitted on January 21, 1976 by the Governor of the Virgin Islands, as it applies to the islands of St. Thomas and St. John.

(7) Amended revised Section 204-26 submitted on June 3, 1976 by the Governor of the Virgin Islands, as it applies to the islands of St. Thomas and St. John.

(8) As it applies to the island of St. Croix, per an August 16, 1976 request from the Virgin Islands, revised 12 V.I.R. & R. 9:204-26 (Sulfur Compounds Emission Control) excluding subsection (a)(2), as submitted on January 21, 1976 by the Governor of the Virgin Islands.

(9) Revision submitted on August 29, 1977, by the Governor of the Virgin Islands which allows, under provisions of 12 V.I.R. & R. 9:204-26, the relaxation of the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation to 1.5 percent, by weight, for the Virgin Islands Water and Power Authority's Christiansted Power Plant.

(10) Revision submitted on February 9, 1980 by the Commissioner of the Department of Conservation and Cultural Affairs of the Government of the Virgin Islands of the United States which grants an "administrative order" under Title 12 V.I.C. section 211 and Title 12 V.I.R. & R. sections 204-26(d). This "administrative order" relaxes, until one year from the date of EPA approval, the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation to 1.5 percent, by weight, applicable to Martin Marietta Alumina and the Hess Oil Virgin Islands Corporation, both located in the Southern Industrial Complex on the Island of St. Croix.

(11) A document entitled "Air Monitoring Plan," November 1979, submitted on February 23, 1981, by the Virgin Islands Department of Conservation and Cultural Affairs.

(12) Revision submitted on April 9, 1981 by the Commissioner of the Department of Conservation and Cultural Affairs of the Government of the Virgin Islands of the United States which grants an "administrative order" under Title 12 V.I.C. section 211 and Title 12 V.I.R. and R. sections 204-26(d). This "administrative order" relaxes, until one year from the date of EPA approval, the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation to 1.5 percent, by weight, applicable to Martin Marietta Alumina and the Hess Oil Virgin Islands Corporation, both located in the Southern Industrial Complex on the Island of St. Croix.

(13) Revision submitted on January 12, 1983 by the Commissioner of the Department of Conservation and Cultural Affairs of the Government of the Virgin Islands of the United States which grants an "administrative order" under Title 12 V.I.C. section 211 and Title 12 V.I.R. and R. sections 204-26(d). This "administrative order" relaxes, until one year from the date of EPA approval, the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation to 1.5 percent, by weight, applicable to Martin Marietta Alumina and the Hess Oil Virgin Islands Corporation, both located in the Southern Industrial Complex on the Island of Saint Croix.

(14) An Implementation Plan for attainment of the lead standard was submitted by the Governor of the U.S. Virgin Islands on November 16, 1984.

(15) Revision submitted on December 1, 1983 by the Virgin Islands Department of Environmental Conservation and Cultural Affairs which grants a variance establishing, for one year from February 26, 1985, a maximum sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation of 1.5 percent, by weight, for the Hess Oil Virgin Islands Corporation and the Martin Marietta Aluminum Properties, Inc. facilities located on the Island of Saint Croix.

(16) Revision submitted on February 11, 1986 by the Virgin Islands Department of Environmental Conservation and Cultural Affairs which grants a variance establishing, for one year from April 14, 1987, a maximum sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation of 1.5 percent, by weight, for the Hess Oil Virgin Islands Corporation and the Martin Marietta Properties facilities located on the Island of St. Croix.

(17) Comprehensive revisions to Virgin Islands air pollution control regulations submitted on March 20, 1987, by the Virgin Islands Department of Planning and Natural Resources.

(i) Incorporation by reference:

(A) Revised sections 20 through 23, 25, 26, 28, 29, 33, 35 through 41, and 45 of subchapter 204, chapter 9, title 12 of the Virgin Islands Code, effective January 15, 1987.

(B) Revised sections 20 through 31 of subchapter 206, chapter 9, title 12 of the Virgin Islands Code, effective January 15, 1987.

(ii) Additional material:

(A) July 1988 Modeling Analysis for CEC Energy Co., Inc.

(B) July 11, 1989, letter from Ted Helfgott, Amerada Hess Corporation to Raymond Werner, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region II, New York.

(C) December 28, 1992, Prevention of Significant Deterioration of Air Quality permit for Virgin Islands Water and Power Authority at St. Croix's north shore facility.
