
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart CCC - Virgin Islands
###### ยง 52.2780 Control strategy for sulfur oxides.

(a) The requirements of subpart G of this chapter are not met since there has not been a satisfactory demonstration that the Virgin Islands plan provides for the attainment and maintenance of the national ambient air quality standards for sulfur oxides on the island of St. Croix.

(b) The following parts of regulation 12 V.I.R. and R. 9:204-26, "Sulfur Compounds Emission Control," as submitted to EPA on January 21, 1976 and as amended and resubmitted to EPA on June 3, 1976 are approved:

(1) The entire regulation as it applies to the islands of St. Thomas and St. John.

(2) The entire regulation as it applies to the Virgin Islands Water and Power Authority's Christiansted Power Plant on the island of St. Croix.

(3) The entire regulation excluding subsection (a)(2) as it applies to the remaining sources on the island of St. Croix.

(c) Reference to "Section (a)(2)" in subsection (d) of 12 V.I.R. and R. 9:204-26, as submitted to EPA on January 21, 1976 and as amended and resubmitted to EPA on June 3, 1976, refers to the following approved limitations: (1) For the islands of St. Thomas and St. John, subsection (a)(2) of section 204-26 as submitted to EPA on January 21, 1976 and as amended and resubmitted to EPA on June 3, 1976; (2) for the island of St. Croix, subsection (a)(2) of section 204-26 as originally submitted to EPA on January 31, 1972 and approved by EPA on May 31, 1972.
