
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 33 - PARTICIPATION BY DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES IN UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 33.104 May recipients apply for a waiver from the requirements of this part?

(a) A recipient may apply for a waiver from any of the requirements of this part that are not specifically based on a statute or Executive Order, by submitting a written request to the Director of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization.

(b) The request must document special or exceptional circumstances that make compliance with the requirement impractical, including a specific proposal addressing how the recipient intends to achieve the objectives of this part as described in ยง 33.101. The request must show that:

(1) There is a reasonable basis to conclude that the recipient could achieve a level of MBE and WBE participation consistent with the objectives of this part using different or innovative means other than those that are provided in subparts C or D of this part;

(2) Conditions in the recipient's jurisdiction are appropriate for implementing the request; and

(3) The request is consistent with applicable law.

(c) The OSDBU Director has the authority to approve a recipient's request. If the OSDBU Director grants a recipient's request, the recipient may administer its program as provided in the request, subject to the following conditions:

(1) The recipient's level of MBE and WBE participation continues to be consistent with the objectives of this part;

(2) There is a reasonable limitation on the duration of the recipient's modified program; and

(3) Any other conditions the OSDBU Director makes on the grant of the waiver.

(d) The OSDBU Director may end a program waiver at any time upon notice to the recipient and require a recipient to comply with the provisions of this part. The OSDBU Director may also extend the waiver if he or she determines that all requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section continue to be met. Any such extension shall be for no longer than the period originally set for the duration of the program waiver.
