
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart DDD - American Samoa
###### ยง 52.2823 Original identification of plan.

(a) This section identified the original "Implementation Plan for Compliance With the Ambient Air Quality Standards for the Territory of American Samoa" and all revisions submitted by the Territory of American Samoa that were federally approved prior to June 1, 2005.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 27, 1972.

(1) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Chapter 35.01, Section 35.0113 of the Environmental Quality Act.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Revised legal authority submitted on March 9, 1972, by the Environmental Quality Commission.

(2) Letter indicating formal adoption of the implementation plan submitted on March 23, 1972, by the Environmental Quality Commission.

(3) Letter regarding comments on the plan and indicating intent to submit a revised plan submitted on April 28, 1972, by the Environmental Quality Commission.

(4) Formally adopted rules and regulations for the entire Territory submitted on June 8, 1972, by the Environmental Quality Commission.

(5) The following amendments to the plan were submitted on November 22, 1982, by the Governor.

(i) Negative declaration indicating no Lead sources in American Samoa.
