
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix D to Part 52 - Determination of Sulfur Dioxide Emissions From Stationary Sources by Continuous Monitors
###### Accuracy,Relative

6.2.1(). For each of the nine reference method testing periods, determine the average sulfur dioxide concentration reported by the continuous measurement system. These average concentrations shall be determined from the measurement system data recorded under section 5.2.2.1 by integrating the pollutant concentrations over each of the time intervals concurrent with each reference method test, then dividing by the cumulative time of each applicable reference method testing period. Before proceeding to the next step, determine the basis (wet or dry) of the measurement system data and reference method test data concentrations.

If the bases are not consistent, apply a moisture correction to either the referenced method concentrations or the measurement system concentrations, as appropriate. Determine the correction factor by moisture tests concurrent with the reference method testing periods. Report the moisture test method and the correction procedure employed. For each of the nine test runs, subtract the Reference Method test concentrations from the continuous monitoring system average concentrations. Using these data, compute the mean difference and the 95 percent confidence interval using equations D-1 and D-2. Accuracy is reported as the sum of the absolute value of the mean difference and the 95 percent confidence interval expressed as a percentage of the mean reference method value. Use the example sheet shown in Figure D-3.
