
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix D to Part 52 - Determination of Sulfur Dioxide Emissions From Stationary Sources by Continuous Monitors
###### Field Test for Response Time.

5.3

5.3.1 This test shall be accomplished using the entire measurement system as installed including sample transport lines if used. Flow rates, line diameters, pumping rates, pressures (do not allow the pressurized calibration gas to change the normal operating pressure in the sample line), etc., shall be at the nominal values for normal operation as specified in the manufacturer's written instructions. In the case of cyclic analyzers, the response time test shall include one cycle.

5.3.2 Introduce a zero concentration of SOinto the measurement system sampling interface or as close to the sampling interface as possible. When the system output reading has stabilized, switch quickly to a known concentration of SOat 70 to 90 percent of span. Record the time from concentration switching to final stable response. After the system response has stabilized at the upper level, switch quickly to a zero concentration of SO. Record the time from concentration switching to final stable response. Alternatively, for nonextractive monitors, a calibration gas concentration equivalent to 20 percent of span or more may be switched into and out of the sample path and response times recorded. Perform this test sequence three (3) times. For each test record the results on the example sheet shown in Figure D-6.
