
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix E to Part 52 - Performance Specifications and, Specification Test Procedures for Monitoring Systems for Effluent Stream Gas Volumetric Flow Rate
###### Field test for accuracy and operational period.

5.1.2During the 168-hour test period, the system should be continuously measuring gas volumetric flow rate at all times. During this period make a series of 14 volumetric flow rate determinations simultaneously using the reference method and the measurement system. The 14 determinations can be made at any time interval at least one hour apart during the 168-hour period except that at least one determination on five different days must be made with one determination on the last day of such period. The determinations shall be conducted over the range of volumetric flow rates expected to occur during normal operation of the source. The measurement system volumetric flow rate reading corresponding to the period of time during which each reference method run was made may be obtained by continuous integration of the measurement system signal over the test interval. Integration may be by use of mechanical integration of electrical units on the chart recorder or use of a planimeter on the strip chart recorder. The location and orientation of the reference method measurement device and the measurement system should be as close as practical without interference, but no closer than 1.3 cm (0.5 inch) to each other and shall be such that dilution air or other interferences cannot be interjected into the stack or duct between the pitot tube and the measurement system. Be careful not to locate the reference method pitot tube directly up or down stream of the measurement system sensor.
