
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 33 - PARTICIPATION BY DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES IN UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 33.205 How does an entity become certified by EPA?
####### Filing an application.

(a)In accordance with ยง 33.204, an entity may apply to EPA's Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization (EPA OSDBU) for certification as an MBE or WBE. EPA's Regional Offices will provide further information and required application forms to any entity interested in MBE or WBE certification. The applicant must attest to the accuracy and truthfulness of the information on the application form. This shall be done either in the form of an affidavit sworn to by the applicant before a person who is authorized by state law to administer oaths or in the form of an unsworn declaration executed under penalty of perjury of the laws of the United States. The application must include evidence demonstrating that the entity is owned or controlled by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status under EPA's 8% statute or owned and controlled by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status under EPA's 10% statute, along with certifications or narratives regarding the disadvantaged status of such individuals. In addition, the application must include documentation of a denial of certification by a Federal agency, State government, local government, Indian Tribal government, or independent private organization, if applicable.
