
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### § 53.43 Test procedures.
######## Test procedure.

(2)(i) Establish a wind speed specified in table D-2 and measure the wind speed and turbulence intensity (longitudinal component and macroscale) at a minimum of 12 test points in a cross-sectional area of the test section of the wind tunnel. The mean wind speed in the test section must be within +/-10 percent of the value specified in table D-2 and the variation at any test point in the test section may not exceed 10 percent of the mean.

(ii) Generate particles of a size and type specified in table D-2 using a vibrating orifice aerosol generator. Check for the presence of satellites and adjust the generator as necessary. Calculate the aerodynamic particle size using the operating parameters of the vibrating orifice aerosol generator and record. The calculated aerodynamic diameter must be within the tolerance specified in table D-2.

(iii) Collect a sample of the particles on a glass slide or other suitable substrate at the particle injection point. If a glass slide is used, it should be pretreated with an appropriate oleophobic surfactant when collecting liquid particles. Use a microscopic technique to size a minimum of 25 primary particles in three viewing fields (do not include multiplets). Determine the geometric mean aerodynamic diameter and geometric standard deviation using the bulk density of the particle type (and an appropriate flattening factor for liquid particles if collected on a glass slide). The measured geometric mean aerodynamic diameter must be within 0.5 µm or 10 percent of the aerodynamic diameter calculated from the operating parameters of the vibrating orifice aerosol generator. The geometric standard deviation must not exceed 1.1.

(iv) Determine the population of multiplets (doublets and triplets) in the collected sample by counting a minimum of 100 particles in three viewing fields. The multiplet population of the particle test atmosphere must not exceed 10 percent.

(v) Introduce the particles into the wind tunnel and allow the particle concentration to stabilize.

(vi) Install an array of five or more evenly spaced isokinetic samplers in the sampling zone (see § 53.42(d)) of the wind tunnel. Collect particles on appropriate filters (e.g., glass fiber) over a time period such that the relative error of the measured particle concentration is less than 5 percent. Relative error is defined as (p x 100%)/(X), where p is the precision of the fluorometer on the appropriate range, X is the measured concentration, and the units of p and X are the same.

(vii) Determine the quantity of material collected with each isokinetic sampler in the array using a calibrated fluorometer. Calculate and record the mass concentration for each isokinetic sampler as:

(viii) Calculate and record the mean mass concentration as:

(ix) Calculate and record the coefficient of variation of the mass concentration measurements as:

(x) If a single isokinetic sampler is used, install the sampler in the wind tunnel with the sampler nozzle centered in the sampling zone (see § 53.42(d)). Collect particles on an appropriate filter (e.g., glass fiber) for a time period such that the relative error of the measured concentration (as defined in step (vi)) is less than 5 percent. Determine the quantity of material collected with the isokinetic sampler using a calibrated fluorometer. Calculate and record the mass concentration as Cas in step vii. Remove the isokinetic sampler from the wind tunnel.

(xi) Install the test sampler (or portion thereof) in the wind tunnel with the sampler inlet opening centered in the sampling zone (see § 53.42(d)). To meet the maximum blockage limit of § 53.42(a) or for convenience, part of the test sampler may be positioned external to the wind tunnel provided that neither the geometry of the sampler nor the length of any connecting tube or pipe is altered. Collect particles on an appropriate filter or filters (e.g., glass fiber) for a time period such that the relative error of the measured concentration (as defined in step (vi)) is less than 5 percent.

(xii) Determine the quantity of material collected with the test sampler using a calibrated fluorometer. Calculate and record the mass concentration as:

(xiii) Calculate and record the sampling effectiveness of the test sampler as:

(xiv) Remove the test sampler from the wind tunnel. Repeat steps (vi) through (xiii), as appropriate, to obtain a minimum of three replicate measurements of sampling effectiveness.

(xv) Calculate and record the average sampling effectiveness of the test sampler as:

(xvi) Calculate and record the coefficient of variation for the replicate sampling effectiveness measurements of the test sampler as:

(xvii) Repeat steps i through xvi for each wind speed, particle size, and particle type specified in table D-2.

(xviii) For each of the three wind speeds (nominally 2, 8, and 24 km/hr), correct the liquid particle sampling effectiveness data for the presence of multiplets (doublets and triplets) in the test particle atmospheres.

(xix) For each wind speed, plot the corrected liquid particle sampling effectiveness of the test sampler (E) as a function of particle size (d) on semi-logarithmic graph paper where dis the particle size established by the operating parameters of the vibrating orifice aerosol generator. Construct a smooth curve through the data.

(xx) For each wind speed, calculate the expected mass concentration for the test sampler under the assumed particle size distribution and compare it to the mass concentration predicted for the ideal sampler, as follows:

(A) Extrapolate the upper and lower ends of the corrected liquid particle sampling effectiveness curve to 100 percent and 0 percent, respectively, using smooth curves. Assume that E= 100 percent at a particle size of 1.0 µm and E= 0 percent at a particle size of 50 µm.

(B) Determine the value of Eat each of the particle sizes specified in the first column of table D-3. Record each Evalue as a decimal between 0 and 1 in the second column of table D-3.

(C) Multiply the values of Ein column 2 by the interval mass concentration values in column 3 and enter the products in column 4 of table D-3.

(D) Sum the values in column 4 and enter the total as the expected mass concentration for the test sampler at the bottom of column 4 of table D-3.

(E) Calculate and record the percent difference in expected mass concentration between the test sampler and the ideal sampler as:

(F) The candidate method passes the liquid particle sampling effectiveness test if the Δ C value for each wind speed meets the specification in table D-1.

(xxi) For each of the two wind speeds (nominally 8 and 24 km/hr), calculate the difference between the average sampling effectiveness value for the 25 µm solid particles and the average sampling effectiveness value for the 25 µm liquid particles (uncorrected for multiplets).

(xxii) The candidate method passes the solid particle sampling effectiveness test if each such difference meets the specification in table D-1.
