
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.41 Test conditions.

(a) Set-up and start-up of all test samplers shall be in strict accordance with the operating instructions specified in the manual referred to in ยง 53.4(b)(3).

(b) If the internal surface or surfaces of the candidate method's sampler inlet on which the particles removed by the inlet are collected is a dry surface (i.e., not normally coated with oil or grease), those surfaces shall be cleaned prior to conducting wind tunnel tests with solid particles.

(c) Once the test sampler or samplers have been set up and the performance tests started, manual adjustment shall be permitted only between test points for the sampling effectiveness and 50 percent cutpoint tests or between test days for the precision and flow rate stability tests. The manual adjustments and any periodic maintenance shall be limited to only those procedures prescribed in the manual referred to in ยง 53.4(b)(3). The submitted records shall show clearly when any manual adjustment or periodic maintenance was made and shall describe the operations performed.

(d) If a test sampler malfunctions during any of the sampling effectiveness and 50 percent cutpoint tests, that test run shall be repeated. If a test sampler malfunctions during any of the precision and flow rate stability tests, that day's test shall be repeated. A detailed explanation of all malfunctions and the remedial actions taken shall be submitted to EPA with the application.
