
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 33 - PARTICIPATION BY DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES IN UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 33.210 Does an entity certified as an MBE or WBE by EPA need to keep EPA informed of any changes which may affect the entity's certification?

(a) An entity certified as an MBE or WBE by EPA OSDBU must provide EPA OSDBU, every year on the anniversary of the date of its certification, an affidavit sworn to by the entity's owners before a person who is authorized by state law to administer oaths or an unsworn declaration executed under penalty of perjury of the laws of the United States. This affidavit must affirm that there have been no changes in the entity's circumstances affecting its ability to meet disadvantaged status, ownership, and/or control requirements of this subpart or any material changes in the information provided in its application form. Failure to comply may result in the loss of MBE or WBE certification under EPA's DBE Program.

(b) An entity certified as an MBE or WBE by EPA OSDBU must inform EPA OSDBU in writing of any change in circumstance affecting the MBE's or WBE's ability to meet disadvantaged status, ownership, and/or control requirements of this subpart or any material change in the information provided in its application form. The MBE or WBE must attach supporting documentation describing in detail the nature of such change. The notice from the MBE or WBE must take the form of an affidavit sworn to by the applicant before a person who is authorized by State law to administer oaths or of an unsworn declaration executed under penalty of perjury of the laws of the United States. The MBE or WBE must provide the written notification within 30 calendar days of the occurrence of the change.
