
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### § 53.43 Test procedures.
######## Test procedure.

(2)(i) Set up three identical test samplers at the test site in strict accordance with the instructions in the manual referred to in § 53.4(b)(3). Locate the test sampler inlet openings at the same height and between 2 and 4 meters apart. The samplers shall be oriented in a manner that will minimize spatial and wind directional effects on sample collection. Perform a flow calibration for each test sampler in accordance with the instructions given in the instruction manual and/or appendix J to part 50 of this chapter. Set the operating flow rate to the value prescribed in the sampler instruction manual.

(ii) Measure the PMconcentration of the atmosphere using the three test samplers for 10 periods (test days) of 24 hours each. On each of the 10 test days, measure the initial and final flow rates of each test sampler. On three of the test days, measure the flow rate of each test sampler after 6, 12, and 18 hours of operation. All measurements of flow rate and mass collected must be made in accordance with the procedures prescribed in the sampler instruction manual and/or appendix J to part 50 of this chapter. All measurements of flow rate must be in actual volumetric units. Record the PMconcentration for each sampler and each test day as Cwhere i is the sampler number and j is the test day.

(iii) For each test day, calculate and record the average of the three measured PMconcentrations as Cwhere j is the test day. If C<30 µg/mfor any test day, data from that test day are unacceptable and the tests for that day must be repeated.

(iv) Calculate and record the precision for each of the 10 test days as:

(v) The candidate method passes the precision test if all 10 Por RPvalues meet the specifications in table D-1.
