
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### § 53.50 General provisions.
######## Class II method.

(3)A sampler associated with a Class II candidate equivalent method for PMshall be subject to the applicable requirements of this subpart E, as described in § 53.3(a)(5).

(d) The provisions of § 53.51 pertain to test results and documentation required to demonstrate compliance of a candidate method sampler with the design specifications set forth in 40 CFR part 50, appendix L or O, as applicable. The test procedures prescribed in §§ 53.52 through 53.59 pertain to performance tests required to demonstrate compliance of a candidate method sampler with the performance specifications set forth in 40 CFR part 50, appendix L or O, as applicable, as well as additional requirements specified in this subpart E. These latter test procedures shall be used to test the performance of candidate samplers against the performance specifications and requirements specified in each procedure and summarized in table E-1 of this subpart.

(e) Test procedures prescribed in § 53.59 do not apply to candidate reference method samplers. These procedures apply primarily to candidate Class I or Class II equivalent method samplers for PMor PMthat have a sample air flow path configuration upstream of the sample filter that is modified from that specified for the FRM sampler, as set forth in 40 CFR part 50, appendix L, Figures L-1 to L-29 or 40 CFR part 50 appendix O, Figure O-1, if applicable, such as might be necessary to provide for sequential sample capability. The additional tests determine the adequacy of aerosol transport through any altered components or supplemental devices that are used in a candidate sampler upstream of the filter. In addition to the other test procedures in this subpart, these test procedures shall be used to further test the performance of such an equivalent method sampler against the performance specifications given in the procedure and summarized in table E-1 of this subpart.

(f) A 10-day operational field test of measurement precision is required under § 53.58 for both FRM and Class I FEM samplers for PM. This test requires collocated operation of three candidate method samplers at a field test site. For candidate FEM samplers, this test may be combined and carried out concurrently with the test for comparability to the FRM specified under § 53.34, which requires collocated operation of three FRM samplers and three candidate FEM samplers.

(g) All tests and collection of test data shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of reference 1, section 4.10.5 (ISO 9001) and reference 2, part B, (section 6) and Part C, (section 7) in appendix A of this subpart. All test data and other documentation obtained specifically from or pertinent to these tests shall be identified, dated, signed by the analyst performing the test, and submitted to EPA in accordance with subpart A of this part.
