
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.52 Leak check test.
######## Procedure.

(f)(1) Install the impermeable membrane in a filter cassette and install the cassette into the sampler. Carry out the internal leak check procedure as described in the sampler's operation/instruction manual and verify that the leak check acceptance criterion specified in table E-1 of this subpart is met.

(2) Replace the impermeable membrane with a Teflon filter and install the cassette in the sampler. Remove the inlet from the sampler and install the flow measurement adaptor on the sampler's downtube. Close the valve of the adaptor to seal the flow system. Conduct the external leak check procedure as described in the sampler's operation/instruction manual and verify that the leak check acceptance criteria specified in table E-1 of this subpart are met.

(3) Arrange the flow control device, flow rate measurement device, and other apparatus as necessary to provide a simulated leak flow rate of 80 mL/min into the test sampler through the downtube during the specified external leak check procedure. Carry out the external leak check procedure as described in the sampler's operation/instruction manual but with the simulated leak of 80 mL/min.
