
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.53 Test for flow rate accuracy, regulation, measurement accuracy, and cut-off.
######## Test setup.

(e)(1) Setup of the sampler shall be as required in this paragraph (e) and otherwise as described in the sampler's operation or instruction manual referred to in ยง 53.4(b)(3). The sampler shall be installed upright and set up in its normal configuration for collecting PM samples. A sample filter and (or) the device for creating an additional 55 mm Hg pressure drop shall be installed for the duration of these tests. The sampler's ambient temperature, ambient pressure, and flow rate measurement systems shall all be calibrated per the sampler's operation or instruction manual within 7 days prior to this test.

(2) The inlet of the candidate sampler shall be removed and the flow measurement adaptor installed on the sampler's downtube. A leak check as described in the sampler's operation or instruction manual shall be conducted and must be properly passed before other tests are carried out.

(3) The inlet of the flow measurement adaptor shall be connected to the outlet of the flow rate meter.

(4) For the flow rate cut-off test, the valve or means for reducing sampler flow rate shall be installed between the flow measurement adaptor and the downtube or in another location within the sampler such that the sampler flow rate can be manually restricted during the test.
