
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.53 Test for flow rate accuracy, regulation, measurement accuracy, and cut-off.
######## Procedure.

(f)(1) Set up the sampler as specified in paragraph (e) of this section and otherwise prepare the sampler for normal sample collection operation as directed in the sampler's operation or instruction manual. Set the sampler to automatically start a 6-hour sample collection period at a convenient time.

(2) During the 6-hour operational flow rate portion of the test, measure and record the sample flow rate with the flow rate meter at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes. If ambient temperature and pressure corrections are necessary to calculate volumetric flow rate, ambient temperature and pressure shall be measured at the same frequency as that of the certified flow rate measurements. Note and record the actual start and stop times for the 6-hour flow rate test period.

(3) Following completion of the 6-hour flow rate test period, install the flow rate reduction device and change the sampler flow rate recording frequency to intervals of not more than 30 seconds. Reset the sampler to start a new sample collection period. Manually restrict the sampler flow rate such that the sampler flow rate is decreased slowly over several minutes to a flow rate slightly less than the flow rate cut-off value (15.0 L/min). Maintain this flow rate for at least 2.0 minutes or until the sampler stops the sample flow automatically. Manually terminate the sample period, if the sampler has not terminated it automatically.
