
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.53 Test for flow rate accuracy, regulation, measurement accuracy, and cut-off.
######## Required test equipment.

(c)(1) Flow rate meter, suitable for measuring and recording the actual volumetric sample flow rate at the sampler downtube, with a minimum range of 10 to 25 L/min, 2 percent certified, NIST-traceable accuracy. Optional capability for continuous (analog) recording capability or digital recording at intervals not to exceed 30 seconds is recommended. While a flow meter which provides a direct indication of volumetric flow rate is preferred for this test, an alternative certified flow measurement device may be used as long as appropriate volumetric flow rate corrections are made based on measurements of actual ambient temperature and pressure conditions.

(2) Ambient air temperature sensor, with a resolution of 0.1 &#xB0;C and certified to be accurate to within 0.5 &#xB0;C (if needed). If the certified flow meter does not provide direct volumetric flow rate readings, ambient air temperature measurements must be made using continuous (analog) recording capability or digital recording at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes.

(3) Barometer, range 600 mm Hg to 800 mm Hg, certified accurate to 2 mm Hg (if needed). If the certified flow meter does not provide direct volumetric flow rate readings, ambient pressure measurements must be made using continuous (analog) recording capability or digital recording at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes.

(4) Flow measurement adaptor (40 CFR part 50, appendix L, figure L-30) or equivalent adaptor to facilitate measurement of sample flow rate at the sampler downtube.

(5) Valve or other means to restrict or reduce the sample flow rate to a value at least 10 percent below the design flow rate (16.67 L/min). If appropriate, the valve of the flow measurement adaptor may be used for this purpose.

(6) Means for creating an additional pressure drop of 55 mm Hg in the sampler to simulate a heavily loaded filter, such as an orifice or flow restrictive plate installed in the filter holder or a valve or other flow restrictor temporarily installed in the flow path near the filter.

(7) Teflon sample filter, as specified in section 6 of 40 CFR part 50, appendix L (if required).
