
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 33 - PARTICIPATION BY DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES IN UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Good Faith Efforts
###### ยง 33.302 Are there any additional contract administration requirements?

(a) A recipient must require its prime contractor to pay its subcontractor for satisfactory performance no more than 30 days from the prime contractor's receipt of payment from the recipient.

(b) A recipient must be notified in writing by its prime contractor prior to any termination of a DBE subcontractor for convenience by the prime contractor.

(c) If a DBE subcontractor fails to complete work under the subcontract for any reason, the recipient must require the prime contractor to employ the six good faith efforts described in ยง 33.301 if soliciting a replacement subcontractor.

(d) A recipient must require its prime contractor to employ the six good faith efforts described in ยง 33.301 even if the prime contractor has achieved its fair share objectives under subpart D of this part.

(e) A recipient must require its prime contractor to provide EPA Form 6100-2-DBE Program Subcontractor Participation Form to all of its DBE subcontractors. EPA Form 6100-2 gives a DBE subcontractor the opportunity to describe the work the DBE subcontractor received from the prime contractor, how much the DBE subcontractor was paid and any other concerns the DBE subcontractor might have, for example reasons why the DBE subcontractor believes it was terminated by the prime contractor. DBE subcontractors may send completed copies of EPA Form 6100-2 directly to the appropriate EPA DBE Coordinator.

(f) A recipient must require its prime contractor to have its DBE subcontractors complete EPA Form 6100-3-DBE Program Subcontractor Performance Form. A recipient must then require its prime contractor to include all completed forms as part of the prime contractor's bid or proposal package.

(g) A recipient must require its prime contractor to complete and submit EPA Form 6100-4-DBE Program Subcontractor Utilization Form as part of the prime contractor's bid or proposal package.

(h) Copies of EPA Form 6100-2-DBE Program Subcontractor Participation Form, EPA Form 6100-3-DBE Program Subcontractor Performance Form and EPA Form 6100-4-DBE Program Subcontractor Utilization Form may be obtained from EPA OSDBU's Home Page on the Internet or directly from EPA OSDBU.

(i) A recipient must ensure that each procurement contract it awards contains the term and condition specified in the appendix concerning compliance with the requirements of this part. A recipient must also ensure that this term and condition is included in each procurement contract awarded by an entity receiving an identified loan under a financial assistance agreement to capitalize a revolving loan fund.
