
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.54 Test for proper sampler operation following power interruptions.
######## Procedure.

(e)(1) Set up the sampler as specified in paragraph (d) of this section and otherwise prepare the sampler for normal sample collection operation as directed in the sampler's operation or instruction manual. Set the sampler to automatically start a 6-hour sample collection period at a convenient time.

(2) During the entire 6-hour operational flow rate portion of the test, measure and record the sample flow rate with the flow rate meter at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes. If ambient temperature and pressure corrections are necessary to calculate volumetric flow rate, ambient temperature and pressure shall be measured at the same frequency as that of the certified flow rate measurements. Note and record the actual start and stop times for the 6-hour flow rate test period.

(3) During the 6-hour test period, interrupt the AC line electrical power to the sampler 5 times, with durations of 20 seconds, 40 seconds, 2 minutes, 7 minutes, and 20 minutes (respectively), with not less than 10 minutes of normal electrical power supplied between each power interruption. Record the hour and minute and duration of each power interruption.

(4) At the end of the test, terminate the sample period (if not automatically terminated by the sampler) and download all archived instrument data from the test sampler.
