
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.54 Test for proper sampler operation following power interruptions.
######## Overview.

(a)(1) This test procedure is designed to test certain performance parameters of the candidate sampler during a test period in which power interruptions of various duration occur. The performance parameters tested are:

(i) Proper flow rate performance of the sampler.

(ii) Accuracy of the sampler's average flow rate, CV, and sample volume measurements.

(iii) Accuracy of the sampler's reported elapsed sampling time.

(iv) Accuracy of the reported time and duration of power interruptions.

(2) This test shall be conducted during operation of the test sampler over a continuous 6-hour test period during which the sampler's flow rate shall be measured and recorded at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes. The performance parameters tested under this procedure, the corresponding minimum performance specifications, and the applicable test conditions are summarized in table E-1 of this subpart. Each performance parameter tested, as described or determined in the test procedure, must meet or exceed the associated performance specification to successfully pass this test.
