
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.54 Test for proper sampler operation following power interruptions.
######## Flow rate CV measurement accuracy.

(4)(i) Using the flow rate coefficient of variation indicated by the candidate test sampler at the completion of the 6-hour test (%CV), determine the accuracy of the reported coefficient of variation as:

(ii) To successfully pass this test, the absolute difference in values calculated in Equation 10 of this paragraph (f)(4) must not exceed 0.3 (CV%).

(5) Verify that the sampler properly provided a record and visual display of the correct year, month, day-of-month, hour, and minute with an accuracy of +/-2 minutes, of the start of each power interruption of duration greater than 60 seconds.

(6) Calculate the actual elapsed sample time, excluding the periods of electrical power interruption. Verify that the elapsed sample time reported by the sampler is accurate to within +/-20 seconds for the 6-hour test run.

(7) Calculate the sample volume as Qmultiplied by the sample time, excluding periods of power interruption. Verify that the sample volume reported by the sampler is within 2 percent of the calculated sample volume to successfully pass this test.

(8) Inspect the downloaded instrument data from the test sampler and verify that all data are consistent with normal operation of the sampler.
