
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.55 Test for effect of variations in power line voltage and ambient temperature.
######## Required test equipment.

(c)(1) Environmental chamber or other temperature-controlled environment or environments, capable of obtaining and maintaining temperatures at -20 &#xB0;C and = 40 &#xB0;C as required for the test with an accuracy of +/-2 &#xB0;C. The test environment(s) must be capable of maintaining these temperatures within the specified limits continuously with the additional heat load of the operating test sampler in the environment. Henceforth, where the test procedures specify a test or environmental "chamber," an alternative temperature-controlled environmental area or areas may be substituted, provided the required test temperatures and all other test requirements are met.

(2) Variable voltage AC power transformer, range 100 Vac to 130 Vac, with sufficient current capacity to operate the test sampler continuously under the test conditions.

(3) Flow rate meter, suitable for measuring and recording the actual volumetric sample flow rate at the sampler downtube, with a minimum range of 10 to 25 actual L/min, 2 percent certified, NIST-traceable accuracy. Optional capability for continuous (analog) recording capability or digital recording at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes is recommended. While a flow meter which provides a direct indication of volumetric flow rate is preferred for this test, an alternative certified flow measurement device may be used as long as appropriate volumetric flow rate corrections are made based on measurements of actual ambient temperature and pressure conditions.

(4) Ambient air temperature recorder, range -30 &#xB0;C to = 50 &#xB0;C, with a resolution of 0.1 &#xB0;C and certified accurate to within 0.5 &#xB0;C. Ambient air temperature measurements must be made using continuous (analog) recording capability or digital recording at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes.

(5) Barometer, range 600 mm Hg to 800 mm Hg, certified accurate to 2 mm Hg. If the certified flow rate meter does not provide direct volumetric flow rate readings, ambient pressure measurements must be made using continuous (analog) recording capability or digital recording at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes.

(6) Flow measurement adaptor (40 CFR part 50, appendix L, figure L-30) or equivalent adaptor to facilitate measurement of sampler flow rate at the sampler downtube.

(7) Means for creating an additional pressure drop of 55 mm Hg in the sampler to simulate a heavily loaded filter, such as an orifice or flow restrictive plate installed in the filter holder or a valve or other flow restrictor temporarily installed in the flow path near the filter.

(8) AC RMS voltmeter, accurate to 1.0 volt.

(9) Teflon sample filter, as specified in section 6 of 40 CFR part 50, appendix L (if required).
