
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.55 Test for effect of variations in power line voltage and ambient temperature.
######## Procedure.

(f)(1) Set up the sampler as specified in paragraph (e) of this section and otherwise prepare the sampler for normal sample collection operation as directed in the sampler's operation or instruction manual.

(2) The test shall consist of four test runs, one at each of the following conditions of chamber temperature and electrical power line voltage (respectively):

(i) -20 &#xB0;C +/-2 &#xB0;C and 105 +/-1 Vac.

(ii) -20 &#xB0;C +/-2 &#xB0;C and 125 +/-1 Vac.

(iii) = 40 &#xB0;C +/-2 &#xB0;C and 105 +/-1 Vac.

(iv) = 40 &#xB0;C +/-2 &#xB0;C and 125 +/-1 Vac.

(3) For each of the four test runs, set the selected chamber temperature and power line voltage for the test run. Upon achieving each temperature setpoint in the chamber, the candidate sampler and flow meter shall be thermally equilibrated for a period of at least 2 hours prior to the test run. Following the thermal conditioning time, set the sampler to automatically start a 6-hour sample collection period at a convenient time.

(4) During each 6-hour test period:

(i) Measure and record the sample flow rate with the flow rate meter at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes. If ambient temperature and pressure corrections are necessary to calculate volumetric flow rate, ambient temperature and pressure shall be measured at the same frequency as that of the certified flow rate measurements. Note and record the actual start and stop times for the 6-hour flow rate test period.

(ii) Determine and record the ambient (chamber) temperature indicated by the sampler and the corresponding ambient (chamber) temperature measured by the ambient temperature recorder specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes.

(iii) Measure the power line voltage to the sampler at intervals not greater than 1 hour.

(5) At the end of each test run, terminate the sample period (if not automatically terminated by the sampler) and download all archived instrument data from the test sampler.
