
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.55 Test for effect of variations in power line voltage and ambient temperature.
######## Overview.

(a)(1) This test procedure is a combined procedure to test various performance parameters under variations in power line voltage and ambient temperature. Tests shall be conducted in a temperature-controlled environment over four 6-hour time periods during which reference temperature and flow rate measurements shall be made at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes. Specific parameters to be evaluated at line voltages of 105 and 125 volts and temperatures of -20 &#xB0;C and + 40 &#xB0;C are as follows:

(i) Sample flow rate.

(ii) Flow rate regulation.

(iii) Flow rate measurement accuracy.

(iv) Coefficient of variability measurement accuracy.

(v) Ambient air temperature measurement accuracy.

(vi) Proper operation of the sampler when exposed to power line voltage and ambient temperature extremes.

(2) The performance parameters tested under this procedure, the corresponding minimum performance specifications, and the applicable test conditions are summarized in table E-1 of this subpart. Each performance parameter tested, as described or determined in the test procedure, must meet or exceed the associated performance specification given. The candidate sampler must meet all specifications for the associated PMor PMmethod (as applicable) to pass this test procedure.
