
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.56 Test for effect of variations in ambient pressure.
######## Overview.

(a)(1) This test procedure is designed to test various sampler performance parameters under variations in ambient (barometric) pressure. Tests shall be conducted in a pressure-controlled environment over two 6-hour time periods during which reference pressure and flow rate measurements shall be made at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes. Specific parameters to be evaluated at operating pressures of 600 and 800 mm Hg are as follows:

(i) Sample flow rate.

(ii) Flow rate regulation.

(iii) Flow rate measurement accuracy.

(iv) Coefficient of variability measurement accuracy.

(v) Ambient pressure measurement accuracy.

(vi) Proper operation of the sampler when exposed to ambient pressure extremes.

(2) The performance parameters tested under this procedure, the corresponding minimum performance specifications, and the applicable test conditions are summarized in table E-1 of this subpart. Each performance parameter tested, as described or determined in the test procedure, must meet or exceed the associated performance specification given. The candidate sampler must meet all specifications for the associated PMor PMmethod (as applicable) to pass this test procedure.
