
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.56 Test for effect of variations in ambient pressure.
######## Required test equipment.

(c)(1) Hypobaric chamber or other pressure-controlled environment or environments, capable of obtaining and maintaining pressures at 600 mm Hg and 800 mm Hg required for the test with an accuracy of 5 mm Hg. Henceforth, where the test procedures specify a test or environmental chamber, an alternative pressure-controlled environmental area or areas may be substituted, provided the test pressure requirements are met. Means for simulating ambient pressure using a closed-loop sample air system may also be approved for this test; such a proposed method for simulating the test pressure conditions may be described and submitted to EPA at the address given in ยง 53.4(a) prior to conducting the test for a specific individual determination of acceptability.

(2) Flow rate meter, suitable for measuring and recording the actual volumetric sampler flow rate at the sampler downtube, with a minimum range of 10 to 25 L/min, 2 percent certified, NIST-traceable accuracy. Optional capability for continuous (analog) recording capability or digital recording at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes is recommended. While a flow meter which provides a direct indication of volumetric flow rate is preferred for this test, an alternative certified flow measurement device may be used as long as appropriate volumetric flow rate corrections are made based on measurements of actual ambient temperature and pressure conditions.

(3) Ambient air temperature recorder (if needed for volumetric corrections to flow rate measurements) with a range -30 &#xB0;C to = 50 &#xB0;C, certified accurate to within 0.5 &#xB0;C. If the certified flow meter does not provide direct volumetric flow rate readings, ambient temperature measurements must be made using continuous (analog) recording capability or digital recording at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes.

(4) Barometer, range 600 mm Hg to 800 mm Hg, certified accurate to 2 mm Hg. Ambient air pressure measurements must be made using continuous (analog) recording capability or digital recording at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes.

(5) Flow measurement adaptor (40 CFR part 50, appendix L, figure L-30) or equivalent adaptor to facilitate measurement of sampler flow rate at the sampler downtube.

(6) Means for creating an additional pressure drop of 55 mm Hg in the sampler to simulate a heavily loaded filter, such as an orifice or flow restrictive plate installed in the filter holder or a valve or other flow restrictor temporarily installed in the flow path near the filter.

(7) Teflon sample filter, as specified in section 6 of 40 CFR part 50, appendix L (if required).
