
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.56 Test for effect of variations in ambient pressure.
######## Procedure.

(f)(1) Set up the sampler as specified in paragraph (e) of this section and otherwise prepare the sampler for normal sample collection operation as directed in the sampler's operation or instruction manual.

(2) The test shall consist of two test runs, one at each of the following conditions of chamber pressure:

(i) 600 mm Hg.

(ii) 800 mm Hg.

(3) For each of the two test runs, set the selected chamber pressure for the test run. Upon achieving each pressure setpoint in the chamber, the candidate sampler shall be pressure-equilibrated for a period of at least 30 minutes prior to the test run. Following the conditioning time, set the sampler to automatically start a 6-hour sample collection period at a convenient time.

(4) During each 6-hour test period:

(i) Measure and record the sample flow rate with the flow rate meter at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes. If ambient temperature and pressure corrections are necessary to calculate volumetric flow rate, ambient temperature and pressure shall be measured at the same frequency as that of the certified flow rate measurements. Note and record the actual start and stop times for the 6-hour flow rate test period.

(ii) Determine and record the ambient (chamber) pressure indicated by the sampler and the corresponding ambient (chamber) pressure measured by the barometer specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes.

(5) At the end of each test period, terminate the sample period (if not automatically terminated by the sampler) and download all archived instrument data for the test run from the test sampler.
