
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.57 Test for filter temperature control during sampling and post-sampling periods.
######## Required test equipment.

(c)(1) Environmental chamber providing the means, such as a bank of solar-spectrum lamps, for generating or simulating thermal radiation in approximate spectral content and intensity equivalent to solar insulation of 1000 +/-50 W/minside the environmental chamber. To properly simulate the sun's radiative effects on the sampler, the solar bank must provide the spectral energy distribution and permitted tolerances specified in table E-2 of this subpart. The solar radiation source area shall be such that the width of the candidate sampler shall not exceed one-half the dimensions of the solar bank. The solar bank shall be located a minimum of 76 cm (30 inches) from any surface of the candidate sampler. To meet requirements of the solar radiation tests, the chamber's internal volume shall be a minimum of 10 times that of the volume of the candidate sampler. Air velocity in the region of the sampler must be maintained continuously during the radiative tests at 2.0 +/-0.5 m/sec.

(2) Ambient air temperature recorder, range -30 &#xB0;C to = 50 &#xB0;C, with a resolution of 0.1 &#xB0;C and certified accurate to within 0.5 &#xB0;C. Ambient air temperature measurements must be made using continuous (analog) recording capability or digital recording at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes.

(3) Flow measurement adaptor (40 CFR part 50, appendix L, figure L-30) or equivalent adaptor to facilitate measurement of sampler flow rate at the sampler downtube.

(4) Miniature temperature sensor(s), capable of being installed in the sampler without introducing air leakage and capable of measuring the sample air temperature within 1 cm of the center of the filter, downstream of the filter; with a resolution of 0.1 &#xB0;C, certified accurate to within 0.5 &#xB0;C, NIST-traceable, with continuous (analog) recording capability or digital recording at intervals of not more than 5 minutes.

(5) Solar radiometer, to measure the intensity of the simulated solar radiation in the test environment, range of 0 to approximately 1500 W/m. Optional capability for continuous (analog) recording or digital recording at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes is recommended.

(6) Sample filter or filters, as specified in section 6 of 40 CFR part 50, appendix L.
