
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.57 Test for filter temperature control during sampling and post-sampling periods.
######## Test setup.

(e)(1) Setup of the sampler shall be performed as required in this paragraph (e) and otherwise as described in the sampler's operation or instruction manual referred to in ยง 53.4(b)(3). The sampler shall be installed upright and set up in the solar radiation environmental chamber in its normal configuration for collecting PM samples (with the inlet installed). The sampler's ambient and filter temperature measurement systems shall be calibrated per the sampler's operating manual within 7 days prior to this test. A sample filter shall be installed for the duration of this test. For sequential samplers, a sample filter shall also be installed in each available sequential channel or station intended for collection of a sequential sample (or at least five additional filters for magazine-type sequential samplers) as directed by the sampler's operation or instruction manual.

(2) The miniature temperature sensor shall be temporarily installed in the test sampler such that it accurately measures the air temperature 1 cm from the center of the filter on the downstream side of the filter. The sensor shall be installed such that no external or internal air leakage is created by the sensor installation. The sensor's dimensions and installation shall be selected to minimize temperature measurement uncertainties due to thermal conduction along the sensor mounting structure or sensor conductors. For sequential samplers, similar temperature sensors shall also be temporarily installed in the test sampler to monitor the temperature 1 cm from the center of each filter stored in the sampler for sequential sample operation.

(3) The solar radiant energy source shall be installed in the test chamber such that the entire test sampler is irradiated in a manner similar to the way it would be irradiated by solar radiation if it were located outdoors in an open area on a sunny day, with the radiation arriving at an angle of between 30&#xB0; and 45&#xB0; from vertical. The intensity of the radiation received by all sampler surfaces that receive direct radiation shall average 1000 +/-50 W/m, measured in a plane perpendicular to the incident radiation. The incident radiation shall be oriented with respect to the sampler such that the area of the sampler's ambient temperature sensor (or temperature shield) receives full, direct radiation as it would or could during normal outdoor installation. Also, the temperature sensor must not be shielded or shaded from the radiation by a sampler part in a way that would not occur at other normal insulation angles or directions.

(4) The solar radiometer shall be installed in a location where it measures thermal radiation that is generally representative of the average thermal radiation intensity that the upper portion of the sampler and sampler inlet receive. The solar radiometer shall be oriented so that it measures the radiation in a plane perpendicular to its angle of incidence.

(5) The ambient air temperature recorder shall be installed in the test chamber such that it will accurately measure the temperature of the air in the chamber without being unduly affected by the chamber's air temperature control system or by the radiant energy from the solar radiation source that may be present inside the test chamber.
