
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.57 Test for filter temperature control during sampling and post-sampling periods.
######## Procedure.

(f)(1) Set up the sampler as specified in paragraph (e) of this section and otherwise prepare the sampler for normal sample collection operation as directed in the sampler's operation or instruction manual.

(2) Remove the inlet of the candidate test sampler and install the flow measurement adaptor on the sampler's downtube. Conduct a leak check as described in the sampler's operation or instruction manual. The leak test must be properly passed before other tests are carried out.

(3) Remove the flow measurement adaptor from the downtube and re-install the sampling inlet.

(4) Activate the solar radiation source and verify that the resulting energy distribution prescribed in table E-2 of this subpart is achieved.

(5) Program the test sampler to conduct a single sampling run of 4 continuous hours. During the 4-hour sampling run, measure and record the radiant flux, ambient temperature, and filter temperature (all filter temperatures for sequential samplers) at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes.

(6) At the completion of the 4-hour sampling phase, terminate the sample period, if not terminated automatically by the sampler. Continue to measure and record the radiant flux, ambient temperature, and filter temperature or temperatures for 4 additional hours at intervals not to exceed 5 minutes. At the completion of the 4-hour post-sampling period, discontinue the measurements and turn off the solar source.

(7) Download all archived sampler data from the test run.
