
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### § 53.59 Aerosol transport test for Class I equivalent method samplers.
######## Test procedure.

(f)(1) All surfaces of the added or modified component or components which come in contact with the aerosol flow shall be thoroughly washed with 0.01 N NaOH and then dried.

(2) Generate aerosol. (i) Generate aerosol composed of oleic acid with a uranine fluorometric tag of 3 +/-0.25 µm aerodynamic diameter using a vibrating orifice aerosol generator according to conventions specified in § 53.61(g).

(ii) Check for the presence of satellites and adjust the generator to minimize their production.

(iii) Calculate the aerodynamic particle size using the operating parameters of the vibrating orifice aerosol generator. The calculated aerodynamic diameter must be 3 +/-0.25 µm aerodynamic diameter.

(3) Verify the particle size according to procedures specified in § 53.62(d)(4)(i).

(4) Collect particles on filters for a time period such that the relative error of the resulting measured fluorometric concentration for the active filter is less than 5 percent.

(5) Determine the quantity of material collected on the active filter using a calibrated fluorometer. Record the mass of fluorometric material for the active filter as Mwhere i = the active channel number.

(6) Determine the quantity of material collected on each no-flow filter using a calibrated fluorometer. Record the mass of fluorometric material on each no-flow filter as M.

(7) Using 0.01 N NaOH, wash the surfaces of the added component or components which contact the aerosol flow. Determine the quantity of material collected using a calibrated fluorometer. Record the mass of fluorometric material collected in the wash as M.

(8) Calculate the aerosol transport as:

(9) Repeat paragraphs (f)(1) through (8) of this section for each channel, making each channel in turn the exclusive active channel.
