
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.64 Test procedure: Static fractionator test.
######## Determine effectiveness for the particle size being produced.

(4)(i) Collect particles downstream of the fractionator on an appropriate filter over a time period such that the relative error of the fluorometric measurement is less than 5.0 percent.

(ii) Determine the quantity of material collected on the after filter of the candidate method using a calibrated fluorometer. Calculate and record the aerosol mass concentration for the sampler filter as:

(iii) Wash all interior surfaces upstream of the filter and determine the quantity of material collected using a calibrated fluorometer. Calculate and record the fluorometric mass concentration of the sampler wash as:

(iv) Calculate and record the sampling effectiveness of the test sampler for this particle size as:

(v) Repeat steps in paragraphs (e)(4) of this section, as appropriate, to obtain a minimum of three replicate measurements of sampling effectiveness. Note: The procedures for loading the candidate in ยง 53.65 must be repeated between repetitions if this test is being used to evaluate the fractionator after being loaded as specified in ยง 53.65.

(vi) Calculate and record the average sampling effectiveness of the test sampler as:

(vii)(A) Calculate and record the coefficient of variation for the replicate sampling effectiveness measurements of the test sampler as:

(B) If the value of CVexceeds 10 percent, then steps in paragraphs (e) (2) through (e)(4) of this section must be repeated.

(5) Repeat steps in paragraphs (e) (1) through (e)(4) of this section for each particle size specified in table F-2 of this subpart.
