
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.64 Test procedure: Static fractionator test.
######## Validate that transport is equal for the divided flow option.

(4)(i) With fluorometry as a detector:

(A) Install a total filter on each leg of the divided flow apparatus.

(B) Collect particles simultaneously through both legs at 16.7 L/min onto an appropriate filter for a time period such that the relative error of the measured concentration is less than 5.0 percent.

(C) Determine the quantity of material collected on each filter using a calibrated fluorometer. Calculate and record the mass concentration measured in each leg as:

(D) Repeat steps in paragraphs (g)(4)(i)(A) through (g)(4)(i)(C) of this section until a minimum of three replicate measurements are performed.

(ii) With an aerosol number counting device as a detector:

(A) Remove all flow obstructions from the flow paths of the two legs.

(B) Quantify the aerosol concentration of the primary particles in each leg of the apparatus.

(C) Repeat steps in paragraphs (g)(4)(ii)(A) through (g)(4)(ii)(B) of this section until a minimum of three replicate measurements are performed.

(iii) (A) Calculate the mean concentration and coefficient of variation as:

(B) If the measured mean concentrations through the two legs do not agree within 5 percent, then adjustments may be made in the setup, and this step must be repeated.
