
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### ยง 53.64 Test procedure: Static fractionator test.
######## Determine effectiveness.

(5)Determine the sampling effectiveness of the test sampler with the inlet removed by one of the following procedures:

(i) With fluorometry as a detector:

(A) Prepare the divided flow apparatus for particle collection. Install a total filter into the bypass leg of the divided flow apparatus. Install the particle size fractionator with a total filter placed immediately downstream of it into the other leg.

(B) Collect particles simultaneously through both legs at 16.7 L/min onto appropriate filters for a time period such that the relative error of the measured concentration is less than 5.0 percent.

(C) Determine the quantity of material collected on each filter using a calibrated fluorometer. Calculate and record the mass concentration measured by the total filter and that measured after penetrating through the candidate fractionator as follows:

(ii) With a number counting device as a detector:

(A) Install the particle size fractionator into one of the legs of the divided flow apparatus.

(B) Quantify and record the aerosol number concentration of the primary particles passing through the fractionator as C.

(C) Divert the flow from the leg containing the candidate fractionator to the bypass leg. Allow sufficient time for the aerosol concentration to stabilize.

(D) Quantify and record the aerosol number concentration of the primary particles passing through the bypass leg as C.

(iii) Calculate and record sampling effectiveness of the candidate sampler as:

(6) Repeat step in paragraph (g)(5) of this section, as appropriate, to obtain a minimum of three replicate measurements of sampling effectiveness.
