
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 53 - AMBIENT AIR MONITORING REFERENCE AND EQUIVALENT METHODS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Determining Comparability Between Candidate Methods and Reference Methods
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 53 - References
####### § 53.65 Test procedure: Loading test.
######## Test procedure.

(d)(1) Calculate and record the target time weighted concentration of Arizona road dust which is equivalent to exposing the sampler to an environment of 150 µg/mover the time between cleaning specified by the candidate sampler's operations manual as:

(2) Clean the candidate sampler. (i) Clean and dry the internal surfaces of the candidate sampler.

(ii) Prepare the internal surfaces in strict accordance with the operating manual referred to in section 7.4.18 of 40 CFR part 50, appendix L.

(3) Determine the preweight of the filter that shall be used in the isokinetic sampler. Record this value as InitWt.

(4) Install the candidate sampler's inlet and the isokinetic sampler within the test chamber or wind tunnel.

(5) Generate a dust cloud. (i) Generate a dust cloud composed of Arizona test dust.

(ii) Introduce the dust cloud into the chamber.

(iii) Allow sufficient time for the particle concentration to become steady within the chamber.

(6) Sample aerosol with a total filter and the candidate sampler. (i) Sample the aerosol for a time sufficient to produce an equivalent TWC equal to that of the target TWC +/-15 percent.

(ii) Record the sampling time as t.

(7) Determine the time weighted concentration. (i) Determine the postweight of the isokinetic sampler's total filter.

(ii) Record this value as FinalWt.

(iii) Calculate and record the TWC as:

(iv) If the value of TWC deviates from the target TWC +/-15 percent, then the loaded mass is unacceptable and the entire test procedure must be repeated.

(8) Determine the candidate sampler's effectiveness after loading. The candidate sampler's effectiveness as a function of particle aerodynamic diameter must then be evaluated by performing the test in § 53.62 (full wind tunnel test). A sampler which fits the category of inlet deviation in § 53.60(e)(1) may opt to perform the test in § 53.63 (inlet aspiration test) in lieu of the full wind tunnel test. A sampler which fits the category of fractionator deviation in § 53.60(e)(2) may opt to perform the test in § 53.64 (static fractionator test) in lieu of the full wind tunnel test.
