
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 55 - OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF AIR REGULATIONS
##### ยง 55.5 Corresponding onshore area designation.
###### Administrative procedures and public participation.

(f)The Administrator will use the following public notice and comment procedures for processing a request for COA designation under this section:

(1) Within 150 days from receipt of an NOI, if one or more demonstrations are received, the Administrator shall make a preliminary determination of the COA and shall:

(i) Make available, in at least one location in the NOA and in the area requesting COA designation, which may be a public Web site identified by the Administrator, a copy of all materials submitted by the requester, a copy of the Administrator's preliminary determination, and a copy or summary of other materials, if any, considered by the Administrator in making the preliminary determination; and

(ii) Notify the public, by prominent advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the NOA and the area requesting COA designation or on a public Web site identified by the Administrator, of a 30-day opportunity for written public comment on the available information and the Administrator's preliminary COA designation.

(2) A copy of the notice required pursuant to paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section shall be sent to the requester, the affected source, each person from whom a written request of such notice has been received, and the following officials and agencies having jurisdiction over the COA and NOA: State and local air pollution control agencies, the chief executive of the city and county, the Federal Land Manager of potentially affected Class I areas, and any Indian governing body whose lands may be affected by emissions from the OCS source.

(3) Public comments received in writing within 30 days after the date the public notice is made available will be considered by the Administrator in making the final decision on the request. All comments will be made available for public inspection.

(4) The Administrator will make a final COA designation within 60 days after the close of the public comment period. The Administrator will notify, in writing, the requester and each person who has requested notice of the final action and will set forth the reasons for the determination. Such notification will be made available for public inspection.
