
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 55 - OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF AIR REGULATIONS
##### § 55.6 Permit requirements.
###### Preconstruction requirements for OCS sources located within 25 miles of States' seaward boundaries.

(b)(1) No OCS source to which the requirements of §§ 55.13 or 55.14 of this part apply shall begin actual construction after the effective date of this part without a permit that requires the OCS source to meet those requirements.

(2) Any permit application required under this part shall not be submitted until the Administrator has determined whether a consistency update is necessary, pursuant to § 55.12 of this part, and, if the Administrator finds an update to be necessary, has published a proposed consistency update.

(3) The applicant may be required to obtain more than one preconstruction permit, if necessitated by partial delegation of this part or by the requirements of this section and §§ 55.13 and 55.14 of this part.

(4) An approval to construct shall become invalid if construction is not commenced within 18 months after receipt of such approval, if construction is discontinued for a period of 18 months or more, or if construction is not completed within a reasonable time. The 18-month period may be extended upon a showing satisfactory to the Administrator or the delegated agency that an extension is justified. Sources obtaining extensions are subject to all new or interim requirements and a reassessment of the applicable control technology when the extension is granted. This requirement shall not supersede a more stringent requirement under § 55.13 or § 55.14 of this part.

(5) Any preconstruction permit issued to a new OCS source or modification shall remain in effect until it expires under paragraph (b)(4) of this section or is rescinded under the applicable requirements incorporated in §§ 55.13 and 55.14 of this part.

(6) Whenever any proposed OCS source or modification to an existing OCS source is subject to action by a Federal agency that might necessitate preparation of an environmental impact statement pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4321), review by the Administrator conducted pursuant to this section shall be coordinated with the environmental reviews under that Act to the extent feasible and reasonable.

(7) The Administrator or delegated agency and the applicant shall provide written notice of any permit application from a source, the emissions from which may affect a Class I area, to the Federal Land Manager charged with direct responsibility for management of any lands within the Class I area. Such notification shall include a copy of all information contained in the permit application and shall be given within 30 days of receipt of the application and at least 60 days prior to any public hearing on the preconstruction permit.
