
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 55 - OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF AIR REGULATIONS
##### § 55.6 Permit requirements.
###### Compliance plans.

(9)Sources intending to perform modifications that meet all of the criteria of paragraph (b)(8) of this section shall submit a compliance plan to the Administrator or delegated agency prior to performing the modification. The compliance shall describe the schedule and method the source will use to comply with the applicable OCS requirements within 24 months of the promulgation date of this part and shall include a request for any exemptions from compliance with a pollution control technology requirement that the applicant believes is technically infeasible or will cause an unreasonable threat to health and safety. The Administrator or delegated agency shall act on the request for exemption in accordance with the procedures established in § 55.7 of this part.

(i) The Administrator or delegated agency shall review the compliance plan and provide written comments to the source within 45 days of receipt of such plan. The source shall provide a written response to such comments as required by the reviewing agency.

(ii) Receipt and review of a compliance plan by the Administrator or delegated agency shall not relieve any owner or operator of an existing OCS source of the responsibility to comply fully with the applicable requirements of §§ 55.13 and 55.14 of this part within 24 months of promulgation of this part.
