
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 55 - OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF AIR REGULATIONS
##### § 55.6 Permit requirements.
###### Permit requirements for new sources that commenced construction prior to September 4, 1992,Applicability.

(e)-(1)§ 55.6(e) applies to a new OCS source, as defined by section 328 of the Act, that commenced construction before September 4, 1992.

(2) A source subject to § 55.6(e) shall comply with the following requirements:

(i) By October 5, 1992, the owner or operator of the source shall submit a transitional permit application ("TPA") to the Administrator or the delegated agency. The TPA shall include the following:

(A) The information specified in §§ 55.4(b)(1) through § 55.4(b)(9) of this part;

(B) A list of all requirements applicable to the source under this part;

(C) A request for exemption from compliance with any control technology requirement that the applicant believes is technically infeasible or will cause an unreasonable threat to health and safety;

(D) An air quality screening analysis demonstrating whether the source has or is expected in the future to cause or contribute to a violation of any applicable State or Federal ambient air quality standard or exceed any applicable increment. If no air quality analysis is required by the applicable requirements of §§ 55.13 and 55.14, this requirement does not apply;

(E) Documentation that source emissions are currently being offset, or will be offset if the source has not commenced operation, at the ratio required under this part, and documentation that those offsets meet or will meet the requirements of this part; and

(F) A description of how the source is complying with the applicable requirements of §§ 55.13 and 55.14 of this part, including emission levels and corresponding control measures, including Best Available Control Technology ("BACT") or Lowest Achievable Emission Rates ("LAER"), but excluding the requirements to have valid permits.

(ii) The source shall expeditiously complete its permit application in compliance with the schedule determined by the Administrator or delegated agency.

(iii) The source shall comply with all applicable requirements of this part except for the requirements of paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section. The source shall comply with the control technology requirements (such as BACT or LAER) set forth in the TPA that would be applicable if the source had a valid permit.

(iv) Any owner or operator subject to this subsection who continues to construct or operate an OCS source thirty days from promulgation of this part without submitting a TPA, or continues to construct or operate an OCS source not in accordance with the TPA submitted pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, or constructs or operates an OCS source not in accordance with the schedule determined by the permitting authority, shall be in violation of this part.

(3) Upon the submittal of a permit application deemed to be complete by the permitting authority, the owner or operator of the source shall be subject to the permitting requirements of §§ 55.13 and 55.14 of this part that apply subsequent to the submission of a complete permit application. When a source receives the permit or permits required under this part, its TPA shall expire.

(4) Until the date that a source subject to this subsection receives the permit or permits required under this part, that source shall cease operation if, based on projected or actual emissions, the permitting authority determines that the source is currently or may in the future cause or contribute to a violation of a State or Federal ambient air quality standard or exceed any applicable increment.
