
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 55 - OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF AIR REGULATIONS
##### ยง 55.7 Exemptions.
###### Referral.

(3)If a request is referred to the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the Administrator shall make a preliminary determination no later than 30 days after receipt of the request and any accompanying materials transmitted by the delegated agency. The Administrator shall use the procedures set forth at paragraph (f)(4) of this section for processing a request.

(4) The Administrator or the delegated agency shall comply with the following requirements for processing requests submitted without a permit, with a compliance plan, and requests referred to the Administrator:

(i) Issue a preliminary determination to grant or deny the request. A preliminary determination by the Administrator to deny a request shall be considered a final decision and will be accompanied by the reasons for the decision. As such, it is not subject to any further public notice, comment, or hearings. Written notice of the denial shall be given to the requester.

(ii) Make available, in at least one location in the COA and NOA, which may be a public Web site identified by the Administrator or delegated agency, a copy of all materials submitted by the requester, a copy of the preliminary determination, and a copy or summary of other materials, if any, considered in making the preliminary determination.

(iii) Notify the public, by prominent advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the COA and NOA or on a public Web site identified by the Administrator or delegated agency, of a 30-day opportunity for written public comment on the information submitted by the owner or operator and on the preliminary determination.

(iv) Send a copy of the notice required pursuant to paragraph (f)(4)(iii) of this section to the requester, the affected source, each person from whom a written request of such notice has been received, and the following officials and agencies having jurisdiction over the COA and NOA: State and local air pollution control agencies, the chief executive of the city and county, the Federal Land Manager of potentially affected Class I areas, and any Indian governing body whose lands may be affected by emissions from the OCS source.

(v) Consider written public comments received within 30 days after the date the public notice is made available when making the final decision on the request. All comments will be made available for public inspection. At the time that any final decision is issued, the Administrator or delegated agency will issue a response to comments.

(vi) Make a final decision on the request within 30 days after the close of the public comment period. The Administrator or the delegated agency will notify, in writing, the applicant and each person who has submitted written comments, or from whom a written request of such notice has been received, of the final decision and will set forth the reasons. Such notification will be made available for public inspection.

(5) Within 30 days after the final decision has been made on a request, the requester, or any person who filed comments on the preliminary determination, may petition the Administrator to review any aspect of the decision. Any person who failed to file comments on the preliminary decision may petition for administrative review only on the changes from the preliminary to the final determination.
