
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 55 - OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF AIR REGULATIONS
##### ยง 55.14 Requirements that apply to OCS sources located within 25 miles of States' seaward boundaries, by State.
###### State and local requirements.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(e)State and local requirements promulgated by EPA as applicable to OCS sources located within 25 miles of States' seaward boundaries have been compiled into separate documents organized by State and local areas of jurisdiction. These documents, set forth below, are incorporated by reference. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register Office in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552 (a) and 40 CFR part 51. Copies may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to:Copies of rules pertaining to particular states or local areas may be inspected or obtained from the EPA Docket Center-Public Reading Room, EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20004 or the appropriate EPA regional offices: U.S. EPA, Region 1 (Massachusetts), One Congress Street, Boston, MA 02114-2023; U.S. EPA, Region 2 (New Jersey and New York), 290 Broadway, New York, NY 10007-1866; U.S. EPA, Region 3 (Delaware), 1650 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103, (215) 814-5000; U.S. EPA, Region 4 (Florida and North Carolina), 61 Forsyth Street, Atlanta, GA 30303; U.S. EPA, Region 9 (California), 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105; and U.S. EPA, Region 10 (Alaska), 1200 Sixth Avenue, Seattle, WA 98101. For an informational listing of the State and local requirements incorporated into this part, which are applicable to sources of air pollution located on the OCS, see appendix A to this part.

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Alaska.

(i) State requirements.

(A) State of Alaska Requirements Applicable to OCS Sources, September 15, 2018.

(B) [Reserved]

(ii) Local requirements.

(A)-(B) [Reserved]

(3) California.

(i) State requirements.
