
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 55 - OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF AIR REGULATIONS
##### ยง 55.14 Requirements that apply to OCS sources located within 25 miles of States' seaward boundaries, by State.
###### Modification

(3)means a modification to an existing OCS source.

(4) For requirements adopted prior to promulgation of this part, language in such requirements limiting the applicability of the requirements to onshore sources or to sources within State boundaries shall not apply.

(c) During periods of EPA implementation and enforcement of this section, the following shall apply:

(1) Any reference to a State or local air pollution control agency or air pollution control officer shall mean EPA or the Administrator, respectively.

(2) Any submittal to State or local air pollution control agency shall instead be submitted to the Administrator through the EPA Regional Office.

(3) Nothing in this section shall alter or limit EPA's authority to administer or enforce the requirements of this part under Federal law.

(4) EPA shall not be bound by any State or local administrative or procedural requirements including, but not limited to, requirements pertaining to hearing boards, permit issuance, public notice procedures, and public hearings. EPA will follow the applicable procedures set forth elsewhere in this part, in 40 CFR part 124, and in Federal rules promulgated pursuant to title V of the Act (as such rules apply in the COA), when administering this section.

(5) Only those requirements of 40 CFR part 52 that are rationally related to the attainment and maintenance of Federal or State ambient air quality standards or part C of title I shall apply to OCS sources.
