
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 55 - OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF AIR REGULATIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 55 - Listing of State and Local Requirements Incorporated by Reference Into Part 55, by State
###### State of Florida Requirements Applicable to OCS Sources,

(1) The following requirements are contained inJanuary 2, 2008: Florida Administrative Code-Department of Environmental Protection. The following sections of Chapter 62:

(b) Local requirements.

(1) [Reserved]

(a) State Requirements.

(1) The following State of Maryland requirements are applicable to OCS Sources, December 6, 2018, State of Maryland-Department of the Environment.

The following sections of Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR) Title 26 Subtitle 11:

(a) State requirements. (Effective 3/9/2018)

(1) The following Commonwealth of Massachusetts requirements are applicable to OCS Sources, March 5, 2021, Commonwealth of Massachusetts-Department of Environmental Protection.

The following sections of 310 CMR 4.00, 310 CMR 6.00, 310 CMR 7.00 and 310 CMR 8.00:

(a) State requirements.

(1) The following State of New Jersey requirements are applicable to OCS Sources, as of October 6, 2021. New Jersey State Department of Environmental Protection-New Jersey Administrative Code. The following sections of Title 7:

(a) State requirements.

(1) The following State of New York requirements are applicable to OCS Sources, as of March 10, 2022. New York Environmental Conservation Law-Department of Environmental Conservation. The following sections of Title 6, Chapter III:

(a) State requirements.
