
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 57.104 Amendment of the NSO.
####### Issuance of amendment.

(a)(1)A State or local issuing agency may issue an amendment of any NSO it has issued. Any amendment issued by a State or local issuing agency shall be subject to approval by EPA to the same extent as was the original NSO. Any smelter owner may apply to the agency which originally issued its NSO for an amendment of the NSO at any time. Such an application shall be accompanied by whatever documentation is required by that agency (or EPA) to support the requested amendment.

(2)(i) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, amendments to SIP compliance schedule interim compliance dates in State-issued NSO's need not be submitted for EPA approval if the amendment does not delay the interim date by more than three months from the date as approved by the Administrator and if the final compliance date is unchanged. Delays longer than 3 months shall be handled according to the provisions of ยง 57.104(a)(1).

(ii) Changes made in accordance with this subparagraph may be effective immediately but must be submitted to EPA within seven days. EPA will give public notice of receipt of such changes by publication of a Notice in the

(3) In any case in which the issuing agency fails to issue an amendment necessary for compliance with the requirements and purposes of this part, EPA may, after first giving the issuing Agency notice, issue such amendment.
