
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Subpart B - The Application and the NSO Process
###### ยง 57.203 Contents of the application.
####### Claim of confidentiality.,et seq.,et seq.

(a)The smelter owner may make a business confidentiality claim covering all or part of the information in the NSO application in accordance with 40 CFR part 2, subpart B (41 FR 36906, Sept. 1, 1976 as amended by 43 FR 39997, Sept. 8, 1978). A claim is effective only if it is made at the time the material is submitted to the issuing agency or EPA. A claim shall be made by attaching to the information a notice of confidentiality. Information claimed as confidential will be handled by EPA under the provisions of 40 CFR part 2, subpart B. If no claim accompanies the information, it may be made available to the public without further notice.

(b) Each smelter owner shall make the showing required by ยง 57.102(a)(3) by completing and submitting appendix A to this part and any necessary supplemental information to the issuing agency as a part of its application. Each smelter shall also submit as part of its application the information which, in conjunction with the information required by appendix A, is necessary for the issuing agency to make the determination required by ยง 57.201(d)(2). Any smelter owner or State may, at its option, simultaneously submit this material to EPA for an advance eligibility determination.
