
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Subpart B - The Application and the NSO Process
###### § 57.204 EPA action on second period NSOs which have already been issued.
############# § 57.205 Submission of supplementary information upon relaxation of an SOSIP emission limitation.

(a) In the event an SOSIP limit is relaxed subsequent to EPA approval or issuance of a second period NSO, the smelter issued the NSO shall submit to the issuing agency and EPA such supplementary information that EPA considers appropriate for purposes of determining whether the means of compliance with the new SIP limit are adequately demonstrated to be reasonably available under the financial eligibility tests specified in § 57.102(b)(3). The smelter shall submit such information within sixty days of notification by EPA. This time limit may be extended by EPA for good cause.

(b) Upon receipt of any supplementary information required under paragraph (a), the issuing agency shall promptly reevaluate the availability of the means of compliance with the new SIP limit under the NSO eligibility tests specified in § 57.102(b)(3). If the issuing agency determines that the demonstrated control technology necessary to attain the new SOSIP limit is adequately demonstrated to be reasonably available under the eligibility tests, so as to permit the smelter to comply with the new SIP limit on or before January 1, 1988, the NSO shall be amended within the time contemplated by § 57.202(a) after receipt of the supplementary information. Such amendment shall require compliance with the new SOSIP limit as expeditiously as practicable in accordance with § 57.201(d)(3). The issuing agency, if not EPA, shall promptly submit its determination and any necessary NSO amendments to EPA.

(c) EPA shall take action to approve or disapprove the issuing agency's determination and NSO amendment, if any, within a reasonable time after receipt of such determination and amendment.

(d) If EPA disapproves the issuing agency's determination or NSO amendment, or if a smelter fails to submit any supplementary information as required under paragraph (a), EPA and/or the issuing agency shall take appropriate remedial action. EPA shall take appropriate remedial action if the issuing agency does not make any determination and amendment required by this section within the time contemplated by § 57.202(a).
