
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Subpart D - Supplementary Control System Requirements
###### ยง 57.402 Elements of the supplementary control system.
####### Overlapping designated liability areas.

(d)Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subpart, the following requirements shall apply whenever the designated liability areas of 2 or more smelters do, or may, overlap:

(1) In the case of any NSO applicant that would have a DLA which would overlap with the DLA of any other smelter that has applied for an NSO or has an NSO in effect, the NSO applicant shall include in its application an enforceable joint plan, agreed to by such other smelter(s). In determining whether a joint plan is required, the NSO applicant shall calculate its DLA according to the table in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The DLA of the other smelter shall be calculated according to the table in paragraph (c)(1) unless the other smelter has an NSO in effect, in which case the boundaries in that NSO shall be used. The enforceable joint plan shall provide for:

(i) Emission curtailment adequate to ensure that the NAAQS will not be violated in any areas of overlapping DLAs; and

(ii) Conclusive prospective allocation of legal liability in the event that the NAAQS are violated in the area of overlapping DLAs.

(2) In the case of any NSO applicant that would have a DLA which would overlap with the DLA of any other smelter whose owner has not applied for an NSO (and does not have an NSO in effect), the NSO applicant's submittal shall contain a written consent, signed by a corporate official empowered to do so. The consent shall state that if, at any time thereafter, the owner of the other smelter applies for an NSO, and the other smelter's DLA would overlap with the NSO applicant's DLA, the NSO applicant will negotiate and submit an enforceable joint plan for emission curtailment and allocation of liability (as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section). In determining whether it is necessary to submit such a consent, each smelter's DLA shall be calculated according to the table set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The consent shall state that a joint plan shall be submitted within 90 days of the issuing agency's notification to the NSO applicant of receipt of the other smelter's letter of intent, unless the issuing agency determines that the DLAs do not overlap. Failure of the NSO applicant to submit such a plan shall constitute grounds for denial of its NSO application or a violation of an effective NSO, as applicable.
