
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Subpart D - Supplementary Control System Requirements
###### ยง 57.402 Elements of the supplementary control system.
####### Air quality monitoring network.

(a)An approvable SCS shall include the use of appropriate ambient air quality monitors to continuously measure the concentration of sulfur dioxide in the air in the smelter's DLA.

(1) The monitors shall be located at all points of expected SOconcentrations necessary to anticipate and prevent possible violations of NAAQS anywhere in the smelter's DLA. The determination of the locations where such concentrations may occur shall take into account all recorded or probable meteorological and operating conditions (including bypassing of control equipment), as well as the presence of other sources of SOsignificantly affecting SOconcentrations in the DLA.

(2) The number and location of sites shall be based on dispersion modeling, measured ambient air quality data, meteorological information, and the results of the continuing review required by paragraph (f) of this section. The system shall include the use of at least 7 fixed monitors unless the issuing agency determines, on the basis of a demonstration by the smelter owner, that the use of fewer monitors would not limit coverage of points of high SOconcentration or otherwise reduce the capability of the smelter owner to prevent any violations of the NAAQS in the smelter's DLA.

(3) All monitors shall be continuously operated and maintained and shall meet the performance specifications contained in 40 CFR part 53. The monitors shall be capable of routine real time measurement of maximum expected SOconcentrations for the averaging times of SONAAQS.
