
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Subpart H - Waiver of Interim Requirement for Use of Continuous Emission Reduction Technology
###### ยง 57.803 Issuance of tentative determination; notice.
####### Tentative determination.

(a)(1) The EPA staff shall formulate and prepare:

(i) A "Staff Computational Analysis," using the financial information submitted by the smelter owner under ยง 57.802 to evaluate the economic circumstances of the smelter for which the waiver is sought;

(ii) A tentative determination as to whether an interim requirement for the use of constant controls would be so costly as to necessitate permanent or prolonged temporary cessation of operations at the smelter for which the waiver is requested. The tentative determination shall contain a "Proposed Report and Findings" summarizing the conclusions reached in the Staff Computational Analysis, discussing the estimated cost of interim controls, and assessing the effect upon the smelter of requiring those controls. The tentative determination shall also contain a proposed recommendation that the waiver be granted or denied, based upon the Proposed Report and Findings, and stating any additional considerations supporting the proposed recommendation. This tentative determination shall be a public document.

(2) In preparing the Proposed Report and Findings, the EPA staff shall attempt to the maximum extent feasible to avoid revealing confidential information which, if revealed, might damage the legitimate business interests of the applicant. The preceding sentence notwithstanding, the tentative determination shall be accompanied by a listing of all materials considered by EPA staff in developing the tentative determination. Subject to the provisions of ยง 57.814(a), full copies of all such materials shall be included in the administrative record under ยง 57.814, except that, to the extent the material consists of published material which is generally available, full citations to that material may be given instead.
