
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Subpart H - Waiver of Interim Requirement for Use of Continuous Emission Reduction Technology
###### ยง 57.812 Appeal from or review of recommended decision.
####### Exceptions.

(a)(1) Within 20 days after service of the recommended decision, any hearing participant may take exception to any matter set forth in such decision or to any adverse order or ruling of the Presiding Officer prior to or during the hearing to which such participant objected, and may appeal such exceptions to the Administrator by filing them in writing with the Hearing Clerk. Such exceptions shall contain alternative findings and recommendations, together with references to the relevant pages of the record and recommended decision. A copy of each document taking exception to the recommended decision shall be served upon every other hearing participant. Within the same period of time each party filing exceptions shall file with the Administrator and shall serve upon all hearing participants a brief concerning each of the exceptions being appealed. Each brief shall include page references to the relevant portions of the record and to the recommended decision.

(2) Within 10 days of the service of exceptions and briefs under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, any hearing participant may file and serve a reply brief responding to exceptions or arguments raised by any other hearing participant together with references to the relevant portions of the record, recommended decision, or opposing brief. Reply briefs shall not, however, raise additional exceptions.
