
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Appendix A to Part 57 - Primary Nonferrous Smelter Order (NSO) Application

1.1 Purpose of the application. This application provides financial reporting schedules and the accompanying instructions for EPA's determination of eligibility for a nonferrous smelter order (NSO), and for a waiver of the interim constant controls requirement of an NSO. Although the determination of eligibility for an NSO is prerequisite for the determination of a waiver, appendix A, as a matter of convenience to applicants, includes both the NSO and waiver tests and reporting schedules.

In order to support an NSO eligibility determination, the applicant must submit operating and financial data as specified by the schedules included in this application. Specific instructions for completing each schedule are provided in subsequent sections of the instructions. In general, applicants must provide:

(a) Annual income statements, balance sheets and supporting data covering the five most recent fiscal years for the smelter for which the NSO requested.

(b) Forecasts of operating revenues, operating costs, net income from operations and capital investments for the firm's smelter operations subject to this application, on the basis of anticipated smelter operations without any sulfur dioxide air pollution control facilities that have not been installed as of the NSO application date.

(c) Forecasts of operating revenues, operating costs, net income from operations and capital investments for the firm's smelter operations subject to this application, on the basis of anticipated smelter operations with expected additional sulfur dioxide control facilities required to comply with the smelter's SIP emission limitation.

(d) For smelters applying for a waiver of interim constant controls, forecasts of operating revenues, operating costs, and capital investments for the firm's smelter operations prepared on the basis of two alternative assumptions: (1) Installation of additional pollution control facilities required to comply with interim constant control requirements, no installation of any additional SOcontrols that the smelter would otherwise be required to install but for the issuance of an NSO, and closure of the smelter after January 1, 1988; and (2) installation of additional pollution control facilities required to comply with interim constant control requirements, installation of any additional SOcontrols required to comply with the smelter's SIP emission limitation by January 2, 1988, and continued operation of the smelter after January 1, 1988.

1.2 NSO financial tests. EPA will use separate tests to determine eligibility for an NSO and to evaluate applications for a waiver of the interim constant control requirement. The two tests for NSO eligibility employ a present value approach for determining the reasonable availability of constant control technology that will enable an applicant to achieve full compliance with its SIP sulfur dioxide emission limitation. The tests for the waiver of the interim constant control requirements employ variable costing and discounted cash flow standards for evaluating an applicant's economic capability to implement those requirements.
