
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Appendix A to Part 57 - Primary Nonferrous Smelter Order (NSO) Application
###### real

The applicant averages the values of the last two years after expressing both values in terms of the last year's dollars. The two-year average value is then multiplied by 9.6. This is the factor associated with capitalizing a 15 year value stream at the currentweighted cost of capital of 6.2 percent.

Applicants must use a separate schedule to calculate the horizon value for the Rate of Return Test and the Interim Controls Test (Schedule C.5 and D.7, respectively). These separate schedules adjust for potential overstatements in the horizon value cash flows that may be caused by control equipment depreciation reported for tax purposes.

2.8 Data Entry

2.8.1 Rounding. All amounts (including both dollar values and physical units) reported in the schedules and exhibits accompanying this application must be rounded to the nearest thousand and expressed in thousands of dollars or units unless otherwise indicated in the instructions.

2.8.2 Estimates. Where an applicant's records cannot produce the specific data required by this application, the use of estimates will be allowed if a meaningful estimate can be made without significant distortion of the reported results. Data estimates must be supported by attaching on a separate sheet of paper as a part of Exhibit B an explanation identifying where such estimates are used and showing explicitly how the estimates were made.

2.8.3 Missing Data. Applicants must provide, where applicable, all operating and financial data requested by this application. Only substantially complete applications can be accepted for processing by the Agency. Questions concerning data entries for which information is not provided by or cannot reasonably be estimated from the applicant's existing accounting records should be addressed to the EPA Contact for NSO Inquiries.

2.8.4 Historical Period. The annual data requested in the historical schedules, Schedules A.1 through A.4, must be reported for each of the five fiscal years immediately preceding the year in which this application is filed. The historical period shall be from fiscal years 1979 through 1983 for an NSO application filed in 1984. If an application is filed in a later year, the references in this appendix to the period 1979 through 1983 should be interpreted accordingly.

2.9 Use of schedules. All applicants must complete Schedules A.1 through A.4, which record historical revenues, cost, and capital investment data. These schedules will be used by EPA to assist in evaluating forecast data. Completion of the remaining schedules depends on the test required of the applicant.

2.9.1 NSO Eligibility. An NSO applicant must pass one of the following two tests and complete the corresponding schedules.
