
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Appendix A to Part 57 - Primary Nonferrous Smelter Order (NSO) Application
###### historical,forecast

A "normal" profit margin is defined as the gross operating profit per dollar of operating revenue that will provide an average after-tax rate of return on permanent capital (total assets less current liabilities). This average rate of return is defined differently for the historical and forecast periods. The applicant must use a rate of return of 8.0 percent for theperiod. This figure is based on a historical average earned rate of return for the nonferrous metals industry.EPA may update this figure periodically. The updates will be available in the rulemaking docket or from the INFORMATION CONTACT noted in theFor theperiod, the applicant must use a rate of return equal to the current weighted average cost of capital for the nonferrous metals industry, as computed in Section 2.6.

Forecast smelting charges for integrated smelters can be computed from forecast market smelting charges. Integrated copper smelters may use as the basis of their forecast revenues the forecast copper smelting charges provided by EPA, adjusted as described in Section 2.4.1. An applicant may submit other forecasts, providing the forecast methodology is in accordance with the guidelines in Section 2.5 and fully documented as part of Exhibit B.

2.3 Forecasting Requirements. NSO applicants must provide the Agency with financial forecasts in Schedules B.1 through B.6 and C.1 through C.2. Applicants requesting either a temporary or permanent waiver from interim constant control requirements also must provide an additional set of financial forecasts in Schedules D.1 through D.4.

2.3.1 Forecast Period. The forecast period must include at least two full years following completion and startup of the required pollution control system. The forecast period shall be from 1984 through 1990 for an NSO application filed in 1984. If an application is filed in a later year, the 1984 through 1990 period should be adjusted accordingly. All references in this appendix to the period 1984 through 1990 should be interpreted accordingly.

2.3.2 Forecast Adjustment by Control Case. Some line items that have the same title in several schedules may contain different information because they are based on different assumptions regarding pollution controls. Production interruptions or curtailments due to the installation of pollution control facilities may require adjustments to certain revenue and cost estimates in the respective control cases. For example, production curtailments associated with supplementary control systems may be the basis for the pre-control case, yet are eliminated when constant controls replace supplementary control systems in the constant controls case. The application of pollution control techniques that involve process changes in the smelter's operations (e.g., conversion to flash smelting) also may require specific forecasts by applications of associated impacts on incremental operating revenues and costs.

2.3.3 Nominal Dollar Basis. Applicants must make their financial forecasts in terms of nominal dollars. Forecasts of selected parameters provided by EPA will furnish guidelines to an applicant in preparing the required cost and revenue estimates. In particular, copper smelting charges provided in nominal-dollar terms must be used directly by the applicant as given; i.e., the stipulated charge estimates should not be inflated.

2.3.4 Tolling Service Equivalent Basis. Applicants must express all revenue forecasts on a tolling service equivalent basis. Thus, forecast revenues are computed as the product of the forecast quantity of processed concentrate, the forecast average product grade of the concentrate (the percent of metal in the concentrate), and the forecast smelting charge. Smelters that are not tolling smelters and that do not use the copper smelting charges provided by EPA (as described in Section 2.4.1) can forecast a smelting charge from forecast product grade of the concentrate, percent recovery, and product and concentrate prices. The forecast prices and derivation of the smelting charge must be in accordance with the guidelines in Section 2.5, and the methodology must be fully documented in Exhibit B.

2.4 EPA Furnished Forecast Data. In making projection for the period 1984 through 1990, applicants must, except as noted below, use the indices provided by EPA. The table below presents yearly values for each index (expressed as annual percentage rates of change) to be used by smelters applying for an NSO before January 1, 1985. If forecasts are needed for 1991 and EPA has not provided new forecasts, applicants should use the Data Resources, Inc. forecasts for 1991 (Docket Item No. IV-A-6c) and the average of CRU's forecasts for 1989 and 1990 (expressed in 1991 dollars).

2.4.1 Copper smelting charge. EPA will supply a forecast of reference copper smelting charges. These charges, which are f.o.b. U.S. mine, are based on an estimate of export smelting charges and on the differential value of copper in the U.S. and the world market. They must be used in forecasting unaffiliated party revenues for the period following the expiration of existing contracts and in forecasting affiliated party revenues for the entire forecast period. The applicant may submit its own smelting charge forecast for the post-contract period, provided that such forecast is in accordance with the guidelines in Section 2.5 and fully documented and substantiated as part of Exhibit B.

The EPA forecast export charge represents the world market copper smelting charge with copper valued at the London Metal Exchange (LME) copper price. This charge serves as the reference charge for the applicant copper smelter in calculating its smelting charges. Applicant copper smelters must derive their smelting charges from this world market charge as described in paragraph (a) below.

The applicant may adjust the derived smelter-specific smelting charge to account for other factors, provided the adjustments are fully documented as part of Exhibit B. An example of such a factor is the unit deduction for metallurgical losses in smelting. Adjustment for this factor is discussed in paragraph (b) below.

(a) The derivation of a smelter-specific smelting charge from the world market charge is based on assumptions regarding transportation costs and the U.S. producer-world copper price differential. The EPA forecast export charge is the forecast smelting charge available at a Japanese smelter, with copper valued at the London Metal Exchange copper price. The charge includes no freight costs, which must be paid by the mine. A U.S. smelter determines its smelting charge to a mine by meeting the combined world market smelting charge, adjusted to reflect copper valued at the U.S. producer price, and the transportation charge from the mine to the Japanese smelter. This combined price is the highest that a mine is willing to pay for smelting.

The smelter's net smelting charge is equal to the combined world smelting charge, adjusted to the U.S. producer price for copper (i.e., the export forecast charge plus the U.S. producer price premium), and the transportation cost between the mine and a Far East smelter, minus the cost of transporting the concentrate between the mine and the applicant smelter.

The applicant smelter's net smelting charge for concentrate from an individual mine is computed by first adding the U.S. producer Price-LME world price differential to the EPA-supplied forecast. The cost of transporting copper from the U.S. mine to the Far East is then added to this figure. The net smelting charge is obtained by subtracting from this total the cost of transporting copper from the mine to the applicant smelter. In making these calculations, an applicant must supply (and fully document in Exhibit B), the freight cost between the mine and the Far East and between the mine and the smelter. This freight cost must be converted to nominal dollars of the respective forecast years by applying the GNP percentage price change forecasts supplied by EPA or smelter-provided forecasts of transportation price changes. The smelter-provided forecasts of transportation price changes must comply with guidelines regarding such forecasts in Section 2.5.

An applicant must use a 3 cent per pound U.S. producer price premium (relative to the LME price) in calculating the smelter's net smelting charge. The applicant may substitute its own forecasts of the U.S. producer price premium if it can substantiate such forecasts in accordance with the guidelines in Section 2.5 regarding applicant-provided smelting charge forecasts of principal products. All supporting documentation for such applicant-supplied forecasts must be supplied in Exhibit B. Any updates of the producer price premium will be available in the rulemaking docket or from the INFORMATION CONTACT noted in the

The following two representative examples illustrate this methodology for making the transportation and U. S. producer price premium adjustment.

(1) The applicant smelter, located in Arizona, obtains concentrate from an adjacent mine. The freight charge from mine to smelter is zero. The mine is willing to pay the applicant smelter an amount no higher than the sum of the world market smelting charge (adjusted for the copper value differential) and the transportation cost of shipping copper from the mine to the Far East. This combined cost is the net charge received by the applicant smelter. If the export smelting charge is 12 cents per pound and the freight cost between the mine and the Far East is 13 cents per pound, the applicant smelter would calculate a net smelting charge equal to 28 cents: 12 cents plus 3 cents (for the U.S. producer price premium) plus 13 cents (for the freight cost between the mine and the Far East).

(2) The applicant smelter obtains concentrate from a nonadjacent mine. The mine will pay a charge no higher than the total market smelting charge, valued at the U.S. producer price, and the transportation costs between the mine and a Far East smelter. The applicant's net smelting charge is equal to this combined cost minus the transportation costs for shipping the concentrate between mine and applicant smelter.

Suppose that the mine to Far East freight charge is 13 cents per pound and the mine to applicant smelter freight charge is 4 cents per pound. If the export smelting charge is 12 cents per pound, the net smelting charge is equal to 24 cents per pound: 12 cents plus 3 cents (for the U.S. producer price premium) plus 13 cents (for the freight cost to the Far East) minus 4 cents (for the freight cost to the applicant smelter).

(b) The EPA forecast charges are based on a one unit deduction for metallurgical losses. This means that if a concentrate grades 25 percent copper, the mine is only credited with 24 percent for metal return. The one unit deduction on 25 percent concentrate is equivalent to a 96 percent payment for contained copper. Should a smelter recover less than 96 percent, its revenue would be less than the EPA forecast smelting charge. Should a smelter recover more than 96 percent, its revenue would be greater than the EPA forecast smelting charge.

2.4.2 Indices (Annual Percentage Changes). These indices, which are expressed as annual percentage rate changes in price (wages, energy prices, and GNP price deflator) must be used only for estimating the rate of price increases for the forecast period following the expiration of the applicant's current contracts. The applicant may use alternative forecasts of annual percentage changes for the forecast period following the expiration of current contracts, if justification is provided. Any such alternative forecasts must be prepared by a widely-recognized forecasting authority with expertise comparable to that of the forecaster relied upon by EPA. In addition, the documentation of these forecasts must be comparable to that provided by EPA's forecaster.

The wage indices are to be applied to wage paid to manufacturing labor. The energy price indices are to be applied to prices of the respective energy products. The GNP price deflators are to be applied to prices for non-metal, non-labor, and non-energy inputs.

2.5 Applicant Generated Forecasts. Within the specified limitations, applicants may submit a method of forecasting smelting charges and by-product, co-product and other prices. The method selected must be explained and unit prices or costs provided where applicable. The forecast elements must be compatible with an applicant's historical cost and revenue elements to permit direct comparisons of historical and forecast data. Applicants must attach as part of Exhibit B appropriate schedules explaining variances between forecast and historical unit costs for the smelter.

Forecasts of the smelting charges of the smelter's principal product (i.e., copper, lead, zinc, etc.) may be prepared either by an independent forecasting authority or by the smelter's in-house personnel. If the forecasts are prepared by an independent forecasting authority, the following conditions must be satisfied: (1) The forecasting authority must have expertise comparable to that of the forecaster relied upon by EPA. (2) As much documentation of the forecasting methodology as can reasonably be obtained must be made available to EPA. Such documentation must, at a minimum, be comparable to the documentation supporting EPA smelting charge forecasts.

If the smelting charge forecasts are prepared by in-house personnel, the following conditions must be met: (1) The in-house forecasts must be certified as being based on sound methodology by an independent forecasting authority with expertise comparable to that of the forecaster who prepared the EPA-supplied smelting charges. The independent forecasting authority shall also provide a brief explanation of the basis for the conclusion reached in the certification. (2) The smelter owner shall provide EPA with the documentation of the forecasting methodology employed, which must at a minimum be comparable to the extent of documentation supporting EPA's smelting charge forecasts. The smelter owner shall also make available upon request by EPA such additional documentation of the methodology and underlying data as EPA considers appropriate for evaluation of the forecasts.

Forecasts of freight cost changes, which are applied to the freight costs used in calculating a smelter's net smelting charges, must be prepared by a widely-recognized forecasting authority. The forecaster's expertise must be comparable to that of the forecaster relied upon by EPA in forecasting the annual percentage changes in wages, energy prices, and GNP. The documentation of these forecasts must be comparable to that provided by EPA's forecaster.

To the maximum extent practicable, by-product, co-product and (when applicable) unaffiliated smelting charges must be stated at market prices adjusted to f.o.b. smelter. Adjustments of these pricing bases must be made to reflect differences in grades and types of production. All adjustments must be consistent with expected sales, grades and types of concentrate processed. Applicants must attach as part of Exhibit B schedules describing and explaining the methods used to forecast these revenue items and the adjustments required for these revenue forecasts.

Applicants must explain fully any changes from the historical data that are required to forecast labor productivity, ore-concentrate grade and composition, materials and energy consumption per unit of output, yield rates and other physical input/output relationships.

Existing contractual terms must be used in forecasting those sales or input costs or prices to which the applicant is committed by contracts. The use of contract-dictated prices must be disclosed and supported by attaching as part of Exhibit B the terms and duration of labor and other supplier arrangements.

Cost of compliance estimates need not be to the accuracy of final design/bid estimates; feasibility grade estimates will be acceptable. Updated cost of compliance estimates used in internal five year plans or specially prepared estimates of costs of compliance will generally be satisfactory.

2.6 Weighted Average Cost of Capital for Nonferrous Metal Producers. The industry average cost of capital is a weighted average of the rates of return for equity and debt. Its components are the interest rate and the return on equity specific to the nonferrous metals industry.

2.6.1 Computation.The applicant must compute the cost of capital according to the following formula:
