
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Appendix A to Part 57 - Primary Nonferrous Smelter Order (NSO) Application
###### et seq.,,et seq.,

1.3 Confidentiality. Applicants may request that information contained in this application be treated as confidential. Agency regulations concerning claims of confidentiality of business information are contained in 40 CFR part 2, subpart B (41 FR 36902September 1, 1976, as amended by 43 FR 39997September 8, 1978). The regulations provide that a business may, if it desires, assert a business confidentiality claim covering part or all of the information furnished to EPA. The claim must be made at the same time the applicable information is submitted. The manner of asserting such claims is specified in 40 CFR 2.203(b). Information covered by such a claim will be handled by the Agency in accordance with procedures set forth in the subpart B regulations. EPA will not disclose information on a business that has made a claim of confidentiality, except to the extent of and in accordance with 40 CFR part 2, subpart B. However, if no claim of confidentiality is made when information is furnished to EPA, the information may be made available to the public without notice to the business.

2.1 Revenue and Cost Assignment. The amounts assigned to operations of the smelter subject to this NSO application should include (1) revenues and costs directly attributable to the smelter's operating activities and (2) indirect operating costs shared with other segments of the firm to the extent that a specific causal and beneficial relationship can be identified for the allocation of such costs to the smelter. Do not allocate revenues and costs associated with central administrative activities for which specific causal and beneficial relationships to the activities of the smelter cannot be established. Nonallocable items include, but are not restricted to, amounts such as dividend and interest income on centrally administered portfolio investments, central corporate administrative office expenses and, except for schedules supporting the Profit Protection Test, interest on long-term debt financing arrangements. Provide a detailed explanation of amounts classified as nontraceable on a separate schedule and attach as part of Exhibit B.

2.2 Transfer Prices on Affiliated Part Transactions. Certain transactions by the smelter subject to an NSO application may reflect sales to or purchases from "affiliated" customers or suppliers with whom the smelter has a common bond of ownership and/or managerial control. In preparing this application, affiliated party transactions shall be defined as transactions with any entity that the firm, or its owners, controls directly or indirectly either through an ownership of 10 percent or more of the entity's voting interests or through an exercise of managerial responsibility. Applicants must attach as part of Exhibit B supporting schedules explaining the pricing policies established on affiliated party transactions incorporated in the financial reporting schedules.

Prices on inter-segment material and product transfers within a firm, or on external purchases from and sales to other affiliated suppliers and customers, may differ from the prices on comparable transactions with unaffiliated suppliers and customers. In this event, applicants also must present in the Exhibit B supporting schedules and incorporate in the NSO financial reporting schedules appropriate adjustments for restating affiliated party transactions. Affiliated party transactions must be restated at either (a) equivalent prices on comparable transactions with unaffiliated parties if such price quotations can be obtained or (b) prices that provide the selling entity with a normal profit margin above its cost of sales if a meaningful comparison with unaffiliated transaction prices cannot be established.
