
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Appendix A to Part 57 - Primary Nonferrous Smelter Order (NSO) Application
###### Temporary Waiver from Interim Controls.

1.2.2Applicants that do not have an existing constant control system or whose constant controls are not sufficient when in operation and optimally maintained to treat all strong streams in accordance with subpart C, may apply for a waiver of the requirements of subpart C with respect to any interim constant controls not already installed. Applicants will be eligible for a temporary waiver of the requirement for interim constant controls not already installed, if they can establish pursuant to the procedures in this application that the imposition of such control requirements would economically necessitate closure of the smelter facility for a period of one year or longer. The economic justification for a non-permanent closure under this temporary waiver test is defined as a situation in which the smelter's projected operating revenues for one or more years during which the NSO is in effect are inadequate to cover variable operating costs anticipated after installing the required interim control technology. Temporary waivers will be granted for only the period of time over which applicants can establish an inability by the firm to cover its variable operating costs. Interim control waiver requests based on the smelter's projected inability to earn adequate income after installation of interim pollution control equipment will be subject to the permanent waiver test.

1.2.3 Permanent Waiver from Interim Controls. Applicants that do not have an existing constant control system or whose constant controls are not sufficient when in operation and optimally maintained to treat all strong streams in accordance with subpart C, may apply for a waiver of the requirements of subpart C with respect to any interim constant controls not already installed. Applicants will be eligible for a permanent waiver of the requirement for interim constant controls not already installed, if they can establish pursuant to the procedures in this application that an imposition of such control requirements would necessitate permanent closure of the smelter. Economic justification for a permanent closure is defined as a situation in which the present value of future cash flows anticipated from the smelter after installing the required interim control technology is less than the smelter's current salvage value under an orderly plan of liquidation. Future cash flows are determined under two alternative assumptions. The higher present value of cash flows computed under these assumptions is then compared to salvage value.

1.2.4 EPA Contact for NSO Inquiries. Inquiries concerning this portion of the requirements for NSO application should be addressed to Laxmi M. Kesari, Environmental Protection Agency, EN 341, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.

1.2.5 Certification. The NSO Certification Statement must be signed by an authorized officer of the applicant firm.
