
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Appendix A to Part 57 - Primary Nonferrous Smelter Order (NSO) Application
###### Permanent Waiver from Interim Controls Test.

(b)The applicant must complete Schedules D.1 through D.7. All schedules except for Schedule D.5 must be completed twice, based on two alternative assumptions: (1) installation of interim constant control equipment, no installation of any additional SOcontrols that the smelter would otherwise be required to install but for the issuance of the NSO, and closure of the smelter after January 1, 1988; and (2) installation of interim constant control equipment, installation of any additional SOcontrols required to comply with the smelter's SIP emission limitation by January 2, 1988, and continued operation of the smelter after January 1, 1988.

Schedules D.1 and D.2 report forecast revenue and cost data under each assumption. Schedule D.3 summarizes Schedules D.1 and D.2, and Schedule D.4 reports forecast sustaining capital under each assumption. Schedule D.5 reports cash proceeds from liquidation.

Schedule D.6 presents the calculations for the permanent waiver test. In Schedule D.6, the applicant reports cash flow projections from Schedules D.3 and D.4 and the horizon value from Schedule D.7, computes their present value and subtracts the current salvage value (taken from Schedule D.5) to yield net present value. The higher of the two net present value figures computed under the two alternative assumptions must be used in the test. If the higher net present value figure is negative, the applicant is eligible for a permanent waiver.

2.10 Use of exhibits. In addition to data required by the schedules included in this application, the following information must be attached as exhibits.

2.10.1 Exhibit A. Background information on the firm's organizational structure and its associated accounting and financial reporting systems for primary nonferrous activities. This information must include, where applicable, the firm's:

(a) Operating association with an ownership control in consolidated subsidiaries, unconsolidated subsidiaries, joint ventures and other affiliated companies.

(b) Organizational subdivision of its primary nonferrous activities into profit centers, cost centers and/or related financial reporting entities employed to control the operation of its mines, concentrators, smelters, refineries and other associated facilities.

(c) Material and product flows among the smelter subject to this NSO application, other integrated facilities and its affiliated suppliers and/or customers. In the case of integrated facilities, applicants must provide process flow diagrams depicting the operating interrelationships among its mines, concentrators, smelters, refineries and other integrated facilities. For both integrated and nonintegrated facilities, applicants also must describe the proportion contributed to its primary nonferrous activities by material purchases from and product sales to affiliated suppliers and customers.

(d) Annual operating capacity over the five most recent fiscal years for the smelter subject to this application. Operating capacity must be defined in terms of the total quantity of throughput that could have been processed with the available facilities after giving appropriate allowance to normal downtime requirements for maintenance and repairs. Operating capacity data also must consider both capacity balancing requirements among processing steps and annual processing yield rates attainable for each facility.

(e) Weighted average analysis of concentrates processed and tonnage produced annually over each of the five most recent fiscal years by the smelter subject to this application.

(f) Accounting system and policies for recording investment expenditures, operating revenues, operating costs and income taxes associated with its primary nonferrous activities. Applicants also must provide a complete description of allocation techniques employed for assigning investments, revenues, costs and taxes to individual profit, cost of departmental centers for which costs are accumulated. Applicants must further indicate the relationship of cost and/or departmental accounting entities to the firm's established profit centers.

(g) Annual five-year operating and capital expenditure plans (or budgets) by individual nonferrous profit center. These documents must include previous plans prepared for the five preceding fiscal years as well as the current one-year and five-year operating and capital expenditure plans. At least the current one-year and five-year plans must provide a specific breakdown of investment expenditures and operating costs associated with the operation and maintenance of each profit center's existing and proposed pollution control facilities.

2.10.2 Exhibit B. Supplemental description and explanation of items appearing in the financial reporting schedules. Other parts of Section 2 and the detailed instructions for the Schedules specify the information required in Exhibit B.

2.10.3 Exhibit C. Financial data documentation. Applicants must document annual balance sheet, income statement and supporting data reported for the firm's preceding five fiscal years or for that portion of the past five years during which the firm engaged in smelter operations. This documentation must be provided by attaching to the application:

(a) SEC 10-K reports filed by the parent corporation for each of the preceding five fiscal years.

(b) Certified financial statements prepared on a consolidated basis for the parent corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. This requirement may be omitted for those years in which SEC 10-K reports have been attached to this Exhibit.

(c) Business Segment Information reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the firm for each of the preceding five years (as available).
