
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Appendix A to Part 57 - Primary Nonferrous Smelter Order (NSO) Application
###### Rate of Return Test.

(b)The applicant must complete Schedules B.4, B.5, and C.1 through C.5 to determine eligibility under the Rate of Return Test. Schedules B.4 and B.5 report the revenue and cost forecast, respectively, for the constant controls case, and Schedule C.1 summarizes Schedules B.4 and B.5 for the Rate of Return Test. Schedule C.2 reports forecast sustaining capital investment for the constant controls case. Schedule C.3 reports historical net investment for the most recent fiscal year expressed in constant dollars, i.e., dollars of the year in which the application is made.

Schedule C.4 presents the calculations for the Rate of Return Test. The applicant reports in Schedule C.4 the forecast cash flows from Schedules C.1 and C.2 and the horizon value from Schedule C.5, computes their present value, and subtracts the value of invested capital in constant dollars (taken from Schedule C.3) to yield net present value. If the net present value is less than zero, the smelter passes the test and is eligible to receive an NSO. This result indicates that the smelter is expected to earn a rate of return less than the industry average cost of capital.

2.9.2 Interim Control Waivers. An applicant for a waiver from interim controls must complete either a portion or all of Schedules D.1 through D.7, depending on whether the application is for a temporary or permanent waiver.
