
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Appendix A to Part 57 - Primary Nonferrous Smelter Order (NSO) Application
###### Line 26-Net Smelter Capital Investment.

Enter for each year the difference between Lines 19 and 25.

General. Use Schedule B.1 to report annual forecasts of operating revenues anticipated during the years 1984 through 1990 from operation of the smelter subject to this NSO application. These pre-control revenue projections should be based on revenues and production associated with operating the smelter without any SOair pollution controls that have not been installed as of the NSO application date. Forecast smelter revenues should be expressed on a tolling service equivalent basis as described in Section 2.3.4.

Copper smelters that will process concentrates containing an average of 1,000 pounds per hour or more of arsenic during the forecast period should assume that they will use best engineering techniques to control fugitive emissions of arsenic. All smelters should also assume that they will be required to meet all other regulatory requirements in effect at the time the application is made.

The line items in Schedule B.1 are explained in the following instructions. Attach as part of Exhibit B schedules to (1) explain the methods used to make the required forecasts, (2) explain differences, if any, between historical trends and the forecasts and (3) provide data and information to support the forecasts.
