
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 57 - PRIMARY NONFERROUS SMELTER ORDERS
##### Appendix A to Part 57 - Primary Nonferrous Smelter Order (NSO) Application
###### General.

Use Schedule D.2 to report annual forecasts of operating costs anticipated during the years 1984 through 1990 from operation of the smelter applying for an interim controls waiver. The applicant applying for a permanent waiver should complete Schedule D.2 twice, with cost and production projections based on two alternative assumptions: (1) Installation of interim constant control equipment, no installation of any additional SOcontrols that the smelter would otherwise be required to install but for the issuance of an NSO, and closure after January 1, 1988, and (2) installation of interim constant control equipment and any additional SOcontrols required to comply with the smelter's SIP emission limitation by January 2, 1988, so that the smelter will remain open through the horizon period. For a smelter that has no continuous emission controls, the assumed interim control investment program should be based on the installation and operation of a well-designed sulfuric acid plant to treat all strong gas streams. For a smelter that already has some continuous emission controls, the assumed interim constant control investment should be based on the installation and operation of any additional acid plant capacity that would be necessary for treatment of all strong streams with interim constant controls. The interim controls projections should account for other regulatory requirements on the same basis as provided for in the NSO eligibility tests.

The line items in Schedule D.2 are explained in the following instructions. Attach as part of Exhibit B schedules to (1) explain the methods used to make the required forecasts, (2) explain differences, if any, between historical trends and the forecasts, and (3) provide data and information to support the forecasts.
