
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Confidentiality of Business Information
###### § 2.301 Special rules governing certain information obtained under the Clean Air Act.
####### Data submitted under 40 CFR part 98.

(d)(1) Sections 2.201 through 2.215 do not apply to data submitted under 40 CFR part 98 that EPA has determined, pursuant to sections 114(c) and 307(d) of the Clean Air Act, to be either of the following:

(i) Emission data.

(ii) Data not otherwise entitled to confidential treatment pursuant to section 114(c) of the Clean Air Act.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(4) of this section, §§ 2.201 through 2.215 do not apply to data submitted under 40 CFR part 98 data that EPA has determined, pursuant to sections 114(c) and 307(d) of the Clean Air Act, to be entitled to confidential treatment. EPA shall treat that information as confidential in accordance with the provisions of § 2.211, subject to paragraph (d)(4) of this section and § 2.209.

(3) Upon receiving a request under 5 U.S.C. 552 for data submitted under 40 CFR part 98 that EPA has determined, pursuant to sections 114(c) and 307(d) of the Clean Air Act, to be entitled to confidential treatment, the EPA office shall furnish the requestor a notice that the information has been determined to be entitled to confidential treatment and that the request is therefore denied. The notice shall include or cite to the appropriate EPA determination.

(4) Modification of prior confidentiality determination. A determination made pursuant to sections 114(c) and 307(d) of the Clean Air Act that information submitted under 40 CFR part 98 is entitled to confidential treatment shall continue in effect unless, subsequent to the confidentiality determination, EPA takes one of the following actions:

(i) EPA determines, pursuant to sections 114(c) and 307(d) of the Clean Air Act, that the information is emission data or data not otherwise entitled to confidential treatment under section 114(c) of the Clean Air Act.

(ii) The Office of General Counsel issues a final determination, based on the criteria in § 2.208, stating that the information is no longer entitled to confidential treatment because of change in the applicable law or newly-discovered or changed facts. Prior to making such final determination, EPA shall afford the business an opportunity to submit comments on pertinent issues in the manner described by §§ 2.204(e) and 2.205(b). If, after consideration of any timely comments submitted by the business, the Office of General Counsel makes a revised final determination that the information is not entitled to confidential treatment under section 114(c) of the Clean Air Act, EPA will notify the business in accordance with the procedures described in § 2.205(f)(2).
