
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 58 - AMBIENT AIR QUALITY SURVEILLANCE
##### Subpart D - Comparability of Ambient Data to the NAAQS
###### ยง 58.30 Special considerations for data comparisons to the NAAQS.
####### Comparability of,data.

(a)PMThe primary and secondary annual and 24-hour PMNAAQS are described in part 50 of this chapter. Monitors that follow the network technical requirements specified in ยง 58.11 are eligible for comparison to the NAAQS subject to the additional requirements of this section. PMmeasurement data from all eligible monitors are comparable to the 24-hour PMNAAQS. PMmeasurement data from all eligible monitors that are representative of area-wide air quality are comparable to the annual PMNAAQS. Consistent with appendix D to this part, section 4.7.1, when micro- or middle-scale PMmonitoring sites collectively identify a larger region of localized high ambient PMconcentrations, such sites would be considered representative of an area-wide location and, therefore, eligible for comparison to the annual PMNAAQS. PMmeasurement data from monitors that are not representative of area-wide air quality but rather of relatively unique micro-scale, or localized hot spot, or unique middle-scale impact sites are not eligible for comparison to the annual PMNAAQS. PMmeasurement data from these monitors are eligible for comparison to the 24-hour PMNAAQS. For example, if a micro- or middle-scale PMmonitoring site is adjacent to a unique dominating local PMsource, then the PMmeasurement data from such a site would only be eligible for comparison to the 24-hour PMNAAQS. Approval of sites that are suitable and sites that are not suitable for comparison with the annual PMNAAQS is provided for as part of the annual monitoring network plan described in ยง 58.10.

(b) [Reserved]
