
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 58 - AMBIENT AIR QUALITY SURVEILLANCE
##### Appendix B to Part 58 - Quality Assurance Requirements for Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Air Monitoring
###### PM,Performance Evaluation Program (PEP) Procedures.

3.2.4As stated in sections 1.1 and 2.4 of this appendix, PSD monitoring networks may be subject to the NPEP, which includes the PMPEP. The PSD monitoring organizations shall consult with the PSD reviewing authority or the EPA regarding whether the implementation of PMPEP is required and the implementation options available for the PMPEP. For PSD PQAOs with less than or equal to five monitoring sites, five valid performance evaluation audits must be collected and reported each year. For PSD PQAOs with greater than five monitoring sites, eight valid performance evaluation audits must be collected and reported each year. Additionally, within the five or eight required audits, each type of method designation (FRM/FEM designation) used as a primary monitor in the PSD network shall be audited. For a PE to be valid, both the primary monitor and PEP audit measurements must meet quality control requirements and be above 3 µg/mor a predefined lower concentration level determined by a systematic planning process and approved by the PSD reviewing authority. Due to the relatively short-term nature of most PSD monitoring, the likelihood of measuring low concentrations in many areas attaining the PMstandard and the time required to weigh filters collected in PEs, a PSD monitoring organization's QAPP may contain a provision to waive the 3 µg/mthreshold for validity of PEs conducted in the last quarter of monitoring, subject to approval by the PSD reviewing authority.
