
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 58 - AMBIENT AIR QUALITY SURVEILLANCE
##### Appendix C to Part 58 - Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Methodology
###### Use of Pb-PM,at SLAMS Sites.

2.1

2.10.1 The EPA Regional Administrator may approve the use of a Pb-PMFRM or Pb-PMFEM sampler in lieu of a Pb-TSP sampler as part of the network plan required under part 58.10(a)(4) in the following cases.

2.10.1.1 Pb-PMsamplers can be approved for use at the non-source-oriented sites required under paragraph 4.5(b) of Appendix D to part 58 if there is no existing monitoring data indicating that the maximum arithmetic 3-month mean Pb concentration (either Pb-TSP or Pb-PM) at the site was equal to or greater than 0.10 micrograms per cubic meter during the previous 3 years.

2.10.1.2 Pb-PMsamplers can be approved for use at source-oriented sites required under paragraph 4.5(a) if the monitoring agency can demonstrate (through modeling or historic monitoring data from the last 3 years) that Pb concentrations (either Pb-TSP or Pb-PM) will not equal or exceed 0.10 micrograms per cubic meter on an arithmetic 3-month mean and the source is expected to emit a substantial majority of its Pb in the fraction of PM with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers.

2.10.2 The approval of a Pb-PMsampler in lieu of a Pb-TSP sampler as allowed for in paragraph 2.10.1 above will be revoked if measured Pb-PMconcentrations equal or exceed 0.10 micrograms per cubic meter on an arithmetic 3-month mean. Monitoring agencies will have up to 6 months from the end of the 3-month period in which the arithmetic 3-month Pb-PMmean concentration equaled or exceeded 0.10 micrograms per cubic meter to install and begin operation of a Pb-TSP sampler at the site.

3.1 Methods employed in NCore multipollutant sites used to measure SO, CO, NO, O, PM, or PMmust be reference or equivalent methods as defined in § 50.1 of this chapter, or an ARM as defined in section 2.4 of this appendix, for any monitors intended for comparison with applicable NAAQS.

3.2 If alternative SO, CO, NO, O, PM, or PMmonitoring methodologies are proposed for monitors not intended for NAAQS comparison, such techniques must be detailed in the network description required by § 58.10 and subsequently approved by the Administrator. Examples of locations that are not intended to be compared to the NAAQS may be rural background and transport sites or areas where the concentration of the pollutant is so low that it would be more useful to operate a higher sensitivity method that is not an FRM or FEM.

4.1 Methods used for Omonitoring at PAMS must be automated reference or equivalent methods as defined in § 50.1 of this chapter.

4.2 Methods used for NO, NOand NOmonitoring at PAMS should be automated reference or equivalent methods as defined for NOin § 50.1 of this chapter. If alternative NO, NOor NOmonitoring methodologies are proposed, such techniques must be detailed in the network description required by § 58.10 and subsequently approved by the Administrator.

4.3 Methods for meteorological measurements and speciated VOC monitoring are included in the guidance provided in references 2 and 3 of this appendix. If alternative VOC monitoring methodology (including the use of new or innovative technologies), which is not included in the guidance, is proposed, it must be detailed in the network description required by § 58.10 and subsequently approved by the Administrator.

5.1 For short-term measurements of PMduring air pollution episodes (see § 51.152 of this chapter) the measurement method must be:

5.1.1 Either the "Staggered PM" method or the "PMSampling Over Short Sampling Times" method, both of which are based on the reference method for PMand are described in reference 1: or

5.1.2 Any other method for measuring PM:

5.1.2.1 Which has a measurement range or ranges appropriate to accurately measure air pollution episode concentration of PM,

5.1.2.2 Which has a sample period appropriate for short-term PMmeasurements, and

5.1.2.3 For which a quantitative relationship to a reference or equivalent method for PMhas been established at the use site. Procedures for establishing a quantitative site-specific relationship are contained in reference 1.

5.2 PMmethods other than the reference method are not covered under the quality assessment requirements of appendix to this part. Therefore, States must develop and implement their own quality assessment procedures for those methods allowed under this section 4. These quality assessment procedures should be similar or analogous to those described in section 3 of appendix A to this part for the PMreference method.

1. Pelton, D. J. Guideline for Particulate Episode Monitoring Methods, GEOMET Technologies, Inc., Rockville, MD. Prepared for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. EPA Contract No. 68-02-3584. EPA 450/4-83-005. February 1983.

2. Technical Assistance Document For Sampling and Analysis of Ozone Precursors. Atmospheric Research and Exposure Assessment Laboratory, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. EPA 600/8-91-215. October 1991.

3. Quality Assurance Handbook for Air Pollution Measurement Systems: Volume IV. Meteorological Measurements. Atmospheric Research and Exposure Assessment Laboratory, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. EPA 600/4-90-0003. August 1989.
