
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 58 - AMBIENT AIR QUALITY SURVEILLANCE
##### Appendix D to Part 58 - Network Design Criteria for Ambient Air Quality Monitoring
###### Neighborhood scale

(3)-Neighborhood scale measurements are intended to represent areas with dimensions from 0.5 kilometers to 4 kilometers. Measurements of CO in this category would represent conditions throughout some reasonably urban sub-regions. In some cases, neighborhood scale data may represent not only the immediate neighborhood spatial area, but also other similar such areas across the larger urban area. Neighborhood scale measurements provide relative area-wide concentration data which are useful for providing relative urban background concentrations, supporting health and scientific research, and for use in modeling.

4.3.1 General Requirements

(a) State and, where appropriate, local agencies must operate a minimum number of required NOmonitoring sites as described below.

4.3.2 Requirement for Near-road NOMonitors

(a) Within the NOnetwork, there must be one microscale near-road NOmonitoring station in each CBSA with a population of 1,000,000 or more persons to monitor a location of expected maximum hourly concentrations sited near a major road with high AADT counts as specified in paragraph 4.3.2(a)(1) of this appendix. An additional near-road NOmonitoring station is required for any CBSA with a population of 2,500,000 persons or more, or in any CBSA with a population of 1,000,000 or more persons that has one or more roadway segments with 250,000 or greater AADT counts to monitor a second location of expected maximum hourly concentrations. CBSA populations shall be based on the latest available census figures.

(1) The near-road NOmonitoring sites shall be selected by ranking all road segments within a CBSA by AADT and then identifying a location or locations adjacent to those highest ranked road segments, considering fleet mix, roadway design, congestion patterns, terrain, and meteorology, where maximum hourly NOconcentrations are expected to occur and siting criteria can be met in accordance with appendix E of this part. Where a state or local air monitoring agency identifies multiple acceptable candidate sites where maximum hourly NOconcentrations are expected to occur, the monitoring agency shall consider the potential for population exposure in the criteria utilized to select the final site location. Where one CBSA is required to have two near-road NOmonitoring stations, the sites shall be differentiated from each other by one or more of the following factors: fleet mix; congestion patterns; terrain; geographic area within the CBSA; or different route, interstate, or freeway designation.

(b) Measurements at required near-road NOmonitor sites utilizing chemiluminescence FRMs must include at a minimum: NO, NO, and NO.

4.3.3 Requirement for Area-wide NOMonitoring

(a) Within the NOnetwork, there must be one monitoring station in each CBSA with a population of 1,000,000 or more persons to monitor a location of expected highest NOconcentrations representing the neighborhood or larger spatial scales. PAMS sites collecting NOdata that are situated in an area of expected high NOconcentrations at the neighborhood or larger spatial scale may be used to satisfy this minimum monitoring requirement when the NOmonitor is operated year round. Emission inventories and meteorological analysis should be used to identify the appropriate locations within a CBSA for locating required area-wide NOmonitoring stations. CBSA populations shall be based on the latest available census figures.

4.3.4 Regional Administrator Required Monitoring

(a) The Regional Administrators, in collaboration with States, must require a minimum of forty additional NOmonitoring stations nationwide in any area, inside or outside of CBSAs, above the minimum monitoring requirements, with a primary focus on siting these monitors in locations to protect susceptible and vulnerable populations. The Regional Administrators, working with States, may also consider additional factors described in paragraph (b) below to require monitors beyond the minimum network requirement.

(b) The Regional Administrators may require monitors to be sited inside or outside of CBSAs in which:

(i) The required near-road monitors do not represent all locations of expected maximum hourly NOconcentrations in an area and NOconcentrations may be approaching or exceeding the NAAQS in that area;

(ii) Areas that are not required to have a monitor in accordance with the monitoring requirements and NOconcentrations may be approaching or exceeding the NAAQS; or

(iii) The minimum monitoring requirements for area-wide monitors are not sufficient to meet monitoring objectives.

(c) The Regional Administrator and the responsible State or local air monitoring agency should work together to design and/or maintain the most appropriate NOnetwork to address the data needs for an area, and include all monitors under this provision in the annual monitoring network plan.

4.3.5 NOMonitoring Spatial Scales

(a) The most important spatial scale for near-road NOmonitoring stations to effectively characterize the maximum expected hourly NOconcentration due to mobile source emissions on major roadways is the microscale. The most important spatial scales for other monitoring stations characterizing maximum expected hourly NOconcentrations are the microscale and middle scale. The most important spatial scale for area-wide monitoring of high NOconcentrations is the neighborhood scale.
