
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 58 - AMBIENT AIR QUALITY SURVEILLANCE
##### Appendix D to Part 58 - Network Design Criteria for Ambient Air Quality Monitoring
###### Regional scale

(3)-This scale of measurement will be used to typify concentrations over large portions of a metropolitan area and even larger areas with dimensions of as much as hundreds of kilometers. Such measurements will be useful for assessing the Othat is transported to and from a metropolitan area, as well as background concentrations. In some situations, particularly when considering very large metropolitan areas with complex source mixtures, regional scale sites can be the maximum concentration location.

(d) EPA's technical guidance documents on Omonitoring network design should be used to evaluate the adequacy of each existing Omonitor, to relocate an existing site, or to locate any new Osites.

(e) For locating a neighborhood scale site to measure typical city concentrations, a reasonably homogeneous geographical area near the center of the region should be selected which is also removed from the influence of major NOsources. For an urban scale site to measure the high concentration areas, the emission inventories should be used to define the extent of the area of important nonmethane hydrocarbons and NOemissions. The meteorological conditions that occur during periods of maximum photochemical activity should be determined. These periods can be identified by examining the meteorological conditions that occur on the highest Oair quality days. Trajectory analyses, an evaluation of wind and emission patterns on high Odays, can also be useful in evaluating an Omonitoring network. In areas without any previous Oair quality measurements, meteorological and Oprecursor emissions information would be useful.

(f) Once the meteorological and air quality data are reviewed, the prospective maximum concentration monitor site should be selected in a direction from the city that is most likely to observe the highest Oconcentrations, more specifically, downwind during periods of photochemical activity. In many cases, these maximum concentration Osites will be located 10 to 30 miles or more downwind from the urban area where maximum Oprecursor emissions originate. The downwind direction and appropriate distance should be determined from historical meteorological data collected on days which show the potential for producing high Olevels. Monitoring agencies are to consult with their EPA Regional Office when considering siting a maximum Oconcentration site.

(g) In locating a neighborhood scale site which is to measure high concentrations, the same procedures used for the urban scale are followed except that the site should be located closer to the areas bordering on the center city or slightly further downwind in an area of high density population.

(h) For regional scale background monitoring sites, similar meteorological analysis as for the maximum concentration sites may also inform the decisions for locating regional scale sites. Regional scale sites may be located to provide data on Otransport between cities, as background sites, or for other data collection purposes. Consideration of both area characteristics, such as meteorology, and the data collection objectives, such as transport, must be jointly considered for a regional scale site to be useful.
