
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 58 - AMBIENT AIR QUALITY SURVEILLANCE
##### Appendix D to Part 58 - Network Design Criteria for Ambient Air Quality Monitoring
###### Regional scale

(5)-These measurements would characterize conditions over areas with dimensions of as much as hundreds of kilometers. As noted earlier, using representative conditions for an area implies some degree of homogeneity in that area. For this reason, regional scale measurements would be most applicable to sparsely populated areas. Data characteristics of this scale would provide information about larger scale processes of particulate matter emissions, losses and transport. PMtransport contributes to elevated particulate concentrations and may affect multiple urban and State entities with large populations such as in the eastern United States. Development of effective pollution control strategies requires an understanding at regional geographical scales of the emission sources and atmospheric processes that are responsible for elevated PMlevels and may also be associated with elevated Oand regional haze.

4.7.2 Requirement for Continuous PMMonitoring. The State, or where appropriate, local agencies must operate continuous PManalyzers equal to at least one-half (round up) the minimum required sites listed in Table D-5 of this appendix. At least one required continuous analyzer in each MSA must be collocated with one of the required FRM/FEM/ARM monitors, unless at least one of the required FRM/FEM/ARM monitors is itself a continuous FEM or ARM monitor in which case no collocation requirement applies. State and local air monitoring agencies must use methodologies and quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) procedures approved by the EPA Regional Administrator for these required continuous analyzers.

4.7.3 Requirement for PMBackground and Transport Sites. Each State shall install and operate at least one PMsite to monitor for regional background and at least one PMsite to monitor regional transport. These monitoring sites may be at community-oriented sites and this requirement may be satisfied by a corresponding monitor in an area having similar air quality in another State. State and local air monitoring agencies must use methodologies and QA/QC procedures approved by the EPA Regional Administrator for these sites. Methods used at these sites may include non-federal reference method samplers such as IMPROVE or continuous PMmonitors.

4.7.4 PMChemical Speciation Site Requirements. Each State shall continue to conduct chemical speciation monitoring and analyses at sites designated to be part of the PMSpeciation Trends Network (STN). The selection and modification of these STN sites must be approved by the Administrator. The PMchemical speciation urban trends sites shall include analysis for elements, selected anions and cations, and carbon. Samples must be collected using the monitoring methods and the sampling schedules approved by the Administrator. Chemical speciation is encouraged at additional sites where the chemically resolved data would be useful in developing State implementation plans and supporting atmospheric or health effects related studies.

4.8 Coarse Particulate Matter (PM) Design Criteria.

4.8.1 General Monitoring Requirements. (a) The only required monitors for PMare those required at NCore Stations.

(b) Although microscale monitoring may be appropriate in some circumstances, middle and neighborhood scale measurements are the most important station classifications for PMto assess the variation in coarse particle concentrations that would be expected across populated areas that are in proximity to large emissions sources.
