
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 58 - AMBIENT AIR QUALITY SURVEILLANCE
##### Appendix D to Part 58 - Network Design Criteria for Ambient Air Quality Monitoring
###### Middle scale

(2)-Much of the short-term public exposure to coarse fraction particles (PM) is on this scale and on the neighborhood scale. People moving through downtown areas or living near major roadways or stationary sources, may encounter particulate pollution that would be adequately characterized by measurements of this spatial scale. Middle scale PMmeasurements can be appropriate for the evaluation of possible short-term exposure public health effects. In many situations, monitoring sites that are representative of micro-scale or middle-scale impacts are not unique and are representative of many similar situations. This can occur along traffic corridors or other locations in a residential district. In this case, one location is representative of a neighborhood of small scale sites and is appropriate for evaluation of long-term or chronic effects. This scale also includes the characteristic concentrations for other areas with dimensions of a few hundred meters such as the parking lot and feeder streets associated with shopping centers, stadia, and office buildings. In the case of PM, unpaved or seldomly swept parking lots associated with these sources could be an important source in addition to the vehicular emissions themselves.
