
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 58 - AMBIENT AIR QUALITY SURVEILLANCE
##### Appendix D to Part 58 - Network Design Criteria for Ambient Air Quality Monitoring
###### Neighborhood scale

(3)-Measurements in this category represent conditions throughout some reasonably homogeneous urban sub-region with dimensions of a few kilometers and of generally more regular shape than the middle scale. Homogeneity refers to the particulate matter concentrations, as well as the land use and land surface characteristics. In some cases, a location carefully chosen to provide neighborhood scale data would represent not only the immediate neighborhood but also neighborhoods of the same type in other parts of the city. Neighborhood scale PMsites provide information about trends and compliance with standards because they often represent conditions in areas where people commonly live and work for extended periods. Neighborhood scale data could provide valuable information for developing, testing, and revising models that describe the larger-scale concentration patterns, especially those models relying on spatially smoothed emission fields for inputs. The neighborhood scale measurements could also be used for neighborhood comparisons within or between cities.

4.7 Fine Particulate Matter (PM) Design Criteria.

4.7.1 General Requirements. (a) State, and where applicable local, agencies must operate the minimum number of required PMSLAMS sites listed in Table D-5 of this appendix. The NCore sites are expected to complement the PMdata collection that takes place at non-NCore SLAMS sites, and both types of sites can be used to meet the minimum PMnetwork requirements. Deviations from these PMmonitoring requirements must be approved by the EPA Regional Administrator.

(b) Specific Design Criteria for PM. The required monitoring stations or sites must be sited to represent area-wide air quality. These sites can include sites collocated at PAMS. These monitoring stations will typically be at neighborhood or urban-scale; however, micro-or middle-scale PMmonitoring sites that represent many such locations throughout a metropolitan area are considered to represent area-wide air quality.

(1) At least one monitoring station is to be sited at neighborhood or larger scale in an area of expected maximum concentration.

(2) For CBSAs with a population of 1,000,000 or more persons, at least one PMmonitor is to be collocated at a near-road NOstation required in section 4.3.2(a) of this appendix.

(3) For areas with additional required SLAMS, a monitoring station is to be sited in an area of poor air quality.

(4) Additional technical guidance for siting PMmonitors is provided in references 6 and 7 of this appendix.

(c) The most important spatial scale to effectively characterize the emissions of particulate matter from both mobile and stationary sources is the neighborhood scale for PM. For purposes of establishing monitoring sites to represent large homogenous areas other than the above scales of representativeness and to characterize regional transport, urban or regional scale sites would also be needed. Most PMmonitoring in urban areas should be representative of a neighborhood scale.
