
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 58 - AMBIENT AIR QUALITY SURVEILLANCE
##### Appendix D to Part 58 - Network Design Criteria for Ambient Air Quality Monitoring
###### Neighborhood scale

(3)-Measurements in this category would represent conditions throughout some reasonably homogeneous urban sub-region with dimensions of a few kilometers and of generally more regular shape than the middle scale. Homogeneity refers to the particulate matter concentrations, as well as the land use and land surface characteristics. This category includes suburban neighborhoods dominated by residences that are somewhat distant from major roadways and industrial districts but still impacted by urban sources, and areas of diverse land use where residences are interspersed with commercial and industrial neighborhoods. In some cases, a location carefully chosen to provide neighborhood scale data would represent the immediate neighborhood as well as neighborhoods of the same type in other parts of the city. The comparison of data from middle scale and neighborhood scale sites would provide valuable information for determining the variation of PMlevels across urban areas and assessing the spatial extent of elevated concentrations caused by major industrial point sources and heavily traveled roadways. Neighborhood scale sites would provide concentration data that are relevant to informing a large segment of the population of their exposure levels on a given day.

4.8.2 [Reserved]

(a) State and local monitoring agencies are required to collect and report PAMS measurements at each NCore site required under paragraph 3(a) of this appendix located in a CBSA with a population of 1,000,000 or more, based on the latest available census figures.

(b) PAMS measurements include:

(1) Hourly averaged speciated volatile organic compounds (VOCs);

(2) Three 8-hour averaged carbonyl samples per day on a 1 in 3 day schedule, or hourly averaged formaldehyde;

(3) Hourly averaged O;

(4) Hourly averaged nitrogen oxide (NO), true nitrogen dioxide (NO), and total reactive nitrogen (NO);

(5) Hourly averaged ambient temperature;

(6) Hourly vector-averaged wind direction;

(7) Hourly vector-averaged wind speed;

(8) Hourly average atmospheric pressure;

(9) Hourly averaged relative humidity;

(10) Hourly precipitation;

(11) Hourly averaged mixing-height;

(12) Hourly averaged solar radiation; and

(13) Hourly averaged ultraviolet radiation.

(c) The EPA Regional Administrator may grant a waiver to allow the collection of required PAMS measurements at an alternative location where the monitoring agency can demonstrate that the alternative location will provide representative data useful for regional or national scale modeling and the tracking of trends in Oprecursors. The alternative location can be outside of the CBSA or outside of the monitoring agencies jurisdiction. In cases where the alternative location crosses jurisdictions the waiver will be contingent on the monitoring agency responsible for the alternative location including the required PAMS measurements in their annual monitoring plan required under ยง 58.10 and continued successful collection of PAMS measurements at the alternative location. This waiver can be revoked in cases where the Regional Administrator determines the PAMS measurements are not being collected at the alternate location in compliance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) The EPA Regional Administrator may grant a waiver to allow speciated VOC measurements to be made as three 8-hour averages on every third day during the PAMS season as an alternative to 1-hour average speciated VOC measurements in cases where the primary VOC compounds are not well measured using continuous technology due to low detectability of the primary VOC compounds or for logistical and other programmatic constraints.

(e) The EPA Regional Administrator may grant a waiver to allow representative meteorological data from nearby monitoring stations to be used to meet the meteorological requirements in paragraph 5(b) where the monitoring agency can demonstrate the data is collected in a manner consistent with EPA quality assurance requirements for these measurements.

(f) The EPA Regional Administrator may grant a waiver from the requirement to collect PAMS measurements in locations where CBSA-wide Odesign values are equal to or less than 85% of the 8-hour ONAAQS and where the location is not considered by the Regional Administrator to be an important upwind or downwind location for other Ononattainment areas.

(g) At a minimum, the monitoring agency shall collect the required PAMS measurements during the months of June, July, and August.

(h) States with Moderate and above 8-hour Ononattainment areas and states in the Ozone Transport Region as defined in 40 CFR 51.900 shall develop and implement an Enhanced Monitoring Plan (EMP) detailing enhanced Oand Oprecursor monitoring activities to be performed. The EMP shall be submitted to the EPA Regional Administrator no later than October 1, 2019 or two years following the effective date of a designation to a classification of Moderate or above Ononattainment, whichever is later. At a minimum, the EMP shall be reassessed and approved as part of the 5-year network assessments required under 40 CFR 58.10(d). The EMP will include monitoring activities deemed important to understanding the Oproblems in the state. Such activities may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(1) Additional Omonitors beyond the minimally required under paragraph 4.1 of this appendix,

(2) Additional NOor NOmonitors beyond those required under 4.3 of this appendix,

(3) Additional speciated VOC measurements including data gathered during different periods other than required under paragraph 5(g) of this appendix, or locations other than those required under paragraph 5(a) of this appendix, and

(4) Enhanced upper air measurements of meteorology or pollution concentrations.

1. Ball, R.J. and G.E. Anderson. Optimum Site Exposure Criteria for SOMonitoring. The Center for the Environment and Man, Inc., Hartford, CT. Prepared for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. EPA Publication No. EPA-450/3-77-013. April 1977.

2. Ludwig, F.F., J.H.S. Kealoha, and E. Shelar. Selecting Sites for Carbon Monoxide Monitoring. Stanford Research Institute, Menlo Park, CA. Prepared for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. EPA Publication No. EPA-450/3-75-077, September 1975.

3. Air Quality Criteria for Lead. Office of Research and Development, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington D.C. EPA Publication No. 600/8-89-049F. August 1990. (NTIS document numbers PB87-142378 and PB91-138420.)

4. Optimum Site Exposure Criteria for Lead Monitoring. PEDCo Environmental, Inc. Cincinnati, OH. Prepared for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. EPA Contract No. 68-02-3013. May 1981.

5. Guidance for Conducting Ambient Air Monitoring for Lead Around Point Sources. Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. EPA-454/R-92-009. May 1997.

6. Koch, R.C. and H.E. Rector. Optimum Network Design and Site Exposure Criteria for Particulate Matter. GEOMET Technologies, Inc., Rockville, MD. Prepared for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. EPA Contract No. 68-02-3584. EPA 450/4-87-009. May 1987.
