
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Automobile Refinish Coatings
###### ยง 59.106 Variance.

(a) Any regulated entity that cannot comply with the requirements of this subpart because of circumstances beyond its reasonable control may apply in writing to the Administrator for a temporary variance. The variance application must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3).

(1) The specific grounds upon which the variance is sought.

(2) The proposed date(s) by which the regulated entity will achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart. This date must be no later than 5 years after the issuance of a variance.

(3) A compliance plan detailing the method(s) by which the regulated entity will achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(b) Upon receipt of a variance application containing the information required in paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator will publish a notice of such application in theand, if requested by any party, will hold a public hearing to determine whether, under what conditions, and to what extent, a variance from the requirements of this subpart is necessary and will be granted. If requested, a hearing will be held no later than 75 days after receipt of a variance application. Notice of the time and place of the hearing will be sent to the applicant by certified mail not less than 30 days prior to the hearing. At least 30 days prior to the hearing, the variance application will be made available to the public for inspection. Information submitted to the Administrator by a variance applicant may be claimed as confidential. The Administrator may consider such confidential information in reaching a decision on a variance application. Interested members of the public will be allowed a reasonable opportunity to testify at the hearing.

(c) The Administrator will issue a variance if the criteria specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) are met to the satisfaction of the Administrator.

(1) If complying with the provisions of this subpart would not be technologically or economically feasible, and

(2) The compliance plan proposed by the applicant can reasonably be implemented and will achieve compliance as expeditiously as possible.

(d) Any variance will specify dates by which the regulated entity will achieve increments of progress towards compliance, and will specify a final compliance date by which the regulated entity will achieve compliance with this subpart.

(e) A variance will cease to be effective upon failure of the party to whom the variance was issued to comply with any term or condition of the variance.

(f) Upon the application of any party, the Administrator may review and, for good cause, modify or revoke a variance after holding a public hearing in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section.
