
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Automobile Refinish Coatings
###### § 59.104 Compliance provisions.

(a) For the purpose of determining compliance with the VOC content limits in § 59.102(a) of this subpart, each regulated entity shall determine the VOC content of a coating using the procedures described in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, as appropriate.

(1) Determine the VOC content in grams of VOC per liter of coating prepared for application according to its mixing instructions, excluding the volume of any water or exempt compounds. VOC content shall be calculated using the following equation:

(2) The VOC content of a multi-stage topcoat shall be calculated using the following equation:

(b) To determine the composition of a coating in order to perform the calculations in paragraph (a) of this section, the reference method for VOC content is Method 24 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section. To determine the VOC content of a coating, the regulated entity may use Method 24 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60, an alternative method as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, or any other reasonable means for predicting that the coating has been formulated as intended (e.g., quality assurance checks, recordkeeping). However, if there are any inconsistencies between the results of a Method 24 test and any other means for determining VOC content, the Method 24 test results will govern. The Administrator may require the regulated to conduct a Method 24 analysis.

(c) If a regulated entity recommends that its coating component(s) be combined with coating components of another regulated entity, and if the coating resulting from such a combination does not comply with the VOC content limit in § 59.102 (a) of this subpart, then the former regulated entity is out of compliance, unless the entity submits Method 24 data to the Administrator demonstrating that its recommended combination of coating components meets the VOC content limit in § 59.102(a). If the latter regulated entity does not make the recommendation of such use of the coating components, then that entity is not out of compliance for purposes of that resulting coating.

(d) Pretreatment wash primers: Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the acid weight percent of pretreatment wash primers must be determined using the American Society for Testing and Materials Test Method D 1613-96 (incorporated by reference in § 59.110). If the pigment in a pretreatment wash primer prevents the use of this test method for determining the acid weight percent of the coating, then the test method shall be used for the nonpigmented component of the coating, and the acid weight percent shall be calculated based on the acid content of the nonpigmented component and the mixing ratio of the nonpigmented component to the remaining components recommended by the regulated entity.

(e) Low-gloss coatings: Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the gloss reading of low-gloss coatings must be determined using the American Society for Testing and Materials Test Method D 523-89 (incorporated by reference in § 59.110).

(f) The Administrator may approve, on a case-by-case basis, a regulated entity's use of an alternative method in lieu of Method 24 for determining the VOC content of coatings if the alternative method is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction to provide results that are acceptable for purposes of determining compliance with this subpart.

(g) The Administrator may determine a regulated entity's compliance with the provisions of this subpart based on information required by this subpart or any other information available to the Administrator.
