
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Consumer Products
###### § 59.201 Applicability and designation of regulated entity.

(a) The provisions of the subpart apply to consumer products manufactured or imported on or after December 10, 1998 for sale or distribution in the United States.

(b) The regulated entity is: the manufacturer or importer of the product; and any distributor that is named on the product label. The manufacturer or importer of the product is a regulated entity for purposes of compliance with the volatile organic compounds (VOC) content or emission limits in § 49.203, regardless of whether the manufacturer or importer is named on the label or not. The distributor, if named on the label, is the regulated entity for purposes of compliance with all sections of this part except for § 59.203. Distributors whose names do not appear on the label are not regulated entities. If no distributor is named on the label, then the manufacturer or importer is responsible for compliance with all sections of this part.

(c) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to consumer products that meet the criteria specified in paragraph (c)(1) through (c)(7) of this section.

(1) Any consumer product manufacturer in the United States for shipment and use outside of the United States.

(2) Insecticides and air fresheners containing at least 98-percent paradichlorobenzene or at least 98-percent naphthalene.

(3) Adhesives sold in containers of 0.03 liter (1 ounce) or less.

(4) Bait station insecticides. For the purpose of this subpart, bait station insecticides are containers enclosing an insecticidal bait that does not weigh more than 14 grams (0.5 ounce), where bait is designed to be ingested by insects and is composed of solid material feeding stimulants with less than 5-percent by weight active ingredients.

(5) Air fresheners whose VOC constituents, as defined in §§ 59.202 and 59.203(f), consist of 100-percent fragrance.

(6) Non-aerosol moth proofing products that are principally for the protection of fabric from damage by moths and other fabric pests in adult, juvenile, or larval forms.

(7) Flooring seam sealers used to join or fill the seam between two adjoining pieces of flexible sheet flooring.
