
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Consumer Products
###### § 59.204 Innovative product provisions.

(a) Upon notification to the Administrator, a consumer product that is subject to this subpart may exceed the applicable limit in table 1 or 2 of this subpart if the regulated entity demonstrates that, due to some characteristic of the product formulation, design, delivery systems, or other factors, the use of the product will result in equal or less VOC emissions that specified in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.

(1) The VOC emissions from a representative consumer product, as described in § 59.202, that complies with the VOC standards specified in § 59.203(a); or

(2) The calculated VOC emissions from a noncomplying representative product, if the product had been reformulated to comply with the VOC standards specified in § 59.203(a). The VOC emissions shall be calculated by using Equation 1.

(b) If a regulated entity demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the equation in paragraph (a)(2) of the this section yields inaccurate results due to some characteristic of the product formulation or other factors, an alternate method that accurately calculates emissions may be used upon approval of the Administrator.

(c) A regulated entity shall notify the Administrator in writing of its intent to enter into the market an innovative product meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. The Administrator must receive the written notification by the time the innovative product is available for sale or distribution to consumers. Notification shall include the information specified in paragraph (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.

(1) Supporting documentation that demonstrates the emissions from the innovate product, including the actual physical test methods used to generate the data and, if necessary, the consumer testing undertaken to document product usage;

(2) Any information necessary to enable the Administrator to establish enforceable conditions for the innovative product, including the VOC content of the innovative product expressed as a weight-percentage, and test methods for determining the VOC content.

(d) At the option of the regulated entity, the regulated entity may submit a written request for the Administrator's written concurrence that the innovative product fulfills the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. If such a request is made, the Administrator will respond as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section.

(1) The Administrator will determine within 30 days of receipt whether the documentation submitted in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section is complete.

(2) The Administrator will determine whether the innovative product shall be exempt from the requirements of § 59.203(a) within 90 days after an application has been deemed complete. The applicant and the Administrator may mutually agree to a longer time period for reaching a decision, and additional supporting documentation may be submitted by the applicant before a decision has been reached. The Administrator will notify the applicant of the decision in writing and specify such terms and conditions that are necessary to insure that emissions from the product will meet the emissions reductions specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and that such emissions reductions can be enforced.

(3) If an applicant has been granted an exemption to a State or local regulation for an innovative product by a State or local agency whose criteria for exemption meet or exceed those provided for in this section, the applicant may submit the factual basis for such an exemption as part of the documentation required under paragraph (d) of this section. In such case, the Administrator will make the determination required under this paragraph within 45 days after the applications is considered complete.

(e) In granting an exemption for a product, the Administrator will establish conditions that are enforceable. These conditions may include the VOC content of the innovative product, dispensing rates, application rates, and any other parameters determined by the Administrator to be necessary. The Administrator will also specify the test methods for determining conformance to the conditions established, including criteria for reproducibility, accuracy, and sampling and laboratory procedures.

(f) For any product for which an exemption has been granted pursuant to this section, the regulated entity to whom the exemption was granted shall notify the Administrator in writing within 30 days after any change in the product formulation or recommended product usage directions, and shall also notify the Administrator within 30 days after the regulated entity learns of any information that would alter the emissions estimates submitted to the Administrator in support of the exemption application.

(g) If lower VOC content limits are promulgated for a product category through any subsequent rulemaking, all exemptions granted under this section for products in the product category shall no longer apply unless the innovative product has been demonstrated to have VOC emissions less than the applicable revised VOC content limits.

(h) If the Administrator determines that a consumer product for which an exemption has been granted no longer meets the VOC emissions criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section for an innovative product, the Administrator may modify or revoke the exemption as necessary to assure that the product will meet these criteria. The Administrator will not modify or revoke an exemption without first affording the applicant an opportunity for a public hearing to determine if the exemption should be modified or revoked.
