
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Consumer Products
###### ยง 59.206 Variances.

(a) Any regulated entity who cannot comply with the requirements of this subpart because of extraordinary circumstances beyond reasonable control may apply in writing to the Administrator for a variance. The variance application shall include the information specified in paragraph (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section.

(1) The specific grounds up on which the variance is sought,

(2) The proposed date(s) by which compliance with the provisions of this subpart will be achieved. Such date(s) shall be no later than 5 years after the issuance of a variance; and

(3) A compliance plan detailing the method(s) by which compliance will be achieved.

(b) Upon receipt of a variance application containing the information required in paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator will publish a notice of such application in theand, if requested by any party, will hold a public hearing to determine whether, under what conditions, and to what extent, a variance from the requirements of this subpart is necessary and will be granted. If requested, a hearing will be held no later than 75 days after receipt of a variance application. Notice of the time and place of the hearing will be sent to the applicant by certified mail not less than 30 days prior to the hearing. At least 30 days prior to the hearing, the variance application will be made available to the public for inspection. Information submitted to the Administrator by a variance applicant may be claimed as confidential. The Administrator may consider such confidential information in reaching a decision on a variance application. Interested members of the public will be allowed a reasonable opportunity to testify at the hearing.

(c) The Administrator will grant a variance if the criteria specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section are met.

(1) If there are circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the applicant so that complying with the provisions of this subpart by the compliance date would not be technologically or economically feasible, and

(2) The compliance plan proposed by the applicant can be implemented and will achieve compliance as expeditiously as possible.

(d) Any variance order will specify a final compliance date by which the requirements of this subpart will be achieved and increments of progress necessary to assure timely compliance.

(e) A variance shall cease to be effective upon failure of the regulated entity to comply with any term or condition of the variance.

(f) Upon the application of any party, the Administrator may review, and for good cause, modify or revoke a variance after holding a public hearing in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section.
