
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Consumer Products
###### ยง 59.208 Charcoal lighter material testing protocol.
####### Test procedure.

(i)The labeled directions, as defined in paragraph (e) of this section, shall be followed throughout the course of the testing. In cases where the directions are incompatible with this protocol, circumvent the intent of this protocol, or are unclear (subject to different interpretations) and inadequate, the Administrator must be informed in writing of the nature of the conflict, as well as the proposed resolution, prior to commencing testing. When the labeled directions for a charcoal lighter material do not fall within the testing guidelines of this protocol, the protocol may only be modified upon written approval of the Administrator.

(1) Place the bottom of the barbecue grill on the floor of the fireplace, 5 centimeters (2 inches) from the rear wall. Ignite charcoal as specified by manufacturer's labeled directions.

(2) For electric probe ignition, carefully remove probe without disturbing charcoal after 10 minutes of operation.

(3) For fluid ignition, simultaneously match light fluid on charcoal and fluid that has fallen to the bottom of the grill.

(4) Place the grill temperature probe 11 centimeters (4.5 inches) above the top of the charcoal immediately after the charcoal lighter material flame goes out, or before, if the lighter material does not flame.

(5) Conduct at least six test runs for both the electric probe ignition and for the lighter material being evaluated. Alternate these lighter material for all 12 runs. All runs must be conducted over 3 consecutive days or less. Alternatively, baseline emissions testing (using the electric probe) may be applied to other test runs provided the test runs occur within 4 months of the baseline testing. Integrated VOC sampling and continuous organic emissions monitoring begin for each test run when the charcoal lighter material and/or materials start to generate/release organics (this will be the time of pouring for lighter fluids and the time of ignition for most other ignition sources). Option: Because the manufacturer of treated or impregnated charcoal supplies both the lighter material and barbecue charcoal, they may apply the 9 grams VOC per start emission limit as an absolute value without an adjustment for the VOC emissions from an electric probe.

(6) Sampling ends for each test run when all the following conditions are met:

(i) The temperature 11 centimeters (4.5 inches) above the maximum height of the briquette pile, using the grill temperature probe described in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, is at least 93 degrees Celsius (200 degrees Fahrenheit);

(ii) The continuous organic emissions monitor is reading below 30 parts per million for at least 2 minutes;

(iii) The test sampling has continued for 25 minutes (but not more) and

(iv) The charcoal surface is 70 percent covered with ash (to be documented with photograph on top and 60 degrees above the horizon).

(7) During the sampling test runs, temperatures (excluding ambient) and continuous organic emission monitor readings shall be recorded and shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. Humidity, wind speed, and ambient temperature readings shall be monitored and shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.

(8) Collect one blank sample for VOC and one ambient air sample during one run of each day per paragraph (k) of this section.
