
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Consumer Products
###### ยง 59.208 Charcoal lighter material testing protocol.
####### Pretest procedure.

(h)(1) Charcoal lighter material-charcoal. Before each test run, remove charcoal from a sealed bag that has been stored for at least 72 hours in a humidity and temperature controlled room which satisfies the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section and weight out 0.9 kilograms (2 pounds) of charcoal briquettes, to the nearest whole briquette over 0.9 kilograms (2 pounds), of uniform shape with no broken pieces using an analytical balance. Reseal the bag. Charcoal must be ignited within 10 minutes after removal from bag. A sealed or resealed bag of charcoal cannot be stored at the test site for greater than 45 minutes. It must be returned to a humidity and temperature controlled room from 72 hours. The lighter material must be purchased, stored, weighed, and handled the same as the barbecue charcoal.

(i) For the reference VOC emission tests using an electric probe, place a single layer of charcoal, slightly larger than the area/circle of the electric probe heating element, onto the grate. Place the heating element on top of this first layer and cover the heating element with the remaining charcoal briquettes.

(ii) For the ignition VOC emissions tests, arrange the briquettes on the barbecue grate in the manner specified by the ignition manufacturer's directions. If these manufacturer's directions do not specify a stacking arrangement for the briquettes, randomly stack the briquettes in a pile using the stacking ring described in paragraph (f)(3)(ix) of this section.

(2) Charcoal lighter material-or impregnated charcoal. Store, handle, weigh, and stack barbecue charcoal that is designed to be lit without the packaging, the same as in paragraph (h)(1) of this section. For those products which require both the package and charcoal be lit, weigh the whole package-do not remove charcoal. Weigh an empty package (not the same one to be used during the test). Subtract the package weight from the overall weight of the package and charcoal. The full package and empty package must be stored, handled, and weighed the same as in paragraph (h)(1) of this section. If the difference (the charcoal weight) is between 0.7 to 1.4 kilograms (1.5 to 3.0 pounds), the test may proceed. The emissions measured (E) in Equation 5 of paragraph (k)(7) of this section must be adjusted to a 0.9 kilogram (2-pound) charge. Place packaged barbecue charcoal on the grate in the manner specified by the manufacturer's directions.

(3) Initial meteorological and environmental criteria in paragraph (d) shall be complied with.

(4) The stack velocity must be set before each day of testing at 140 +/-9 meters per minute (450 +/-30 feet per minute) by performing a velocity traverse as specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. The velocity will be attained by adjusting the axial fan speed using a rheostat.

(5) The fireplace shall be conditioned at the start of each day before sampling tests by using a grill ignited by the electric probe. If a time period of over 60 minutes between sampling test runs occur, the condition step must be repeated.

(6) Before each test run, leak check the continuous organic emissions monitor by blocking the flow to the probe. Allow the instrument to warm up for the duration specified by the manufacturer's directions. Select the 0 to 100 parts per million range. Check the battery level and hydrogen pressure. Zero with hydrocarbon-free air (<0.1 parts per million hydrocarbons as methane) span with 90 parts per million methane in ultra pure air. Zero and span another instrument selection range if needed for test purposes.

(7) Before the testing program begins, establish a point of average concentration of organics in the stack by using a continuous organic emissions monitor and a grill with charcoal ignited by the electric probe 40 minutes after initial release of emissions. Record the continuous organic emissions monitor traverse data.

(8) Prepare the integrated VOC sampling equipment and perform the required leak checks. Fit the probes with nozzles housing two micron particulate filters. Insert the probes and nozzles into the sampling port to draw a sample of the exhaust gas from the point of average organic concentration as determined from the continuous organic emissions monitor sample traverse described in paragraph (h)(4) of this section. Also, position the nozzles such that they point downstream in the stack. Obtain the samples concurrently and continuously over the test run.

(9) Insert the continuous organic emissions monitor probe into the sampling port to draw a sample of the exhaust gas from the point of average organic concentration as determined from the continuous organic emissions monitor sample traverse described in paragraph (h)(7) of this section.
