
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Consumer Products
###### § 59.208 Charcoal lighter material testing protocol.
####### Test structure, equipment specifications, and reference materials.

(f)(1) The test structure is to be located in a building or fabricated total enclosure (i.e., with enclosed sides and top). The enclosure shall be such that there are no constant or intermittent air flows within it that cause fluctuations in the stack velocity and/or disruptions of air flow patterns within the test chamber containing the reference grill . (WARNING: If the stack is vented into the building enclosure, caution must be taken to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning and the reduction of oxygen.)

(2) Test structure components. The following test structure components, as shown in figures 1 and 2 of Appendix A of this subpart, shall be used:

(i) Test chamber-Standard large, prefabricated fireplace manufactured by Marco,Model No. C41CF, with flue damper removed; or a fabricated structure with the same dimensions. Spacers are required at the rear of the test chamber to ensure a constant 5-centimeter (2-inch) distance between the reference grill and the rear wall of the test chamber.

(ii) Test stack-25-centimeter (10-inch) diameter galvanized steel ducting with velocity traverse port holes located approximately 8 diameters downstream from the stack outlet of the fireplace chamber and sampling ports located approximately 2diameters downstream of the velocity traverse ports.

(iii) Fan-25-centimeter (10-inch) diameter axial fan (duct fan) capable of maintaining an air velocity of 140 +/-9 meters per minute (450 +/-30 feet per minute) and located in the stack approximately 3 diameters downstream of the sampling ports.

(iv) Test stack insulation-The stack shall be insulated with fiberglass blanket insulation (or equivalent) with a minimum R-value of 6.4, that totally surrounds the stack from the top of the fireplace to the level of the blower which minimizes temperature gradients in the stack and prevents hydrocarbons from condensing on the stack wall.

(v) Stack mounts-Supports for fixing in position the stack velocity measurement device for measuring reference point velocity readings and the continuous organic emission monitor probe/meter.

(vi) Blower speed control-A rheostat for controlling voltage to the fan.

(3) Test equipment and materials. The following test equipment and materials shall be used:

(i) Continuous recording device-A YEWmodel 4088 dot matrix, roster scanning chart recorder, Omega strip recorder with a Strawberry Tree Data Acquisition System, or equivalent, shall be used to continuously (6-second cycle) record temperatures, velocity, and continuous organic emission monitor output signals. The recording may be done manually, recording temperature using a digital potentiometer (20-second intervals), reference point velocity with a Pitot tube (20-second intervals), and continuous organic emission monitor readings with the analyzer's meter (10-second intervals).

(ii) Grill temperature probe-A type "K" thermocouple silver soldered to a 7.6 centimeter (3-inch) square brass plate 0.083-centimeter (0.033 inches) thick painted flat black using high temperature (>370 degrees Celsius [>700 degrees Fahrenheit]) paint; set on an adjustable stand to maintain 11 centimeters (4.5 inches) above the maximum height of the briquette pile and made such that it can be removed and replaced within the chamber.

(iii) Stack temperature probe-The KurzΔ digital air velocity meter or a type "K" thermocouple shall be used.

(iv) Stack velocity measurement device-The velocity in meters (feet) per minute for the reference point using a KurzΔ digital air velocity meter, DavisΔ DTA 4000 vane anemometer, or equivalent to method 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(v) Continuous organic emissions monitor-CenturyΔ Model 128 Organic Vapor Analyzer, RatfischΔ RS55 total hydrocarbon analyzer, or equivalent, with response in parts per million (ranges 0 to 10 parts per million, 0 to 100 parts per million, 0 to 1,000 parts per million).

(vi) Temperature and humidity monitor-A chart recorder type with humidity accuracy of +/-3 percent from 15 to 85 percent.

(vii) Wind speed and direction monitor-A wind speed and direction device meeting a tolerance of +/-10 percent.

(viii) Analytical balance-An electronic scale with a resolution of a +/-2 grams.

(ix) Charcoal stacking ring-Rigid metal cylinder 21.6 centimeters (8.5 inches) in diameter with indicators to determine that the pile of briquettes does not exceed 12.7 centimeters (5 inches) in height.

(x) Camera-To document ignition condition of charcoal at the end of each start.

(xi) Particulate filter-NuproΔ inline filter, Catalog Number SS-4FW-2 with 0.64 centimeter (-inch) Swagelok inlet and outlet or equivalent.

(xii) Barbecue Grill-The charcoal shall be ignited in a WeberΔ "Go Anywhere" barbecue grill (Model Number #121001), 39.4 centimeters x 24 centimeters x 12.7 centimeters (15.5 inch x 9.5 inch x 5.0 inch) with the grate 4.4 centimeters (1.75 inches) above the bottom of the grill, or another grill that meets these specifications. The grill shall be set on its bottom when placed in the test chamber and all grill air vents shall be in full open position.

(xiii) Electric probe-A 600-watt electric probe shall be used for electric probe ignition tests.

(xiv) Untreated charcoal-The laboratory conducting the testing shall purchase "off the shelf" untreated charcoal from a retail outlet. Charcoal shall not be provided by the manufacturer of the charcoal lighter material to be tested or by the charcoal manufacturer. The charcoal to be used is KingsfordΔ "Original Charcoal Briquets." All untreated charcoal used in the certification testing of a single ignition source is to come from the same lot as indicated by the number printed on the bag.

(xv) Treated or impregnated charcoal-If the charcoal lighter material to be tested is a substance used to treat or impregnate charcoal, the regulated entity shall provide to the laboratory conducting the tests a sample of impregnated charcoal. The sample shall be impregnated or treated barbecue charcoal that is ignited either outside of package or ignited by the package. If commercially available, the independent testing laboratory conducting the test shall purchase "off the shelf" from a retail outlet.
