
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Consumer Products
###### ยง 59.208 Charcoal lighter material testing protocol.
####### Sampling and analytical methods.

(g)(1) Gas volumetric flow rate. Conduct a full velocity traverse using the stack velocity measurement device as shown in figure 3 of this Appendix A to this Subpart, or use Method 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Continuously record a velocity reference point reading during each test run using a chart recorder or once every 20 seconds if using Method 1A. Calculate the volumetric flow rate using the gas velocity, moisture content, and the stack cross-sectional area. For the purposes of this protocol, the static pressure shall be assumed to be atmospheric, the molar density correction factor in the stack to be 1.0, and the moisture content to be 2 percent.

(2) Integrated VOC sample. Collect integrated VOC gas samples at the sampling port in the exhaust stack using a 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 25 Total Combustion Analysis (TCA) sampling apparatus consisting of two evacuated 9-liter tanks, each equipped with flow controllers, vacuum gauges, and probes, as shown in figure 4 of Appendix A of this Subpart. Use 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 25, SCAQMD Method 25.1 (incorporated by reference-ยง 59.213 of this subpart), or equivalent, for analysis. Carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, methane, and non-methane organic carbon are analyzed by the TCA and TCA/Flame Ionization Detector (FID) methods. Oxygen content is determined by gas chromatography using a thermal conductivity detector. Clean particulate filters between use by heating to 760 degrees Celsius (1400 degrees Fahrenheit) while using compressed air as a carrier for cleaning and purging.

(3) Continuous organic emissions monitor. A continuous organic emissions monitor which uses a continuous FID shall be used for each test run to measure the real time organic concentration of the exhaust as methane. Record the emission monitor response in parts per million continuously during the sampling period using a chart recorder or at least once every 10 seconds. The VOC analyzer shall be operated as prescribed in the manufacturer's directions unless otherwise noted in this protocol.
