
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Confidentiality of Business Information
###### § 2.301 Special rules governing certain information obtained under the Clean Air Act.
####### Requests for or release of information subject to a confidentiality determination through rulemaking as specified in 40 CFR part 1068.

(j)This paragraph (j) describes provisions that apply for a wide range of engines, vehicles, and equipment that are subject to emission standards and other requirements under the Clean Air Act. This includes motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines, nonroad engines and nonroad equipment, aircraft and aircraft engines, and stationary engines. It also includes portable fuel containers regulated under 40 CFR part 59, subpart F, and fuel tanks, fuel lines, and related fuel-system components regulated under 40 CFR part 1060. Regulatory provisions related to confidentiality determinations for these products are codified broadly in 40 CFR part 1068, with additional detailed provisions for specific sectors in the regulatory parts referenced in 40 CFR 1068.1. References in this paragraph (j) to 40 CFR part 1068 also include these related regulatory parts.

(1) Unless noted otherwise, 40 CFR 2.201 through 2.215 do not apply for information covered by the confidentiality determinations in 40 CFR part 1068 if EPA has determined through rulemaking that information to be any of the following pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 7414 or 7542(c) in a rulemaking subject to 42 U.S.C. 7607(d):

(i) Emission data as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.

(ii) Data not entitled to confidential treatment.

(2) Unless noted otherwise, §§ 2.201 through 2.208 do not apply for information covered by the confidentiality determinations in 40 CFR part 1068 if EPA has determined through rulemaking that information to be entitled to confidential treatment pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 7414 or 7542(c) in a rulemaking subject to 42 U.S.C. 7607(d). EPA will treat such information as confidential in accordance with the provisions of §§ 2.209 through 2.215, subject to paragraph (j)(4) of this section.

(3) EPA will deny a request for information under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) if EPA has determined through rulemaking that the information is entitled to confidential treatment under 40 CFR part 1068. The denial notification will include a regulatory cite to the appropriate determination.

(4) A determination made pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 7414 or 7542 in a rulemaking subject to 42 U.S.C. 7607(d) that information specified in 40 CFR part 1068 is entitled to confidential treatment shall continue in effect unless EPA takes one of the following actions to modify the determination:

(i) EPA determines, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) and the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7414; 7542(c)) in a rulemaking subject to 42 U.S.C. 7607(d), that the information is entitled to confidential treatment, or that the information is emission data or data that is otherwise not entitled to confidential treatment by statute or regulation.

(ii) EPA determines, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) and the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7414; 7542(c)) that the information is emission data or data that is otherwise clearly not entitled to confidential treatment by statute or regulation under 40 CFR 2.204(d)(2).

(iii) The Office of General Counsel revisits an earlier determination, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) and the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7414; 7542(c)), that the information is entitled to confidential treatment because of a change in the applicable law or newly discovered or changed facts. Prior to a revised final determination, EPA shall afford the business an opportunity to submit a substantiation on the pertinent issues to be considered, including any described in §§ 2.204(e)(4) or 2.205(b), within 15 days of the receipt of the notice to substantiate. If, after consideration of any timely comments made by the business in its substantiation, the Office of General Counsel makes a revised final determination that the information is not entitled to confidential treatment under 42 U.S.C. 7414 or 7542, EPA will notify the business in accordance with § 2.205(f)(2).

(5) The provisions of 40 CFR 2.201 through 2.208 continue to apply for the categories of information identified in 40 CFR 1068.11(c) for which there is no confidentiality determination in 40 CFR part 1068.
