
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Consumer Products
###### § 59.213 Incorporations by reference.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) The materials listed in this section are incorporated by reference in the paragraphs noted in § 59.207. These incorporations by reference were approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These materials are incorporated as they exist on the date of the approval, and notice of any changes in these materials will be published in theThe materials are available for purchase at the corresponding addresses noted below, and all are available for inspection at the Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, U.S. EPA, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460, the EPA Library (MD-35), U.S. EPA, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(b) The materials listed below are available for purchase from at least one of the following addresses: American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA, 19103; SCAQMD Subscription Services, P.O. Box 4932; 21865 Copley Drive, Diamond Bar, CA 91765-0932; or University Microfilms International, 300 North Zeeb Road, Ann Arbor MI, 48106.

(1) ASTM Method E220-86 Standard Method for Calibration of Thermocouples by Comparisons Techniques, incorporation by reference (IBR) approved for § 59,208(m)(4).

(2) ASTM Method E380-82 Metric Practice, IBR approved for § 59.208(k).

(3) SCAQMD Method 25.1, March 1989 Determination of Total Gaseous Non-Methane Organic Emissions as Carbon (amended February 26, 1991) IBR approved for § 59.208(g)(2).
