
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Consumer Products
###### ยง 59.208 Charcoal lighter material testing protocol.
####### Calculations.

(k)Calculations shall be carried out to at least one significant digit beyond that of the acquired data, and then rounded off after final calculation to two significant digits for each run. All rounding off of numbers should be in accordance with the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) E 380-93, Standard Practice for Use of the SI International System of Units, procedures (incorporated by reference-see ยง 59.213 of this subpart).

(1) Calculate the average stack reference point temperature during sampling (t).

(2) Calculate the average measured velocities (in meters per minute [feet per minute]): Traverse (u), traverse reference point (u), and reference point during sampling (u).

(3) Calculate the corrected average sampling velocity (u) by applying Equation 2:

(4) Calculate the average flow rate (Q) in cubic meters per minute (cubic feet per minute) by applying Equation 3:

(5) Correct the flow rate to dry standard conditions (Q) by applying Equation 4. Assume the static pressure to be atmospheric and the molar density correction factor to be 1.0

(6) Calculate the average total gaseous non-methane organic carbon for each duplicate sample run analyzed.

(7) Calculate the grams (pounds) of VOC as CHemitted per start (normalized to 0.9 kilograms [2 pounds] of charcoal) for each run using Equation 5:

(8) Calculate the average VOC emissions for each lighter material tested. Identify and discard statistical outliers. Note a minimum of five valid results are required for a determination. This procedure for eliminating an outlier may only be performed once for each lighter material tested.

(9) Using Equation 6, calculate the resultant VOC emissions per start (E) and determine if it is less than or equal to the 9 grams VOC per start emission limit.
