
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Consumer Products
###### § 59.209 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(a) The distributor that is named on the product label shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, unless the manufacturer or importer has submitted to the Administrator a written certification that the manufacturer or importer will maintain the records for the distributor in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If no distributor is named on the label, the manufacturer or importer must maintain the specified records. The records must be retained for at least 3 years and must be in a form suitable and readily available for inspection and review.

(1) Records or formulations being manufactured or imported on or after December 10, 1998 for all consumer products subject to § 59.213(a), or December 10, 1999 for all consumer products subject to § 59.203(c) and

(2) Accurate records for each batch of production, starting on December 10, 1998 for all consumer products subject to § 59.203(a) or December 10, 1999 for all consumer products subject to § 59.203(c), of the weight-percent and chemical composition of the individual product constituents.

(3) By providing this written certification to the Administrator, the certifying manufacturer accepts responsibility for compliance with the recordkeeping requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section with respect to any products covered by the written certification. Failure to maintain the required records may result in enforcement action by the EPA against the certifying manufacturer in accordance with the enforcement provisions applicable to violations of these provisions by regulated entities. The certifying manufacturer may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to the Administrator and the regulated entity giving at least 90 days notice that the certifying manufacturer is rescinding acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the recordkeeping requirements listed in this paragraph. Upon expiration of the notice period, the regulated entity must assume responsibility for maintaining the records specified in this paragraph. Written certifications and revocation statements, to the Administrator from the certifying manufacturer shall be signed by the responsible official of the certifying manufacturer, provide the name and address of the certifying manufacturer, and be sent to the appropriate EPA Regional Office at the addresses listed in § 59.210 of this subpart. Such written certifications are not transferable by the manufacturer.

(b) If requested by the Administrator, product VOC content must be demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction to comply with the VOC content limits presented in § 59.203(a).

(c) Each manufacturer or importer subject to the provisions of § 59.203(d) shall maintain records specified in either paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section for each charcoal lighter material.

(1) Test report from each certification test performed as specified in § 59.208(b) and all information and data specified in § 59.208(l); or

(2) Records of emission testing, which was performed by a method determined by the Administrator to be an acceptable alternative to that described in § 59.208, previously submitted to a State or local regulatory agency.

(d) The distributor that is named on the product label, or if no distributor is named on the label, the manufacturer or importer, shall submit by the applicable compliance date, or within 30 days after becoming a regulated entity, a one-time Initial Notification Report including the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section.

(1) Company name;

(2) Name, title, phone number, address, and signature or certifying company official;

(3) A list of product categories and subcategories subject to § 59.203 for which the company is currently the regulated entity;

(4) A description of date coding systems, clearly explaining how the date of manufacture is marked on each sales unit of subject consumer products; and

(5) The name and location of the designated recordkeeping agent, if the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) are to be maintained by the manufacturer.

(e) If a regulated entity changes the date coding system reported according to paragraph (d)(4) of this section, the regulated entity shall notify the Administrator of such changes within 30 days following the change.

(f) If requested by the Administrator, the following information shall be made available within 30 days after receiving the request:

(1) Location of facility(ies) manufacturing, importing, or distributing subject consumer products;

(2) A list of product categories and subcategories, as found in tables 1 and 2 of this subpart, that are manufactured, imported, or distributed at each facility; and

(3) Location where VOC content records are kept for each subject consumer product.

(g) Each manufacturer or importer subject to the innovative product provisions in § 49.204 shall submit notifications as indicated in § 59.204(d) and (e).
