
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Consumer Products
###### § 59.208 Charcoal lighter material testing protocol.
####### Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) Requirements.

(m)The QA/QC guidelines in the EPA's Quality Assistance Handbook (EPA 600.4-77-027b) shall be followed. In addition, the following procedures shall be used:

(1) A blank sample for VOC shall be performed once each day, during the start period of one of the lighter materials, using the integrated VOC sampling apparatus.

(2) An ambient air sample for VOC shall be taken once each day, during the start period of one of the lighter materials, using the integrated VOC sampling apparatus with NuproΔ 2 micron filters.

(3) Traceability certificates shall be provided for all calibration gases used for the continuous organic emissions monitor and integrated VOC analysis.

(4) Grill temperature probe shall be calibrated using the procedures in ASTM Method E220-86 (incorporated by reference as specified in United States § 59.213).

(5) Supply documentation for place of purchase (or origin if experimental) and chain of custody for lighter material tested. Documentation to be included for both treated and impregnated charcoal.

(6) Supply documentation for place of purchase and chain of custody for untreated charcoal.
