
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart D - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Architectural Coatings
###### § 59.402 VOC content limits.

(a) Each manufacturer and importer of any architectural coating subject to this subpart shall ensure that the VOC content of the coating does not exceed the applicable limit in table 1 of this subpart, except as provided in §§ 59.403 and 59.404 of this subpart. Compliance with the VOC content limits will be determined based on the VOC content, as expressed in metric units.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if anywhere on the container of any architectural coating, or any label or sticker affixed to the container, or in any sales, advertising, or technical literature supplied by a manufacturer or importer or anyone acting on their behalf, any representation is made that indicates that the coating meets the definition of more than one of the coating categories listed in table 1 of this subpart, then the most restrictive VOC content limit shall apply.

(c) The provision in paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to the coatings described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(15) of this section.

(1) High temperature coatings that also meet the definition for metallic pigmented coatings are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for high temperature coatings.

(2) Lacquer coatings (including lacquer sanding sealers) that are also recommended for use in other architectural coating applications to wood, except as stains, are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for lacquers.

(3) Metallic pigmented coatings that also meet the definition for roof coatings, industrial maintenance coatings, or primers are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for metallic pigmented coatings.

(4) Shellacs that also meet the definition for any other architectural coating are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for shellacs.

(5) Fire-retardant/resistive coatings that also meet the definition for any other architectural coating are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for fire-retardant/resistive coatings.

(6) Pretreatment wash primers that also meet the definition for primers or that meet the definition for industrial maintenance coatings are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for pretreatment wash primers.

(7) Industrial maintenance coatings that also meet the definition for primers, sealers, undercoaters, or mastic texture coatings are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for industrial maintenance coatings.

(8) Varnishes and conversion varnishes that also meet the definition for floor coatings are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for varnishes and conversion varnishes, respectively.

(9) Anti-graffiti coatings, high temperature coatings, impacted immersion coatings, thermoplastic rubber coatings and mastics, repair and maintenance thermoplastic coatings, and flow coatings that also meet the definition for industrial maintenance coatings are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for their respective categories (i.e., they are not subject to the industrial maintenance coatings VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart).

(10) Waterproofing sealers and treatments that also meet the definition for quick-dry sealers are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for waterproofing sealers and treatments.

(11) Sanding sealers that also meet the definition for quick-dry sealers are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for sanding sealers.

(12) Nonferrous ornamental metal lacquers and surface protectants that also meet the definition for lacquers are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for nonferrous ornamental metal lacquers and surface protectants.

(13) Quick-dry primers, sealers, and undercoaters that also meet the definition for primers, sealers, or undercoaters are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for quick-dry primers, sealers, and undercoaters.

(14) Antenna coatings that also meet the definition for industrial maintenance coatings or primers are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for antenna coatings.

(15) Bituminous coatings and mastics that also meet the definition for any other architectural coatings are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for bituminous coatings and mastics.

(16) Zone marking coatings that also meet the definition for traffic marking coatings are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for zone marking coatings.

(17) Rust preventative coatings that also meet the definition for primers or undercoaters are subject only to the VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart for rust preventative coatings.
