
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart D - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Architectural Coatings
###### § 59.406 Compliance provisions.

(a) For the purpose of determining compliance with the VOC content limits in table 1 of this subpart, each manufacturer and importer shall determine the VOC content of a coating using the procedures described in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section, as appropriate. The VOC content of a tint base shall be determined without colorant that is added after the tint base is manufactured or imported.

(1) With the exception of low solids stains and low solids wood preservatives, determine the VOC content in grams of VOC per liter of coating thinned to the manufacturer's maximum recommendation, excluding the volume of any water and exempt compounds. Calculate the VOC content using equation 5 as follows:

(2) For low solids stains and low solids wood preservatives, determine the VOC content in units of grams of VOC per liter of coating thinned to the manufacturer's maximum recommendation, including the volume of any water and exempt compounds. Calculate the VOC content using equation 6 as follows:

(3) For recycled coatings, the manufacturer or importer has the option of calculating an adjusted VOC content to account for the post-consumer coating content. If this option is used, the manufacturer or importer shall determine the adjusted VOC content using equations 7 and 8 as follows:

(b) To determine the composition of a coating in order to perform the calculations in paragraph (a) of this section, the reference method for VOC content is Method 24 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. To determine the VOC content of a coating, the manufacturer or importer may use Method 24 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60, an alternative method as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, formulation data, or any other reasonable means for predicting that the coating has been formulated as intended (e.g., quality assurance checks, recordkeeping). However, if there are any inconsistencies between the results of a Method 24 test and any other means for determining VOC content, the Method 24 test results will govern, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The Administrator may require the manufacturer or importer to conduct a Method 24 analysis.

(c) The Administrator may approve, on a case-by-case basis, a manufacturer's or importer's use of an alternative method in lieu of Method 24 for determining the VOC content of coatings if the alternative method is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction to provide results that are acceptable for purposes of determining compliance with this subpart.

(d) Analysis of methacrylate multicomponent coatings used as traffic marking coatings shall be conducted according to the procedures specified in appendix A to this subpart. Appendix A to this subpart is a modification of Method 24 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60. The modification of Method 24 provided in appendix A to this subpart has not been approved for methacrylate multicomponent coatings used for other purposes than as traffic marking coatings or for other classes of multicomponent coatings.

(e) The Administrator may determine a manufacturer's or importer's compliance with the provisions of this subpart based on information required by this subpart (including the records and reports required by §§ 59.407 and 59.408 of this subpart) or any other information available to the Administrator.
