
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart D - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Architectural Coatings
###### ยง 59.405 Container labeling requirements.

(a) Each manufacturer and importer of any architectural coating subject to the provisions of this subpart shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section on the coating container in which the coating is sold or distributed.

(1) The date the coating was manufactured, or a date code representing the date shall be indicated on the label, lid, or bottom of the container.

(2) A statement of the manufacturer's recommendation regarding thinning of the coating shall be indicated on the label or lid of the container. This requirement does not apply to the thinning of architectural coatings with water. If thinning of the coating prior to use is not necessary, the recommendation must specify that the coating is to be applied without thinning.

(3) The VOC content of the coating as described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (a)(3)(ii) of this section shall be indicated on the label or lid of the container.

(i) The VOC content of the coating, displayed in units of grams of VOC per liter of coating or in units of pounds of VOC per gallon of coating; or

(ii) The VOC content limit in table 1 of this subpart with which the coating is required to comply and does comply, displayed in units of grams of VOC per liter of coating or in units of pounds of VOC per gallon of coating.

(b) In addition to the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section, each manufacturer and importer of any industrial maintenance coating subject to the provisions of this subpart shall display on the label or lid of the container in which the coating is sold or distributed one or more of the descriptions listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.

(1) "For industrial use only."

(2) "For professional use only."

(3) "Not for residential use" or "Not intended for residential use."

(4) "This coating is intended for use under the following condition(s):" (Include each condition in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (b)(4)(v) of this section that applies to the coating.)

(i) Immersion in water, wastewater, or chemical solutions (aqueous and nonaqueous solutions), or chronic exposure of interior surfaces to moisture condensation;

(ii) Acute or chronic exposure to corrosive, caustic, or acidic agents, or to chemicals, chemical fumes, or chemical mixtures or solutions;

(iii) Repeated exposure to temperatures above 120 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F);

(iv) Repeated (frequent) heavy abrasion, including mechanical wear and repeated (frequent) scrubbing with industrial solvents, cleansers, or scouring agents; or

(v) Exterior exposure of metal structures and structural components.

(c) In addition to the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section, each manufacturer and importer of any recycled coating who calculates the VOC content using equations 7 and 8 in ยง 59.406(a)(3) of this subpart shall include the following statement indicating the post-consumer coating content on the label or lid of the container in which the coating is sold or distributed: "CONTAINS NOT LESS THAN X PERCENT BY VOLUME POST-CONSUMER COATING," where "X" is replaced by the percent by volume of post-consumer architectural coating.
