
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart D - National Volatile Organic Compound Emission Standards for Architectural Coatings
###### § 59.407 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each manufacturer and importer using the provisions of § 59.406(a)(3) of this subpart to determine the VOC content of a recycled coating shall maintain in written or electronic form records of the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section for a period of 3 years.

(1) The minimum volume percent post-consumer coating content for each recycled coating.

(2) The volume of post-consumer coating received for recycling.

(3) The volume of post-consumer coating received that was unusable.

(4) The volume of virgin materials.

(5) The volume of the final recycled coating manufactured or imported.

(6) Calculations of the adjusted VOC content as determined using equation 7 in § 59.406(a)(3) of this subpart for each recycled coating.

(b) Each manufacturer and importer using the exceedance fee provisions in § 59.403 of this subpart, as an alternative to achieving the VOC content limits in table 1 of this subpart, shall maintain in written or electronic form the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section for a period of 3 years.

(1) A list of the coatings and the associated coating categories in table 1 of this subpart for which the exceedance fee is used.

(2) Calculations of the annual fee for each coating and the total annual fee for all coatings using the procedure in § 59.403 (b) and (c) of this subpart.

(3) The VOC content of each coating in grams of VOC per liter of coating.

(4) The excess VOC content of each coating in grams of VOC per liter of coating.

(5) The total volume of each coating manufactured or imported per calendar year, in liters, including the volume of any water and exempt compounds and excluding the volume of any colorant added to tint bases.

(6) The annual fee for each coating.

(7) The total annual fee for all coatings.

(c) Each manufacturer and importer claiming the tonnage exemption in § 59.404 of this subpart shall maintain in written or electronic form the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section for a period of 3 years.

(1) A list of all coatings and associated coating categories in table 1 of this subpart for which the exemption is claimed.

(2) The VOC amount as used in equation 4.

(3) The volume manufactured or imported, in liters, for each coating for which the exemption is claimed for the time period the exemption is claimed.

(4) The total megagrams of VOC contained in each coating for which the exemption is claimed, and for all coatings combined for which the exemption is claimed, for the time period the exemption is claimed, as calculated in § 59.404(b) of this subpart.
