
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart F - Control of Evaporative Emissions From New and In-Use Portable Fuel Containers
###### Overview and Applicability
####### ยง 59.605 What portable fuel containers are excluded from this subpart's requirements?

This section describes exclusions that apply to certain portable fuel containers. The prohibitions and requirements of this subpart do not apply for containers excluded under this section. Exclusions under this section are based on inherent characteristics of the containers. See ยง 59.660 for exemptions that apply based on special circumstances.

(a) Containers approved as safety cans consistent with the requirements of 29 CFR 1926.150 through 1926.152 are excluded. Such cans generally have a flash-arresting screens, spring-closing lids and spout covers and have been approved by a nationally recognized testing laboratory such as Factory Mutual Engineering Corp. or Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., or Federal agencies such as Bureau of Mines, or U.S. Coast Guard.

(b) Containers with a nominal capacity of less than 0.25 gallons or more than 10.0 gallons are excluded.

(c) Containers designed and marketed solely to deliver fuel directly to nonroad engines during engine operation, such as containers with a connection for a fuel line and a reserve fuel area, are considered to be nonroad fuel tanks, and are thus excluded.
