
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart F - Control of Evaporative Emissions From New and In-Use Portable Fuel Containers
###### Certifying Emission Families
####### § 59.626 What emission testing must I perform for my application for a certificate of conformity?

This section describes the emission testing you must perform to show compliance with the emission standards in § 59.611.

(a) Test your products using the procedures and equipment specified in §§ 59.650 through 59.653.

(b) Select an emission-data unit from each emission family for testing. You must test a production sample or a preproduction product that will represent actual production. Select the configuration that is most likely to exceed (or have emissions nearest to) the applicable emission standard. For example, for a family of multilayer portable fuel containers, test the container with the thinnest barrier layer. Test three identical containers.

(c) We may measure emissions from any of your products from the emission family. You must supply your products to us if we choose to perform confirmatory testing.

(d) You may ask to use emission data from a previous production period (carryover) instead of doing new tests, but only if the emission-data from the previous production period remains the appropriate emission-data unit under paragraph (b) of this section. For example, you may not carryover emission data for your family of containers if you have added a thinner-walled container than was tested previously.

(e) We may require you to test units of the same or different configuration in addition to the units tested under paragraph (b) of this section.

(f) If you use an alternate test procedure under § 59.652 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in this subpart, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure and base our compliance determination on the later testing.
