
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart F - Control of Evaporative Emissions From New and In-Use Portable Fuel Containers
###### Emission Standards and Related Requirements
####### ยง 59.615 How must I label and identify the portable fuel containers I produce?

This section describes how you must label your portable fuel containers.

(a) At the time of manufacture, indelibly mark the month and year of manufacture on each container.

(b) Mold into or affix a legible label identifying each portable fuel container. The label must be:

(1) Attached so it is not easily removable.

(2) Secured to a part of the container that can be easily viewed when the can is in use, not on the bottom of the container.

(3) Written in English.

(c) The label must include:

(1) The heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(2) Your full corporate name, trademark and warranty contact information.

(3) A standardized identifier such as EPA's standardized designation for the emission families, the model number, or the part number.

(4) This statement: "THIS CONTAINER COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA EMISSION REGULATIONS FOR PORTABLE FUEL CONTAINERS (40 CFR Part 59).".

(5) This statement: "THE EMISSIONS WARRANTY IS VALID FOR A MINIMUM OF ONE YEAR FROM DATE OF PURCHASE.".

(d) You may add information to the emission control information label to identify other emission standards that the container meets or does not meet (such as California standards). You may also add other information to ensure that the portable fuel container will be properly maintained and used.

(e) You may request that we approve modified labeling requirements in this subpart F if you show that it is necessary or appropriate. We will approve your request if your alternate label is consistent with the requirements of this subpart.

(f) You may identify the name and trademark of another company instead of their own on your emission control information label, subject to the following provisions:

(1) You must have a contractual agreement with the other company that obligates that company to take the following steps:

(i) Meet the emission warranty requirements that apply under ยง 59.612. This may involve a separate agreement involving reimbursement of warranty-related expenses.

(ii) Report all warranty-related information to the certificate holder.

(2) In your application for certification, identify the company whose trademark you will use and describe the arrangements you have made to meet your requirements under this section.

(3) You remain responsible for meeting all the requirements of this subpart.
