
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart F - Control of Evaporative Emissions From New and In-Use Portable Fuel Containers
###### Certifying Emission Families
####### § 59.622 What are the general requirements for obtaining a certificate of conformity and producing portable fuel containers under it?

(a) You must send us a separate application for a certificate of conformity for each emission family. A certificate of conformity for containers is valid from the indicated effective date until the end of the production period for which it is issued. We may require new certification prior to the end of the production period if we finds that containers are not meeting the standards in use during their useful life.

(b) The application must be written in English and contain all the information required by this subpart and must not include false or incomplete statements or information (see §§ 59.607 and 59.629).

(c) We may ask you to include less information than we specify in this subpart, as long as you maintain all the information required by § 59.628.

(d) You must use good engineering judgment for all decisions related to your application (see § 59.603).

(e) An authorized representative of your company must approve and sign the application.

(f) See § 59.629 for provisions describing how we will process your application.

(g) If we approve your application, we will issue a certificate that will allow you to produce the containers that you described in your application for a specified production period. Certificates do not allow you to produce containers that were not described in your application, unless we approve the additional containers under § 59.624.
