
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart F - Control of Evaporative Emissions From New and In-Use Portable Fuel Containers
###### Certifying Emission Families
####### ยง 59.629 What decisions may EPA make regarding my certificate of conformity?

(a) If we determine your application is complete and shows that the emission family meets all the requirements of this subpart and the Act, we will issue a certificate of conformity for your emission family for the specified production period. We may make the approval subject to additional conditions.

(b) We may deny your application for certification if we determine that your emission family fails to comply with emission standards or other requirements of this subpart or the Act. Our decision may be based on a review of all information available to us. If we deny your application, we will explain why in writing.

(c) In addition, we may deny your application or suspend, revoke, or void your certificate if you do any of the following:

(1) Refuse to comply with any testing or reporting requirements.

(2) Submit false or incomplete information.

(3) Render inaccurate any test data.

(4) Deny us from completing authorized activities (see ยง 59.698). This includes a failure to provide reasonable assistance.

(5) Produce portable fuel containers for importation into the United States at a location where local law prohibits us from carrying out authorized activities.

(6) Fail to supply requested information or amend your application to include all portable fuel containers being produced.

(7) Take any action that otherwise circumvents the intent of the Act or this subpart.

(d) If we deny your application or suspend, revoke, or void your certificate, you may ask for a hearing (see ยง 59.699).
