
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart F - Control of Evaporative Emissions From New and In-Use Portable Fuel Containers
###### Certifying Emission Families
####### ยง 59.650 General testing provisions.

(a) The test procedures of this subpart are addressed to you as a manufacturer, but they apply equally to anyone who does testing for you.

(b) Unless we specify otherwise, the terms "procedures" and "test procedures" in this subpart include all aspects of testing, including the equipment specifications, calibrations, calculations, and other protocols and procedural specifications needed to measure emissions.

(c) The specification for gasoline to be used for testing is given in 40 CFR 1065.710(c). Use the grade of gasoline specified for general testing. Blend this grade of gasoline with reagent grade ethanol in a volumetric ratio of 90.0 percent gasoline to 10.0 percent ethanol to achieve a blended fuel that has 10.0 +/-1.0 percent ethanol by volume. You may use ethanol that is less pure if you can demonstrate that it will not affect your ability to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards.

(d) Accuracy and precision of all temperature measurements must be +/-2.2 &#xB0;C or better.

(e) Accuracy and precision of mass balances must be sufficient to ensure accuracy and precision of two percent or better for emission measurements for products at the maximum level allowed by the standard. The readability of the display may not be coarser than half of the required accuracy and precision.
