
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart F - Control of Evaporative Emissions From New and In-Use Portable Fuel Containers
###### Special Compliance Provisions
####### § 59.660 Exemption from the standards.

In certain circumstances, we may exempt portable fuel containers from the evaporative emission standards and requirements of § 59.611 and the prohibitions and requirements of § 59.602. You do not need an exemption for any containers that you own but do not sell, offer for sale, introduce or deliver for introduction into U.S. commerce, or import into the United States. Submit your request for an exemption to the Designated Compliance Officer.

(a) Portable fuel containers that are intended for export only and are in fact exported are exempt provided they are clearly labeled as being for export only. Keep records for five years of all portable fuel containers that you manufacture for export. Any introduction into U.S. commerce of such portable fuel containers for any purpose other than export is considered to be a violation of § 59.602 by the manufacturer. You do not need to request this exemption.

(b) Manufacturers and other persons subject to the prohibitions in § 59.602 may ask us to exempt portable fuel containers to purchase, sell, or distribute them for the sole purpose of testing them.

(c) You may ask us to exempt portable fuel containers for the purpose of national security, as long as your request is endorsed by an agency of the federal government responsible for national defense. In your request, explain why you need the exemption.

(d) You may ask us to exempt containers that are designed and marketed solely for rapidly refueling racing applications which are designed to create a leak proof seal with the target tank or are designed to connect with a receiver installed on the target tank. This exemption is generally intended for containers used to rapidly refuel a race car during a pit stop and similar containers. In your request, explain how why these containers are unlikely to be used for nonracing applications. We may limit these exemptions to those applications that are allowed to use gasoline exempted under 40 CFR 80.200(a).

(e) EPA may impose reasonable conditions on any exemption, including a limit on the number of containers that are covered by an exemption.
