
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 59 - NATIONAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
##### Subpart F - Control of Evaporative Emissions From New and In-Use Portable Fuel Containers
###### Special Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 59.663 What are the provisions for extending compliance deadlines for manufacturers under hardship?

(a) After considering the circumstances, we may extend the compliance deadline for you to meet new emission standards, as long as you meet all the conditions and requirements in this section.

(b) To apply for an extension, you must send the Designated Compliance Officer a written request. In your request, show that all the following conditions and requirements apply:

(1) You have taken all possible business, technical, and economic steps to comply.

(2) Show that the burden of compliance costs prevents you from meeting the requirements of this subpart by the required compliance date.

(3) Not having the exemption will jeopardize the solvency of your company.

(4) No other allowances are available under the regulations in this subpart to avoid the impending violation.

(c) In describing the steps you have taken to comply under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, include at least the following information:

(1) Describe your business plan, showing the range of projects active or under consideration.

(2) Describe your current and projected financial standing, with and without the burden of complying in full with the applicable regulations in this subpart by the required compliance date.

(3) Describe your efforts to raise capital to comply with regulations in this subpart.

(4) Identify the engineering and technical steps you have taken or plan to take to comply with regulations in this subpart.

(5) Identify the level of compliance you can achieve. For example, you may be able to produce containers that meet a somewhat less stringent emission standard than the regulations in this subpart require.

(d) Include in your request a plan showing how you will meet all the applicable requirements as quickly as possible.

(e) You must give us other relevant information if we ask for it.

(f) An authorized representative of your company must sign the request and include the statement: "All the information in this request is true and accurate, to the best of my knowledge.".

(g) Send your request for this extension at least nine months before the relevant deadline.

(h) We may include reasonable requirements on an approval granted under this section, including provisions to recover or otherwise address the lost environmental benefit. For example, we may require that you meet a less stringent emission standard.

(i) We may approve renewable extensions of up to one year. We may review and revise an extension as reasonable under the circumstances.

(j) Add a permanent, legible label, written in English, to a readily visible part of each container exempted under this section. This label must prominently include at least the following items:

(1) Your corporate name and trademark.

(2) The statement "EXEMPT UNDER 40 CFR 59.663.".
