
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 60.4 Address.
####### http://www.lrapa.org.

(ii) Lane Regional Air Pollution Authority (LRAPA), 1010 Main Street, Springfield, Oregon 97477,

(40)(i) City of Philadelphia, Department of Public Health, Air Management Services, 321 University Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104.

(ii) Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Environmental Protection, Bureau of Air Quality Control, P.O. Box 8468, 400 Market Street, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17105.

(iii) Allegheny County Health Department, Bureau of Environmental Quality, Division of Air Quality, 301 39th Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15201.

(41) State of Rhode Island, Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management, Office of Air Resources, 235 Promenade Street, Providence, RI 02908.

(42) State of South Carolina: South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, 2600 Bull Street, Columbia, South Carolina 29201.

(43) State of South Dakota, Air Quality Program, Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Joe Foss Building, 523 East Capitol, Pierre, SD 57501-3181.

(44) State of Tennessee: Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation, Division of Air Pollution Control, William R. Snodgrass Tennessee Tower, 312 Rosa L. Parks Avenue, 15th Floor, Nashville, Tennessee 37243, or local agencies, Knox County Air Quality Management-Department of Public Health, 140 Dameron Avenue, Knoxville, Tennessee 37917; Metro Public Health Department, Pollution Control Division, 2500 Charlotte Ave., Nashville, Tennessee 37209; Chattanooga-Hamilton County Air Pollution Control Bureau, 6125 Preservation Drive, Chattanooga, Tennessee 37416; Shelby County Health Department, Pollution Control Section, 814 Jefferson Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee 38105.

(45) State of Texas, Texas Air Control Board, 6330 Highway 290 East, Austin, TX 78723.

(46) State of Utah, Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality, P.O. Box 144820, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-4820.

(47) State of Vermont, Agency of Natural Resources, Department of Environmental Conservation, Air Quality and Climate Division, Davis 2, One National Life Drive, Montpelier, VT 05620-3802.

(48) Commonwealth of Virginia, Department of Environmental Quality, 629 East Main Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219.
