
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 60.4 Address.
####### http://co.yakima.wa.us/cleanair/default.htm

(viii) Yakima Regional Clean Air Authority (YRCAA), 6 South 2nd Street, Suite 1016, Yakima, WA 98901,

(ix) The following table lists the delegation status of the New Source Performance Standards for the State of Washington. An "X" indicates the subpart has been delegated, subject to all the conditions and limitations set forth in Federal law and the letters granting delegation. Some authorities cannot be delegated and are retained by EPA. Refer to the letters granting delegation for a discussion of these retained authorities. The dates noted at the end of the table indicate the effective dates of Federal rules that have been delegated. Authority for implementing and enforcing any amendments made to these rules after these effective dates are not delegated.

(50) State of West Virginia, Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Air Quality, 601 57th Street, SE., Charleston, West Virginia 25304.

(51) State of Wisconsin: Wisconsin Department of Natural Resouces, 101 South Webster St., P.O. Box 7921, Madison, Wisconsin 53707-7921.

(52) State of Wyoming, Department of Environmental Quality, Air Quality Division, Herschler Building, 122 West 25th Street, Cheyenne, WY 82002.

(53) Territory of Guam: Guam Environmental Protection Agency, P.O. Box 22439 GMF, Barrigada, Guam 96921.

(54) Commonwealth of Puerto Rico: Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board, P.O. Box 11488, Santurce, PR 00910, Attention: Air Quality Area Director (see table under ยง 60.4(b)(FF)(1)).

(55) U.S. Virgin Islands: U.S. Virgin Islands Department of Conservation and Cultural Affairs, P.O. Box 578, Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, VI 00801.

(56) American Samoa: American Samoa Environmental Protection Agency, P.O. Box PPA, Pago Pago, American Samoa 96799.

(57) Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands: CNMI Division of Environmental Quality, P.O. Box 501304, Saipan, MP 96950.
