
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 60.7 Notification and record keeping.

(a) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this part shall furnish the Administrator written notification or, if acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, electronic notification, as follows:

(1) A notification of the date construction (or reconstruction as defined under § 60.15) of an affected facility is commenced postmarked no later than 30 days after such date. This requirement shall not apply in the case of mass-produced facilities which are purchased in completed form.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) A notification of the actual date of initial startup of an affected facility postmarked within 15 days after such date.

(4) A notification of any physical or operational change to an existing facility which may increase the emission rate of any air pollutant to which a standard applies, unless that change is specifically exempted under an applicable subpart or in § 60.14(e). This notice shall be postmarked 60 days or as soon as practicable before the change is commenced and shall include information describing the precise nature of the change, present and proposed emission control systems, productive capacity of the facility before and after the change, and the expected completion date of the change. The Administrator may request additional relevant information subsequent to this notice.

(5) A notification of the date upon which demonstration of the continuous monitoring system performance commences in accordance with § 60.13(c). Notification shall be postmarked not less than 30 days prior to such date.

(6) A notification of the anticipated date for conducting the opacity observations required by § 60.11(e)(1) of this part. The notification shall also include, if appropriate, a request for the Administrator to provide a visible emissions reader during a performance test. The notification shall be postmarked not less than 30 days prior to such date.

(7) A notification that continuous opacity monitoring system data results will be used to determine compliance with the applicable opacity standard during a performance test required by § 60.8 in lieu of Method 9 observation data as allowed by § 60.11(e)(5) of this part. This notification shall be postmarked not less than 30 days prior to the date of the performance test.

(b) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this part shall maintain records of the occurrence and duration of any startup, shutdown, or malfunction in the operation of an affected facility; any malfunction of the air pollution control equipment; or any periods during which a continuous monitoring system or monitoring device is inoperative.

(c) Each owner or operator required to install a continuous monitoring device shall submit excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report (excess emissions are defined in applicable subparts) and-or summary report form (see paragraph (d) of this section) to the Administrator semiannually, except when: more frequent reporting is specifically required by an applicable subpart; or the Administrator, on a case-by-case basis, determines that more frequent reporting is necessary to accurately assess the compliance status of the source. All reports shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each six-month period. Written reports of excess emissions shall include the following information:

(1) The magnitude of excess emissions computed in accordance with § 60.13(h), any conversion factor(s) used, and the date and time of commencement and completion of each time period of excess emissions. The process operating time during the reporting period.

(2) Specific identification of each period of excess emissions that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected facility. The nature and cause of any malfunction (if known), the corrective action taken or preventative measures adopted.

(3) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous monitoring system was inoperative except for zero and span checks and the nature of the system repairs or adjustments.

(4) When no excess emissions have occurred or the continuous monitoring system(s) have not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted, such information shall be stated in the report.

(d) The summary report form shall contain the information and be in the format shown in figure 1 unless otherwise specified by the Administrator. One summary report form shall be submitted for each pollutant monitored at each affected facility.

(1) If the total duration of excess emissions for the reporting period is less than 1 percent of the total operating time for the reporting period and CMS downtime for the reporting period is less than 5 percent of the total operating time for the reporting period, only the summary report form shall be submitted and the excess emission report described in § 60.7(c) need not be submitted unless requested by the Administrator.

(2) If the total duration of excess emissions for the reporting period is 1 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period or the total CMS downtime for the reporting period is 5 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, the summary report form and the excess emission report described in § 60.7(c) shall both be submitted.

(e)(1) Notwithstanding the frequency of reporting requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, an owner or operator who is required by an applicable subpart to submit excess emissions and monitoring systems performance reports (and summary reports) on a quarterly (or more frequent) basis may reduce the frequency of reporting for that standard to semiannual if the following conditions are met:

(i) For 1 full year (e.g., 4 quarterly or 12 monthly reporting periods) the affected facility's excess emissions and monitoring systems reports submitted to comply with a standard under this part continually demonstrate that the facility is in compliance with the applicable standard;

(ii) The owner or operator continues to comply with all recordkeeping and monitoring requirements specified in this subpart and the applicable standard; and

(iii) The Administrator does not object to a reduced frequency of reporting for the affected facility, as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(2) The frequency of reporting of excess emissions and monitoring systems performance (and summary) reports may be reduced only after the owner or operator notifies the Administrator in writing of his or her intention to make such a change and the Administrator does not object to the intended change. In deciding whether to approve a reduced frequency of reporting, the Administrator may review information concerning the source's entire previous performance history during the required recordkeeping period prior to the intended change, including performance test results, monitoring data, and evaluations of an owner or operator's conformance with operation and maintenance requirements. Such information may be used by the Administrator to make a judgment about the source's potential for noncompliance in the future. If the Administrator disapproves the owner or operator's request to reduce the frequency of reporting, the Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing within 45 days after receiving notice of the owner or operator's intention. The notification from the Administrator to the owner or operator will specify the grounds on which the disapproval is based. In the absence of a notice of disapproval within 45 days, approval is automatically granted.

(3) As soon as monitoring data indicate that the affected facility is not in compliance with any emission limitation or operating parameter specified in the applicable standard, the frequency of reporting shall revert to the frequency specified in the applicable standard, and the owner or operator shall submit an excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report (and summary report, if required) at the next appropriate reporting period following the noncomplying event. After demonstrating compliance with the applicable standard for another full year, the owner or operator may again request approval from the Administrator to reduce the frequency of reporting for that standard as provided for in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.

(f) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this part shall maintain a file of all measurements, including continuous monitoring system, monitoring device, and performance testing measurements; all continuous monitoring system performance evaluations; all continuous monitoring system or monitoring device calibration checks; adjustments and maintenance performed on these systems or devices; and all other information required by this part recorded in a permanent form suitable for inspection. The file shall be retained for at least two years following the date of such measurements, maintenance, reports, and records, except as follows:

(1) This paragraph applies to owners or operators required to install a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) where the CEMS installed is automated, and where the calculated data averages do not exclude periods of CEMS breakdown or malfunction. An automated CEMS records and reduces the measured data to the form of the pollutant emission standard through the use of a computerized data acquisition system. In lieu of maintaining a file of all CEMS subhourly measurements as required under paragraph (f) of this section, the owner or operator shall retain the most recent consecutive three averaging periods of subhourly measurements and a file that contains a hard copy of the data acquisition system algorithm used to reduce the measured data into the reportable form of the standard.

(2) This paragraph applies to owners or operators required to install a CEMS where the measured data is manually reduced to obtain the reportable form of the standard, and where the calculated data averages do not exclude periods of CEMS breakdown or malfunction. In lieu of maintaining a file of all CEMS subhourly measurements as required under paragraph (f) of this section, the owner or operator shall retain all subhourly measurements for the most recent reporting period. The subhourly measurements shall be retained for 120 days from the date of the most recent summary or excess emission report submitted to the Administrator.

(3) The Administrator or delegated authority, upon notification to the source, may require the owner or operator to maintain all measurements as required by paragraph (f) of this section, if the Administrator or the delegated authority determines these records are required to more accurately assess the compliance status of the affected source.

(g) If notification substantially similar to that in paragraph (a) of this section is required by any other State or local agency, sending the Administrator a copy of that notification will satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.

(h) Individual subparts of this part may include specific provisions which clarify or make inapplicable the provisions set forth in this section.
