
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 60.13 Monitoring requirements.

(a) For the purposes of this section, all continuous monitoring systems required under applicable subparts shall be subject to the provisions of this section upon promulgation of performance specifications for continuous monitoring systems under appendix B to this part and, if the continuous monitoring system is used to demonstrate compliance with emission limits on a continuous basis, appendix F to this part, unless otherwise specified in an applicable subpart or by the Administrator. Appendix F is applicable December 4, 1987.

(b) All continuous monitoring systems and monitoring devices shall be installed and operational prior to conducting performance tests under § 60.8. Verification of operational status shall, as a minimum, include completion of the manufacturer's written requirements or recommendations for installation, operation, and calibration of the device.

(c) If the owner or operator of an affected facility elects to submit continous opacity monitoring system (COMS) data for compliance with the opacity standard as provided under § 60.11(e)(5), he shall conduct a performance evaluation of the COMS as specified in Performance Specification 1, appendix B, of this part before the performance test required under § 60.8 is conducted. Otherwise, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct a performance evaluation of the COMS or continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) during any performance test required under § 60.8 or within 30 days thereafter in accordance with the applicable performance specification in appendix B of this part, The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct COMS or CEMS performance evaluations at such other times as may be required by the Administrator under section 114 of the Act.

(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility using a COMS to determine opacity compliance during any performance test required under § 60.8 and as described in § 60.11(e)(5) shall furnish the Administrator two or, upon request, more copies of a written report of the results of the COMS performance evaluation described in paragraph (c) of this section at least 10 days before the performance test required under § 60.8 is conducted.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall furnish the Administrator within 60 days of completion two or, upon request, more copies of a written report of the results of the performance evaluation.

(d)(1) Owners and operators of a CEMS installed in accordance with the provisions of this part, must check the zero (or low level value between 0 and 20 percent of span value) and span (50 to 100 percent of span value) calibration drifts at least once each operating day in accordance with a written procedure. The zero and span must, at a minimum, be adjusted whenever either the 24-hour zero drift or the 24-hour span drift exceeds two times the limit of the applicable performance specification in appendix B of this part. The system must allow the amount of the excess zero and span drift to be recorded and quantified whenever specified. Owners and operators of a COMS installed in accordance with the provisions of this part must check the zero and upscale (span) calibration drifts at least once daily. For a particular COMS, the acceptable range of zero and upscale calibration materials is defined in the applicable version of PS-1 in appendix B of this part. For a COMS, the optical surfaces, exposed to the effluent gases, must be cleaned before performing the zero and upscale drift adjustments, except for systems using automatic zero adjustments. The optical surfaces must be cleaned when the cumulative automatic zero compensation exceeds 4 percent opacity.

(2) Unless otherwise approved by the Administrator, the following procedures must be followed for a COMS. Minimum procedures must include an automated method for producing a simulated zero opacity condition and an upscale opacity condition using a certified neutral density filter or other related technique to produce a known obstruction of the light beam. Such procedures must provide a system check of all active analyzer internal optics with power or curvature, all active electronic circuitry including the light source and photodetector assembly, and electronic or electro-mechanical systems and hardware and or software used during normal measurement operation.

(e) Except for system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments required under paragraph (d) of this section, all continuous monitoring systems shall be in continuous operation and shall meet minimum frequency of operation requirements as follows:

(1) All continuous monitoring systems referenced by paragraph (c) of this section for measuring opacity of emissions shall complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.

(2) All continuous monitoring systems referenced by paragraph (c) of this section for measuring emissions, except opacity, shall complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.

(f) All continuous monitoring systems or monitoring devices shall be installed such that representative measurements of emissions or process parameters from the affected facility are obtained. Additional procedures for location of continuous monitoring systems contained in the applicable Performance Specifications of appendix B of this part shall be used.

(g) When the effluents from a single affected facility or two or more affected facilities subject to the same emission standards are combined before being released to the atmosphere, the owner or operator may install applicable continuous monitoring systems on each effluent or on the combined effluent. When the affected facilities are not subject to the same emission standards, separate continuous monitoring systems shall be installed on each effluent. When the effluent from one affected facility is released to the atmosphere through more than one point, the owner or operator shall install an applicable continuous monitoring system on each separate effluent unless the installation of fewer systems is approved by the Administrator. When more than one continuous monitoring system is used to measure the emissions from one affected facility (e.g., multiple breechings, multiple outlets), the owner or operator shall report the results as required from each continuous monitoring system.

(h)(1) Owners or operators of all continuous monitoring systems for measurement of opacity shall reduce all data to 6-minute averages and for continuous monitoring systems other than opacity to 1-hour averages for time periods as defined in § 60.2. Six-minute opacity averages shall be calculated from 36 or more data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period.

(2) For continuous monitoring systems other than opacity, 1-hour averages shall be computed as follows, except that the provisions pertaining to the validation of partial operating hours are only applicable for affected facilities that are required by the applicable subpart to include partial hours in the emission calculations:
