
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 60.8 Performance tests.
####### http://standards.gov/standards__gov/a119.cfm.,http://www.epa.gov/ttn/emc.

(4) The technical criteria documents for the accredited sample providers and the accrediting body shall be developed through a public process guided by a voluntary consensus standards body (VCSB). The VCSB shall operate in accordance with the procedures and requirements in the Office of Management and Budget Circular A-119. A copy of Circular A-119 is available upon request by writing the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, 725 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20503, by calling (202) 395-6880 or downloading online atThe VCSB shall approve all accrediting bodies. The Administrator will review all technical criteria documents. If the technical criteria documents do not meet the minimum technical requirements in paragraphs (g)(2) through (4)of this section, the technical criteria documents are not acceptable and the proposed audit sample program is not capable of producing audit samples of sufficient quality to be used in a compliance test. All acceptable technical criteria documents shall be posted on the EPA Web site at the following URL,

(h) Unless otherwise specified in the applicable subpart, each test location must be verified to be free of cyclonic flow and evaluated for the existence of emission gas stratification and the required number of sampling traverse points. If other procedures are not specified in the applicable subpart to the regulations, use the appropriate procedures in Method 1 to check for cyclonic flow and Method 7E to evaluate emission gas stratification and selection of sampling points.

(i) Whenever the use of multiple calibration gases is required by a test method, performance specification, or quality assurance procedure in a part 60 standard or appendix, Method 205 of 40 CFR part 51, appendix M of this chapter, "Verification of Gas Dilution Systems for Field Instrument Calibrations," may be used.
