
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 60.13 Monitoring requirements.
####### i.e.

(i) Except as provided under paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section, for a full operating hour (any clock hour with 60 minutes of unit operation), at least four valid data points are required to calculate the hourly average,, one data point in each of the 15-minute quadrants of the hour.

(ii) Except as provided under paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section, for a partial operating hour (any clock hour with less than 60 minutes of unit operation), at least one valid data point in each 15-minute quadrant of the hour in which the unit operates is required to calculate the hourly average.

(iii) For any operating hour in which required maintenance or quality-assurance activities are performed:

(A) If the unit operates in two or more quadrants of the hour, a minimum of two valid data points, separated by at least 15 minutes, is required to calculate the hourly average; or

(B) If the unit operates in only one quadrant of the hour, at least one valid data point is required to calculate the hourly average.

(iv) If a daily calibration error check is failed during any operating hour, all data for that hour shall be invalidated, unless a subsequent calibration error test is passed in the same hour and the requirements of paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section are met, based solely on valid data recorded after the successful calibration.

(v) For each full or partial operating hour, all valid data points shall be used to calculate the hourly average.

(vi) Except as provided under paragraph (h)(2)(vii) of this section, data recorded during periods of continuous monitoring system breakdown, repair, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments shall not be included in the data averages computed under this paragraph.

(vii) Owners and operators complying with the requirements of § 60.7(f)(1) or (2) must include any data recorded during periods of monitor breakdown or malfunction in the data averages.

(viii) When specified in an applicable subpart, hourly averages for certain partial operating hours shall not be computed or included in the emission averages (e.g., hours with < 30 minutes of unit operation under § 60.47b(d)).

(ix) Either arithmetic or integrated averaging of all data may be used to calculate the hourly averages. The data may be recorded in reduced or nonreduced form (e.g., ppm pollutant and percent Oor ng/J of pollutant).

(3) All excess emissions shall be converted into units of the standard using the applicable conversion procedures specified in the applicable subpart. After conversion into units of the standard, the data may be rounded to the same number of significant digits used in the applicable subpart to specify the emission limit.

(i) After receipt and consideration of written application, the Administrator may approve alternatives to any monitoring procedures or requirements of this part including, but not limited to the following:

(1) Alternative monitoring requirements when installation of a continuous monitoring system or monitoring device specified by this part would not provide accurate measurements due to liquid water or other interferences caused by substances in the effluent gases.

(2) Alternative monitoring requirements when the affected facility is infrequently operated.

(3) Alternative monitoring requirements to accommodate continuous monitoring systems that require additional measurements to correct for stack moisture conditions.

(4) Alternative locations for installing continuous monitoring systems or monitoring devices when the owner or operator can demonstrate that installation at alternate locations will enable accurate and representative measurements.

(5) Alternative methods of converting pollutant concentration measurements to units of the standards.

(6) Alternative procedures for performing daily checks of zero and span drift that do not involve use of span gases or test cells.

(7) Alternatives to the A.S.T.M. test methods or sampling procedures specified by any subpart.

(8) Alternative continuous monitoring systems that do not meet the design or performance requirements in Performance Specification 1, appendix B, but adequately demonstrate a definite and consistent relationship between its measurements and the measurements of opacity by a system complying with the requirements in Performance Specification 1. The Administrator may require that such demonstration be performed for each affected facility.

(9) Alternative monitoring requirements when the effluent from a single affected facility or the combined effluent from two or more affected facilities is released to the atmosphere through more than one point.

(j) An alternative to the relative accuracy (RA) test specified in Performance Specification 2 of appendix B may be requested as follows:

(1) An alternative to the reference method tests for determining RA is available for sources with emission rates demonstrated to be less than 50 percent of the applicable standard. A source owner or operator may petition the Administrator to waive the RA test in Section 8.4 of Performance Specification 2 and substitute the procedures in Section 16.0 if the results of a performance test conducted according to the requirements in § 60.8 of this subpart or other tests performed following the criteria in § 60.8 demonstrate that the emission rate of the pollutant of interest in the units of the applicable standard is less than 50 percent of the applicable standard. For sources subject to standards expressed as control efficiency levels, a source owner or operator may petition the Administrator to waive the RA test and substitute the procedures in Section 16.0 of Performance Specification 2 if the control device exhaust emission rate is less than 50 percent of the level needed to meet the control efficiency requirement. The alternative procedures do not apply if the continuous emission monitoring system is used to determine compliance continuously with the applicable standard. The petition to waive the RA test shall include a detailed description of the procedures to be applied. Included shall be location and procedure for conducting the alternative, the concentration or response levels of the alternative RA materials, and the other equipment checks included in the alternative procedure. The Administrator will review the petition for completeness and applicability. The determination to grant a waiver will depend on the intended use of the CEMS data (e.g., data collection purposes other than NSPS) and may require specifications more stringent than in Performance Specification 2 (e.g., the applicable emission limit is more stringent than NSPS).

(2) The waiver of a CEMS RA test will be reviewed and may be rescinded at such time, following successful completion of the alternative RA procedure, that the CEMS data indicate that the source emissions are approaching the level. The criterion for reviewing the waiver is the collection of CEMS data showing that emissions have exceeded 70 percent of the applicable standard for seven, consecutive, averaging periods as specified by the applicable regulation(s). For sources subject to standards expressed as control efficiency levels, the criterion for reviewing the waiver is the collection of CEMS data showing that exhaust emissions have exceeded 70 percent of the level needed to meet the control efficiency requirement for seven, consecutive, averaging periods as specified by the applicable regulation(s) [e.g., §§ 60.45(g) (2) and (3), 60.73(e), and 60.84(e)]. It is the responsibility of the source operator to maintain records and determine the level of emissions relative to the criterion on the waiver of RA testing. If this criterion is exceeded, the owner or operator must notify the Administrator within 10 days of such occurrence and include a description of the nature and cause of the increasing emissions. The Administrator will review the notification and may rescind the waiver and require the owner or operator to conduct a RA test of the CEMS as specified in Section 8.4 of Performance Specification 2.
