
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 60.17 Incorporations by reference.
####### fedreg.legal@nara.gov,,www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the EPA must publish notice of change in theand the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at the EPA Docket Center, Public Reading Room, EPA WJC West, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC, telephone number 202-566-1744, and is available from the sources listed below. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, emailor go to

(b) American Gas Association, available through ILI Infodisk, 610 Winters Avenue, Paramus, New Jersey 07652:

(1) American Gas Association Report No. 3: Orifice Metering for Natural Gas and Other Related Hydrocarbon Fluids, Part 1: General Equations and Uncertainty Guidelines (1990), IBR approved for § 60.107a(d).

(2) American Gas Association Report No. 3: Orifice Metering for Natural Gas and Other Related Hydrocarbon Fluids, Part 2: Specification and Installation Requirements (2000), IBR approved for § 60.107a(d).

(3) American Gas Association Report No. 11: Measurement of Natural Gas by Coriolis Meter (2003), IBR approved for § 60.107a(d).

(4) American Gas Association Transmission Measurement Committee Report No. 7: Measurement of Gas by Turbine Meters (Revised February 2006), IBR approved for § 60.107a(d).

(c) American Hospital Association (AHA) Service, Inc., Post Office Box 92683, Chicago, Illinois 60675-2683. You may inspect a copy at the EPA's Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center (Docket A-91-61, Item IV-J-124), Room M-1500, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460.

(1) An Ounce of Prevention: Waste Reduction Strategies for Health Care Facilities. American Society for Health Care Environmental Services of the American Hospital Association. Chicago, Illinois. 1993. AHA Catalog No. 057007. ISBN 0-87258-673-5. IBR approved for §§ 60.35e and 60.55c.

(2) [Reserved]
