
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 60.18 General control device and work practice requirements.
####### Flares.

(b)Paragraphs (c) through (f) apply to flares.

(c)(1) Flares shall be designed for and operated with no visible emissions as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (f), except for periods not to exceed a total of 5 minutes during any 2 consecutive hours.

(2) Flares shall be operated with a flame present at all times, as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (f).

(3) An owner/operator has the choice of adhering to either the heat content specifications in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section and the maximum tip velocity specifications in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, or adhering to the requirements in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.

(i)(A) Flares shall be used that have a diameter of 3 inches or greater, are nonassisted, have a hydrogen content of 8.0 percent (by volume), or greater, and are designed for and operated with an exit velocity less than 37.2 m/sec (122 ft/sec) and less than the velocity, V, as determined by the following equation:

(B) The actual exit velocity of a flare shall be determined by the method specified in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(ii) Flares shall be used only with the net heating value of the gas being combusted being 11.2 MJ/scm (300 Btu/scf) or greater if the flare is steam-assisted or air-assisted; or with the net heating value of the gas being combusted being 7.45 MJ/scm (200 Btu/scf) or greater if the flare is nonassisted. The net heating value of the gas being combusted shall be determined by the methods specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.

(4)(i) Steam-assisted and nonassisted flares shall be designed for and operated with an exit velocity, as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, less than 18.3 m/sec (60 ft/sec), except as provided in paragraphs (c)(4) (ii) and (iii) of this section.

(ii) Steam-assisted and nonassisted flares designed for and operated with an exit velocity, as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (f)(4), equal to or greater than 18.3 m/sec (60 ft/sec) but less than 122 m/sec (400 ft/sec) are allowed if the net heating value of the gas being combusted is greater than 37.3 MJ/scm (1,000 Btu/scf).

(iii) Steam-assisted and nonassisted flares designed for and operated with an exit velocity, as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (f)(4), less than the velocity, V, as determined by the method specified in paragraph (f)(5), and less than 122 m/sec (400 ft/sec) are allowed.

(5) Air-assisted flares shall be designed and operated with an exit velocity less than the velocity, V, as determined by the method specified in paragraph (f)(6).

(6) Flares used to comply with this section shall be steam-assisted, air-assisted, or nonassisted.

(d) Owners or operators of flares used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall monitor these control devices to ensure that they are operated and maintained in conformance with their designs. Applicable subparts will provide provisions stating how owners or operators of flares shall monitor these control devices.

(e) Flares used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall be operated at all times when emissions may be vented to them.

(f)(1) Method 22 of appendix A to this part shall be used to determine the compliance of flares with the visible emission provisions of this subpart. The observation period is 2 hours and shall be used according to Method 22.

(2) The presence of a flare pilot flame shall be monitored using a thermocouple or any other equivalent device to detect the presence of a flame.

(3) The net heating value of the gas being combusted in a flare shall be calculated using the following equation:

(4) The actual exit velocity of a flare shall be determined by dividing the volumetric flowrate (in units of standard temperature and pressure), as determined by Reference Methods 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D as appropriate; by the unobstructed (free) cross sectional area of the flare tip.

(5) The maximum permitted velocity, V, for flares complying with paragraph (c)(4)(iii) shall be determined by the following equation.

(6) The maximum permitted velocity, V, for air-assisted flares shall be determined by the following equation.
