
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 60.18 General control device and work practice requirements.
####### Leak

(6)means:

(i) Any emissions imaged by the optical gas instrument;

(ii) Indications of liquids dripping;

(iii) Indications by a sensor that a seal or barrier fluid system has failed; or

(iv) Screening results using a 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, Method 21 monitor that exceed the leak definition in the applicable subpart to which the equipment is subject.

(h) The alternative work practice standard for monitoring equipment for leaks is available to all subparts in 40 CFR parts 60, 61, 63, and 65 that require monitoring of equipment with a 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, Method 21 monitor.

(1) An owner or operator of an affected source subject to CFR parts 60, 61, 63, or 65 can choose to comply with the alternative work practice requirements in paragraph (i) of this section instead of using the 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, Method 21 monitor to identify leaking equipment. The owner or operator must document the equipment, process units, and facilities for which the alternative work practice will be used to identify leaks.

(2) Any leak detected when following the leak survey procedure in paragraph (i)(3) of this section must be identified for repair as required in the applicable subpart.

(3) If the alternative work practice is used to identify leaks, re-screening after an attempted repair of leaking equipment must be conducted using either the alternative work practice or the 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, Method 21 monitor at the leak definition required in the applicable subpart to which the equipment is subject.

(4) The schedule for repair is as required in the applicable subpart.

(5) When this alternative work practice is used for detecting leaking equipment, choose one of the monitoring frequencies listed in Table 1 to subpart A of this part in lieu of the monitoring frequency specified for regulated equipment in the applicable subpart. Reduced monitoring frequencies for good performance are not applicable when using the alternative work practice.

(6) When this alternative work practice is used for detecting leaking equipment the following are not applicable for the equipment being monitored:

(i) Skip period leak detection and repair;

(ii) Quality improvement plans; or

(iii) Complying with standards for allowable percentage of valves and pumps to leak.

(7) When the alternative work practice is used to detect leaking equipment, the regulated equipment in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section must also be monitored annually using a 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, Method 21 monitor at the leak definition required in the applicable subpart. The owner or operator may choose the specific monitoring period (for example, first quarter) to conduct the annual monitoring. Subsequent monitoring must be conducted every 12 months from the initial period. Owners or operators must keep records of the annual Method 21 screening results, as specified in paragraph (i)(4)(vii) of this section.

(i) An owner or operator of an affected source who chooses to use the alternative work practice must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(5) of this section.

(1) Instrument Specifications. The optical gas imaging instrument must comply with the requirements in (i)(1)(i) and (i)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) Provide the operator with an image of the potential leak points for each piece of equipment at both the detection sensitivity level and within the distance used in the daily instrument check described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section. The detection sensitivity level depends upon the frequency at which leak monitoring is to be performed.

(ii) Provide a date and time stamp for video records of every monitoring event.

(2) Daily Instrument Check. On a daily basis, and prior to beginning any leak monitoring work, test the optical gas imaging instrument at the mass flow rate determined in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section in accordance with the procedure specified in paragraphs (i)(2)(ii) through (i)(2)(iv) of this section for each camera configuration used during monitoring (for example, different lenses used), unless an alternative method to demonstrate daily instrument checks has been approved in accordance with paragraph (i)(2)(v) of this section.

(i) Calculate the mass flow rate to be used in the daily instrument check by following the procedures in paragraphs (i)(2)(i)(A) and (i)(2)(i)(B) of this section.

(A) For a specified population of equipment to be imaged by the instrument, determine the piece of equipment in contact with the lowest mass fraction of chemicals that are detectable, within the distance to be used in paragraph (i)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, at or below the standard detection sensitivity level.

(B) Multiply the standard detection sensitivity level, corresponding to the selected monitoring frequency in Table 1 of subpart A of this part, by the mass fraction of detectable chemicals from the stream identified in paragraph (i)(2)(i)(A) of this section to determine the mass flow rate to be used in the daily instrument check, using the following equation.

(ii) Start the optical gas imaging instrument according to the manufacturer's instructions, ensuring that all appropriate settings conform to the manufacturer's instructions.

(iii) Use any gas chosen by the user that can be viewed by the optical gas imaging instrument and that has a purity of no less than 98 percent.

(iv) Establish a mass flow rate by using the following procedures:

(A) Provide a source of gas where it will be in the field of view of the optical gas imaging instrument.

(B) Set up the optical gas imaging instrument at a recorded distance from the outlet or leak orifice of the flow meter that will not be exceeded in the actual performance of the leak survey. Do not exceed the operating parameters of the flow meter.

(C) Open the valve on the flow meter to set a flow rate that will create a mass emission rate equal to the mass rate specified in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section while observing the gas flow through the optical gas imaging instrument viewfinder. When an image of the gas emission is seen through the viewfinder at the required emission rate, make a record of the reading on the flow meter.

(v) Repeat the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(2)(ii) through (i)(2)(iv) of this section for each configuration of the optical gas imaging instrument used during the leak survey.

(vi) To use an alternative method to demonstrate daily instrument checks, apply to the Administrator for approval of the alternative under ยง 60.13(i).

(3) Leak Survey Procedure. Operate the optical gas imaging instrument to image every regulated piece of equipment selected for this work practice in accordance with the instrument manufacturer's operating parameters. All emissions imaged by the optical gas imaging instrument are considered to be leaks and are subject to repair. All emissions visible to the naked eye are also considered to be leaks and are subject to repair.

(4) Recordkeeping. You must keep the records described in paragraphs (i)(4)(i) through (i)(4)(vii) of this section:

(i) The equipment, processes, and facilities for which the owner or operator chooses to use the alternative work practice.

(ii) The detection sensitivity level selected from Table 1 to subpart A of this part for the optical gas imaging instrument.

(iii) The analysis to determine the piece of equipment in contact with the lowest mass fraction of chemicals that are detectable, as specified in paragraph (i)(2)(i)(A) of this section.

(iv) The technical basis for the mass fraction of detectable chemicals used in the equation in paragraph (i)(2)(i)(B) of this section.

(v) The daily instrument check. Record the distance, per paragraph (i)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, and the flow meter reading, per paragraph (i)(2)(iv)(C) of this section, at which the leak was imaged. Keep a video record of the daily instrument check for each configuration of the optical gas imaging instrument used during the leak survey (for example, the daily instrument check must be conducted for each lens used). The video record must include a time and date stamp for each daily instrument check. The video record must be kept for 5 years.

(vi) Recordkeeping requirements in the applicable subpart. A video record must be used to document the leak survey results. The video record must include a time and date stamp for each monitoring event. A video record can be used to meet the recordkeeping requirements of the applicable subparts if each piece of regulated equipment selected for this work practice can be identified in the video record. The video record must be kept for 5 years.

(vii) The results of the annual Method 21 screening required in paragraph (h)(7) of this section. Records must be kept for all regulated equipment specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section. Records must identify the equipment screened, the screening value measured by Method 21, the time and date of the screening, and calibration information required in the existing applicable subpart.
