
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 60.19 General notification and reporting requirements.

(a) For the purposes of this part, time periods specified in days shall be measured in calendar days, even if the word "calendar" is absent, unless otherwise specified in an applicable requirement.

(b) For the purposes of this part, if an explicit postmark deadline is not specified in an applicable requirement for the submittal of a notification, application, report, or other written communication to the Administrator, the owner or operator shall postmark the submittal on or before the number of days specified in the applicable requirement. For example, if a notification must be submitted 15 days before a particular event is scheduled to take place, the notification shall be postmarked on or before 15 days preceding the event; likewise, if a notification must be submitted 15 days after a particular event takes place, the notification shall be delivered or postmarked on or before 15 days following the end of the event. The use of reliable non-Government mail carriers that provide indications of verifiable delivery of information required to be submitted to the Administrator, similar to the postmark provided by the U.S. Postal Service, or alternative means of delivery, including the use of electronic media, agreed to by the permitting authority, is acceptable.

(c) Notwithstanding time periods or postmark deadlines specified in this part for the submittal of information to the Administrator by an owner or operator, or the review of such information by the Administrator, such time periods or deadlines may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator. Procedures governing the implementation of this provision are specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(d) If an owner or operator of an affected facility in a State with delegated authority is required to submit periodic reports under this part to the State, and if the State has an established timeline for the submission of periodic reports that is consistent with the reporting frequency(ies) specified for such facility under this part, the owner or operator may change the dates by which periodic reports under this part shall be submitted (without changing the frequency of reporting) to be consistent with the State's schedule by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the State. The allowance in the previous sentence applies in each State beginning 1 year after the affected facility is required to be in compliance with the applicable subpart in this part. Procedures governing the implementation of this provision are specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(e) If an owner or operator supervises one or more stationary sources affected by standards set under this part and standards set under part 61, part 63, or both such parts of this chapter, he/she may arrange by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) a common schedule on which periodic reports required by each applicable standard shall be submitted throughout the year. The allowance in the previous sentence applies in each State beginning 1 year after the stationary source is required to be in compliance with the applicable subpart in this part, or 1 year after the stationary source is required to be in compliance with the applicable 40 CFR part 61 or part 63 of this chapter standard, whichever is latest. Procedures governing the implementation of this provision are specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(f)(1)(i) Until an adjustment of a time period or postmark deadline has been approved by the Administrator under paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected facility remains strictly subject to the requirements of this part.

(ii) An owner or operator shall request the adjustment provided for in paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section each time he or she wishes to change an applicable time period or postmark deadline specified in this part.

(2) Notwithstanding time periods or postmark deadlines specified in this part for the submittal of information to the Administrator by an owner or operator, or the review of such information by the Administrator, such time periods or deadlines may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator. An owner or operator who wishes to request a change in a time period or postmark deadline for a particular requirement shall request the adjustment in writing as soon as practicable before the subject activity is required to take place. The owner or operator shall include in the request whatever information he or she considers useful to convince the Administrator that an adjustment is warranted.

(3) If, in the Administrator's judgment, an owner or operator's request for an adjustment to a particular time period or postmark deadline is warranted, the Administrator will approve the adjustment. The Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing of approval or disapproval of the request for an adjustment within 15 calendar days of receiving sufficient information to evaluate the request.

(4) If the Administrator is unable to meet a specified deadline, he or she will notify the owner or operator of any significant delay and inform the owner or operator of the amended schedule.
