
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart B - Adoption and Submittal of State Plans for Designated Facilities
###### ยง 60.25 Emission inventories, source surveillance, reports.

(a) Each plan shall include an inventory of all designated facilities, including emission data for the designated pollutants and information related to emissions as specified in appendix D to this part. Such data shall be summarized in the plan, and emission rates of designated pollutants from designated facilities shall be correlated with applicable emission standards. As used in this subpart, "correlated" means presented in such a manner as to show the relationship between measured or estimated amounts of emissions and the amounts of such emissions allowable under applicable emission standards.

(b) Each plan shall provide for monitoring the status of compliance with applicable emission standards. Each plan shall, as a minimum, provide for:

(1) Legally enforceable procedures for requiring owners or operators of designated facilities to maintain records and periodically report to the State information on the nature and amount of emissions from such facilities, and/or such other information as may be necessary to enable the State to determine whether such facilities are in compliance with applicable portions of the plan. Submission of electronic documents shall comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 3-(Electronic reporting).

(2) Periodic inspection and, when applicable, testing of designated facilities.

(c) Each plan shall provide that information obtained by the State under paragraph (b) of this section shall be correlated with applicable emission standards (see ยง 60.25(a)) and made available to the general public.

(d) The provisions referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be specifically identified. Copies of such provisions shall be submitted with the plan unless:

(1) They have been approved as portions of a preceding plan submitted under this subpart or as portions of an implementation plan submitted under section 110 of the Act, and

(2) The State demonstrates:

(i) That the provisions are applicable to the designated pollutant(s) for which the plan is submitted, and

(ii) That the requirements of ยง 60.26 are met.

(e) The State shall submit reports on progress in plan enforcement to the Administrator on an annual (calendar year) basis, commencing with the first full report period after approval of a plan or after promulgation of a plan by the Administrator. Information required under this paragraph must be included in the annual report required by ยง 51.321 of this chapter.

(f) Each progress report shall include:

(1) Enforcement actions initiated against designated facilities during the reporting period, under any emission standard or compliance schedule of the plan.

(2) Identification of the achievement of any increment of progress required by the applicable plan during the reporting period.

(3) Identification of designated facilities that have ceased operation during the reporting period.

(4) Submission of emission inventory data as described in paragraph (a) of this section for designated facilities that were not in operation at the time of plan development but began operation during the reporting period.

(5) Submission of additional data as necessary to update the information submitted under paragraph (a) of this section or in previous progress reports.

(6) Submission of copies of technical reports on all performance testing on designated facilities conducted under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, complete with concurrently recorded process data.
