
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart B - Adoption and Submittal of State Plans for Designated Facilities
###### ยง 60.22 Publication of guideline documents, emission guidelines, and final compliance times.

(a) Concurrently upon or after proposal of standards of performance for the control of a designated pollutant from affected facilities, the Administrator will publish a draft guideline document containing information pertinent to control of the designated pollutant form designated facilities. Notice of the availability of the draft guideline document will be published in theand public comments on its contents will be invited. After consideration of public comments and upon or after promulgation of standards of performance for control of a designated pollutant from affected facilities, a final guideline document will be published and notice of its availability will be published in the

(b) Guideline documents published under this section will provide information for the development of State plans, such as:

(1) Information concerning known or suspected endangerment of public health or welfare caused, or contributed to, by the designated pollutant.

(2) A description of systems of emission reduction which, in the judgment of the Administrator, have been adequately demonstrated.

(3) Information on the degree of emission reduction which is achievable with each system, together with information on the costs and environmental effects of applying each system to designated facilities.

(4) Incremental periods of time normally expected to be necessary for the design, installation, and startup of identified control systems.

(5) An emission guideline that reflects the application of the best system of emission reduction (considering the cost of such reduction) that has been adequately demonstrated for designated facilities, and the time within which compliance with emission standards of equivalent stringency can be achieved. The Administrator will specify different emission guidelines or compliance times or both for different sizes, types, and classes of designated facilities when costs of control, physical limitations, geographical location, or similar factors make subcategorization appropriate. (6) Such other available information as the Administrator determines may contribute to the formulation of State plans.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the emission guidelines and compliance times referred to in paragraph (b)(5) of this section will be proposed for comment upon publication of the draft guideline document, and after consideration of comments will be promulgated in subpart C of this part with such modifications as may be appropriate.

(d)(1) If the Administrator determines that a designated pollutant may cause or contribute to endangerment of public welfare, but that adverse effects on public health have not been demonstrated, he will include the determination in the draft guideline document and in thenotice of its availability. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, paragraph (c) of this section shall be inapplicable in such cases.

(2) If the Administrator determines at any time on the basis of new information that a prior determination under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is incorrect or no longer correct, he will publish notice of the determination in therevise the guideline document as necessary under paragraph (a) of this section, and propose and promulgate emission guidelines and compliance times under paragraph (c) of this section.
