
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart B - Adoption and Submittal of State Plans for Designated Facilities
###### ยง 60.26 Legal authority.

(a) Each plan shall show that the State has legal authority to carry out the plan, including authority to:

(1) Adopt emission standards and compliance schedules applicable to designated facilities.

(2) Enforce applicable laws, regulations, standards, and compliance schedules, and seek injunctive relief.

(3) Obtain information necessary to determine whether designated facilities are in compliance with applicable laws, regulations, standards, and compliance schedules, including authority to require recordkeeping and to make inspections and conduct tests of designated facilities.

(4) Require owners or operators of designated facilities to install, maintain, and use emission monitoring devices and to make periodic reports to the State on the nature and amounts of emissions from such facilities; also authority for the State to make such data available to the public as reported and as correlated with applicable emission standards.

(b) The provisions of law or regulations which the State determines provide the authorities required by this section shall be specifically identified. Copies of such laws or regulations shall be submitted with the plan unless:

(1) They have been approved as portions of a preceding plan submitted under this subpart or as portions of an implementation plan submitted under section 110 of the Act, and

(2) The State demonstrates that the laws or regulations are applicable to the designated pollutant(s) for which the plan is submitted.

(c) The plan shall show that the legal authorities specified in this section are available to the State at the time of submission of the plan. Legal authority adequate to meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section may be delegated to the State under section 114 of the Act.

(d) A State governmental agency other than the State air pollution control agency may be assigned responsibility for carrying out a portion of a plan if the plan demonstrates to the Administrator's satisfaction that the State governmental agency has the legal authority necessary to carry out that portion of the plan.

(e) The State may authorize a local agency to carry out a plan, or portion thereof, within the local agency's jurisdiction if the plan demonstrates to the Administrator's satisfaction that the local agency has the legal authority necessary to implement the plan or portion thereof, and that the authorization does not relieve the State of responsibility under the Act for carrying out the plan or portion thereof.
