
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ba - Adoption and Submittal of State Plans for Designated Facilities
###### ยง 60.27a Actions by the Administrator.

(a) The Administrator may, whenever he determines necessary, shorten the period for submission of any plan or plan revision or portion thereof.

(b) After determination that a plan or plan revision is complete per the requirements of ยง 60.27a(g), the Administrator will take action on the plan or revision. The Administrator will, within twelve months of finding that a plan or plan revision is complete, approve or disapprove such plan or revision or each portion thereof.

(c) The Administrator will promulgate, through notice-and-comment rulemaking, a federal plan, or portion thereof, at any time within two years after the Administrator:

(1) Finds that a State fails to submit a required plan or plan revision or finds that the plan or plan revision does not satisfy the minimum criteria under paragraph (g) of this section; or

(2) Disapproves the required State plan or plan revision or any portion thereof, as unsatisfactory because the applicable requirements of this subpart or an applicable subpart under this part have not been met.

(d) The Administrator will promulgate a final federal plan as described in paragraph (c) of this section unless the State corrects the deficiency, and the Administrator approves the plan or plan revision, before the Administrator promulgates such federal plan.

(e)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a federal plan promulgated by the Administrator under this section will prescribe standards of performance of the same stringency as the corresponding emission guideline(s) specified in the final emission guideline published under ยง 60.22a(a) and will require compliance with such standards as expeditiously as practicable but no later than the times specified in the emission guideline.

(2) Upon application by the owner or operator of a designated facility to which regulations proposed and promulgated under this section will apply, the Administrator may provide for the application of less stringent standards of performance or longer compliance schedules than those otherwise required by this section in accordance with the criteria specified in ยง 60.24a(e).

(f) Prior to promulgation of a federal plan under paragraph (d) of this section, the Administrator will provide the opportunity for at least one public hearing in either:

(1) Each State that failed to submit a required complete plan or plan revision, or whose required plan or plan revision is disapproved by the Administrator; or

(2) Washington, DC or an alternate location specified in the.

(g) Each plan or plan revision that is submitted to the Administrator shall be reviewed for completeness as described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.
