
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ba - Adoption and Submittal of State Plans for Designated Facilities
###### ยง 60.24a Standards of performance and compliance schedules.

(a) Each plan shall include standards of performance and compliance schedules.

(b) Standards of performance shall either be based on allowable rate or limit of emissions, except when it is not feasible to prescribe or enforce a standard of performance. The EPA shall identify such cases in the emission guidelines issued under ยง 60.22a. Where standards of performance prescribing design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof are established, the plan shall, to the degree possible, set forth the emission reductions achievable by implementation of such standards, and may permit compliance by the use of equipment determined by the State to be equivalent to that prescribed.

(1) Test methods and procedures for determining compliance with the standards of performance shall be specified in the plan. Methods other than those specified in appendix A to this part or an applicable subpart of this part may be specified in the plan if shown to be equivalent or alternative methods as defined in ยง 60.2.

(2) Standards of performance shall apply to all designated facilities within the State. A plan may contain standards of performance adopted by local jurisdictions provided that the standards are enforceable by the State.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, standards of performance shall be no less stringent than the corresponding emission guideline(s) specified in subpart C of this part, and final compliance shall be required as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than the compliance times specified in an applicable subpart of this part.

(d) Any compliance schedule extending more than 24 months from the date required for submittal of the plan must include legally enforceable increments of progress to achieve compliance for each designated facility or category of facilities. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable subpart, increments of progress must include, where practicable, each increment of progress specified in ยง 60.21a(h) and must include such additional increments of progress as may be necessary to permit close and effective supervision of progress toward final compliance.

(e) In applying a standard of performance to a particular source, the State may take into consideration factors, such as the remaining useful life of such source, provided that the State demonstrates with respect to each such facility (or class of such facilities):

(1) Unreasonable cost of control resulting from plant age, location, or basic process design;

(2) Physical impossibility of installing necessary control equipment; or

(3) Other factors specific to the facility (or class of facilities) that make application of a less stringent standard or final compliance time significantly more reasonable.

(f) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to preclude any State or political subdivision thereof from adopting or enforcing:

(1) Standards of performance more stringent than emission guidelines specified in subpart C of this part or in applicable emission guidelines; or

(2) Compliance schedules requiring final compliance at earlier times than those specified in subpart C of this part or in applicable emission guidelines.
