
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Cb - Emissions Guidelines and Compliance Times for Large Municipal Waste Combustors That are Constructed on or Before September 20, 1994
###### § 60.39b Reporting and recordkeeping guidelines and compliance schedules.
####### 3

() The date prior to the day when the person assumes responsibilities affecting municipal waste combustor unit operation.

(5) A State plan shall require all designated facilities for which construction, modification, or reconstruction is commenced after June 26, 1987 to comply with the emission limit for mercury specified in § 60.33b(a)(3) and the emission limit for dioxins/furans specified in § 60.33b(c)(1) within 1 year following issuance of a revised construction or operation permit, if a permit modification is required, or within 1 year following approval of the State plan, whichever is later.

(d) In the event no plan for implementing the emission guidelines is approved by EPA, all designated facilities meeting the applicability requirements under § 60.32b shall be in compliance with all of the guidelines, except those specified under § 60.33b (a)(4), (b)(3), and (d)(3), no later than December 19, 2000.

(e) Not later than August 25, 1998, each State in which a designated facility is operating shall submit to EPA a plan to implement and enforce all provisions of this subpart specified in § 60.33b(b)(3) and (d)(3) and the emission limit in paragraph (a)(4) that applies before April 28, 2009.

(f) In the event no plan for implementing the emission guidelines is approved by EPA, all designated facilities meeting the applicability requirements under § 60.32b shall be in compliance with all of the guidelines, including those specified under § 60.33b (a)(4), (b)(3), and (d)(3), no later than August 26, 2002.

(g) For approval, a revised State plan submitted not later than April 28, 2007 in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, shall include compliance schedules for meeting the revised April 28, 2009 emission limits in § 60.33b(a), (c), and (d) and the revised testing provisions in § 60.38b(b).

(1) Compliance with the revised April 28, 2009 emission limits is required as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than April 28, 2009, except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility who is planning an extensive emission control system upgrade may petition the Administrator for a longer compliance schedule and must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator the need for the additional time. If approved, the schedule may exceed the schedule in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, but cannot exceed May 10, 2011.

(h) In the event no plan for implementing the emission guidelines is approved by EPA, all designated facilities meeting the applicability requirements under § 60.32b shall be in compliance with all of the guidelines, including the revised April 28, 2009 emission limits in §§ 60.33b(a), (b), (c), (d), and 60.34b(a), and the revised testing provisions in § 60.38b(b), no later than May 10, 2011.
