
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Cc - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills
###### § 60.33c Emission guidelines for municipal solid waste landfill emissions.

(a) For approval, a State plan shall include control of MSW landfill emissions at each MSW landfill meeting the following three conditions:

(1) The landfill has accepted waste at any time since November 8, 1987, or has additional design capacity available for future waste deposition;

(2) The landfill has a design capacity greater than or equal to 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters. The landfill may calculate design capacity in either megagrams or cubic meters for comparison with the exemption values. Any density conversions shall be documented and submitted with the design capacity report; and

(3) The landfill has a nonmethane organic compound emission rate of 50 megagrams per year or more.

(b) For approval, a State plan shall include the installation of a collection and control system meeting the conditions provided in § 60.752(b)(2)(ii) of this part at each MSW landfill meeting the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section. The State plan shall include a process for State review and approval of the site-specific design plans for the gas collection and control system(s).

(c) For approval, a State plan shall include provisions for the control of collected MSW landfill emissions through the use of control devices meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, except as provided in § 60.24.

(1) An open flare designed and operated in accordance with the parameters established in § 60.18; or

(2) A control system designed and operated to reduce NMOC by 98 weight percent; or

(3) An enclosed combustor designed and operated to reduce the outlet NMOC concentration to 20 parts per million as hexane by volume, dry basis at 3 percent oxygen, or less.

(d) For approval, a State plan shall require each owner or operator of an MSW landfill having a design capacity less than 2.5 million megagrams by mass or 2.5 million cubic meters by volume to submit an initial design capacity report to the Administrator as provided in § 60.757(a)(2) of subpart WWW by the date specified in § 60.35c of this subpart. The landfill may calculate design capacity in either megagrams or cubic meters for comparison with the exemption values. Any density conversions shall be documented and submitted with the report. Submittal of the initial design capacity report shall fulfill the requirements of this subpart except as provided in paragraph (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall submit an amended design capacity report as provided in § 60.757(a)(3) of subpart WWW. [Guidance: Note that if the design capacity increase is the result of a modification, as defined in § 60.751 of subpart WWW, that was commenced on or after May 30, 1991, the landfill will become subject to subpart WWW instead of this subpart. If the design capacity increase is the result of a change in operating practices, density, or some other change that is not a modification, the landfill remains subject to this subpart.]

(2) When an increase in the maximum design capacity of a landfill with an initial design capacity less than 2.5 million megagrams or 2.5 million cubic meters results in a revised maximum design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (e) of this section.

(e) For approval, a State plan shall require each owner or operator of an MSW landfill having a design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters to either install a collection and control system as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and § 60.752(b)(2) of subpart WWW or calculate an initial NMOC emission rate for the landfill using the procedures specified in § 60.34c of this subpart and § 60.754 of subpart WWW. The NMOC emission rate shall be recalculated annually, except as provided in § 60.757(b)(1)(ii) of subpart WWW.

(1) If the calculated NMOC emission rate is less than 50 megagrams per year, the owner or operator shall:

(i) Submit an annual emission report, except as provided for in § 60.757(b)(1)(ii); and

(ii) Recalculate the NMOC emission rate annually using the procedures specified in § 60.754(a)(1) of subpart WWW until such time as the calculated NMOC emission rate is equal to or greater than 50 megagrams per year, or the landfill is closed.

(2)(i) If the NMOC emission rate, upon initial calculation or annual recalculation required in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, is equal to or greater than 50 megagrams per year, the owner or operator shall install a collection and control system as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and § 60.752(b)(2) of subpart WWW.

(ii) If the landfill is permanently closed, a closure notification shall be submitted to the Administrator as provided in § 60.35c of this subpart and § 60.757(d) of subpart WWW.
