
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ce - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators
###### § 60.32e Designated facilities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section, the designated facility to which the guidelines apply is each individual HMIWI:

(1) For which construction was commenced on or before June 20, 1996, or for which modification was commenced on or before March 16, 1998.

(2) For which construction was commenced after June 20, 1996 but no later than December 1, 2008, or for which modification is commenced after March 16, 1998 but no later than April 6, 2010.

(b) A combustor is not subject to this subpart during periods when only pathological waste, low-level radioactive waste, and/or chemotherapeutic waste (all defined in § 60.51c) is burned, provided the owner or operator of the combustor:

(1) Notifies the Administrator of an exemption claim; and

(2) Keeps records on a calendar quarter basis of the periods of time when only pathological waste, low-level radioactive waste, and/or chemotherapeutic waste is burned.

(c) Any co-fired combustor (defined in § 60.51c) is not subject to this subpart if the owner or operator of the co-fired combustor:

(1) Notifies the Administrator of an exemption claim;

(2) Provides an estimate of the relative weight of hospital waste, medical/infectious waste, and other fuels and/or wastes to be combusted; and

(3) Keeps records on a calendar quarter basis of the weight of hospital waste and medical/infectious waste combusted, and the weight of all other fuels and wastes combusted at the co-fired combustor.

(d) Any combustor required to have a permit under Section 3005 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act is not subject to this subpart.

(e) Any combustor which meets the applicability requirements under subpart Cb, Ea, or Eb of this part (standards or guidelines for certain municipal waste combustors) is not subject to this subpart.

(f) Any pyrolysis unit (defined in § 60.51c) is not subject to this subpart.

(g) Cement kilns firing hospital waste and/or medical/infectious waste are not subject to this subpart.

(h) Physical or operational changes made to an existing HMIWI unit solely for the purpose of complying with emission guidelines under this subpart are not considered a modification and do not result in an existing HMIWI unit becoming subject to the provisions of subpart Ec (see § 60.50c).

(i) Beginning September 15, 2000, or on the effective date of an EPA approved operating permit program under Clean Air Act title V and the implementing regulations under 40 CFR part 70 in the State in which the unit is located, whichever date is later, designated facilities subject to this subpart shall operate pursuant to a permit issued under the EPA-approved operating permit program.

(j) The requirements of this subpart as promulgated on September 15, 1997, shall apply to the designated facilities defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section until the applicable compliance date of the requirements of this subpart, as amended on October 6, 2009. Upon the compliance date of the requirements of this subpart, designated facilities as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are no longer subject to the requirements of this subpart, as promulgated on September 15, 1997, but are subject to the requirements of this subpart, as amended on October 6, 2009.

(k) The authorities listed under § 60.50c(i) shall be retained by the Administrator and not be transferred to a state.
