
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ce - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators
###### § 60.37e Compliance, performance testing, and monitoring guidelines.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, for approval, a State plan shall include the requirements for compliance and performance testing listed in § 60.56c of subpart Ec of this part, with the following exclusions:

(1) For a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(1) subject to the emissions limits in § 60.33e(a)(1), the test methods listed in § 60.56c(b)(7) and (8), the fugitive emissions testing requirements under § 60.56c(b)(14) and (c)(3), the CO CEMS requirements under § 60.56c(c)(4), and the compliance requirements for monitoring listed in § 60.56c(c)(5)(ii) through (v), (c)(6), (c)(7), (e)(6) through (10), (f)(7) through (10), (g)(6) through (10), and (h).

(2) For a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(1) and (a)(2) subject to the emissions limits in § 60.33e(a)(2) and (a)(3), the annual fugitive emissions testing requirements under § 60.56c(c)(3), the CO CEMS requirements under § 60.56c(c)(4), and the compliance requirements for monitoring listed in § 60.56c(c)(5)(ii) through (v), (c)(6), (c)(7), (e)(6) through (10), (f)(7) through (10), and (g)(6) through (10). Sources subject to the emissions limits under § 60.33e(a)(2) and (a)(3) may, however, elect to use CO CEMS as specified under § 60.56c(c)(4) or bag leak detection systems as specified under § 60.57c(h).

(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, for approval, a State plan shall require each small HMIWI subject to the emissions limits under § 60.33e(b) to meet the performance testing requirements listed in § 60.56c of subpart Ec of this part. The 2,000 lb/week limitation under § 60.33e(b) does not apply during performance tests.

(1) For a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(1) subject to the emissions limits under § 60.33e(b)(1), the test methods listed in § 60.56c(b)(7), (8), (12), (13) (Pb and Cd), and (14), the annual PM, CO, and HCl emissions testing requirements under § 60.56c(c)(2), the annual fugitive emissions testing requirements under § 60.56c(c)(3), the CO CEMS requirements under § 60.56c(c)(4), and the compliance requirements for monitoring listed in § 60.56c(c)(5) through (7), and (d) through (k) do not apply.

(2) For a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(2) subject to the emissions limits under § 60.33e(b)(2), the annual fugitive emissions testing requirements under § 60.56c(c)(3), the CO CEMS requirements under § 60.56c(c)(4), and the compliance requirements for monitoring listed in § 60.56c(c)(5)(ii) through (v), (c)(6), (c)(7), (e)(6) through (10), (f)(7) through (10), and (g)(6) through (10) do not apply. Sources subject to the emissions limits under § 60.33e(b)(2) may, however, elect to use CO CEMS as specified under § 60.56c(c)(4) or bag leak detection systems as specified under § 60.57c(h).

(c) For approval, a State plan shall require each small HMIWI subject to the emissions limits under § 60.33e(b) that is not equipped with an air pollution control device to meet the following compliance and performance testing requirements:

(1) Establish maximum charge rate and minimum secondary chamber temperature as site-specific operating parameters during the initial performance test to determine compliance with applicable emission limits.

(2) Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, ensure that the designated facility does not operate above the maximum charge rate or below the minimum secondary chamber temperature measured as 3-hour rolling averages (calculated each hour as the average of the previous 3 operating hours) at all times. Operating parameter limits do not apply during performance tests. Operation above the maximum charge rate or below the minimum secondary chamber temperature shall constitute a violation of the established operating parameter(s).

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, operation of the designated facility above the maximum charge rate and below the minimum secondary chamber temperature (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the PM, CO, and dioxin/furan emissions limits.

(4) The owner or operator of a designated facility may conduct a repeat performance test within 30 days of violation of applicable operating parameter(s) to demonstrate that the designated facility is not in violation of the applicable emissions limit(s). Repeat performance tests conducted pursuant to this paragraph must be conducted under process and control device operating conditions duplicating as nearly as possible those that indicated a violation under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(d) For approval, a State plan shall include the requirements for monitoring listed in § 60.57c of subpart Ec of this part for HMIWI subject to the emissions limits under § 60.33e(a) and (b), except as provided for under paragraph (e) of this section.

(e) For approval, a State plan shall require small HMIWI subject to the emissions limits under § 60.33e(b) that are not equipped with an air pollution control device to meet the following monitoring requirements:

(1) Install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate a device for measuring and recording the temperature of the secondary chamber on a continuous basis, the output of which shall be recorded, at a minimum, once every minute throughout operation.

(2) Install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate a device which automatically measures and records the date, time, and weight of each charge fed into the HMIWI.

(3) The owner or operator of a designated facility shall obtain monitoring data at all times during HMIWI operation except during periods of monitoring equipment malfunction, calibration, or repair. At a minimum, valid monitoring data shall be obtained for 75 percent of the operating hours per day for 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter that the designated facility is combusting hospital waste and/or medical/infectious waste.

(f) The owner or operator of a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(1) or (a)(2) subject to emissions limits under § 60.33e(a)(2), (a)(3), or (b)(2) may use the results of previous emissions tests to demonstrate compliance with the emissions limits, provided that the conditions in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section are met:

(1) The designated facility's previous emissions tests must have been conducted using the applicable procedures and test methods listed in § 60.56c(b) of subpart Ec of this part. Previous emissions test results obtained using EPA-accepted voluntary consensus standards are also acceptable.
