
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ce - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators
###### § 60.33e Emissions guidelines.

(a) For approval, a State plan shall include the requirements for emissions limits at least as protective as the following requirements, as applicable:

(1) For a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(1) subject to the emissions guidelines as promulgated on September 15, 1997, the requirements listed in Table 1A of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) For a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(1) subject to the emissions guidelines as amended on October 6, 2009, the requirements listed in Table 1B of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) For a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(2), the more stringent of the requirements listed in Table 1B of this subpart and Table 1A of subpart Ec of this part.

(b) For approval, a State plan shall include the requirements for emissions limits for any small HMIWI constructed on or before June 20, 1996, which is located more than 50 miles from the boundary of the nearest Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (defined in § 60.31e) and which burns less than 2,000 pounds per week of hospital waste and medical/infectious waste that are at least as protective as the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, as applicable. The 2,000 lb/week limitation does not apply during performance tests.

(1) For a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(1) subject to the emissions guidelines as promulgated on September 15, 1997, the requirements listed in Table 2A of this subpart.

(2) For a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(1) subject to the emissions guidelines as amended on October 6, 2009, the requirements listed in Table 2B of this subpart.

(c) For approval, a State plan shall include the requirements for stack opacity at least as protective as the following, as applicable:

(1) For a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(1) subject to the emissions guidelines as promulgated on September 15, 1997, the requirements in § 60.52c(b)(1) of subpart Ec of this part.

(2) For a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(1) subject to the emissions guidelines as amended on October 6, 2009 and a designated facility as defined in § 60.32e(a)(2), the requirements in § 60.52c(b)(2) of subpart Ec of this part.
