
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Cf - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills
###### § 60.30f Scope and delegated authorities.

This subpart establishes Emission Guidelines and compliance times for the control of designated pollutants from certain designated municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills in accordance with section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act and subpart B of this part.

(a) If you are the Administrator of an air quality program in a state or United States protectorate with one or more existing MSW landfills that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction on or before July 17, 2014, you must submit a state plan to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that implements the Emission Guidelines contained in this subpart. The requirements for state and federal plans are specified in subpart B of this part with the exception that §§ 60.23 and 60.27 will not apply. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 60.20a(a) in subpart Ba of this part, the requirements of §§ 60.23a and 60.27a will apply for state plans submitted after September 6, 2019, and federal plans, except that the requirements of § 60.23a(a)(1) will apply to a notice of availability of a final guideline document that was published under § 60.22(a). Likewise, the requirements of § 60.27a(e)(1) will refer to a final guideline document that was published under § 60.22(a).

(b) You must submit a state plan to the EPA by August 29, 2019.

(c) The following authorities will not be delegated to state, local, or tribal agencies:

(1) Approval of alternative methods to determine the NMOC concentration or a site-specific methane generation rate constant (k).

(2) [Reserved]
