
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart D - Standards of Performance for Fossil-Fuel-Fired Steam Generators
###### § 60.45 Emissions and fuel monitoring.
####### i.e.

(A) The owner or operator shall conduct 10 minute observations (during normal operation) each operating day the affected facility fires fuel for which an opacity standard is applicable using Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part and demonstrate that the sum of the occurrences of any visible emissions is not in excess of 5 percent of the observation period (, 30 seconds per 10 minute period). If the sum of the occurrence of any visible emissions is greater than 30 seconds during the initial 10 minute observation, immediately conduct a 30 minute observation. If the sum of the occurrence of visible emissions is greater than 5 percent of the observation period (i.e., 90 seconds per 30 minute period), the owner or operator shall either document and adjust the operation of the facility and demonstrate within 24 hours that the sum of the occurrence of visible emissions is equal to or less than 5 percent during a 30 minute observation (i.e., 90 seconds) or conduct a new Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test using the procedures in paragraph (b)(7) of this section within 45 calendar days according to the requirements in § 60.46(b)(3).

(B) If no visible emissions are observed for 10 operating days during which an opacity standard is applicable, observations can be reduced to once every 7 operating days during which an opacity standard is applicable. If any visible emissions are observed, daily observations shall be resumed.

(iii) If the maximum 6-minute opacity is less than 10 percent during the most recent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test, the owner or operator may, as an alternative to performing subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 performance tests, elect to perform subsequent monitoring using a digital opacity compliance system according to a site-specific monitoring plan approved by the Administrator. The observations shall be similar, but not necessarily identical, to the requirements in paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section. For reference purposes in preparing the monitoring plan, see OAQPS "Determination of Visible Emission Opacity from Stationary Sources Using Computer-Based Photographic Analysis Systems." This document is available from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA); Office of Air Quality and Planning Standards; Sector Policies and Programs Division; Measurement Policy Group (D243-02), Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. This document is also available on the Technology Transfer Network (TTN) under Emission Measurement Center Preliminary Methods.

(8) A COMS for measuring the opacity of emissions is not required for an affected facility at which the owner or operator installs, calibrates, operates, and maintains a particulate matter continuous parametric monitoring system (PM CPMS) according to the requirements specified in subpart UUUUU of part 63.

(c) For performance evaluations under § 60.13(c) and calibration checks under § 60.13(d), the following procedures shall be used:

(1) Methods 6, 7, and 3B of appendix A of this part, as applicable, shall be used for the performance evaluations of SOand NOcontinuous monitoring systems. Acceptable alternative methods for Methods 6, 7, and 3B of appendix A of this part are given in § 60.46(d).

(2) Sulfur dioxide or nitric oxide, as applicable, shall be used for preparing calibration gas mixtures under Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part.

(3) For affected facilities burning fossil fuel(s), the span value for a continuous monitoring system measuring the opacity of emissions shall be 80, 90, or 100 percent. For a continuous monitoring system measuring sulfur oxides or NOthe span value shall be determined using one of the following procedures:

(i) Except as provided under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, SOand NOspan values shall be determined as follows:

(ii) As an alternative to meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected facility may elect to use the SOand NOspan values determined according to sections 2.1.1 and 2.1.2 in appendix A to part 75 of this chapter.

(4) All span values computed under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section for burning combinations of fossil fuels shall be rounded to the nearest 500 ppm. Span values that are computed under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section shall be rounded off according to the applicable procedures in section 2 of appendix A to part 75 of this chapter.

(5) For a fossil-fuel-fired steam generator that simultaneously burns fossil fuel and nonfossil fuel, the span value of all CEMS shall be subject to the Administrator's approval.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) For any CEMS installed under paragraph (a) of this section, the following conversion procedures shall be used to convert the continuous monitoring data into units of the applicable standards (ng/J, lb/MMBtu):

(1) When a CEMS for measuring Ois selected, the measurement of the pollutant concentration and Oconcentration shall each be on a consistent basis (wet or dry). Alternative procedures approved by the Administrator shall be used when measurements are on a wet basis. When measurements are on a dry basis, the following conversion procedure shall be used:

(2) When a CEMS for measuring COis selected, the measurement of the pollutant concentration and COconcentration shall each be on a consistent basis (wet or dry) and the following conversion procedure shall be used:

(f) The values used in the equations under paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section are derived as follows:

(1) E = pollutant emissions, ng/J (lb/MMBtu).

(2) C = pollutant concentration, ng/dscm (lb/dscf), determined by multiplying the average concentration (ppm) for each one-hour period by 4.15 x 10M ng/dscm per ppm (2.59 x 10M lb/dscf per ppm) where M = pollutant molecular weight, g/g-mole (lb/lb-mole). M = 64.07 for SOand 46.01 for NO.

(3) %O, %CO= Oor COvolume (expressed as percent), determined with equipment specified under paragraph (a) of this section.

(4) F, F= a factor representing a ratio of the volume of dry flue gases generated to the calorific value of the fuel combusted (F), and a factor representing a ratio of the volume of COgenerated to the calorific value of the fuel combusted (F), respectively. Values of F and Fare given as follows:

(i) For anthracite coal as classified according to ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), F = 2,723 x 10dscm/J (10,140 dscf/MMBtu) and F= 0.532 x 10scm CO/J (1,980 scf CO/MMBtu).

(ii) For subbituminous and bituminous coal as classified according to ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), F = 2.637 x 10dscm/J (9,820 dscf/MMBtu) and F= 0.486 x 10scm CO/J (1,810 scf CO/MMBtu).

(iii) For liquid fossil fuels including crude, residual, and distillate oils, F = 2.476 x 10dscm/J (9,220 dscf/MMBtu) and F= 0.384 x 10scm CO/J (1,430 scf CO/MMBtu).

(iv) For gaseous fossil fuels, F = 2.347 x 10dscm/J (8,740 dscf/MMBtu). For natural gas, propane, and butane fuels, F= 0.279 x 10scm CO/J (1,040 scf CO/MMBtu) for natural gas, 0.322 x 10scm CO/J (1,200 scf CO/MMBtu) for propane, and 0.338 x 10scm CO/J (1,260 scf CO/MMBtu) for butane.

(v) For bark F = 2.589 x 10dscm/J (9,640 dscf/MMBtu) and F= 0.500 x 10scm CO/J (1,840 scf CO/MMBtu). For wood residue other than bark F = 2.492 x 10dscm/J (9,280 dscf/MMBtu) and F= 0.494 x 10scm CO/J (1,860 scf CO/MMBtu).

(vi) For lignite coal as classified according to ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), F = 2.659 x 10dscm/J (9,900 dscf/MMBtu) and F= 0.516 x 10scm CO/J (1,920 scf CO/MMBtu).

(5) The owner or operator may use the following equation to determine an F factor (dscm/J or dscf/MMBtu) on a dry basis (if it is desired to calculate F on a wet basis, consult the Administrator) or Fc factor (scm CO/J, or scf CO/MMBtu) on either basis in lieu of the F or Ffactors specified in paragraph (f)(4) of this section:

(i) %H, %C, %S, %N, and %O are content by weight of hydrogen, carbon, sulfur, nitrogen, and O(expressed as percent), respectively, as determined on the same basis as GCV by ultimate analysis of the fuel fired, using ASTM D3178 or D3176 (solid fuels), or computed from results using ASTM D1137, D1945, or D1946 (gaseous fuels) as applicable. (These five methods are incorporated by reference, see § 60.17.)

(ii) GVC is the gross calorific value (kJ/kg, Btu/lb) of the fuel combusted determined by the ASTM test methods D2015 or D5865 for solid fuels and D1826 for gaseous fuels as applicable. (These three methods are incorporated by reference, see § 60.17.)

(iii) For affected facilities which fire both fossil fuels and nonfossil fuels, the F or Fc value shall be subject to the Administrator's approval.

(6) For affected facilities firing combinations of fossil fuels or fossil fuels and wood residue, the F or Fc factors determined by paragraphs (f)(4) or (f)(5) of this section shall be prorated in accordance with the applicable formula as follows:

(g) Excess emission and monitoring system performance reports shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually for each six-month period in the calendar year. All semiannual reports shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each six-month period. Each excess emission and MSP report shall include the information required in § 60.7(c). Periods of excess emissions and monitoring systems (MS) downtime that shall be reported are defined as follows:
