
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart D - Standards of Performance for Fossil-Fuel-Fired Steam Generators
###### § 60.45 Emissions and fuel monitoring.
####### Particulate matter.

(4)Excess emissions for affected facilities using a CEMS for measuring PM are defined as any boiler operating day period during which the average emissions (arithmetic average of all operating one-hour periods) exceed the applicable standards in § 60.42. Affected facilities using PM CEMS must follow the most current applicable compliance and monitoring provisions in §§ 60.48Da and 60.49Da of subpart Da of this part.

(h) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the opacity limits in § 60.42 that elects to monitor emissions according to the requirements in § 60.45(b)(7) shall maintain records according to the requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable to the visible emissions monitoring method used.

(1) For each performance test conducted using Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part, the owner or operator shall keep the records including the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Dates and time intervals of all opacity observation periods;

(ii) Name, affiliation, and copy of current visible emission reading certification for each visible emission observer participating in the performance test; and

(iii) Copies of all visible emission observer opacity field data sheets;

(2) For each performance test conducted using Method 22 of appendix A-4 of this part, the owner or operator shall keep the records including the information specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Dates and time intervals of all visible emissions observation periods;

(ii) Name and affiliation for each visible emission observer participating in the performance test;

(iii) Copies of all visible emission observer opacity field data sheets; and

(iv) Documentation of any adjustments made and the time the adjustments were completed to the affected facility operation by the owner or operator to demonstrate compliance with the applicable monitoring requirements.

(3) For each digital opacity compliance system, the owner or operator shall maintain records and submit reports according to the requirements specified in the site-specific monitoring plan approved by the Administrator.
