
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart D - Standards of Performance for Fossil-Fuel-Fired Steam Generators
###### § 60.45 Emissions and fuel monitoring.

(a) Each owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the applicable emissions standard shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS) for measuring opacity and a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) for measuring SOemissions, NOemissions, and either oxygen (O) or carbon dioxide (CO) except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) Certain of the CEMS and COMS requirements under paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to owners or operators under the following conditions:

(1) For a fossil-fuel-fired steam generator that combusts only gaseous or liquid fossil fuel (excluding residual oil) with potential SOemissions rates of 26 ng/J (0.060 lb/MMBtu) or less and that does not use post-combustion technology to reduce emissions of SOor PM, COMS for measuring the opacity of emissions and CEMS for measuring SOemissions are not required if the owner or operator monitors SOemissions by fuel sampling and analysis or fuel receipts.

(2) For a fossil-fuel-fired steam generator that does not use a flue gas desulfurization device, a CEMS for measuring SOemissions is not required if the owner or operator monitors SOemissions by fuel sampling and analysis.

(3) Notwithstanding § 60.13(b), installation of a CEMS for NOmay be delayed until after the initial performance tests under § 60.8 have been conducted. If the owner or operator demonstrates during the performance test that emissions of NOare less than 70 percent of the applicable standards in § 60.44, a CEMS for measuring NOemissions is not required. If the initial performance test results show that NOemissions are greater than 70 percent of the applicable standard, the owner or operator shall install a CEMS for NOwithin one year after the date of the initial performance tests under § 60.8 and comply with all other applicable monitoring requirements under this part.

(4) If an owner or operator is not required to and elects not to install any CEMS for either SOor NO, a CEMS for measuring either Oor COis not required.

(5) For affected facilities using a PM CEMS, a bag leak detection system to monitor the performance of a fabric filter (baghouse) according to the most current requirements in § 60.48Da of this part, or an ESP predictive model to monitor the performance of the ESP developed in accordance and operated according to the most current requirements in section § 60.48Da of this part a COMS is not required.

(6) A COMS for measuring the opacity of emissions is not required for an affected facility that does not use post-combustion technology (except a wet scrubber) for reducing PM, SO, or carbon monoxide (CO) emissions, burns only gaseous fuels or fuel oils that contain less than or equal to 0.30 weight percent sulfur, and is operated such that emissions of CO to the atmosphere from the affected source are maintained at levels less than or equal to 0.15 lb/MMBtu on a boiler operating day average basis. Owners and operators of affected sources electing to comply with this paragraph must demonstrate compliance according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) You must monitor CO emissions using a CEMS according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) The CO CEMS must be installed, certified, maintained, and operated according to the provisions in § 60.58b(i)(3) of subpart Eb of this part.

(B) Each 1-hour CO emissions average is calculated using the data points generated by the CO CEMS expressed in parts per million by volume corrected to 3 percent oxygen (dry basis).

(C) At a minimum, valid 1-hour CO emissions averages must be obtained for at least 90 percent of the operating hours on a 30-day rolling average basis. The 1-hour averages are calculated using the data points required in § 60.13(h)(2).

(D) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests for the CO CEMS must be performed in accordance with procedure 1 in appendix F of this part.

(ii) You must calculate the 1-hour average CO emissions levels for each boiler operating day by multiplying the average hourly CO output concentration measured by the CO CEMS times the corresponding average hourly flue gas flow rate and divided by the corresponding average hourly heat input to the affected source. The 24-hour average CO emission level is determined by calculating the arithmetic average of the hourly CO emission levels computed for each boiler operating day.

(iii) You must evaluate the preceding 24-hour average CO emission level each boiler operating day excluding periods of affected source startup, shutdown, or malfunction. If the 24-hour average CO emission level is greater than 0.15 lb/MMBtu, you must initiate investigation of the relevant equipment and control systems within 24 hours of the first discovery of the high emission incident and, take the appropriate corrective action as soon as practicable to adjust control settings or repair equipment to reduce the 24-hour average CO emission level to 0.15 lb/MMBtu or less.

(iv) You must record the CO measurements and calculations performed according to paragraph (b)(6) of this section and any corrective actions taken. The record of corrective action taken must include the date and time during which the 24-hour average CO emission level was greater than 0.15 lb/MMBtu, and the date, time, and description of the corrective action.

(7) An owner or operator of an affected facility subject to an opacity standard under § 60.42 that elects to not use a COMS because the affected facility burns only fuels as specified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, monitors PM emissions as specified under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, or monitors CO emissions as specified under paragraph (b)(6) of this section, shall conduct a performance test using Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part and the procedures in § 60.11 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable limit in § 60.42 by April 29, 2011 or within 45 days after stopping use of an existing COMS, whichever is later, and shall comply with either paragraph (b)(7)(i), (b)(7)(ii), or (b)(7)(iii) of this section. The observation period for Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance tests may be reduced from 3 hours to 60 minutes if all 6-minute averages are less than 10 percent and all individual 15-second observations are less than or equal to 20 percent during the initial 60 minutes of observation. The permitting authority may exempt owners or operators of affected facilities burning only natural gas from the opacity monitoring requirements.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(7)(ii) or (b)(7)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall conduct subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance tests using the procedures in paragraph (b)(7) of this section according to the applicable schedule in paragraphs (b)(7)(i)(A) through (b)(7)(i)(D) of this section, as determined by the most recent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test results.

(A) If no visible emissions are observed, a subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test must be completed within 12 calendar months from the date that the most recent performance test was conducted or within 45 days of the next day that fuel with an opacity standard is combusted, whichever is later;

(B) If visible emissions are observed but the maximum 6-minute average opacity is less than or equal to 5 percent, a subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test must be completed within 6 calendar months from the date that the most recent performance test was conducted or within 45 days of the next day that fuel with an opacity standard is combusted, whichever is later;

(C) If the maximum 6-minute average opacity is greater than 5 percent but less than or equal to 10 percent, a subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test must be completed within 3 calendar months from the date that the most recent performance test was conducted or within 45 days of the next day that fuel with an opacity standard is combusted, whichever is later; or

(D) If the maximum 6-minute average opacity is greater than 10 percent, a subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test must be completed within 45 calendar days from the date that the most recent performance test was conducted.

(ii) If the maximum 6-minute opacity is less than 10 percent during the most recent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test, the owner or operator may, as an alternative to performing subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test, elect to perform subsequent monitoring using Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
