
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart D - Standards of Performance for Fossil-Fuel-Fired Steam Generators
###### ยง 60.42 Standard for particulate matter (PM).

(a) Except as provided under paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section, on and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by ยง 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases that:

(1) Contain PM in excess of 43 nanograms per joule (ng/J) heat input (0.10 lb/MMBtu) derived from fossil fuel or fossil fuel and wood residue.

(2) Exhibit greater than 20 percent opacity except for one six-minute period per hour of not more than 27 percent opacity.

(b)(1) On or after December 28, 1979, no owner or operator shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the Southwestern Public Service Company's Harrington Station #1, in Amarillo, TX, any gases which exhibit greater than 35 percent opacity, except that a maximum or 42 percent opacity shall be permitted for not more than 6 minutes in any hour.

(2) Interstate Power Company shall not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from its Lansing Station Unit No. 4 in Lansing, IA, any gases which exhibit greater than 32 percent opacity, except that a maximum of 39 percent opacity shall be permitted for not more than six minutes in any hour.

(c) As an alternate to meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, an owner or operator that elects to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS) for measuring PM emissions can petition the Administrator (in writing) to comply with ยง 60.42Da(a) of subpart Da of this part. If the Administrator grants the petition, the source will from then on (unless the unit is modified or reconstructed in the future) have to comply with the requirements in ยง 60.42Da(a) of subpart Da of this part.

(d) An owner or operator of an affected facility that combusts only natural gas is exempt from the PM and opacity standards specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) An owner or operator of an affected facility that combusts only gaseous or liquid fossil fuel (excluding residual oil) with potential SOemissions rates of 26 ng/J (0.060 lb/MMBtu) or less and that does not use post-combustion technology to reduce emissions of SOor PM is exempt from the PM standards specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
