
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart D - Standards of Performance for Fossil-Fuel-Fired Steam Generators
###### § 60.42 Standard for particulate matter (PM).
############# § 60.44 Standard for nitrogen oxides (NO).

(a) Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, on and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases that contain NO, expressed as NOin excess of:

(1) 86 ng/J heat input (0.20 lb/MMBtu) derived from gaseous fossil fuel.

(2) 129 ng/J heat input (0.30 lb/MMBtu) derived from liquid fossil fuel, liquid fossil fuel and wood residue, or gaseous fossil fuel and wood residue.

(3) 300 ng/J heat input (0.70 lb/MMBtu) derived from solid fossil fuel or solid fossil fuel and wood residue (except lignite or a solid fossil fuel containing 25 percent, by weight, or more of coal refuse).

(4) 260 ng/J heat input (0.60 lb MMBtu) derived from lignite or lignite and wood residue (except as provided under paragraph (a)(5) of this section).

(5) 340 ng/J heat input (0.80 lb MMBtu) derived from lignite which is mined in North Dakota, South Dakota, or Montana and which is burned in a cyclone-fired unit.

(b) Except as provided under paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, when different fossil fuels are burned simultaneously in any combination, the applicable standard (in ng/J) is determined by proration using the following formula:

(c) When a fossil fuel containing at least 25 percent, by weight, of coal refuse is burned in combination with gaseous, liquid, or other solid fossil fuel or wood residue, the standard for NOdoes not apply.

(d) Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, cyclone-fired units which burn fuels containing at least 25 percent of lignite that is mined in North Dakota, South Dakota, or Montana remain subject to paragraph (a)(5) of this section regardless of the types of fuel combusted in combination with that lignite.

(e) As an alternate to meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (d) of this section, an owner or operator can petition the Administrator (in writing) to comply with § 60.44Da(e)(3) of subpart Da of this part. If the Administrator grants the petition, the source will from then on (unless the unit is modified or reconstructed in the future) have to comply with the requirements in § 60.44Da(e)(3) of subpart Da of this part.
