
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart D - Standards of Performance for Fossil-Fuel-Fired Steam Generators
###### § 60.46 Test methods and procedures.

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, and subsequent performance tests as requested by the EPA Administrator, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b). Acceptable alternative methods and procedures are given in paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the PM, SO, and NOstandards in §§ 60.42, 60.43, and 60.44 as follows:

(1) The emission rate (E) of PM, SO, or NOshall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(2) Method 5 of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the PM concentration (C) at affected facilities without wet flue-gas-desulfurization (FGD) systems and Method 5B of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the PM concentration (C) after FGD systems.

(i) The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf). The probe and filter holder heating systems in the sampling train shall be set to provide an average gas temperature of 160+/-14 &#xB0;C (320+/-25 &#xB0;F).

(ii) The emission rate correction factor, integrated or grab sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the Oconcentration (%O). The Osample shall be obtained simultaneously with, and at the same traverse points as, the particulate sample. If the grab sampling procedure is used, the Oconcentration for the run shall be the arithmetic mean of the sample Oconcentrations at all traverse points.

(iii) If the particulate run has more than 12 traverse points, the Otraverse points may be reduced to 12 provided that Method 1 of appendix A of this part is used to locate the 12 Otraverse points.

(3) Method 9 of appendix A of this part and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.

(4) Method 6 of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the SOconcentration.

(i) The sampling site shall be the same as that selected for the particulate sample. The sampling location in the duct shall be at the centroid of the cross section or at a point no closer to the walls than 1 m (3.28 ft). The sampling time and sample volume for each sample run shall be at least 20 minutes and 0.020 dscm (0.71 dscf). Two samples shall be taken during a 1-hour period, with each sample taken within a 30-minute interval.

(ii) The emission rate correction factor, integrated sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the Oconcentration (%O). The Osample shall be taken simultaneously with, and at the same point as, the SOsample. The SOemission rate shall be computed for each pair of SOand Osamples. The SOemission rate (E) for each run shall be the arithmetic mean of the results of the two pairs of samples.

(5) Method 7 of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the NOconcentration.

(i) The sampling site and location shall be the same as for the SOsample. Each run shall consist of four grab samples, with each sample taken at about 15-minute intervals.

(ii) For each NOsample, the emission rate correction factor, grab sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the Oconcentration (%O). The sample shall be taken simultaneously with, and at the same point as, the NOsample.

(iii) The NOemission rate shall be computed for each pair of NOand Osamples. The NOemission rate (E) for each run shall be the arithmetic mean of the results of the four pairs of samples.

(c) When combinations of fossil fuels or fossil fuel and wood residue are fired, the owner or operator (in order to compute the prorated standard as shown in §§ 60.43(b) and 60.44(b)) shall determine the percentage (w, x, y, or z) of the total heat input derived from each type of fuel as follows:

(1) The heat input rate of each fuel shall be determined by multiplying the gross calorific value of each fuel fired by the rate of each fuel burned.

(2) ASTM Methods D2015, or D5865 (solid fuels), D240 (liquid fuels), or D1826 (gaseous fuels) (all of these methods are incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the gross calorific values of the fuels. The method used to determine the calorific value of wood residue must be approved by the Administrator.

(3) Suitable methods shall be used to determine the rate of each fuel burned during each test period, and a material balance over the steam generating system shall be used to confirm the rate.

(d) The owner or operator may use the following as alternatives to the reference methods and procedures in this section or in other sections as specified:

(1) The emission rate (E) of PM, SOand NOmay be determined by using the Fc factor, provided that the following procedure is used:

(i) The emission rate (E) shall be computed using the following equation:
