
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Db - Standards of Performance for Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units
###### § 60.40b Applicability and delegation of authority.

(a) The affected facility to which this subpart applies is each steam generating unit that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after June 19, 1984, and that has a heat input capacity from fuels combusted in the steam generating unit of greater than 29 megawatts (MW) (100 million British thermal units per hour (MMBtu/hr)).

(b) Any affected facility meeting the applicability requirements under paragraph (a) of this section and commencing construction, modification, or reconstruction after June 19, 1984, but on or before June 19, 1986, is subject to the following standards:

(1) Coal-fired affected facilities having a heat input capacity between 29 and 73 MW (100 and 250 MMBtu/hr), inclusive, are subject to the particulate matter (PM) and nitrogen oxides (NO) standards under this subpart.

(2) Coal-fired affected facilities having a heat input capacity greater than 73 MW (250 MMBtu/hr) and meeting the applicability requirements under subpart D (Standards of performance for fossil-fuel-fired steam generators; § 60.40) are subject to the PM and NOstandards under this subpart and to the sulfur dioxide (SO) standards under subpart D (§ 60.43).

(3) Oil-fired affected facilities having a heat input capacity between 29 and 73 MW (100 and 250 MMBtu/hr), inclusive, are subject to the NOstandards under this subpart.

(4) Oil-fired affected facilities having a heat input capacity greater than 73 MW (250 MMBtu/hr) and meeting the applicability requirements under subpart D (Standards of performance for fossil-fuel-fired steam generators; § 60.40) are also subject to the NOstandards under this subpart and the PM and SOstandards under subpart D (§§ 60.42 and 60.43).

(c) Affected facilities that also meet the applicability requirements under subpart J or subpart Ja of this part are subject to the PM and NOstandards under this subpart and the SOstandards under subpart J or subpart Ja of this part, as applicable.

(d) Affected facilities that also meet the applicability requirements under subpart E (Standards of performance for incinerators; § 60.50) are subject to the NOand PM standards under this subpart.

(e) Steam generating units meeting the applicability requirements under subpart Da (Standards of performance for electric utility steam generating units; § 60.40Da) are not subject to this subpart.

(f) Any change to an existing steam generating unit for the sole purpose of combusting gases containing total reduced sulfur (TRS) as defined under § 60.281 is not considered a modification under § 60.14 and the steam generating unit is not subject to this subpart.

(g) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Clean Air Act, the following authorities shall be retained by the Administrator and not transferred to a State.

(1) Section 60.44b(f).

(2) Section 60.44b(g).

(3) Section 60.49b(a)(4).

(h) Any affected facility that meets the applicability requirements and is subject to subpart Ea, subpart Eb, subpart AAAA, or subpart CCCC of this part is not subject to this subpart.
