
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Da - Standards of Performance for Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### § 60.50Da Compliance determination procedures and methods.

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the methods in appendix A of this part or the methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b). Section 60.8(f) does not apply to this section for SOand NO. Acceptable alternative methods are given in paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) In conducting the performance tests to determine compliance with the PM emissions limits in § 60.42Da, the owner or operator shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall measure filterable PM to determine compliance with the applicable PM emissions limit in § 60.42Da as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section.

(i) The dry basis F factor (O) procedures in Method 19 of appendix A of this part shall be used to compute the emission rate of PM.

(ii) For the PM concentration, Method 5 of appendix A of this part shall be used for an affected facility that does not use a wet FGD. For an affected facility that uses a wet FGD, Method 5B of appendix A of this part shall be used downstream of the wet FGD.

(A) The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 120 minutes and 1.70 dscm (60 dscf). The probe and filter holder heating system in the sampling train may be set to provide an average gas temperature of no greater than 160 14 &#xB0;C (320 25 &#xB0;F).

(B) For each particulate run, the emission rate correction factor, integrated or grab sampling and analysis procedures of Method 3B of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the Oconcentration. The Osample shall be obtained simultaneously with, and at the same traverse points as, the particulate run. If the particulate run has more than 12 traverse points, the Otraverse points may be reduced to 12 provided that Method 1 of appendix A of this part is used to locate the 12 Otraverse points. If the grab sampling procedure is used, the Oconcentration for the run shall be the arithmetic mean of the sample Oconcentrations at all traverse points.

(2) In conjunction with a performance test performed according to the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected facility for which construction, reconstruction, or modification commenced after May 3, 2011, shall measure condensable PM using Method 202 of appendix M of part 51.

(3) Method 9 of appendix A of this part and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.

(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the SOstandards in § 60.43Da as follows:

(1) The percent of potential SOemissions (%Ps) to the atmosphere shall be computed using the following equation:

(2) The procedures in Method 19 of appendix A of this part may be used to determine percent reduction (%R) of sulfur by such processes as fuel pretreatment (physical coal cleaning, hydrodesulfurization of fuel oil, etc.), coal pulverizers, and bottom and fly ash interactions. This determination is optional.

(3) The procedures in Method 19 of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the percent SOreduction (%R) of any SOcontrol system. Alternatively, a combination of an "as fired" fuel monitor and emission rates measured after the control system, following the procedures in Method 19 of appendix A of this part, may be used if the percent reduction is calculated using the average emission rate from the SOcontrol device and the average SOinput rate from the "as fired" fuel analysis for 30 successive boiler operating days.

(4) The appropriate procedures in Method 19 of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the emission rate.

(5) The CEMS in § 60.49Da(b) and (d) shall be used to determine the concentrations of SOand COor O.

(d) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the NOstandard in § 60.44Da as follows:

(1) The appropriate procedures in Method 19 of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the emission rate of NO.

(2) The continuous monitoring system in § 60.49Da(c) and (d) shall be used to determine the concentrations of NOand COor O.

(e) The owner or operator may use the following as alternatives to the reference methods and procedures specified in this section:

(1) For Method 5 or 5B of appendix A-3 of this part, Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part may be used at facilities with or without wet FGD systems if the stack temperature at the sampling location does not exceed an average temperature of 160 &#xB0;C (320 &#xB0;F). The procedures of sections 8.1 and 11.1 of Method 5B of appendix A-3 of this part may be used in Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part only if it is used after wet FGD systems. Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part shall not be used after wet FGD systems if the effluent is saturated or laden with water droplets.

(2) The Ffactor (CO) procedures in Method 19 of appendix A of this part may be used to compute the emission rate of PM under the stipulations of § 60.46(d)(1). The COshall be determined in the same manner as the Oconcentration.

(f) The owner or operator of an electric utility combined cycle gas turbine that does not meet the definition of an IGCC must conduct performance tests for PM, SO, and NOusing the procedures of Method 19 of appendix A-7 of this part. The SOand NOemission rates calculations from the gas turbine used in Method 19 of appendix A-7 of this part are determined when the gas turbine is performance tested under subpart GG of this part. The potential uncontrolled PM emission rate from a gas turbine is defined as 17 ng/J (0.04 lb/MMBtu) heat input.
