
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Db - Standards of Performance for Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units
###### ยง 60.40b Applicability and delegation of authority.
####### i.e.,,i.e.,i.e.

(i) Affected facilities (heat recovery steam generators) that are associated with stationary combustion turbines and that meet the applicability requirements of subpart KKKK of this part are not subject to this subpart. This subpart will continue to apply to all other affected facilities (heat recovery steam generators with duct burners) that are capable of combusting more than 29 MW (100 MMBtu/h) heat input of fossil fuel. If the affected facility (heat recovery steam generator) is subject to this subpart, only emissions resulting from combustion of fuels in the steam generating unit are subject to this subpart. (The stationary combustion turbine emissions are subject to subpart GG or KKKK, as applicable, of this part.)

(j) Any affected facility meeting the applicability requirements under paragraph (a) of this section and commencing construction, modification, or reconstruction after June 19, 1986 is not subject to subpart D (Standards of Performance for Fossil-Fuel-Fired Steam Generators, ยง 60.40).

(k) Any affected facility that meets the applicability requirements and is subject to an EPA approved State or Federal section 111(d)/129 plan implementing subpart Cb or subpart BBBB of this part is not covered by this subpart.

(l) Affected facilities that also meet the applicability requirements under subpart BB of this part (Standards of Performance for Kraft Pulp Mills) are subject to the SOand NOstandards under this subpart and the PM standards under subpart BB.

(m) Temporary boilers are not subject to this subpart.
