
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Da - Standards of Performance for Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### § 60.49Da Emission monitoring.
####### i.e.,i.e.,,i.e.,

(A) The owner or operator shall conduct 10 minute observations (during normal operation) each operating day the affected facility fires fuel for which an opacity standard is applicable using Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part and demonstrate that the sum of the occurrences of any visible emissions is not in excess of 5 percent of the observation period (, 30 seconds per 10 minute period). If the sum of the occurrence of any visible emissions is greater than 30 seconds during the initial 10 minute observation, immediately conduct a 30 minute observation. If the sum of the occurrence of visible emissions is greater than 5 percent of the observation period (90 seconds per 30 minute period), the owner or operator shall either document and adjust the operation of the facility and demonstrate within 24 hours that the sum of the occurrence of visible emissions is equal to or less than 5 percent during a 30 minute observation (90 seconds) or conduct a new Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test using the procedures in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section within 45 calendar days according to the requirements in § 60.50Da(b)(3).

(B) If no visible emissions are observed for 10 operating days during which an opacity standard is applicable, observations can be reduced to once every 7 operating days during which an opacity standard is applicable. If any visible emissions are observed, daily observations shall be resumed.

(iv) If the maximum 6-minute opacity is less than 10 percent during the most recent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test, the owner or operator may, as an alternative to performing subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 performance tests, elect to perform subsequent monitoring using a digital opacity compliance system according to a site-specific monitoring plan approved by the Administrator. The observations must be similar, but not necessarily identical, to the requirements in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section. For reference purposes in preparing the monitoring plan, see OAQPS "Determination of Visible Emission Opacity from Stationary Sources Using Computer-Based Photographic Analysis Systems." This document is available from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA); Office of Air Quality and Planning Standards; Sector Policies and Programs Division; Measurement Policy Group (D243-02), Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. This document is also available on the Technology Transfer Network (TTN) under Emission Measurement Center Preliminary Methods.

(4) An owner or operator of an affected facility that is subject to an opacity standard under § 60.42Da is not required to operate a COMS provided that affected facility meets the conditions in either paragraph (a)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The affected facility combusts only gaseous and/or liquid fuels (excluding residue oil) where the potential SOemissions rate of each fuel is no greater than 26 ng/J (0.060 lb/MMBtu), and the unit operates according to a written site-specific monitoring plan approved by the permitting authority. This monitoring plan must include procedures and criteria for establishing and monitoring specific parameters for the affected facility indicative of compliance with the opacity standard. For testing performed as part of this site-specific monitoring plan, the permitting authority may require as an alternative to the notification and reporting requirements specified in §§ 60.8 and 60.11 that the owner or operator submit any deviations with the excess emissions report required under § 60.51Da(d).

(ii) The owner or operator of the affected facility installs, calibrates, operates, and maintains a particulate matter continuous parametric monitoring system (PM CPMS) according to the requirements specified in subpart UUUUU of part 63.

(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS, and record the output of the system, for measuring SOemissions, except where only gaseous and/or liquid fuels (excluding residual oil) where the potential SOemissions rate of each fuel is 26 ng/J (0.060 lb/MMBtu) or less are combusted, as follows:

(1) Sulfur dioxide emissions are monitored at both the inlet and outlet of the SOcontrol device.

(2) For a facility that qualifies under the numerical limit provisions of § 60.43Da, SOemissions are only monitored as discharged to the atmosphere.

(3) An "as fired" fuel monitoring system (upstream of coal pulverizers) meeting the requirements of Method 19 of appendix A of this part may be used to determine potential SOemissions in place of a continuous SOemission monitor at the inlet to the SOcontrol device as required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) If the owner or operator has installed and certified a SOCEMS according to the requirements of § 75.20(c)(1) of this chapter and appendix A to part 75 of this chapter, and is continuing to meet the ongoing quality assurance requirements of § 75.21 of this chapter and appendix B to part 75 of this chapter, that CEMS may be used to meet the requirements of this section, provided that:

(i) A COor Ocontinuous monitoring system is installed, calibrated, maintained and operated at the same location, according to paragraph (d) of this section; and

(ii) For sources subject to an SOemission limit in lb/MMBtu under § 60.43Da:

(A) When relative accuracy testing is conducted, SOconcentration data and CO(or O) data are collected simultaneously; and

(B) In addition to meeting the applicable SOand CO(or O) relative accuracy specifications in Figure 2 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter, the relative accuracy (RA) standard in section 13.2 of Performance Specification 2 in appendix B to this part is met when the RA is calculated on a lb/MMBtu basis; and

(iii) The reporting requirements of § 60.51Da are met. The SOand, if required, CO(or O) data reported to meet the requirements of § 60.51Da shall not include substitute data values derived from the missing data procedures in subpart D of part 75 of this chapter, nor shall the SOdata have been bias adjusted according to the procedures of part 75 of this chapter.

(c)(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS, and record the output of the system, for measuring NOemissions discharged to the atmosphere; or

(2) If the owner or operator has installed a NOemission rate CEMS to meet the requirements of part 75 of this chapter and is continuing to meet the ongoing requirements of part 75 of this chapter, that CEMS may be used to meet the requirements of this section, except that the owner or operator shall also meet the requirements of § 60.51Da. Data reported to meet the requirements of § 60.51Da shall not include data substituted using the missing data procedures in subpart D of part 75 of this chapter, nor shall the data have been bias adjusted according to the procedures of part 75 of this chapter.

(d) The owner or operator of an affected facility not complying with an output based limit shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS, and record the output of the system, for measuring the Oor carbon dioxide (CO) content of the flue gases at each location where SOor NOemissions are monitored. For affected facilities subject to a lb/MMBtu SOemission limit under § 60.43Da, if the owner or operator has installed and certified a COor Omonitoring system according to § 75.20(c) of this chapter and appendix A to part 75 of this chapter and the monitoring system continues to meet the applicable quality-assurance provisions of § 75.21 of this chapter and appendix B to part 75 of this chapter, that CEMS may be used together with the part 75 SOconcentration monitoring system described in paragraph (b) of this section, to determine the SOemission rate in lb/MMBtu. SOdata used to meet the requirements of § 60.51Da shall not include substitute data values derived from the missing data procedures in subpart D of part 75 of this chapter, nor shall the data have been bias adjusted according to the procedures of part 75 of this chapter.

(e) The CEMS under paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section are operated and data recorded during all periods of operation of the affected facility including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, except for CEMS breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments.

(f)(1) For units that began construction, reconstruction, or modification on or before February 28, 2005, the owner or operator shall obtain emission data for at least 18 hours in at least 22 out of 30 successive boiler operating days. If this minimum data requirement cannot be met with CEMS, the owner or operator shall supplement emission data with other monitoring systems approved by the Administrator or the reference methods and procedures as described in paragraph (h) of this section.

(2) For units that began construction, reconstruction, or modification after February 28, 2005, the owner or operator shall obtain emission data for at least 90 percent of all operating hours for each 30 successive boiler operating days. If this minimum data requirement cannot be met with a CEMS, the owner or operator shall supplement emission data with other monitoring systems approved by the Administrator or the reference methods and procedures as described in paragraph (h) of this section.

(g) The 1-hour averages required under paragraph § 60.13(h) are expressed in ng/J (lb/MMBtu) heat input and used to calculate the average emission rates under § 60.48Da. The 1-hour averages are calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(h)(2).

(h) When it becomes necessary to supplement CEMS data to meet the minimum data requirements in paragraph (f) of this section, the owner or operator shall use the reference methods and procedures as specified in this paragraph. Acceptable alternative methods and procedures are given in paragraph (j) of this section.

(1) Method 6 of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the SOconcentration at the same location as the SOmonitor. Samples shall be taken at 60-minute intervals. The sampling time and sample volume for each sample shall be at least 20 minutes and 0.020 dscm (0.71 dscf). Each sample represents a 1-hour average.

(2) Method 7 of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the NOconcentration at the same location as the NOmonitor. Samples shall be taken at 30-minute intervals. The arithmetic average of two consecutive samples represents a 1-hour average.

(3) The emission rate correction factor, integrated bag sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the Oor COconcentration at the same location as the Oor COmonitor. Samples shall be taken for at least 30 minutes in each hour. Each sample represents a 1-hour average.

(4) The procedures in Method 19 of appendix A of this part shall be used to compute each 1-hour average concentration in ng/J (lb/MMBtu) heat input.

(i) The owner or operator shall use methods and procedures in this paragraph to conduct monitoring system performance evaluations under § 60.13(c) and calibration checks under § 60.13(d). Acceptable alternative methods and procedures are given in paragraph (j) of this section.

(1) Methods 3B, 6, and 7 of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine O, SO, and NOconcentrations, respectively.

(2) SOor NO(NO), as applicable, shall be used for preparing the calibration gas mixtures (in N, as applicable) under Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of this part.

(3) For affected facilities burning only fossil fuel, the span value for a COMS is between 60 and 80 percent. Span values for a CEMS measuring NOshall be determined using one of the following procedures:

(i) Except as provided under paragraph (i)(3)(ii) of this section, NOspan values shall be determined as follows:

(ii) As an alternative to meeting the requirements of paragraph (i)(3)(i) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected facility may elect to use the NOspan values determined according to section 2.1.2 in appendix A to part 75 of this chapter.

(4) All span values computed under paragraph (i)(3)(i) of this section for burning combinations of fossil fuels are rounded to the nearest 500 ppm. Span values computed under paragraph (i)(3)(ii) of this section shall be rounded off according to section 2.1.2 in appendix A to part 75 of this chapter.

(5) For affected facilities burning fossil fuel, alone or in combination with non-fossil fuel and determining span values under paragraph (i)(3)(i) of this section, the span value of the SOCEMS at the inlet to the SOcontrol device is 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential emissions of the fuel fired, and the outlet of the SOcontrol device is 50 percent of maximum estimated hourly potential emissions of the fuel fired. For affected facilities determining span values under paragraph (i)(3)(ii) of this section, SOspan values shall be determined according to section 2.1.1 in appendix A to part 75 of this chapter.

(j) The owner or operator may use the following as alternatives to the reference methods and procedures specified in this section:

(1) For Method 6 of appendix A of this part, Method 6A or 6B (whenever Methods 6 and 3 or 3B of appendix A of this part data are used) or 6C of appendix A of this part may be used. Each Method 6B of appendix A of this part sample obtained over 24 hours represents 24 1-hour averages. If Method 6A or 6B of appendix A of this part is used under paragraph (i) of this section, the conditions under § 60.48Da(d)(1) apply; these conditions do not apply under paragraph (h) of this section.

(2) For Method 7 of appendix A of this part, Method 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A of this part may be used. If Method 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A of this part is used, the sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour.

(3) For Method 3 of appendix A of this part, Method 3A or 3B of appendix A of this part may be used if the sampling time is 1 hour.

(4) For Method 3B of appendix A of this part, Method 3A of appendix A of this part may be used.

(k) The procedures specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section shall be used to determine gross energy output for sources demonstrating compliance with an output-based standard.

(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility with electricity generation shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a wattmeter; measure gross electrical output in MWh on a continuous basis; and record the output of the monitor.

(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility with process steam generation shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate meters for steam flow, temperature, and pressure; measure gross process steam output in joules per hour (or Btu per hour) on a continuous basis; and record the output of the monitor.

(3) For an affected facility generating process steam in combination with electrical generation, the gross energy output is determined according to the definition of "gross energy output" specified in § 60.41Da that is applicable to the affected facility.

(l) The owner or operator of an affected facility demonstrating compliance with an output-based standard shall install, certify, operate, and maintain a continuous flow monitoring system meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 6 of appendix B of this part and the calibration drift (CD) assessment, relative accuracy test audit (RATA), and reporting provisions of procedure 1 of appendix F of this part, and record the output of the system, for measuring the volumetric flow rate of exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere; or

(m) Alternatively, data from a continuous flow monitoring system certified according to the requirements of § 75.20(c) of this chapter and appendix A to part 75 of this chapter, and continuing to meet the applicable quality control and quality assurance requirements of § 75.21 of this chapter and appendix B to part 75 of this chapter, may be used. Flow rate data reported to meet the requirements of § 60.51Da shall not include substitute data values derived from the missing data procedures in subpart D of part 75 of this chapter, nor shall the data have been bias adjusted according to the procedures of part 75 of this chapter.

(n) Gas-fired and oil-fired units. The owner or operator of an affected unit that qualifies as a gas-fired or oil-fired unit, as defined in 40 CFR 72.2, may use, as an alternative to the requirements specified in either paragraph (l) or (m) of this section, a fuel flow monitoring system certified and operated according to the requirements of appendix D of part 75 of this chapter.

(o) The owner or operator of a duct burner, as described in § 60.41Da, which is subject to the NOstandards of § 60.44Da(a)(1), (d)(1), or (e)(1) is not required to install or operate a CEMS to measure NOemissions; a wattmeter to measure gross electrical output; meters to measure steam flow, temperature, and pressure; and a continuous flow monitoring system to measure the flow of exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere.

(p)-(r) [Reserved]

(s) The owner or operator shall prepare and submit to the Administrator for approval a unit-specific monitoring plan for each monitoring system, at least 45 days before commencing certification testing of the monitoring systems. The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in your plan. The plan must address the requirements in paragraphs (s)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Installation of the CEMS sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of the exhaust emissions (e.g., on or downstream of the last control device);

(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction systems;

(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (e.g., calibrations, relative accuracy test audits (RATA), etc.);

(4) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 60.13(d) or part 75 of this chapter (as applicable);

(5) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 60.13 or part 75 of this chapter (as applicable); and

(6) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.

(t) The owner or operator of an affected facility demonstrating compliance with the output-based emissions limit under § 60.42Da must either install, certify, operate, and maintain a CEMS for measuring PM emissions according to the requirements of paragraph (v) of this section or install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a PM CPMS according to the requirements for new facilities specified in subpart UUUUU of part 63 of this chapter. An owner or operator of an affected facility demonstrating compliance with the input-based emissions limit in § 60.42Da may install, certify, operate, and maintain a CEMS for measuring PM emissions according to the requirements of paragraph (v) of this section.

(u) The owner or operator of an affected facility using a CEMS measuring CO emissions to meet requirements of this subpart shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (u)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must monitor CO emissions using a CEMS according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (u)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The CO CEMS must be installed, certified, maintained, and operated according to the provisions in § 60.58b(i)(3) of subpart Eb of this part.

(ii) Each 1-hour CO emissions average is calculated using the data points generated by the CO CEMS expressed in parts per million by volume corrected to 3 percent oxygen (dry basis).

(iii) At a minimum, non-out-of-control 1-hour CO emissions averages must be obtained for at least 90 percent of the operating hours on a 30-boiler operating day rolling average basis. The 1-hour averages are calculated using the data points required in § 60.13(h)(2).

(iv) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests for the CO CEMS must be performed in accordance with procedure 1 in appendix F of this part.

(2) You must calculate the 1-hour average CO emissions levels for each boiler operating day by multiplying the average hourly CO output concentration measured by the CO CEMS times the corresponding average hourly flue gas flow rate and divided by the corresponding average hourly useful energy output from the affected facility. The 24-hour average CO emission level is determined by calculating the arithmetic average of the hourly CO emission levels computed for each boiler operating day.

(3) You must evaluate the preceding 24-hour average CO emission level each boiler operating day excluding periods of affected facility startup, shutdown, or malfunction. If the 24-hour average CO emission level is greater than 1.4 lb/MWh, you must initiate investigation of the relevant equipment and control systems within 24 hours of the first discovery of the high emission incident and, take the appropriate corrective action as soon as practicable to adjust control settings or repair equipment to reduce the 24-hour average CO emission level to 1.4 lb/MWh or less.

(4) You must record the CO measurements and calculations performed according to paragraph (u)(3) of this section and any corrective actions taken. The record of corrective action taken must include the date and time during which the 24-hour average CO emission level was greater than 1.4 lb/MWh, and the date, time, and description of the corrective action.

(v) The owner or operator of an affected facility using a CEMS measuring PM emissions to meet requirements of this subpart shall install, certify, operate, and maintain the CEMS as specified in paragraphs (v)(1) through (v)(4) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall conduct a performance evaluation of the CEMS according to the applicable requirements of § 60.13, Performance Specification 11 in appendix B of this part, and procedure 2 in appendix F of this part.

(2) During each PM correlation testing run of the CEMS required by Performance Specification 11 in appendix B of this part, PM and O(or CO) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the CEMS and performance tests conducted using the following test methods.

(i) For PM, Method 5 or 5B of appendix A-3 of this part or Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part shall be used; and

(ii) For O(or CO), Method 3A or 3B of appendix A-2 of this part, as applicable shall be used.

(3) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with procedure 2 in appendix F of this part. Relative Response Audit's must be performed annually and Response Correlation Audits must be performed every 3 years.
