
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Db - Standards of Performance for Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units
###### § 60.46b Compliance and performance test methods and procedures for particulate matter and nitrogen oxides.

(a) The PM emission standards and opacity limits under § 60.43b apply at all times except during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. The NOemission standards under § 60.44b apply at all times.

(b) Compliance with the PM emission standards under § 60.43b shall be determined through performance testing as described in paragraph (d) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.

(c) Compliance with the NOemission standards under § 60.44b shall be determined through performance testing under paragraph (e) or (f), or under paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, as applicable.

(d) To determine compliance with the PM emission limits and opacity limits under § 60.43b, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test as required under § 60.8, and shall conduct subsequent performance tests as requested by the Administrator, using the following procedures and reference methods:

(1) Method 3A or 3B of appendix A-2 of this part is used for gas analysis when applying Method 5 of appendix A-3 of this part or Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part.

(2) Method 5, 5B, or 17 of appendix A of this part shall be used to measure the concentration of PM as follows:

(i) Method 5 of appendix A of this part shall be used at affected facilities without wet flue gas desulfurization (FGD) systems; and

(ii) Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part may be used at facilities with or without wet scrubber systems provided the stack gas temperature does not exceed a temperature of 160 &#xB0;C (320 &#xB0;F). The procedures of sections 8.1 and 11.1 of Method 5B of appendix A-3 of this part may be used in Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part only if it is used after a wet FGD system. Do not use Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part after wet FGD systems if the effluent is saturated or laden with water droplets.

(iii) Method 5B of appendix A of this part is to be used only after wet FGD systems.

(3) Method 1 of appendix A of this part is used to select the sampling site and the number of traverse sampling points. The sampling time for each run is at least 120 minutes and the minimum sampling volume is 1.7 dscm (60 dscf) except that smaller sampling times or volumes may be approved by the Administrator when necessitated by process variables or other factors.

(4) For Method 5 of appendix A of this part, the temperature of the sample gas in the probe and filter holder is monitored and is maintained at 160+/-14 &#xB0;C (320+/-25 &#xB0;F).

(5) For determination of PM emissions, the oxygen (O) or COsample is obtained simultaneously with each run of Method 5, 5B, or 17 of appendix A of this part by traversing the duct at the same sampling location.

(6) For each run using Method 5, 5B, or 17 of appendix A of this part, the emission rate expressed in ng/J heat input is determined using:

(i) The Oor COmeasurements and PM measurements obtained under this section;

(ii) The dry basis F factor; and

(iii) The dry basis emission rate calculation procedure contained in Method 19 of appendix A of this part.

(7) Method 9 of appendix A of this part is used for determining the opacity of stack emissions.

(e) To determine compliance with the emission limits for NOrequired under § 60.44b, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct the performance test as required under § 60.8 using the continuous system for monitoring NOunder § 60.48(b).

(1) For the initial compliance test, NOfrom the steam generating unit are monitored for 30 successive steam generating unit operating days and the 30-day average emission rate is used to determine compliance with the NOemission standards under § 60.44b. The 30-day average emission rate is calculated as the average of all hourly emissions data recorded by the monitoring system during the 30-day test period.

(2) Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed in § 60.8, whichever date comes first, the owner or operator of an affected facility which combusts coal (except as specified under § 60.46b(e)(4)) or which combusts residual oil having a nitrogen content greater than 0.30 weight percent shall determine compliance with the NOemission standards in § 60.44b on a continuous basis through the use of a 30-day rolling average emission rate. A new 30-day rolling average emission rate is calculated for each steam generating unit operating day as the average of all of the hourly NOemission data for the preceding 30 steam generating unit operating days.

(3) Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, the owner or operator of an affected facility that has a heat input capacity greater than 73 MW (250 MMBtu/hr) and that combusts natural gas, distillate oil, or residual oil having a nitrogen content of 0.30 weight percent or less shall determine compliance with the NOstandards under § 60.44b on a continuous basis through the use of a 30-day rolling average emission rate. A new 30-day rolling average emission rate is calculated each steam generating unit operating day as the average of all of the hourly NOemission data for the preceding 30 steam generating unit operating days.

(4) Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed or required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, the owner or operator of an affected facility that has a heat input capacity of 73 MW (250 MMBtu/hr) or less and that combusts natural gas, distillate oil, gasified coal, or residual oil having a nitrogen content of 0.30 weight percent or less shall upon request determine compliance with the NOstandards in § 60.44b through the use of a 30-day performance test. During periods when performance tests are not requested, NOemissions data collected pursuant to § 60.48b(g)(1) or § 60.48b(g)(2) are used to calculate a 30-day rolling average emission rate on a daily basis and used to prepare excess emission reports, but will not be used to determine compliance with the NOemission standards. A new 30-day rolling average emission rate is calculated each steam generating unit operating day as the average of all of the hourly NOemission data for the preceding 30 steam generating unit operating days.

(5) If the owner or operator of an affected facility that combusts residual oil does not sample and analyze the residual oil for nitrogen content, as specified in § 60.49b(e), the requirements of § 60.48b(g)(1) apply and the provisions of § 60.48b(g)(2) are inapplicable.

(f) To determine compliance with the emissions limits for NOrequired by § 60.44b(a)(4) or § 60.44b(l) for duct burners used in combined cycle systems, either of the procedures described in paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section may be used:

(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct the performance test required under § 60.8 as follows:

(i) The emissions rate (E) of NOshall be computed using Equation 1 in this section:

(ii) Method 7E of appendix A of this part or Method 320 of appendix A of part 63 shall be used to determine the NOconcentrations. Method 3A or 3B of appendix A of this part shall be used to determine Oconcentration.

(iii) The owner or operator shall identify and demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction suitable methods to determine the average hourly heat input rate to the combustion turbine and the average hourly heat input rate to the affected duct burner.

(iv) Compliance with the emissions limits under § 60.44b(a)(4) or § 60.44b(l) is determined by the three-run average (nominal 1-hour runs) for the initial and subsequent performance tests; or

(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility may elect to determine compliance on a 30-day rolling average basis by using the CEMS specified under § 60.48b for measuring NOand Oand meet the requirements of § 60.48b. The sampling site shall be located at the outlet from the steam generating unit. The NOemissions rate at the outlet from the steam generating unit shall constitute the NOemissions rate from the duct burner of the combined cycle system.
