
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Db - Standards of Performance for Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units
###### § 60.47b Emission monitoring for sulfur dioxide.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (f) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the SOstandards in § 60.42b shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate CEMS for measuring SOconcentrations and either Oor COconcentrations and shall record the output of the systems. For units complying with the percent reduction standard, the SOand either Oor COconcentrations shall both be monitored at the inlet and outlet of the SOcontrol device. If the owner or operator has installed and certified SOand Oor COCEMS according to the requirements of § 75.20(c)(1) of this chapter and appendix A to part 75 of this chapter, and is continuing to meet the ongoing quality assurance requirements of § 75.21 of this chapter and appendix B to part 75 of this chapter, those CEMS may be used to meet the requirements of this section, provided that:

(1) When relative accuracy testing is conducted, SOconcentration data and CO(or O) data are collected simultaneously; and

(2) In addition to meeting the applicable SOand CO(or O) relative accuracy specifications in Figure 2 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter, the relative accuracy (RA) standard in section 13.2 of Performance Specification 2 in appendix B to this part is met when the RA is calculated on a lb/MMBtu basis; and

(3) The reporting requirements of § 60.49b are met. SOand CO(or O) data used to meet the requirements of § 60.49b shall not include substitute data values derived from the missing data procedures in subpart D of part 75 of this chapter, nor shall the SOdata have been bias adjusted according to the procedures of part 75 of this chapter.

(b) As an alternative to operating CEMS as required under paragraph (a) of this section, an owner or operator may elect to determine the average SOemissions and percent reduction by:

(1) Collecting coal or oil samples in an as-fired condition at the inlet to the steam generating unit and analyzing them for sulfur and heat content according to Method 19 of appendix A of this part. Method 19 of appendix A of this part provides procedures for converting these measurements into the format to be used in calculating the average SOinput rate, or

(2) Measuring SOaccording to Method 6B of appendix A of this part at the inlet or outlet to the SOcontrol system. An initial stratification test is required to verify the adequacy of the sampling location for Method 6B of appendix A of this part. The stratification test shall consist of three paired runs of a suitable SOand COmeasurement train operated at the candidate location and a second similar train operated according to the procedures in Section 3.2 and the applicable procedures in Section 7 of Performance Specification 2. Method 6B of appendix A of this part, Method 6A of appendix A of this part, or a combination of Methods 6 and 3 or 3B of appendix A of this part or Methods 6C or Method 320 of appendix A of part 63 of this chapter and 3A of appendix A of this part are suitable measurement techniques. If Method 6B of appendix A of this part is used for the second train, sampling time and timer operation may be adjusted for the stratification test as long as an adequate sample volume is collected; however, both sampling trains are to be operated similarly. For the location to be adequate for Method 6B of appendix A of this part, 24-hour tests, the mean of the absolute difference between the three paired runs must be less than 10 percent.

(3) A daily SOemission rate, E, shall be determined using the procedure described in Method 6A of appendix A of this part, section 7.6.2 (Equation 6A-8) and stated in ng/J (lb/MMBtu) heat input.

(4) The mean 30-day emission rate is calculated using the daily measured values in ng/J (lb/MMBtu) for 30 successive steam generating unit operating days using equation 19-20 of Method 19 of appendix A of this part.

(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall obtain emission data for at least 75 percent of the operating hours in at least 22 out of 30 successive boiler operating days. If this minimum data requirement is not met with a single monitoring system, the owner or operator of the affected facility shall supplement the emission data with data collected with other monitoring systems as approved by the Administrator or the reference methods and procedures as described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) The 1-hour average SOemission rates measured by the CEMS required by paragraph (a) of this section and required under § 60.13(h) is expressed in ng/J or lb/MMBtu heat input and is used to calculate the average emission rates under § 60.42(b). Each 1-hour average SOemission rate must be based on 30 or more minutes of steam generating unit operation. The hourly averages shall be calculated according to § 60.13(h)(2). Hourly SOemission rates are not calculated if the affected facility is operated less than 30 minutes in a given clock hour and are not counted toward determination of a steam generating unit operating day.

(e) The procedures under § 60.13 shall be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the CEMS.

(1) Except as provided for in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, all CEMS shall be operated in accordance with the applicable procedures under Performance Specifications 1, 2, and 3 of appendix B of this part.

(2) Except as provided for in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part.

(3) For affected facilities combusting coal or oil, alone or in combination with other fuels, the span value of the SOCEMS at the inlet to the SOcontrol device is 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential SOemissions of the fuel combusted, and the span value of the CEMS at the outlet to the SOcontrol device is 50 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential SOemissions of the fuel combusted. Alternatively, SOspan values determined according to section 2.1.1 in appendix A to part 75 of this chapter may be used.

(4) As an alternative to meeting the requirements of requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to implement the following alternative data accuracy assessment procedures:

(i) For all required COand Omonitors and for SOand NOmonitors with span values greater than or equal to 100 ppm, the daily calibration error test and calibration adjustment procedures described in sections 2.1.1 and 2.1.3 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter may be followed instead of the CD assessment procedures in Procedure 1, section 4.1 of appendix F to this part.

(ii) For all required COand Omonitors and for SOand NOmonitors with span values greater than 30 ppm, quarterly linearity checks may be performed in accordance with section 2.2.1 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter, instead of performing the cylinder gas audits (CGAs) described in Procedure 1, section 5.1.2 of appendix F to this part. If this option is selected: The frequency of the linearity checks shall be as specified in section 2.2.1 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter; the applicable linearity specifications in section 3.2 of appendix A to part 75 of this chapter shall be met; the data validation and out-of-control criteria in section 2.2.3 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter shall be followed instead of the excessive audit inaccuracy and out-of-control criteria in Procedure 1, section 5.2 of appendix F to this part; and the grace period provisions in section 2.2.4 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter shall apply. For the purposes of data validation under this subpart, the cylinder gas audits described in Procedure 1, section 5.1.2 of appendix F to this part shall be performed for SOand NOspan values less than or equal to 30 ppm; and

(iii) For SO, CO, and Omonitoring systems and for NOemission rate monitoring systems, RATAs may be performed in accordance with section 2.3 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter instead of following the procedures described in Procedure 1, section 5.1.1 of appendix F to this part. If this option is selected: The frequency of each RATA shall be as specified in section 2.3.1 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter; the applicable relative accuracy specifications shown in Figure 2 in appendix B to part 75 of this chapter shall be met; the data validation and out-of-control criteria in section 2.3.2 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter shall be followed instead of the excessive audit inaccuracy and out-of-control criteria in Procedure 1, section 5.2 of appendix F to this part; and the grace period provisions in section 2.3.3 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter shall apply. For the purposes of data validation under this subpart, the relative accuracy specification in section 13.2 of Performance Specification 2 in appendix B to this part shall be met on a lb/MMBtu basis for SO(regardless of the SOemission level during the RATA), and for NOwhen the average NOemission rate measured by the reference method during the RATA is less than 0.100 lb/MMBtu.

(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility that combusts very low sulfur oil or is demonstrating compliance under § 60.45b(k) is not subject to the emission monitoring requirements under paragraph (a) of this section if the owner or operator maintains fuel records as described in § 60.49b(r).
