
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Db - Standards of Performance for Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units
###### § 60.49b Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of each affected facility shall submit notification of the date of initial startup, as provided by § 60.7. This notification shall include:

(1) The design heat input capacity of the affected facility and identification of the fuels to be combusted in the affected facility;

(2) If applicable, a copy of any federally enforceable requirement that limits the annual capacity factor for any fuel or mixture of fuels under § 60.42b(d)(1), § 60.43b(a)(2), (a)(3)(iii), (c)(2)(ii), (d)(2)(iii), § 60.44b(c), (d), (e), (i), (j), (k), § 60.45b(d), (g), § 60.46b(h), or § 60.48b(i);

(3) The annual capacity factor at which the owner or operator anticipates operating the facility based on all fuels fired and based on each individual fuel fired; and

(4) Notification that an emerging technology will be used for controlling emissions of SO. The Administrator will examine the description of the emerging technology and will determine whether the technology qualifies as an emerging technology. In making this determination, the Administrator may require the owner or operator of the affected facility to submit additional information concerning the control device. The affected facility is subject to the provisions of § 60.42b(a) unless and until this determination is made by the Administrator.

(b) The owner or operator of each affected facility subject to the SO, PM, and/or NOemission limits under §§ 60.42b, 60.43b, and 60.44b shall submit to the Administrator the performance test data from the initial performance test and the performance evaluation of the CEMS using the applicable performance specifications in appendix B of this part. The owner or operator of each affected facility described in § 60.44b(j) or § 60.44b(k) shall submit to the Administrator the maximum heat input capacity data from the demonstration of the maximum heat input capacity of the affected facility.

(c) The owner or operator of each affected facility subject to the NOstandard in § 60.44b who seeks to demonstrate compliance with those standards through the monitoring of steam generating unit operating conditions in the provisions of § 60.48b(g)(2) shall submit to the Administrator for approval a plan that identifies the operating conditions to be monitored in § 60.48b(g)(2) and the records to be maintained in § 60.49b(g). This plan shall be submitted to the Administrator for approval within 360 days of the initial startup of the affected facility. An affected facility burning coke oven gas alone or in combination with other gaseous fuels or distillate oil shall submit this plan to the Administrator for approval within 360 days of the initial startup of the affected facility or by November 30, 2009, whichever date comes later. If the plan is approved, the owner or operator shall maintain records of predicted nitrogen oxide emission rates and the monitored operating conditions, including steam generating unit load, identified in the plan. The plan shall:
