
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Db - Standards of Performance for Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units
###### § 60.46b Compliance and performance test methods and procedures for particulate matter and nitrogen oxides.
####### Power Test Codes

(g) The owner or operator of an affected facility described in § 60.44b(j) or § 60.44b(k) shall demonstrate the maximum heat input capacity of the steam generating unit by operating the facility at maximum capacity for 24 hours. The owner or operator of an affected facility shall determine the maximum heat input capacity using the heat loss method or the heat input method described in sections 5 and 7.3 of the ASME4.1 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). This demonstration of maximum heat input capacity shall be made during the initial performance test for affected facilities that meet the criteria of § 60.44b(j). It shall be made within 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, but not later than 180 days after initial start-up of each facility, for affected facilities meeting the criteria of § 60.44b(k). Subsequent demonstrations may be required by the Administrator at any other time. If this demonstration indicates that the maximum heat input capacity of the affected facility is less than that stated by the manufacturer of the affected facility, the maximum heat input capacity determined during this demonstration shall be used to determine the capacity utilization rate for the affected facility. Otherwise, the maximum heat input capacity provided by the manufacturer is used.

(h) The owner or operator of an affected facility described in § 60.44b(j) that has a heat input capacity greater than 73 MW (250 MMBtu/hr) shall:

(1) Conduct an initial performance test as required under § 60.8 over a minimum of 24 consecutive steam generating unit operating hours at maximum heat input capacity to demonstrate compliance with the NOemission standards under § 60.44b using Method 7, 7A, or 7E of appendix A of this part, Method 320 of appendix A of part 63 of this chapter, or other approved reference methods; and

(2) Conduct subsequent performance tests once per calendar year or every 400 hours of operation (whichever comes first) to demonstrate compliance with the NOemission standards under § 60.44b over a minimum of 3 consecutive steam generating unit operating hours at maximum heat input capacity using Method 7, 7A, or 7E of appendix A of this part, Method 320 of appendix A of part 63, or other approved reference methods.

(i) The owner or operator of an affected facility seeking to demonstrate compliance with the PM limit in paragraphs § 60.43b(a)(4) or § 60.43b(h)(5) shall follow the applicable procedures in § 60.49b(r).

(j) In place of PM testing with Method 5 or 5B of appendix A-3 of this part, or Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part, an owner or operator may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for monitoring PM emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system. The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to continuously monitor PM emissions instead of conducting performance testing using Method 5 or 5B of appendix A-3 of this part or Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (j)(14) of this section.

(1) Notify the Administrator one month before starting use of the system.

(2) Notify the Administrator one month before stopping use of the system.

(3) The monitor shall be installed, evaluated, and operated in accordance with § 60.13 of subpart A of this part.

(4) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part or within 180 days of notification to the Administrator of use of the CEMS if the owner or operator was previously determining compliance by Method 5, 5B, or 17 of appendix A of this part performance tests, whichever is later.

(5) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for PM emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance with the PM emission limit shall be determined by using the CEMS specified in paragraph (j) of this section to measure PM and calculating a 24-hour block arithmetic average emission concentration using EPA Reference Method 19 of appendix A of this part, section 4.1.

(6) Compliance with the PM emission limit shall be determined based on the 24-hour daily (block) average of the hourly arithmetic average emission concentrations using CEMS outlet data.

(7) At a minimum, valid CEMS hourly averages shall be obtained as specified in paragraphs (j)(7)(i) of this section for 75 percent of the total operating hours per 30-day rolling average.

(i) At least two data points per hour shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.

(ii) [Reserved]

(8) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required under paragraph (j)(7) of this section shall be expressed in ng/J or lb/MMBtu heat input and shall be used to calculate the boiler operating day daily arithmetic average emission concentrations. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2) of subpart A of this part.

(9) All valid CEMS data shall be used in calculating average emission concentrations even if the minimum CEMS data requirements of paragraph (j)(7) of this section are not met.

(10) The CEMS shall be operated according to Performance Specification 11 in appendix B of this part.

(11) During the correlation testing runs of the CEMS required by Performance Specification 11 in appendix B of this part, PM and O(or CO) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30-to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emission monitors and performance tests conducted using the following test methods.

(i) For PM, Method 5 or 5B of appendix A-3 of this part or Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part shall be used; and

(ii) For O(or CO), Method 3A or 3B of appendix A-2 of this part, as applicable shall be used.

(12) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with procedure 2 in appendix F of this part. Relative Response Audit's must be performed annually and Response Correlation Audits must be performed every 3 years.

(13) When PM emissions data are not obtained because of CEMS breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, emissions data shall be obtained by using other monitoring systems as approved by the Administrator or EPA Reference Method 19 of appendix A of this part to provide, as necessary, valid emissions data for a minimum of 75 percent of total operating hours per 30-day rolling average.
