
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Db - Standards of Performance for Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units
###### § 60.49b Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Site-specific standard for Merck & Co., Inc.'s Stonewall Plant in Elkton, Virginia.

(u)(1) This paragraph (u) applies only to the pharmaceutical manufacturing facility, commonly referred to as the Stonewall Plant, located at Route 340 South, in Elkton, Virginia ("site") and only to the natural gas-fired boilers installed as part of the powerhouse conversion required pursuant to 40 CFR 52.2454(g). The requirements of this paragraph shall apply, and the requirements of §§ 60.40b through 60.49b(t) shall not apply, to the natural gas-fired boilers installed pursuant to 40 CFR 52.2454(g).

(i) The site shall equip the natural gas-fired boilers with low NOtechnology.

(ii) The site shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring and recording system for measuring NOemissions discharged to the atmosphere and opacity using a continuous emissions monitoring system or a predictive emissions monitoring system.

(iii) Within 180 days of the completion of the powerhouse conversion, as required by 40 CFR 52.2454, the site shall perform a performance test to quantify criteria pollutant emissions.

(2) [Reserved]

(v) The owner or operator of an affected facility may submit electronic quarterly reports for SOand/or NOand/or opacity in lieu of submitting the written reports required under paragraphs (h), (i), (j), (k) or (l) of this section. The format of each quarterly electronic report shall be coordinated with the permitting authority. The electronic report(s) shall be submitted no later than 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter and shall be accompanied by a certification statement from the owner or operator, indicating whether compliance with the applicable emission standards and minimum data requirements of this subpart was achieved during the reporting period. Before submitting reports in the electronic format, the owner or operator shall coordinate with the permitting authority to obtain their agreement to submit reports in this alternative format.

(w) The reporting period for the reports required under this subpart is each 6 month period. All reports shall be submitted to the Administrator and shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of the reporting period.

(x) Facility-specific NOstandard for Weyerhaeuser Company's No. 2 Power Boiler located in New Bern, North Carolina:
