
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Dc - Standards of Performance for Small Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units
###### ยง 60.40c Applicability and delegation of authority.
####### i.e.

(e) Affected facilities (heat recovery steam generators and fuel heaters) that are associated with stationary combustion turbines and meet the applicability requirements of subpart KKKK of this part are not subject to this subpart. This subpart will continue to apply to all other heat recovery steam generators, fuel heaters, and other affected facilities that are capable of combusting more than or equal to 2.9 MW (10 MMBtu/h) heat input of fossil fuel but less than or equal to 29 MW (100 MMBtu/h) heat input of fossil fuel. If the heat recovery steam generator, fuel heater, or other affected facility is subject to this subpart, only emissions resulting from combustion of fuels in the steam generating unit are subject to this subpart. (The stationary combustion turbine emissions are subject to subpart GG or KKKK, as applicable, of this part.)

(f) Any affected facility that meets the applicability requirements of and is subject to subpart AAAA or subpart CCCC of this part is not subject to this subpart.

(g) Any facility that meets the applicability requirements and is subject to an EPA approved State or Federal section 111(d)/129 plan implementing subpart BBBB of this part is not subject to this subpart.

(h) Affected facilities that also meet the applicability requirements under subpart J or subpart Ja of this part are subject to the PM and NOstandards under this subpart and the SOstandards under subpart J or subpart Ja of this part, as applicable.

(i) Temporary boilers are not subject to this subpart.
