
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Dc - Standards of Performance for Small Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units
###### § 60.45c Compliance and performance test methods and procedures for particulate matter.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the PM and/or opacity standards under § 60.43c shall conduct an initial performance test as required under § 60.8, and shall conduct subsequent performance tests as requested by the Administrator, to determine compliance with the standards using the following procedures and reference methods, except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) Method 1 of appendix A of this part shall be used to select the sampling site and the number of traverse sampling points.

(2) Method 3A or 3B of appendix A-2 of this part shall be used for gas analysis when applying Method 5 or 5B of appendix A-3 of this part or 17 of appendix A-6 of this part.

(3) Method 5, 5B, or 17 of appendix A of this part shall be used to measure the concentration of PM as follows:

(i) Method 5 of appendix A of this part may be used only at affected facilities without wet scrubber systems.

(ii) Method 17 of appendix A of this part may be used at affected facilities with or without wet scrubber systems provided the stack gas temperature does not exceed a temperature of 160 &#xB0;C (320 &#xB0;F). The procedures of Sections 8.1 and 11.1 of Method 5B of appendix A of this part may be used in Method 17 of appendix A of this part only if Method 17 of appendix A of this part is used in conjunction with a wet scrubber system. Method 17 of appendix A of this part shall not be used in conjunction with a wet scrubber system if the effluent is saturated or laden with water droplets.

(iii) Method 5B of appendix A of this part may be used in conjunction with a wet scrubber system.

(4) The sampling time for each run shall be at least 120 minutes and the minimum sampling volume shall be 1.7 dry standard cubic meters (dscm) [60 dry standard cubic feet (dscf)] except that smaller sampling times or volumes may be approved by the Administrator when necessitated by process variables or other factors.

(5) For Method 5 or 5B of appendix A of this part, the temperature of the sample gas in the probe and filter holder shall be monitored and maintained at 160 +/-14 &#xB0;C (320+/-25 &#xB0;F).

(6) For determination of PM emissions, an oxygen (O) or carbon dioxide (CO) measurement shall be obtained simultaneously with each run of Method 5, 5B, or 17 of appendix A of this part by traversing the duct at the same sampling location.

(7) For each run using Method 5, 5B, or 17 of appendix A of this part, the emission rates expressed in ng/J (lb/MMBtu) heat input shall be determined using:

(i) The Oor COmeasurements and PM measurements obtained under this section, (ii) The dry basis F factor, and

(iii) The dry basis emission rate calculation procedure contained in Method 19 of appendix A of this part.

(8) Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used for determining the opacity of stack emissions.

(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility seeking to demonstrate compliance with the PM standards under § 60.43c(b)(2) shall demonstrate the maximum design heat input capacity of the steam generating unit by operating the steam generating unit at this capacity for 24 hours. This demonstration shall be made during the initial performance test, and a subsequent demonstration may be requested at any other time. If the demonstrated 24-hour average firing rate for the affected facility is less than the maximum design heat input capacity stated by the manufacturer of the affected facility, the demonstrated 24-hour average firing rate shall be used to determine the annual capacity factor for the affected facility; otherwise, the maximum design heat input capacity provided by the manufacturer shall be used.

(c) In place of PM testing with Method 5 or 5B of appendix A-3 of this part or Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part, an owner or operator may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for monitoring PM emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system. The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to continuously monitor PM emissions instead of conducting performance testing using Method 5 or 5B of appendix A-3 of this part or Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS and shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(14) of this section.

(1) Notify the Administrator 1 month before starting use of the system.

(2) Notify the Administrator 1 month before stopping use of the system.

(3) The monitor shall be installed, evaluated, and operated in accordance with § 60.13 of subpart A of this part.

(4) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part or within 180 days of notification to the Administrator of use of CEMS if the owner or operator was previously determining compliance by Method 5, 5B, or 17 of appendix A of this part performance tests, whichever is later.

(5) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for PM emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance with the PM emission limit shall be determined by using the CEMS specified in paragraph (d) of this section to measure PM and calculating a 24-hour block arithmetic average emission concentration using EPA Reference Method 19 of appendix A of this part, section 4.1.

(6) Compliance with the PM emission limit shall be determined based on the 24-hour daily (block) average of the hourly arithmetic average emission concentrations using CEMS outlet data.

(7) At a minimum, valid CEMS hourly averages shall be obtained as specified in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section for 75 percent of the total operating hours per 30-day rolling average.

(i) At least two data points per hour shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.

(ii) [Reserved]

(8) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required under paragraph (c)(7) of this section shall be expressed in ng/J or lb/MMBtu heat input and shall be used to calculate the boiler operating day daily arithmetic average emission concentrations. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2) of subpart A of this part.

(9) All valid CEMS data shall be used in calculating average emission concentrations even if the minimum CEMS data requirements of paragraph (c)(7) of this section are not met.

(10) The CEMS shall be operated according to Performance Specification 11 in appendix B of this part.

(11) During the correlation testing runs of the CEMS required by Performance Specification 11 in appendix B of this part, PM and O(or CO) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emission monitors and performance tests conducted using the following test methods.

(i) For PM, Method 5 or 5B of appendix A-3 of this part or Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part shall be used; and

(ii) For O2 (or CO), Method 3A or 3B of appendix A-2 of this part, as applicable shall be used.

(12) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with procedure 2 in appendix F of this part. Relative Response Audit's must be performed annually and Response Correlation Audits must be performed every 3 years.

(13) When PM emissions data are not obtained because of CEMS breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, emissions data shall be obtained by using other monitoring systems as approved by the Administrator or EPA Reference Method 19 of appendix A of this part to provide, as necessary, valid emissions data for a minimum of 75 percent of total operating hours on a 30-day rolling average.
