
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Dc - Standards of Performance for Small Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units
###### § 60.48c Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of each affected facility shall submit notification of the date of construction or reconstruction and actual startup, as provided by § 60.7 of this part. This notification shall include:

(1) The design heat input capacity of the affected facility and identification of fuels to be combusted in the affected facility.

(2) If applicable, a copy of any federally enforceable requirement that limits the annual capacity factor for any fuel or mixture of fuels under § 60.42c, or § 60.43c.

(3) The annual capacity factor at which the owner or operator anticipates operating the affected facility based on all fuels fired and based on each individual fuel fired.

(4) Notification if an emerging technology will be used for controlling SOemissions. The Administrator will examine the description of the control device and will determine whether the technology qualifies as an emerging technology. In making this determination, the Administrator may require the owner or operator of the affected facility to submit additional information concerning the control device. The affected facility is subject to the provisions of § 60.42c(a) or (b)(1), unless and until this determination is made by the Administrator.

(b) The owner or operator of each affected facility subject to the SOemission limits of § 60.42c, or the PM or opacity limits of § 60.43c, shall submit to the Administrator the performance test data from the initial and any subsequent performance tests and, if applicable, the performance evaluation of the CEMS and/or COMS using the applicable performance specifications in appendix B of this part.

(c) In addition to the applicable requirements in § 60.7, the owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the opacity limits in § 60.43c(c) shall submit excess emission reports for any excess emissions from the affected facility that occur during the reporting period and maintain records according to the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable to the visible emissions monitoring method used.

(1) For each performance test conducted using Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part, the owner or operator shall keep the records including the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Dates and time intervals of all opacity observation periods;

(ii) Name, affiliation, and copy of current visible emission reading certification for each visible emission observer participating in the performance test; and

(iii) Copies of all visible emission observer opacity field data sheets;

(2) For each performance test conducted using Method 22 of appendix A-4 of this part, the owner or operator shall keep the records including the information specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Dates and time intervals of all visible emissions observation periods;

(ii) Name and affiliation for each visible emission observer participating in the performance test;

(iii) Copies of all visible emission observer opacity field data sheets; and

(iv) Documentation of any adjustments made and the time the adjustments were completed to the affected facility operation by the owner or operator to demonstrate compliance with the applicable monitoring requirements.

(3) For each digital opacity compliance system, the owner or operator shall maintain records and submit reports according to the requirements specified in the site-specific monitoring plan approved by the Administrator

(d) The owner or operator of each affected facility subject to the SOemission limits, fuel oil sulfur limits, or percent reduction requirements under § 60.42c shall submit reports to the Administrator.

(e) The owner or operator of each affected facility subject to the SOemission limits, fuel oil sulfur limits, or percent reduction requirements under § 60.42c shall keep records and submit reports as required under paragraph (d) of this section, including the following information, as applicable.

(1) Calendar dates covered in the reporting period.

(2) Each 30-day average SOemission rate (ng/J or lb/MMBtu), or 30-day average sulfur content (weight percent), calculated during the reporting period, ending with the last 30-day period; reasons for any noncompliance with the emission standards; and a description of corrective actions taken.

(3) Each 30-day average percent of potential SOemission rate calculated during the reporting period, ending with the last 30-day period; reasons for any noncompliance with the emission standards; and a description of the corrective actions taken.

(4) Identification of any steam generating unit operating days for which SOor diluent (Oor CO) data have not been obtained by an approved method for at least 75 percent of the operating hours; justification for not obtaining sufficient data; and a description of corrective actions taken.

(5) Identification of any times when emissions data have been excluded from the calculation of average emission rates; justification for excluding data; and a description of corrective actions taken if data have been excluded for periods other than those during which coal or oil were not combusted in the steam generating unit.

(6) Identification of the F factor used in calculations, method of determination, and type of fuel combusted.

(7) Identification of whether averages have been obtained based on CEMS rather than manual sampling methods.

(8) If a CEMS is used, identification of any times when the pollutant concentration exceeded the full span of the CEMS.

(9) If a CEMS is used, description of any modifications to the CEMS that could affect the ability of the CEMS to comply with Performance Specifications 2 or 3 of appendix B of this part.

(10) If a CEMS is used, results of daily CEMS drift tests and quarterly accuracy assessments as required under appendix F, Procedure 1 of this part.

(11) If fuel supplier certification is used to demonstrate compliance, records of fuel supplier certification as described under paragraph (f)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, as applicable. In addition to records of fuel supplier certifications, the report shall include a certified statement signed by the owner or operator of the affected facility that the records of fuel supplier certifications submitted represent all of the fuel combusted during the reporting period.

(f) Fuel supplier certification shall include the following information:

(1) For distillate oil:

(i) The name of the oil supplier;

(ii) A statement from the oil supplier that the oil complies with the specifications under the definition of distillate oil in § 60.41c; and

(iii) The sulfur content or maximum sulfur content of the oil.

(2) For residual oil:

(i) The name of the oil supplier;

(ii) The location of the oil when the sample was drawn for analysis to determine the sulfur content of the oil, specifically including whether the oil was sampled as delivered to the affected facility, or whether the sample was drawn from oil in storage at the oil supplier's or oil refiner's facility, or other location;

(iii) The sulfur content of the oil from which the shipment came (or of the shipment itself); and

(iv) The method used to determine the sulfur content of the oil.

(3) For coal:

(i) The name of the coal supplier;

(ii) The location of the coal when the sample was collected for analysis to determine the properties of the coal, specifically including whether the coal was sampled as delivered to the affected facility or whether the sample was collected from coal in storage at the mine, at a coal preparation plant, at a coal supplier's facility, or at another location. The certification shall include the name of the coal mine (and coal seam), coal storage facility, or coal preparation plant (where the sample was collected);

(iii) The results of the analysis of the coal from which the shipment came (or of the shipment itself) including the sulfur content, moisture content, ash content, and heat content; and

(iv) The methods used to determine the properties of the coal.

(4) For other fuels:

(i) The name of the supplier of the fuel;

(ii) The potential sulfur emissions rate or maximum potential sulfur emissions rate of the fuel in ng/J heat input; and

(iii) The method used to determine the potential sulfur emissions rate of the fuel.

(g)(1) Except as provided under paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section, the owner or operator of each affected facility shall record and maintain records of the amount of each fuel combusted during each operating day.

(2) As an alternative to meeting the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected facility that combusts only natural gas, wood, fuels using fuel certification in § 60.48c(f) to demonstrate compliance with the SOstandard, fuels not subject to an emissions standard (excluding opacity), or a mixture of these fuels may elect to record and maintain records of the amount of each fuel combusted during each calendar month.

(3) As an alternative to meeting the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected facility or multiple affected facilities located on a contiguous property unit where the only fuels combusted in any steam generating unit (including steam generating units not subject to this subpart) at that property are natural gas, wood, distillate oil meeting the most current requirements in § 60.42C to use fuel certification to demonstrate compliance with the SOstandard, and/or fuels, excluding coal and residual oil, not subject to an emissions standard (excluding opacity) may elect to record and maintain records of the total amount of each steam generating unit fuel delivered to that property during each calendar month.

(h) The owner or operator of each affected facility subject to a federally enforceable requirement limiting the annual capacity factor for any fuel or mixture of fuels under § 60.42c or § 60.43c shall calculate the annual capacity factor individually for each fuel combusted. The annual capacity factor is determined on a 12-month rolling average basis with a new annual capacity factor calculated at the end of the calendar month.

(i) All records required under this section shall be maintained by the owner or operator of the affected facility for a period of two years following the date of such record.

(j) The reporting period for the reports required under this subpart is each six-month period. All reports shall be submitted to the Administrator and shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of the reporting period.
