
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Dc - Standards of Performance for Small Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units
###### § 60.46c Emission monitoring for sulfur dioxide.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the SOemission limits under § 60.42c shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for measuring SOconcentrations and either Oor COconcentrations at the outlet of the SOcontrol device (or the outlet of the steam generating unit if no SOcontrol device is used), and shall record the output of the system. The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the percent reduction requirements under § 60.42c shall measure SOconcentrations and either Oor COconcentrations at both the inlet and outlet of the SOcontrol device.

(b) The 1-hour average SOemission rates measured by a CEMS shall be expressed in ng/J or lb/MMBtu heat input and shall be used to calculate the average emission rates under § 60.42c. Each 1-hour average SOemission rate must be based on at least 30 minutes of operation, and shall be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(h)(2). Hourly SOemission rates are not calculated if the affected facility is operated less than 30 minutes in a 1-hour period and are not counted toward determination of a steam generating unit operating day.

(c) The procedures under § 60.13 shall be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the CEMS.

(1) All CEMS shall be operated in accordance with the applicable procedures under Performance Specifications 1, 2, and 3 of appendix B of this part.

(2) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part.

(3) For affected facilities subject to the percent reduction requirements under § 60.42c, the span value of the SOCEMS at the inlet to the SOcontrol device shall be 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential SOemission rate of the fuel combusted, and the span value of the SOCEMS at the outlet from the SOcontrol device shall be 50 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential SOemission rate of the fuel combusted.

(4) For affected facilities that are not subject to the percent reduction requirements of § 60.42c, the span value of the SOCEMS at the outlet from the SOcontrol device (or outlet of the steam generating unit if no SOcontrol device is used) shall be 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential SOemission rate of the fuel combusted.

(d) As an alternative to operating a CEMS at the inlet to the SOcontrol device (or outlet of the steam generating unit if no SOcontrol device is used) as required under paragraph (a) of this section, an owner or operator may elect to determine the average SOemission rate by sampling the fuel prior to combustion. As an alternative to operating a CEMS at the outlet from the SOcontrol device (or outlet of the steam generating unit if no SOcontrol device is used) as required under paragraph (a) of this section, an owner or operator may elect to determine the average SOemission rate by using Method 6B of appendix A of this part. Fuel sampling shall be conducted pursuant to either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section. Method 6B of appendix A of this part shall be conducted pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(1) For affected facilities combusting coal or oil, coal or oil samples shall be collected daily in an as-fired condition at the inlet to the steam generating unit and analyzed for sulfur content and heat content according the Method 19 of appendix A of this part. Method 19 of appendix A of this part provides procedures for converting these measurements into the format to be used in calculating the average SOinput rate.

(2) As an alternative fuel sampling procedure for affected facilities combusting oil, oil samples may be collected from the fuel tank for each steam generating unit immediately after the fuel tank is filled and before any oil is combusted. The owner or operator of the affected facility shall analyze the oil sample to determine the sulfur content of the oil. If a partially empty fuel tank is refilled, a new sample and analysis of the fuel in the tank would be required upon filling. Results of the fuel analysis taken after each new shipment of oil is received shall be used as the daily value when calculating the 30-day rolling average until the next shipment is received. If the fuel analysis shows that the sulfur content in the fuel tank is greater than 0.5 weight percent sulfur, the owner or operator shall ensure that the sulfur content of subsequent oil shipments is low enough to cause the 30-day rolling average sulfur content to be 0.5 weight percent sulfur or less.

(3) Method 6B of appendix A of this part may be used in lieu of CEMS to measure SOat the inlet or outlet of the SOcontrol system. An initial stratification test is required to verify the adequacy of the Method 6B of appendix A of this part sampling location. The stratification test shall consist of three paired runs of a suitable SOand COmeasurement train operated at the candidate location and a second similar train operated according to the procedures in § 3.2 and the applicable procedures in section 7 of Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of this part. Method 6B of appendix A of this part, Method 6A of appendix A of this part, or a combination of Methods 6 and 3 of appendix A of this part or Methods 6C and 3A of appendix A of this part are suitable measurement techniques. If Method 6B of appendix A of this part is used for the second train, sampling time and timer operation may be adjusted for the stratification test as long as an adequate sample volume is collected; however, both sampling trains are to be operated similarly. For the location to be adequate for Method 6B of appendix A of this part 24-hour tests, the mean of the absolute difference between the three paired runs must be less than 10 percent (0.10).

(e) The monitoring requirements of paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section shall not apply to affected facilities subject to § 60.42c(h) (1), (2), or (3) where the owner or operator of the affected facility seeks to demonstrate compliance with the SOstandards based on fuel supplier certification, as described under § 60.48c(f), as applicable.

(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility operating a CEMS pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or conducting as-fired fuel sampling pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, shall obtain emission data for at least 75 percent of the operating hours in at least 22 out of 30 successive steam generating unit operating days. If this minimum data requirement is not met with a single monitoring system, the owner or operator of the affected facility shall supplement the emission data with data collected with other monitoring systems as approved by the Administrator.
