
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ea - Standards of Performance for Municipal Waste Combustors for Which Construction Is Commenced After December 20, 1989 and On or Before September 20, 1994
###### ยง 60.51a Definitions.
####### Municipal waste combustor, MWC,,municipal waste combustor unit:

or(1) Means any setting or equipment that combusts solid, liquid, or gasified MSW including, but not limited to, field-erected incinerators (with or without heat recovery), modular incinerators (starved-air or excess-air), boilers (i.e., steam-generating units), furnaces (whether suspension-fired, grate-fired, mass-fired, air curtain incinerators, or fluidized bed-fired), and pyrolysis/combustion units. Municipal waste combustors do not include pyrolysis/combustion units located at plastics/ rubber recycling units (as specified in ยง 60.50a(k) of this section). Municipal waste combustors do not include internal combustion engines, gas turbines, or other combustion devices that combust landfill gases collected by landfill gas collection systems.

(2) The boundaries of an MWC are defined as follows. The MWC unit includes, but is not limited to, the MSW fuel feed system, grate system, flue gas system, bottom ash system, and the combustor water system. The MWC boundary starts at the MSW pit or hopper and extends through:

(i) The combustor flue gas system, which ends immediately following the heat recovery equipment or, if there is no heat recovery equipment, immediately following the combustion chamber;

(ii) The combustor bottom ash system, which ends at the truck loading station or similar ash handling equipment that transfer the ash to final disposal, including all ash handling systems that are connected to the bottom ash handling system; and

(iii) The combustor water system, which starts at the feed water pump and ends at the piping exiting the steam drum or superheater.

(3) The MWC unit does not include air pollution control equipment, the stack, water treatment equipment, or the turbine generator set.
