
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ea - Standards of Performance for Municipal Waste Combustors for Which Construction Is Commenced After December 20, 1989 and On or Before September 20, 1994
###### § 60.58a Compliance and performance testing.

(a) The standards under this subpart apply at all times, except during periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction; provided, however, that the duration of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction shall not exceed 3 hours per occurrence.

(1) The start-up period commences when the affected facility begins the continuous burning of MSW and does not include any warm-up period when the affected facility is combusting only a fossil fuel or other non-MSW fuel and no MSW is being combusted.

(2) Continuous burning is the continuous, semicontinuous, or batch feeding of MSW for purposes of waste disposal, energy production, or providing heat to the combustion system in preparation for waste disposal or energy production. The use of MSW solely to provide thermal protection of grate or hearth during the start-up period shall not be considered to be continuous burning.

(b) The following procedures and test methods shall be used to determine compliance with the emission limits for particulate matter under § 60.52a:

(1) Method 1 shall be used to select sampling site and number of traverse points.

(2) Method 3 shall be used for gas analysis.

(3) Method 5 shall be used for determining compliance with the particulate matter emission limit. The minimum sample volume shall be 1.7 cubic meters (60 cubic feet). The probe and filter holder heating systems in the sample train shall be set to provide a gas temperature of 160&#xB0;+/-14 &#xB0;Centigrade (320&#xB0;+/-25 &#xB0;Fahrenheit). An oxygen or carbon dioxide measurement shall be obtained simultaneously with each Method 5 run.

(4) For each Method 5 run, the emission rate shall be determined using:

(i) Oxygen or carbon dioxide measurements,

(ii) Dry basis F factor, and

(iii) Dry basis emission rate calculation procedures in Method 19.

(5) An owner or operator may request that compliance be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established during the initial compliance test.

(6) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial compliance test for particulate matter and opacity as required under § 60.8.

(7) Method 9 shall be used for determining compliance with the opacity limit.

(8) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS) and record the output of the system on a 6-minute average basis.

(9) Following the date the initial compliance test for particulate matter is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 for an affected facility located within a large MWC plant, the owner or operator shall conduct a performance test for particulate matter on an annual basis (no more than 12 calendar months following the previous compliance test).

(10) [Reserved]

(c) [Reserved]

(d) The following procedures and test methods shall be used to determine compliance with the limits for dioxin/furan emissions under § 60.53a:

(1) Method 23 shall be used for determining compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limits. The minimum sample time shall be 4 hours per test run.

(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial compliance test for dioxin/furan emissions as required under § 60.8.

(3) Following the date of the initial compliance test or the date on which the initial compliance test is required to be completed under § 60.8, the owner or operator of an affected facility located within a large MWC plant shall conduct a performance test for dioxin/furan emissions on an annual basis (no more than 12 calendar months following the previous compliance test).

(4) [Reserved]

(5) An owner or operator may request that compliance with the dioxin/furan emissions limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established during the initial compliance test.

(e) The following procedures and test methods shall be used for determining compliance with the sulfur dioxide limit under § 60.54a:

(1) Method 19, section 5.4, shall be used to determine the daily geometric average percent reduction in the potential sulfur dioxide emission rate.

(2) Method 19, section 4.3, shall be used to determine the daily geometric average sulfur dioxide emission rate.

(3) An owner or operator may request that compliance with the sulfur dioxide emissions limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established during the initial compliance test.

(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial compliance test for sulfur dioxide as required under § 60.8. Compliance with the sulfur dioxide emission limit and percent reduction is determined by using a CEMS to measure sulfur dioxide and calculating a 24-hour daily geometric mean emission rate and daily geometric mean percent reduction using Method 19 sections 4.3 and 5.4, as applicable, except as provided under paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(5) For batch MWC's or MWC units that do not operate continuously, compliance shall be determined using a daily geometric mean of all hourly average values for the hours during the day that the affected facility is combusting MSW.

(6) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for measuring sulfur dioxide emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system.

(7) Following the date of the initial compliance test or the date on which the initial compliance test is required to be completed under § 60.8, compliance with the sulfur dioxide emission limit or percent reduction shall be determined based on the geometric mean of the hourly arithmetic average emission rates during each 24-hour daily period measured between 12:00 midnight and the following midnight using: CEMS inlet and outlet data, if compliance is based on a percent reduction; or CEMS outlet data only if compliance is based on an emission limit.

(8) At a minimum, valid CEMS data shall be obtained for 75 percent of the hours per day for 75 percent of the days per month the affected facility is operated and combusting MSW.

(9) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required under paragraph (e)(7) of this section shall be expressed in parts per million (dry basis) and used to calculate the 24-hour daily geometric mean emission rates. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2). At least two data points shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.

(10) All valid CEMS data shall be used in calculating emission rates and percent reductions even if the minimum CEMS data requirements of paragraph (e)(8) of this section are not met.

(11) The procedures under § 60.1 3 shall be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the CEMS.

(12) The CEMS shall be operated according to Performance Specifications 1, 2, and 3 (appendix B of part 60).

(13) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with Procedure 1 (appendix F of part 60).

(14) The span value of the CEMS at the inlet to the sulfur dioxide control device is 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential sulfur dioxide emissions of the MWC unit, and the span value of the CEMS at the outlet of the sulfur dioxide control device is 50 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential sulfur dioxide emissions of the MWC unit.

(15) When sulfur dioxide emissions data are not obtained because of CEMS breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks and zero and span adjustments, emissions data shall be obtained by using other monitoring systems as approved by the Administrator or Method 19 to provide as necessary valid emission data for a minimum of 75 percent of the hours per day for 75 percent of the days per month the unit is operated and combusting MSW.
