
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ea - Standards of Performance for Municipal Waste Combustors for Which Construction Is Commenced After December 20, 1989 and On or Before September 20, 1994
###### ยง 60.56a Standards for municipal waste combustor operating practices.
####### maximum demonstrated

(c) No owner or operator of an affected facility located within a large MWC plant shall cause such facility to operate at a temperature, measured at the final particulate matter control device inlet, exceeding 17 &#xB0;Centigrade (30 &#xB0;Fahrenheit) above theparticulate matter control device temperature as defined in ยง 60.51a. The averaging time is specified under ยง 60.58a(h).

(d) Within 24 months from the date of start-up of an affected facility or before February 11, 1993, whichever is later, each chief facility operator and shift supervisor of an affected facility located within a large MWC plant shall obtain and keep current either a provisional or operator certification in accordance with ASME QRO-1-1994 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 60.17) or an equivalent State-approved certification program.

(e) No owner or operator of an affected facility shall allow such affected facility located at a large MWC plant to operate at any time without a certified shift supervisor, as provided under paragraph (d) of this section, on duty at the affected facility. This requirement shall take effect 24 months after the date of start-up of the affected facility or on and after February 11, 1993, whichever is later.

(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility located within a large MWC plant shall develop and update on a yearly basis a sitespecific operating manual that shall, at a minimum, address the following elements of MWC unit operation:

(1) Summary of the applicable standards under this subpart;

(2) Description of basic combustion theory applicable to an MWC unit;

(3) Procedures for receiving, handling, and feeding MSW;

(4) MWC unit start-up, shutdown, and malfunction procedures;

(5) Procedures for maintaining proper combustion air supply levels;

(6) Procedures for operating the MWC unit within the standards established under this subpart;

(7) Procedures for responding to periodic upset or off-specification conditions;

(8) Procedures for minimizing particulate matter carryover;

(9) [Reserved]

(10) Procedures for handling ash;

(11) Procedures for monitoring MWC unit emissions; and

(12) Reporting and recordkeeping procedures.

(g) The owner or operator of an affected facility located within a large MWC plant shall establish a program for reviewing the operating manual annually with each person who has responsibilities affecting the operation of an affected facility including, but not limited to, chief facility operators, shift supervisors, control room operators, ash handlers, maintenance personnel, and crane/load handlers.

(h) The initial review of the operating manual, as specified under paragraph (g) of this section, shall be conducted prior to assumption of responsibilities affecting MWC unit operation by any person required to undergo training under paragraph (g) of this section. Subsequent reviews of the manual shall be carried out annually by each such person.

(i) The operating manual shall be kept in a readily accessible location for all persons required to undergo training under paragraph (g) of this section. The operating manual and records of training shall be available for inspection by EPA or its delegated enforcement agent upon request.

(j)-(k) [Reserved]
