
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ea - Standards of Performance for Municipal Waste Combustors for Which Construction Is Commenced After December 20, 1989 and On or Before September 20, 1994
###### § 60.58a Compliance and performance testing.
####### physical change in the method of operation

(7) Not operating a sorbent injection system for the sole purpose of testing in order to demonstrate compliance with the percent reduction standards for MWC acid gases shall not be considered aunder 40 CFR 52.21, or under regulations approved pursuant to 40 CFR 51.166 or 40 CFR 51.165 (a) and (b).

(g) The following procedures and test methods shall be used to determine compliance with the nitrogen oxides limit under § 60.55a:

(1) Method 19, section 4.1, shall be used for determining the daily arithmetic average nitrogen oxides emission rate.

(2) An owner or operator may request that compliance with the nitrogen oxides emissions limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established during the initial compliance test.

(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the nitrogen oxides limit under § 60.55a shall conduct an initial compliance test for nitrogen oxides as required under § 60.8. Compliance with the nitrogen oxides emission standard shall be determined by using a CEMS for measuring nitrogen oxides and calculating a 24-hour daily arithmetic average emission rate using Method 19, section 4.1, except as specified under paragraph (g)(4) of this section.

(4) For batch MWC's or MWC's that do not operate continuously, compliance shall be determined using a daily arithmetic average of all hourly average values for the hours during the day that the affected facility is combusting MSW.

(5) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the nitrogen oxides emissions limit under § 60.55a shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for measuring nitrogen oxides discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system.

(6) Following the initial compliance test or the date on which the initial compliance test is required to be completed under § 60.8, compliance with the emission limit for nitrogen oxides required under § 60.55a shall be determined based on the arithmetic average of the arithmetic average hourly emission rates during each 24-hour daily period measured between 12:00 midnight and the following midnight using CEMS data.

(7) At a minimum valid CEMS data shall be obtained for 75 percent of the hours per day for 75 percent of the days per month the affected facility is operated and combusting MSW.

(8) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required by paragraph (g)(6) of this section shall be expressed in parts per million volume (dry basis) and used to calculate the 24-hour daily arithmetic average emission rates. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(b). At least two data points shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.

(9) All valid CEMS data must be used in calculating emission rates even if the minimum CEMS data requirements of paragraph (g)(7) of this section are not met.

(10) The procedures under § 60.13 shall be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the CEMS.

(11) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with Procedure 1 (appendix F of part 60).

(12) When nitrogen oxides emissions data are not obtained because of CEMS breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, emission data calculations to determine compliance shall be made using other monitoring systems as approved by the Administrator or Method 19 to provide as necessary valid emission data for a minimum of 75 percent of the hours per day for 75 percent of the days per month the unit is operated and combusting MSW.

(h) The following procedures shall be used for determining compliance with the operating standards under § 60.56a:

(1) Compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limits in § 60.56a(a) shall be determined using a 4-hour block arithmetic average for all types of affected facilities except mass burn rotary waterwall MWC's, RDF stokers, and spreader stoker/RDF mixed fuel-fired combustors.

(2) For affected mass burn rotary waterwall MWC's, RDF stokers, and spreader stoker/RDF mixed fuel-fired combustors, compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limits in § 60.56a(a) shall be determined using a 24-hour daily arithmetic average.

(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for measuring carbon monoxide at the combustor outlet and record the output of the system.

(4) The 4-hour and 24-hour daily arithmetic averages in paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section shall be calculated from 1-hour arithmetic averages expressed in parts per million by volume (dry basis). The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points generated by the CEMS. At least two data points shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.

(5) An owner or operator may request that compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established during the initial compliance test.

(6) The following procedures shall be used to determine compliance with load level requirements under § 60.56a(b):

(i) The owner or operator of an affected facility with steam generation capability shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a steam flow meter or a feedwater flow meter; measure steam or feedwater flow in kilograms per hour (pounds per hour) on a continuous basis; and record the output of the monitor. Steam or feedwater flow shall be calculated in 4-hour block arithmetic averages.

(ii) The method included in "American Society of Mechanical Engineers Power Test Codes: Test Code for Steam Generating Units, Power Test Code 4.1-1964", Section 4 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) shall be used for calculating the steam (or feedwater flow) required under paragraph (h)(6)(i) of this section. The recommendations of "American Society of Mechanical Engineers Interim Supplement 19.5 on Instruments and Apparatus: Application, Part II of Fluid Meters, 6th edition (1971)," chapter 4 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) shall be followed for design, construction, installation, calibration, and use of nozzles and orifices except as specified in (h)(6)(iii) of this section.

(iii) Measurement devices such as flow nozzles and orifices are not required to be recalibrated after they are installed.

(iv) All signal conversion elements associated with steam (or feedwater flow) measurements must be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions before each dioxin/furan compliance and performance test, and at least once per year.

(v) The owner or operator of an affected facility without heat recovery shall:

(A) [Reserved]

(7) To determine compliance with the maximum particulate matter control device temperature requirements under § 60.56a(c), the owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device for measuring temperature of the flue gas stream at the inlet to the final particulate matter control device on a continuous basis and record the output of the device. Temperature shall be calculated in 4-hour block arithmetic averages.

(8) Maximum demonstrated MWC unit load shall be determined during the initial compliance test for dioxins/furans and each subsequent performance test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit under § 60.53a is achieved. Maximum demonstrated MWC unit load shall be the maximum 4-hour arithmetic average load achieved during the most recent test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan limit was achieved.

(9) The maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature shall be determined during the initial compliance test for dioxins/furans and each subsequent performance test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit under § 60.53a is achieved. Maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature shall be the maximum 4-hour arithmetic average temperature achieved at the final particulate matter control device inlet during the most recent test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan limit was achieved.

(10) At a minimum, valid CEMS data for carbon monoxide, steam or feedwater flow, and particulate matter control device inlet temperature shall be obtained 75 percent of the hours per day for 75 percent of the days per month the affected facility is operated and combusting MSW.

(11) All valid data must be used in calculating the parameters specified under paragraph (h) of this section even if the minimum data requirements of paragraph (h)(10) of this section are not met.

(12) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests for carbon monoxide CEMS shall be performed in accordance with Procedure 1 (appendix F).

(i) [Reserved]
