
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Eb - Standards of Performance for Large Municipal Waste Combustors for Which Construction is Commenced After September 20, 1994 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 19, 1996
###### § 60.53b Standards for municipal waste combustor operating practices.

(a) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain carbon monoxide in excess of the emission limits specified in table 1 of this subpart.

(b) No owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause such facility to operate at a load level greater than 110 percent of the maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load as defined in § 60.51b, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. The averaging time is specified under § 60.58b(i).

(1) During the annual dioxin/furan or mercury performance test and the 2 weeks preceding the annual dioxin/furan or mercury performance test, no municipal waste combustor unit load limit is applicable if the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section are met.

(2) The municipal waste combustor unit load limit may be waived in writing by the Administrator for the purpose of evaluating system performance, testing new technology or control technologies, diagnostic testing, or related activities for the purpose of improving facility performance or advancing the state-of-the-art for controlling facility emissions. The municipal waste combustor unit load limit continues to apply, and remains enforceable, until and unless the Administrator grants the waiver.

(c) No owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause such facility to operate at a temperature, measured at the particulate matter control device inlet, exceeding 17 &#xB0;C above the maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature as defined in § 60.51b, except as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. The averaging time is specified under § 60.58b(i). The requirements specified in this paragraph apply to each particulate matter control device utilized at the affected facility.

(1) During the annual dioxin/furan or mercury performance test and the 2 weeks preceding the annual dioxin/furan or mercury performance test, no particulate matter control device temperature limitations are applicable if the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section are met.

(2) The particulate matter control device temperature limits may be waived in writing by the Administrator for the purpose of evaluating system performance, testing new technology or control technologies, diagnostic testing, or related activities for the purpose of improving facility performance or advancing the state-of-the-art for controlling facility emissions. The temperature limits continue to apply, and remain enforceable, until and unless the Administrator grants the waiver.

(d) Paragraph (m)(2) of § 60.58b addresses treatment of activated carbon injection rate during dioxin/furan or mercury testing.
