
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Eb - Standards of Performance for Large Municipal Waste Combustors for Which Construction is Commenced After September 20, 1994 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 19, 1996
###### § 60.59b Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility with a capacity to combust greater than 250 tons per day shall submit, on or before the date the application for a construction permit is submitted under 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, or part 52, as applicable, the items specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section.

(1) The preliminary and final draft materials separation plans required by § 60.57b(a)(1) and (a)(5).

(2) A copy of the notification of the public meeting required by § 60.57b(a)(1)(ii).

(3) A transcript of the public meeting required by § 60.57b(a)(2).

(4) A copy of the document summarizing responses to public comments required by § 60.57b(a)(3).

(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility with a capacity to combust greater than 250 tons per day shall submit a notification of construction, which includes the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.

(1) Intent to construct.

(2) Planned initial startup date.

(3) The types of fuels that the owner or operator plans to combust in the affected facility.

(4) The municipal waste combustor unit capacity, and supporting capacity calculations prepared in accordance with § 60.58b(j).

(5) Documents associated with the siting requirements under § 60.57b (a) and (b), as specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(v) of this section.

(i) The siting analysis required by § 60.57b (b)(1) and (b)(2).

(ii) The final materials separation plan for the affected facility required by § 60.57b(a)(10).

(iii) A copy of the notification of the public meeting required by § 60.57b(b)(3)(ii).

(iv) A transcript of the public meeting required by § 60.57b(b)(4).

(v) A copy of the document summarizing responses to public comments required by § 60.57b (a)(9) and (b)(5).

(c) The owner or operator of an air curtain incinerator subject to the opacity limit under § 60.56b shall provide a notification of construction that includes the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.

(d) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the standards under §§ 60.52b, 60.53b, 60.54b, 60.55b, and 60.57b shall maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(15) of this section, as applicable, for each affected facility for a period of at least 5 years.

(1) The calendar date of each record.

(2) The emission concentrations and parameters measured using continuous monitoring systems as specified under paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) The measurements specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A) through (d)(2)(i)(F) of this section shall be recorded and be available for submittal to the Administrator or review on site by an EPA or State inspector.

(A) All 6-minute average opacity levels as specified under § 60.58b(c).

(B) All 1-hour average sulfur dioxide emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(e).

(C) All 1-hour average nitrogen oxides emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(h).

(D) All 1-hour average carbon monoxide emission concentrations, municipal waste combustor unit load measurements, and particulate matter control device inlet temperatures as specified under § 60.58b(i).

(E) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, all 1-hour average particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(n).

(ii) The average concentrations and percent reductions, as applicable, specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(F) of this section shall be computed and recorded, and shall be available for submittal to the Administrator or review on-site by an EPA or State inspector.

(A) All 24-hour daily geometric average sulfur dioxide emission concentrations and all 24-hour daily geometric average percent reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions as specified under § 60.58b(e).

(B) All 24-hour daily arithmetic average nitrogen oxides emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(h).

(C) All 4-hour block or 24-hour daily arithmetic average carbon monoxide emission concentrations, as applicable, as specified under § 60.58b(i).

(D) All 4-hour block arithmetic average municipal waste combustor unit load levels and particulate matter control device inlet temperatures as specified under § 60.58b(i).

(E) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, all 24-hour daily arithmetic average particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(n).

(F) For owners and operators who elect to use a continuous automated sampling system to monitor mercury or dioxin/furan instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, all integrated 24-hour mercury concentrations or all integrated 2-week dioxin/furan concentrations as specified under § 60.586(p).

(3) Identification of the calendar dates when any of the average emission concentrations, percent reductions, or operating parameters recorded under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(F) of this section, or the opacity levels recorded under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section are above the applicable limits, with reasons for such exceedances and a description of corrective actions taken.

(4) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon for mercury or dioxin/furan control, the records specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (d)(4)(v) of this section.

(i) The average carbon mass feed rate (in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour) estimated as required under § 60.58b(m)(1)(i) of this section during the initial mercury performance test and all subsequent annual performance tests, with supporting calculations.

(ii) The average carbon mass feed rate (in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour) estimated as required under § 60.58b(m)(1)(ii) of this section during the initial dioxin/furan performance test and all subsequent annual performance tests, with supporting calculations.

(iii) The average carbon mass feed rate (in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour) estimated for each hour of operation as required under § 60.58b(m)(3)(ii) of this section, with supporting calculations.

(iv) The total carbon usage for each calendar quarter estimated as specified by paragraph 60.58b(m)(3) of this section, with supporting calculations.

(v) Carbon injection system operating parameter data for the parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of carbon feed rate (e.g., screw feeder speed).

(5) [Reserved]

(6) Identification of the calendar dates and times (hours) for which valid hourly data specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (d)(6)(vi) of this section have not been obtained, or continuous automated sampling systems were not operated as specified in paragraph (d)(6)(vii) of this section, including reasons for not obtaining the data and a description of corrective actions taken.

(i) Sulfur dioxide emissions data;

(ii) Nitrogen oxides emissions data;

(iii) Carbon monoxide emissions data;

(iv) Municipal waste combustor unit load data;

(v) Particulate matter control device temperature data; and

(vi) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of performance testing by EPA manual test methods, particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions data.

(vii) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxins/furans or mercury as allowed under "60.58b(p) and (q), dates and times when the sampling systems were not operating or were not collecting a valid sample.
