
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Eb - Standards of Performance for Large Municipal Waste Combustors for Which Construction is Commenced After September 20, 1994 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 19, 1996
###### § 60.58b Compliance and performance testing.
####### e.g.

(ii) When the continuous emission monitoring system is out of control as defined in paragraph (o)(4)(i) of this section, the owner or operator of the affected source shall take the necessary corrective action and shall repeat all necessary tests that indicate that the system is out of control. The owner or operator shall take corrective action and conduct retesting until the performance requirements are below the applicable limits. The beginning of the out-of-control period is the hour the owner or operator conducts a performance check (, calibration drift) that indicates an exceedance of the performance requirements established under this part. The end of the out-of-control period is the hour following the completion of corrective action and successful demonstration that the system is within the allowable limits. During the period the continuous emission monitoring system is out of control, recorded data shall not be used in data averages and calculations or to meet any data availability requirements in paragraph (n)(8) of this section.

(iii) The owner or operator of a continuous emission monitoring system that is out of control as defined in paragraph (o)(4) of this section shall submit all information concerning out-of-control periods, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken in the annual or semiannual compliance reports required in § 60.59b(g) or (h).

(5) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures for continuous emission monitoring systems as described in paragraphs (o)(5)(i) and (o)(5)(ii) of this section.

(i) Develop and implement a continuous emission monitoring system quality control program. As part of the quality control program, the owner or operator shall develop and submit to EPA for approval, upon request, a site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the continuous emission monitoring system performance evaluation required in paragraph (o)(5)(ii) of this section. In addition, each quality control program shall include, at a minimum, a written protocol that describes procedures for each of the operations described in paragraphs (o)(7)(i)(A) through (o)(7)(i)(F) of this section.

(A) Initial and any subsequent calibration of the continuous emission monitoring system;

(B) Determination and adjustment of the calibration drift of the continuous emission monitoring system;

(C) Preventive maintenance of the continuous emission monitoring system, including spare parts inventory;

(D) Data recording, calculations, and reporting;

(E) Accuracy audit procedures, including sampling and analysis methods; and

(F) Program of corrective action for a malfunctioning continuous emission monitoring system.

(ii) The performance evaluation test plan shall include the evaluation program objectives, an evaluation program summary, the performance evaluation schedule, data quality objectives, and both an internal and external quality assurance program. Data quality objectives are the pre-evaluation expectations of precision, accuracy, and completeness of data. The internal quality assurance program shall include, at a minimum, the activities planned by routine operators and analysts to provide an assessment of continuous emission monitoring system performance, for example, plans for relative accuracy testing using the appropriate reference method in § 60.58b(n)(12) of this section. The external quality assurance program shall include, at a minimum, systems audits that include the opportunity for on-site evaluation by the Administrator of instrument calibration, data validation, sample logging, and documentation of quality control data and field maintenance activities.

(6) Conduct a performance evaluation of each continuous emission monitoring system in accordance with the site-specific monitoring plan.

(7) Operate and maintain the continuous emission monitoring system in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.

(p) In place of periodic manual testing of dioxin/furan or mercury with EPA Reference Method 23, 29, or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 (as applicable), the owner or operator of an affected facility may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system for determining emissions discharged to the atmosphere. This option takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to such continuous automated sampling systems is published in theor the date of approval of a site-specific monitoring plan required in paragraphs (p)(10) and (q) of this section. The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to use a continuous automated sampling system to determine emissions instead of conducting manual performance testing shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the sampling system and conduct analyses in compliance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (p)(1) through (p)(12) of this section.

(1) Notify the Administrator one month before starting use of the system.

(2) Notify the Administrator one month before stopping use of the system.

(3) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part or within 180 days of notification to the Administrator of use of the continuous monitoring system if the owner or operator was previously determining compliance by manual performance testing using Method 23, 29, or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 (as applicable), whichever is later.

(4) The owner or operator may request that compliance with the emission limits be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.

(5) The owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance test for emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance with the emission limits shall be determined by using the continuous automated sampling system specified in paragraph (p) of this section to collect integrated samples and analyze emissions for the time period specified in paragraphs (p)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) For dioxin/furan, the continuous automated sampling system shall collect an integrated sample over each 2-week period. The collected sample shall be analyzed using Method 23.

(ii) For mercury, the continuous automated sampling system shall collect an integrated sample over each 24-hour daily period and the sample shall be analyzed according to the applicable final performance specification or the approved site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (q) of this section.

(6) Compliance with the emission limits shall be determined based on 2-week emission concentrations for dioxin/furan and on the 24-hour daily emission concentrations for mercury using samples collected at the system outlet. The emission concentrations shall be expressed in nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass) for dioxin/furan and micrograms per dry standard cubic meter for mercury, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis).

(7) Beginning on the date two years after the respective final performance specification for continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury is published in theor two years after approval of a site-specific monitoring plan, the continuous automated sampling system must be operated and collect emissions for at least 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the operating hours per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste.

(8) All valid data shall be used in calculating emission concentrations.

(9) The continuous automated sampling system shall be operated according to the final performance specification in paragraphs (p)(9)(i) or (p)(9)(ii) of this section or the approved site-specific monitoring plan.

(i)-(ii) [Reserved]

(10) The owner or operator who elects to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system for dioxin/furan or mercury must develop and implement a site-specific monitoring plan as specified in paragraph (q) of this section. The owner or operator who relies on a performance specification may refer to that document in addressing applicable procedures and criteria.

(11) When emissions data are not obtained because of continuous automated sampling system breakdowns, repairs, quality assurance checks, or adjustments, parametric monitoring data shall be obtained by using other monitoring systems as approved by EPA.

(q) The owner or operator who elects to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system for dioxin/furan or mercury must develop and submit for approval by EPA, a site-specific monitoring plan that has sufficient detail to assure the validity of the continuous automated sampling system data and that addresses the elements and requirements in paragraphs (q)(1) through (q)(7) of this section.
