
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Eb - Standards of Performance for Large Municipal Waste Combustors for Which Construction is Commenced After September 20, 1994 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 19, 1996
###### ยง 60.58b Compliance and performance testing.
####### e.g.

(1) Installation of the continuous automated sampling system sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (, on or downstream of the last control device).

(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration analytical method, and the data collection system.

(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria.

(4) Provisions for periods when the continuous automated sampling system is malfunctioning or is out of control as described in paragraphs (q)(4)(i) through (q)(4)(iii) of this section.

(i) The site-specific monitoring plan shall identify criteria for determining that the continuous automated sampling system is out of control. This shall include periods when the sampling system is not collecting a representative sample or is malfunctioning, or when the analytical method does not meet site-specific quality criteria established in paragraph (q)(5) of this section.

(ii) When the continuous automated sampling system is out of control as defined in paragraph (q)(4)(i) of this section, the owner or operator shall take the necessary corrective action and shall repeat all necessary tests that indicate that the system is out of control. The owner or operator shall take corrective action and conduct retesting until the performance requirements are within the applicable limits. The out-of-control period includes all hours that the sampling system was not collecting a representative sample or was malfunctioning, or hours represented by a sample for which the analysis did not meet the relevant quality criteria. Emissions data obtained during an out-of-control period shall not be used in determining compliance with the emission limits or to meet any data availability requirements in paragraph (p)(8) of this section.

(iii) The owner or operator of a continuous automated sampling system that is out of control as defined in paragraph (q)(4) of this section shall submit all information concerning out-of-control periods, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken in the annual or semiannual compliance reports required in ยง 60.59b(g) or (h).

(5) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures for continuous automated sampling systems as described in paragraphs (q)(5)(i) and (q)(5)(ii) of this section.

(i) Develop and implement a continuous automated sampling system and analysis quality control program. As part of the quality control program, the owner or operator shall develop and submit to EPA for approval, upon request, a site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the continuous automated sampling system performance evaluation required in paragraph (q)(5)(ii) of this section. In addition, each quality control program shall include, at a minimum, a written protocol that describes procedures for each of the operations described in paragraphs (q)(7)(i)(A) through (q)(7)(i)(F) of this section.

(A) Correct placement, installation of the continuous automated sampling system such that the system is collecting a representative sample of gas;

(B) Initial and subsequent calibration of flow such that the sample collection rate of the continuous automated sampling system is known and verifiable;
