
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Eb - Standards of Performance for Large Municipal Waste Combustors for Which Construction is Commenced After September 20, 1994 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 19, 1996
###### § 60.59b Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### 4

() Copies of the written reports submitted every 4 weeks that summarize the actions taken by the owner or operator of the affected facility to ensure that a certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor will be on site as soon as practicable.

(13) Records showing the names of persons who have completed a review of the operating manual as required by § 60.54b(f) including the date of the initial review and subsequent annual reviews.

(14) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon, identification of the calendar dates when the average carbon mass feed rates recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section were less than either of the hourly carbon feed rates estimated during performance tests for mercury emissions and recorded under paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (d)(4)(ii) of this section, respectively, with reasons for such feed rates and a description of corrective actions taken. For affected facilities that apply activated carbon, identification of the calendar dates when the average carbon mass feed rates recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section were less than either of the hourly carbon feed rates estimated during performance tests for dioxin/furan emissions and recorded under paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (d)(4)(ii) of this section, respectively, with reasons for such feed rates and a description of corrective actions taken.

(15) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon for mercury or dioxin/furan control, identification of the calendar dates when the carbon injection system operating parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of carbon mass feed rate (e.g., screw feeder speed) recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(v) of this section are below the level(s) estimated during the performance tests as specified in § 60.58b(m)(1)(i) and § 60.58b(m)(1)(ii) of this section, with reasons for such occurrences and a description of corrective actions taken.

(e) The owner or operator of an air curtain incinerator subject to the opacity limit under § 60.56b shall maintain records of results of the initial opacity performance test and subsequent performance tests required by § 60.58b(l) for a period of at least 5 years.

(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(6) of this section in the initial performance test report.

(1) The initial performance test data as recorded under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(D) of this section for the initial performance test for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load level, and particulate matter control device inlet temperature.

(2) The test report documenting the initial performance test recorded under paragraph (d)(9) of this section for particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emissions.

(3) The performance evaluation of the continuous emission monitoring system using the applicable performance specifications in appendix B of this part.

(4) The maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load and maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device inlet temperature(s) established during the initial dioxin/furan performance test as recorded under paragraph (d)(9) of this section.

(5) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon injection for mercury control, the owner or operator shall submit the average carbon mass feed rate recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section.

(6) For those affected facilities that apply activated carbon injection for dioxin/furan control, the owner or operator shall submit the average carbon mass feed rate recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section.

(g) Following the first year of municipal waste combustor operation, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit an annual report that includes the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(5) of this section, as applicable, no later than February 1 of each year following the calendar year in which the data were collected (once the unit is subject to permitting requirements under title V of the Act, the owner or operator of an affected facility must submit these reports semiannually).

(1) A summary of data collected for all pollutants and parameters regulated under this subpart, which includes the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(v) of this section.

(i) A list of the particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emission levels achieved during the performance tests recorded under paragraph (d)(9) of this section.

(ii) A list of the highest emission level recorded for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, and dioxin/furan (for owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, and dioxin/furan emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods), municipal waste combustor unit load level, and particulate matter control device inlet temperature based on the data recorded under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(E) of this section.

(iii) List the highest opacity level measured, based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section.

(iv) Periods when valid data were not obtained as described in paragraphs (g)(1)(iv)(A) through (g)(1)(iv)(C) of this section.

(A) The total number of hours per calendar quarter and hours per calendar year that valid data for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load, or particulate matter control device temperature data were not obtained based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(6) of this section.

(B) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, and hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, the total number of hours per calendar quarter and hours per calendar year that valid data for particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, and hydrogen chloride were not obtained based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(6) of this section. For each continuously monitored pollutant or parameter, the hours of valid emissions data per calendar quarter and per calendar year expressed as a percent of the hours per calendar quarter or year that the affected facility was operating and combusting municipal solid waste.

(C) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury, the total number of hours per calendar quarter and hours per calendar year that the sampling systems were not operating or were not collecting a valid sample based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(6)(vii) of this section. Also, the number of hours during which the continuous automated sampling system was operating and collecting a valid sample as a percent of hours per calendar quarter or year that the affected facility was operating and combusting municipal solid waste.

(v) Periods when valid data were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters as described in paragraphs (g)(1)(v)(A) through (g)(1)(v)(C) of this section.

(A) The total number of hours that data for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load, and particulate matter control device temperature were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(7) of this section.

(B) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, the total number of hours that data for particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(7) of this section.

(C) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury, the total number of hours that data for mercury and dioxin/furan were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(7) of this section.

(2) The summary of data reported under paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall also provide the types of data specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(vi) of this section for the calendar year preceding the year being reported, in order to provide the Administrator with a summary of the performance of the affected facility over a 2-year period.

(3) The summary of data including the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section shall highlight any emission or parameter levels that did not achieve the emission or parameter limits specified under this subpart.

(4) A notification of intent to begin the reduced dioxin/furan performance testing schedule specified in § 60.58b(g)(5)(iii) of this section during the following calendar year and notification of intent to apply the average carbon mass feed rate and associated carbon injection system operating parameter levels as established in § 60.58b(m) to similarly designed and equipped units on site.

(5) Documentation of periods when all certified chief facility operators and certified shift supervisors are off site for more than 12 hours.

(h) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit a semiannual report that includes the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(5) of this section for any recorded pollutant or parameter that does not comply with the pollutant or parameter limit specified under this subpart, according to the schedule specified under paragraph (h)(6) of this section.

(1) The semiannual report shall include information recorded under paragraph (d)(3) of this section for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, dioxin/furan (for owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride, or who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury emissions, instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods) municipal waste combustor unit load level, particulate matter control device inlet temperature, and opacity.

(2) For each date recorded as required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section and reported as required by paragraph (h)(1) of this section, the semiannual report shall include the sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load level, particulate matter control device inlet temperature, or opacity data, as applicable, recorded under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(D) and (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section, as applicable.

(3) If the test reports recorded under paragraph (d)(9) of this section document any particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emission levels that were above the applicable pollutant limits, the semiannual report shall include a copy of the test report documenting the emission levels and the corrective actions taken.

(4) The semiannual report shall include the information recorded under paragraph (d)(15) of this section for the carbon injection system operating parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of carbon mass feed rate.

(5) For each operating date reported as required by paragraph (h)(4) of this section, the semiannual report shall include the carbon feed rate data recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section.

(6) Semiannual reports required by paragraph (h) of this section shall be submitted according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (h)(6)(i) and (h)(6)(ii) of this section.

(i) If the data reported in accordance with paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(5) of this section were collected during the first calendar half, then the report shall be submitted by August 1 following the first calendar half.

(ii) If the data reported in accordance with paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(5) of this section were collected during the second calendar half, then the report shall be submitted by February 1 following the second calendar half.

(i) The owner or operator of an air curtain incinerator subject to the opacity limit under § 60.56b shall submit the results of the initial opacity performance test and all subsequent annual performance tests recorded under paragraph (e) of this section. Annual performance tests shall be submitted by February 1 of the year following the year of the performance test.

(j) All reports specified under paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of this section shall be submitted as a paper copy, postmarked on or before the submittal dates specified under these paragraphs, and maintained onsite as a paper copy for a period of 5 years.

(k) All records specified under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall be maintained onsite in either paper copy or computer-readable format, unless an alternative format is approved by the Administrator.

(l) If the owner or operator of an affected facility would prefer a different annual or semiannual date for submitting the periodic reports required by paragraphs (g), (h) and (i) of this section, then the dates may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator according to the procedures specified in § 60.19(c) of subpart A of this part.

(m) Owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride, or who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury emissions, instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods must notify the Administrator one month prior to starting or stopping use of the particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, and dioxin/furan continuous emission monitoring systems or continuous automated sampling systems.
