
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ec - Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources: Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators
###### § 60.50c Applicability and delegation of authority.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section, the affected facility to which this subpart applies is each individual hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerator (HMIWI):

(1) For which construction is commenced after June 20, 1996 but no later than December 1, 2008; or

(2) For which modification is commenced after March 16, 1998 but no later than April 6, 2010.

(3) For which construction is commenced after December 1, 2008; or

(4) For which modification is commenced after April 6, 2010.

(b) A combustor is not subject to this subpart during periods when only pathological waste, low-level radioactive waste, and/or chemotherapeutic waste (all defined in § 60.51c) is burned, provided the owner or operator of the combustor:

(1) Notifies the Administrator of an exemption claim; and

(2) Keeps records on a calendar quarter basis of the periods of time when only pathological waste, low-level radioactivewaste and/or chemotherapeutic waste is burned.

(c) Any co-fired combustor (defined in § 60.51c) is not subject to this subpart if the owner or operator of the co-fired combustor:

(1) Notifies the Administrator of an exemption claim;

(2) Provides an estimate of the relative amounts of hospital waste, medical/infectious waste, and other fuels and wastes to be combusted; and

(3) Keeps records on a calendar quarter basis of the weight of hospital waste and medical/infectious waste combusted, and the weight of all other fuels and wastes combusted at the co-fired combustor.

(d) Any combustor required to have a permit under section 3005 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act is not subject to this subpart.

(e) Any combustor which meets the applicability requirements under subpart Cb, Ea, or Eb of this part (standards or guidelines for certain municipal waste combustors) is not subject to this subpart.

(f) Any pyrolysis unit (defined in § 60.51c) is not subject to this subpart.

(g) Cement kilns firing hospital waste and/or medical/infectious waste are not subject to this subpart.

(h) Physical or operational changes made to an existing HMIWI solely for the purpose of complying with emission guidelines under subpart Ce are not considered a modification and do not result in an existing HMIWI becoming subject to this subpart.

(i) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Clean Air Act, the following authorities shall be retained by the Administrator and not transferred to a State:

(1) The requirements of Sec. 60.56c(i) establishing operating parameters when using controls other than those listed in Sec. 60.56c(d).

(2) Approval of alternative methods of demonstrating compliance under § 60.8 including:

(i) Approval of CEMS for PM, HCl, multi-metals, and Hg where used for purposes of demonstrating compliance,

(ii) Approval of continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan and Hg where used for purposes of demonstrating compliance, and

(iii) Approval of major alternatives to test methods;

(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring;

(4) Waiver of recordkeeping requirements; and

(5) Performance test and data reduction waivers under § 60.8(b).

(j) Affected facilities subject to this subpart are not subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 64.

(i) Approval of CEMS for PM, HCl, multi-metals, and Hg where used for purposes of demonstrating compliance,

(ii) Approval of continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan and Hg where used for purposes of demonstrating compliance, and

(iii) Approval of major alternatives to test methods;

(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring;

(4) Waiver of recordkeeping requirements; and

(5) Performance test and data reduction waivers under § 60.8(b).

(k) The requirements of this subpart shall become effective March 16, 1998

(l) Beginning September 15, 2000, or on the effective date of an EPA-approved operating permit program under Clean Air Act title V and the implementing regulations under 40 CFR part 70 in the State in which the unit is located, whichever date is later, affected facilities subject to this subpart shall operate pursuant to a permit issued under the EPA approved State operating permit program.

(m) The requirements of this subpart as promulgated on September 15, 1997, shall apply to the affected facilities defined in paragraph (a)(1) and (2) of this section until the applicable compliance date of the requirements of subpart Ce of this part, as amended on October 6, 2009. Upon the compliance date of the requirements of the amended subpart Ce of this part, affected facilities as defined in paragraph (a) of this section are no longer subject to the requirements of this subpart, but are subject to the requirements of subpart Ce of this part, as amended on October 6, 2009, except where the emissions limits of this subpart as promulgated on September 15, 1997 are more stringent than the emissions limits of the amended subpart Ce of this part. Compliance with subpart Ce of this part, as amended on October 6, 2009 is required on or before the date 3 years after EPA approval of the State plan for States in which an affected facility as defined in paragraph (a) of this section is located (but not later than the date 5 years after promulgation of the amended subpart).

(n) The requirements of this subpart, as amended on October 6, 2009, shall become effective April 6, 2010.
