
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ec - Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources: Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators
###### ยง 60.53c Operator training and qualification requirements.

(a) No owner or operator of an affected facility shall allow the affected facility to operate at any time unless a fully trained and qualified HMIWI operator is accessible, either at the facility or available within 1 hour. The trained and qualified HMIWI operator may operate the HMIWI directly or be the direct supervisor of one or more HMIWI operators.

(b) Operator training and qualification shall be obtained through a State-approved program or by completing the requirements included in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section.

(c) Training shall be obtained by completing an HMIWI operator training course that includes, at a minimum, the following provisions:

(1) 24 hours of training on the following subjects:

(i) Environmental concerns, including pathogen destruction and types of emissions;

(ii) Basic combustion principles, including products of combustion;

(iii) Operation of the type of incinerator to be used by the operator, including proper startup, waste charging, and shutdown procedures;

(iv) Combustion controls and monitoring;

(v) Operation of air pollution control equipment and factors affecting performance (if applicable);

(vi) Methods to monitor pollutants (continuous emission monitoring systems and monitoring of HMIWI and air pollution control device operating parameters) and equipment calibration procedures (where applicable);

(vii) Inspection and maintenance of the HMIWI, air pollution control devices, and continuous emission monitoring systems;

(viii) Actions to correct malfunctions or conditions that may lead to malfunction;

(ix) Bottom and fly ash characteristics and handling procedures;

(x) Applicable Federal, State, and local regulations;

(xi) Work safety procedures;

(xii) Pre-startup inspections; and

(xiii) Recordkeeping requirements.

(2) An examination designed and administered by the instructor.

(3) Reference material distributed to the attendees covering the course topics.

(d) Qualification shall be obtained by:

(1) Completion of a training course that satisfies the criteria under paragraph (c) of this section; and

(2) Either 6 months experience as an HMIWI operator, 6 months experience as a direct supervisor of an HMIWI operator, or completion of at least two burn cycles under the observation of two qualified HMIWI operators.

(e) Qualification is valid from the date on which the examination is passed or the completion of the required experience, whichever is later.

(f) To maintain qualification, the trained and qualified HMIWI operator shall complete and pass an annual review or refresher course of at least 4 hours covering, at a minimum, the following:

(1) Update of regulations;

(2) Incinerator operation, including startup and shutdown procedures;

(3) Inspection and maintenance;

(4) Responses to malfunctions or conditions that may lead to malfunction; and

(5) Discussion of operating problems encountered by attendees.

(g) A lapsed qualification shall be renewed by one of the following methods:

(1) For a lapse of less than 3 years, the HMIWI operator shall complete and pass a standard annual refresher course described in paragraph (f) of this section.

(2) For a lapse of 3 years or more, the HMIWI operator shall complete and pass a training course with the minimum criteria described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(h) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall maintain documentation at the facility that address the following:

(1) Summary of the applicable standards under this subpart;

(2) Description of basic combustion theory applicable to an HMIWI;

(3) Procedures for receiving, handling, and charging waste;

(4) HMIWI startup, shutdown, and malfunction procedures;

(5) Procedures for maintaining proper combustion air supply levels;

(6) Procedures for operating the HMIWI and associated air pollution control systems within the standards established under this subpart;

(7) Procedures for responding to periodic malfunction or conditions that may lead to malfunction;

(8) Procedures for monitoring HMIWI emissions;

(9) Reporting and recordkeeping procedures; and

(10) Procedures for handling ash.

(i) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall establish a program for reviewing the information listed in paragraph (h) of this section annually with each HMIWI operator (defined in ยง 60.51c).

(1) The initial review of the information listed in paragraph (h) of this section shall be conducted within 6 months after the effective date of this subpart or prior to assumption of responsibilities affecting HMIWI operation, whichever date is later.

(2) Subsequent reviews of the information listed in paragraph (h) of this section shall be conducted annually.

(j) The information listed in paragraph (h) of this section shall be kept in a readily accessible location for all HMIWI operators. This information, along with records of training shall be available for inspection by the EPA or its delegated enforcement agent upon request.
