
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ec - Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources: Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators
###### § 60.56c Compliance and performance testing.
####### see

(4) EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 of this part shall be used for gas composition analysis, including measurement of oxygen concentration. EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 of this part shall be used simultaneously with each of the other EPA reference methods. As an alternative to EPA Reference Method 3B, ASME PTC-19-10-1981-Part 10 may be used (incorporated by reference,§ 60.17).

(5) The pollutant concentrations shall be adjusted to 7 percent oxygen using the following equation:

(6) EPA Reference Method 5 of appendix A-3 or Method 26A or Method 29 of appendix A-8 of this part shall be used to measure the particulate matter emissions. As an alternative, PM CEMS may be used as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(7) EPA Reference Method 7 or 7E of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to measure NOemissions.

(8) EPA Reference Method 6 or 6C of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to measure SOemissions.

(9) EPA Reference Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to measure stack opacity. As an alternative, demonstration of compliance with the PM standards using bag leak detection systems as specified in § 60.57c(h) or PM CEMS as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section is considered demonstrative of compliance with the opacity requirements.

(10) EPA Reference Method 10 or 10B of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to measure the CO emissions. As specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, use of CO CEMS are required for affected facilities under § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4).

(11) EPA Reference Method 23 of appendix A-7 of this part shall be used to measure total dioxin/furan emissions. As an alternative, an owner or operator may elect to sample dioxins/furans by installing, calibrating, maintaining, and operating a continuous automated sampling system for monitoring dioxin/furan emissions as specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. For Method 23 of appendix A-7 sampling, the minimum sample time shall be 4 hours per test run. If the affected facility has selected the toxic equivalency standards for dioxins/furans, under § 60.52c, the following procedures shall be used to determine compliance:

(i) Measure the concentration of each dioxin/furan tetra-through octa-congener emitted using EPA Reference Method 23.

(ii) For each dioxin/furan congener measured in accordance with paragraph (b)(9)(i) of this section, multiply the congener concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in table 2 of this subpart.

(iii) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(9)(ii) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins/furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.

(12) EPA Reference Method 26 or 26A of appendix A-8 of this part shall be used to measure HCl emissions. As an alternative, HCl CEMS may be used as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
