
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ec - Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources: Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators
###### ยง 60.55c Waste management plan.
####### e.g.,,e.g.,,see

The owner or operator of an affected facility shall prepare a waste management plan. The waste management plan shall identify both the feasibility and the approach to separate certain components of solid waste from the health care waste stream in order to reduce the amount of toxic emissions from incinerated waste. A waste management plan may include, but is not limited to, elements such as segregation and recycling of paper, cardboard, plastics, glass, batteries, food waste, and metals (aluminum cans, metals-containing devices); segregation of non-recyclable wastes (polychlorinated biphenyl-containing waste, pharmaceutical waste, and mercury-containing waste, such as dental waste); and purchasing recycled or recyclable products. A waste management plan may include different goals or approaches for different areas or departments of the facility and need not include new waste management goals for every waste stream. It should identify, where possible, reasonably available additional waste management measures, taking into account the effectiveness of waste management measures already in place, the costs of additional measures, the emissions reductions expected to be achieved, and any other environmental or energy impacts they might have. The American Hospital Association publication entitled "An Ounce of Prevention: Waste Reduction Strategies for Health Care Facilities" (incorporated by reference,ยง 60.17) shall be considered in the development of the waste management plan. The owner or operator of each commercial HMIWI company shall conduct training and education programs in waste segregation for each of the company's waste generator clients and ensure that each client prepares its own waste management plan that includes, but is not limited to, the provisions listed previously in this section.
