
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ec - Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources: Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators
###### § 60.58c Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit notifications, as provided by § 60.7. In addition, the owner or operator shall submit the following information:

(1) Prior to commencement of construction;

(i) A statement of intent to construct;

(ii) The anticipated date of commencement of construction; and

(iii) All documentation produced as a result of the siting requirements of § 60.54c.

(2) Prior to initial startup;

(i) The type(s) of waste to be combusted;

(ii) The maximum design waste burning capacity;

(iii) The anticipated maximum charge rate; and

(iv) If applicable, the petition for site-specific operating parameters under § 60.56c(j).

(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall maintain the following information (as applicable) for a period of at least 5 years:

(1) Calendar date of each record;

(2) Records of the following data:

(i) Concentrations of any pollutant listed in § 60.52c or measurements of opacity as determined by the continuous emission monitoring system (if applicable);

(ii) Results of fugitive emissions (by EPA Reference Method 22) tests, if applicable;

(iii) HMIWI charge dates, times, and weights and hourly charge rates;

(iv) Fabric filter inlet temperatures during each minute of operation, as applicable;

(v) Amount and type of dioxin/furan sorbent used during each hour of operation, as applicable;

(vi) Amount and type of Hg sorbent used during each hour of operation, as applicable;

(vii) Amount and type of HCl sorbent used during each hour of operation, as applicable;

(viii) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), amount and type of NOreagent used during each hour of operation, as applicable;

(ix) Secondary chamber temperatures recorded during each minute of operation;

(x) Liquor flow rate to the wet scrubber inlet during each minute of operation, as applicable;

(xi) Horsepower or amperage to the wet scrubber during each minute of operation, as applicable;

(xii) Pressure drop across the wet scrubber system during each minute of operation, as applicable,

(xiii) Temperature at the outlet from the wet scrubber during each minute of operation, as applicable;

(xiv) pH at the inlet to the wet scrubber during each minute of operation, as applicable,

(xv) Records indicating use of the bypass stack, including dates, times, and durations, and

(xvi) For affected facilities complying with § 60.56c(j) and § 60.57c(d), the owner or operator shall maintain all operating parameter data collected;

(xvii) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), records of the annual air pollution control device inspections, any required maintenance, and any repairs not completed within 10 days of an inspection or the timeframe established by the Administrator.

(xviii) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), records of each bag leak detection system alarm, the time of the alarm, the time corrective action was initiated and completed, and a brief description of the cause of the alarm and the corrective action taken, as applicable.

(xix) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), concentrations of CO as determined by the continuous emissions monitoring system.

(3) Identification of calendar days for which data on emission rates or operating parameters specified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section have not been obtained, with an identification of the emission rates or operating parameters not measured, reasons for not obtaining the data, and a description of corrective actions taken.

(4) Identification of calendar days, times and durations of malfunctions, a description of the malfunction and the corrective action taken.

(5) Identification of calendar days for which data on emission rates or operating parameters specified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section exceeded the applicable limits, with a description of the exceedances, reasons for such exceedances, and a description of corrective actions taken.

(6) The results of the initial, annual, and any subsequent performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emissions limits and/or to establish or re-establish operating parameters, as applicable, and a description, including sample calculations, of how the operating parameters were established or re-established, if applicable.

(7) All documentation produced as a result of the siting requirements of § 60.54c;

(8) Records showing the names of HMIWI operators who have completed review of the information in § 60.53c(h) as required by § 60.53c(i), including the date of the initial review and all subsequent annual reviews;

(9) Records showing the names of the HMIWI operators who have completed the operator training requirements, including documentation of training and the dates of the training;

(10) Records showing the names of the HMIWI operators who have met the criteria for qualification under § 60.53c and the dates of their qualification; and

(11) Records of calibration of any monitoring devices as required under § 60.57c(a) through (d).

(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section no later than 60 days following the initial performance test. All reports shall be signed by the facilities manager.

(1) The initial performance test data as recorded under § 60.56c(b)(1) through (b)(14), as applicable.

(2) The values for the site-specific operating parameters established pursuant to § 60.56c(d), (h), or (j), as applicable, and a description, including sample calculations, of how the operating parameters were established during the initial performance test.

(3) The waste management plan as specified in § 60.55c.

(4) For each affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) that uses a bag leak detection system, analysis and supporting documentation demonstrating conformance with EPA guidance and specifications for bag leak detection systems in § 60.57c(h).

(d) An annual report shall be submitted 1 year following the submissions of the information in paragraph (c) of this section and subsequent reports shall be submitted no more than 12 months following the previous report (once the unit is subject to permitting requirements under title V of the Clean Air Act, the owner or operator of an affected facility must submit these reports semiannually). The annual report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (11) of this section. All reports shall be signed by the facilities manager.

(1) The values for the site-specific operating parameters established pursuant to § 60.56c(d), (h), or (j), as applicable.

(2) The highest maximum operating parameter and the lowest minimum operating parameter, as applicable, for each operating parameter recorded for the calendar year being reported, pursuant to § 60.56c(d), (h), or (j), as applicable.

(3) The highest maximum operating parameter and the lowest minimum operating parameter, as applicable, for each operating parameter recorded pursuant to § 60.56c(d), (h), or (j) for the calendar year preceding the year being reported, in order to provide the Administrator with a summary of the performance of the affected facility over a 2-year period.

(4) Any information recorded under paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(5) of this section for the calendar year being reported.

(5) Any information recorded under paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(5) of this section for the calendar year preceding the year being reported, in order to provide the Administrator with a summary of the performance of the affected facility over a 2-year period.

(6) If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of that test.

(7) If no exceedances or malfunctions were reported under paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(5) of this section for the calendar year being reported, a statement that no exceedances occurred during the reporting period.

(8) Any use of the bypass stack, the duration, reason for malfunction, and corrective action taken.

(9) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), records of the annual air pollution control device inspection, any required maintenance, and any repairs not completed within 10 days of an inspection or the timeframe established by the Administrator.

(10) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), records of each bag leak detection system alarm, the time of the alarm, the time corrective action was initiated and completed, and a brief description of the cause of the alarm and the corrective action taken, as applicable.

(11) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), concentrations of CO as determined by the continuous emissions monitoring system.

(e) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit semiannual reports containing any information recorded under paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(5) of this section no later than 60 days following the reporting period. The first semiannual reporting period ends 6 months following the submission of information in paragraph (c) of this section. Subsequent reports shall be submitted no later than 6 calendar months following the previous report. All reports shall be signed by the facilities manager.

(f) All records specified under paragraph (b) of this section shall be maintained onsite in either paper copy or computer-readable format, unless an alternative format is approved by the Administrator.
