
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart F - Standards of Performance for Portland Cement Plants
###### § 60.63 Monitoring of operations.
####### e.g.

(8) For PM performance test reports used to set a PM CPMS operating limit, the electronic submission of the test report must also include the make and model of the PM CPMS instrument, serial number of the instrument, analytical principle of the instrument (beta attenuation), span of the instruments primary analytical range, milliamp or digital signal value equivalent to the instrument zero output, technique by which this zero value was determined, and the average milliamp or digital equivalent signals corresponding to each PM compliance test run.

(d) You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a CEMS continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume of NOemissions into the atmosphere for any kiln subject to the NOemissions limit in § 60.62(a)(3). If the kiln has an alkali bypass, NOemissions from the alkali bypass do not need to be monitored, and NOemission monitoring of the kiln exhaust may be done upstream of any commingled alkali bypass gases.

(e) You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a CEMS for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume of SOemissions into the atmosphere for any kiln subject to the SOemissions limit in § 60.62(a)(4). If you are complying with the alternative 90 percent SOemissions reduction emissions limit, you must also continuously monitor and record the concentration by volume of SOpresent at the wet scrubber inlet.

(f) The NOand SOCEMS required under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section must be installed, operated and maintained according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of this part and the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) The span value of each NOCEMS monitor must be set at 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential NOemission concentration that translates to the applicable emissions limit at full clinker production capacity.

(2) You must conduct performance evaluations of each NOCEMS monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part. You must use Methods 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to Method 7 or 7C of appendix A-4 to this part.

(3) The span value for the SOCEMS monitor is the SOemission concentration that corresponds to 125 percent of the applicable emissions limit at full clinker production capacity and the expected maximum fuel sulfur content.

(4) You must conduct performance evaluations of each SOCEMS monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part. You must use Methods 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to this part.

(5) You must comply with the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F to this part for each NOand SOCEMS, including quarterly accuracy determinations for monitors, and daily calibration drift tests.

(g) For each CPMS or CEMS required under paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section:

(1) You must operate the monitoring system and collect data at all required intervals at all times the affected source is operating, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments).

(2) You may not use data recorded during the monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. An owner or operator must use all the data collected during all other periods in reporting emissions or operating levels.

(3) You must meet the requirements of § 60.13(h) when determining the 1-hour averages of emissions data.

(h) You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain instruments for continuously measuring and recording the stack gas flow rate to allow determination of the pollutant mass emissions rate to the atmosphere for each kiln subject to the PM emissions limits in § 60.62(a)(1)(ii) and (iii) and (b)(1)(i) and (ii), the NOemissions limit in § 60.62(a)(3), or the SOemissions limit in § 60.62(a)(4) according to the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) through (10), where appropriate, of this section.

(1) The owner or operator must install each sensor of the flow rate monitoring system in a location that provides representative measurement of the exhaust gas flow rate at the sampling location of the NOand/or SOCEMS, taking into account the manufacturer's recommendations. The flow rate sensor is that portion of the system that senses the volumetric flow rate and generates an output proportional to that flow rate.

(2) The flow rate monitoring system must be designed to measure the exhaust gas flow rate over a range that extends from a value of at least 20 percent less than the lowest expected exhaust flow rate to a value of at least 20 percent greater than the highest expected exhaust gas flow rate.

(3) The flow rate monitoring system must have a minimum accuracy of 5 percent of the flow rate.

(4) The flow rate monitoring system must be equipped with a data acquisition and recording system that is capable of recording values over the entire range specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.

(5) The signal conditioner, wiring, power supply, and data acquisition and recording system for the flow rate monitoring system must be compatible with the output signal of the flow rate sensors used in the monitoring system.

(6) The flow rate monitoring system must be designed to measure a minimum of one cycle of operational flow for each successive 15-minute period.

(7) The flow rate sensor must be able to determine the daily zero and upscale calibration drift (CD) (see sections 3.1 and 8.3 of Performance Specification 2 in appendix B to this part for a discussion of CD).

(i) Conduct the CD tests at two reference signal levels, zero (e.g., 0 to 20 percent of span) and upscale (e.g., 50 to 70 percent of span).

(ii) The absolute value of the difference between the flow monitor response and the reference signal must be equal to or less than 3 percent of the flow monitor span.

(8) You must perform an initial relative accuracy test of the flow rate monitoring system according to section 8.2 of Performance Specification 6 of appendix B to this part, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (h)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The relative accuracy test is to evaluate the flow rate monitoring system alone rather than a continuous emission rate monitoring system.

(ii) The relative accuracy of the flow rate monitoring system shall be no greater than 10 percent of the mean value of the reference method data.

(9) You must verify the accuracy of the flow rate monitoring system at least once per year by repeating the relative accuracy test specified in paragraph (h)(8) of this section.

(10) You must operate the flow rate monitoring system and record data during all periods of operation of the affected facility including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments.
