
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart F - Standards of Performance for Portland Cement Plants
###### § 60.62 Standards.

(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, you may not discharge into the atmosphere from any kiln any gases which:

(1) Contain particulate matter (PM) in excess of:

(i) 0.30 pounds per ton of feed (dry basis) to the kiln for kilns constructed, reconstructed, or modified after August 17, 1971 but on or before June 16, 2008.

(ii) 0.02 pound per ton of clinker if construction or reconstruction of the kiln commenced after June 16, 2008.

(iii) Kilns that have undergone a modification may not discharge into the atmosphere any gases which contain PM in excess of 0.07 pound per ton of clinker.

(2) Exhibit greater than 20 percent opacity for kilns constructed, reconstructed, or modified after August 17, 1971 but on or before June 16, 2008, except that this opacity limit does not apply to any kiln subject to a PM limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section that uses a PM continuous parametric monitoring system (CPMS).

(3) Exceed 1.50 pounds of nitrogen oxide (NO) per ton of clinker on a 30-operating day rolling average if construction, reconstruction, or modification of the kiln commences after June 16, 2008, except this limit does not apply to any alkali bypass installed on the kiln. An operating day includes all valid data obtained in any daily 24-hour period during which the kiln operates and excludes any measurements made during the daily 24-hour period when the kiln was not operating.

(4) Exceed 0.4 pounds of sulfur dioxide (SO) per ton of clinker on a 30-operating day rolling average if construction, reconstruction, or modification commences after June 16, 2008, unless you are demonstrating a 90 percent SOemissions reduction measured across the SOcontrol device. An operating day includes all valid data obtained in any daily 24-hour period during which the kiln operates, and excludes any measurements made during the daily 24-hour period when the kiln was not operating.

(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, you may not discharge into the atmosphere from any clinker cooler any gases which:

(1) Contain PM in excess of:

(i) 0.02 pound per ton of clinker if construction or reconstruction of the clinker cooler commences after June 16, 2008.

(ii) 0.07 pound per ton of clinker if the clinker cooler has undergone a modification.

(iii) 0.10 lb per ton of feed (dry basis) for clinker coolers constructed, reconstructed, or modified after August 17, 1971, but on or before June 16, 2008.

(iv) 10 percent opacity for clinker coolers constructed, reconstructed, or modified after August 17, 1971, but on or before June 16, 2008, except that this opacity limit does not apply to any clinker cooler subject to a PM limit in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that uses a PM continuous parametric monitoring system (CPMS).

(2) If the kiln and clinker cooler exhaust are combined for energy efficiency purposes and sent to a single control device, the appropriate kiln PM limit may be adjusted using the procedures in § 63.1343(b) of this chapter.

(3) If the kiln has a separated alkali bypass stack and/or an inline coal mill with a separate stack, you must combine the PM emissions from the bypass stack and/or the inline coal mill stack with the PM emissions from the main kiln exhaust to determine total PM emissions.

(c) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, you may not discharge into the atmosphere from any affected facility other than the kiln and clinker cooler any gases which exhibit 10 percent opacity, or greater.

(d) If you have an affected source subject to this subpart with a different emissions limit or requirement for the same pollutant under another regulation in title 40 of this chapter, once you are in compliance with the most stringent emissions limit or requirement, you are not subject to the less stringent requirement. Until you are in compliance with the more stringent limit, the less stringent limit continues to apply.

(e) The compliance date for all revised monitoring and recordkeeping requirements contained in this rule will be the same as listed in 63.1351(c) unless you commenced construction as of June 16, 2008, at which time the compliance date is November 8, 2010 or upon startup, whichever is later.
