
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart F - Standards of Performance for Portland Cement Plants
###### ยง 60.63 Monitoring of operations.
####### e.g.,

(iii) During the initial performance test or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the PM limit, record and average all milliamp or digital output values from the PM CPMS for the periods corresponding to the compliance test runs (average all your PM CPMS output values for three corresponding 2-hour Method 5I test runs).

(3) Determine your operating limit as specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (c)(5) of this section. If your PM performance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be below 75 percent of your emission limit, you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test, the milliamp or digital equivalent of zero output from your PM CPMS, and the average PM result of your compliance test to establish your operating limit. If your PM compliance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be at or above 75 percent of your emission limit, you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test to establish your operating limit. You must verify an existing or establish a new operating limit after each repeated performance test. You must repeat the performance test at least annually and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.

(4) If the average of your three Method 5 or 5I compliance test runs are below 75 percent of your PM emission limit, you must calculate an operating limit by establishing a relationship of PM CPMS signal to PM concentration using the PM CPMS instrument zero, the average PM CPMS values corresponding to the three compliance test runs, and the average PM concentration from the Method 5 or 5I compliance test with the procedures in (c)(4)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.

(i) Determine your PM CPMS instrument zero output with one of the following procedures.

(A) Zero point data for in-situ instruments should be obtained by removing the instrument from the stack and monitoring ambient air on a test bench.

(B) Zero point data for extractive instruments should be obtained by removing the extractive probe from the stack and drawing in clean ambient air.

(C) The zero point can also can be obtained by performing manual reference method measurements when the flue gas is free of PM emissions or contains very low PM concentrations (e.g., when your process is not operating, but the fans are operating or your source is combusting only natural gas) and plotting these with the compliance data to find the zero intercept.

(D) If none of the steps in paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(A) through (C) of this section are possible, you must use a zero output value provided by the manufacturer.

(ii) Determine your PM CPMS instrument average in milliamps or digital equivalent and the average of your corresponding three PM compliance test runs, using equation 1.

(iii) With your PM CPMS instrument zero expressed in milliamps or a digital value, your three run average PM CPMS milliamp or digital signal value, and your three run average PM concentration from your three PM performance test runs, determine a relationship of lb/ton-clinker per milliamp or digital signal with equation 2.

(iv) Determine your source specific 30-day rolling average operating limit using the lb/ton-clinker per milliamp or digital signal value from Equation 2 above in Equation 3, below. This sets your operating limit at the PM CPMS output value corresponding to 75 percent of your emission limit.

(5) If the average of your three PM compliance test runs is at or above 75 percent of your PM emission limit, you must determine your operating limit by averaging the PM CPMS milliamp or digital equivalent output corresponding to your three PM performance test runs that demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using Equation 4.

(6) To determine continuous compliance, you must record the PM CPMS output data for all periods when the process is operating, and use all the PM CPMS data for calculations when the source is not out-of-control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the PM CPMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (milliamps or the digital equivalent) on a 30 operating day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new kiln operating day. Use Equation 5 to determine the 30 kiln operating day average.

(7) Use EPA Method 5 or Method 5I of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to determine PM emissions. For each performance test, conduct at least three separate runs each while the mill is on and the mill is off under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the level reasonably expected to occur. Conduct each test run to collect a minimum sample volume of 2 dscm for determining compliance with a new source limit and 1 dscm for determining compliance with an existing source limit. Calculate the time weighted average of the results from three consecutive runs to determine compliance. You need not determine the particulate matter collected in the impingers ("back half") of the Method 5 or Method 5I particulate sampling train to demonstrate compliance with the PM standards of this subpart. This shall not preclude the permitting authority from requiring a determination of the "back half" for other purposes.
