
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ga - Standards of Performance for Nitric Acid Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After October 14, 2011
###### ยง 60.73a Emissions testing and monitoring.
####### Nitrogen oxides concentration continuous emissions monitoring system.

(b)(1) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for measuring and recording the concentration of NOemissions in accordance with the provisions of ยง 60.13 and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B and Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part. You must use cylinder gas audits to fulfill the quarterly auditing requirement at section 5.1 of Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part for the NOconcentration CEMS.

(2) For the NOconcentration CEMS, use a span value, as defined in Performance Specification 2, section 3.11, of appendix B of this part, of 500 ppmv (as NO). If you emit NOat concentrations higher than 600 ppmv (e.g., during startup or shutdown periods), you must apply a second CEMS or dual range CEMS and a second span value equal to 125 percent of the maximum estimated NOemission concentration to apply to the second CEMS or to the higher of the dual analyzer ranges during such periods.

(3) For conducting the relative accuracy test audits, per Performance Specification 2, section 8.4, of appendix B of this part and Procedure 1, section 5.1.1, of appendix F of this part, use either EPA Reference Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 of this part; EPA Reference Method 320 of appendix A of part 63 of this chapter; or ASTM D6348-03 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 60.17). To verify the operation of the second CEMS or the higher range of a dual analyzer CEMS described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, you need not conduct a relative accuracy test audit but only the calibration drift test initially (found in Performance Specification 2, section 8.3.1, of appendix B of this part) and the cylinder gas audit thereafter (found in Procedure 1, section 5.1.2, of appendix F of this part).

(4) If you use EPA Reference Method 7E of appendix A-4 of this part, you must mitigate loss of NOin water according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section and verify performance by conducting the system bias checks required in EPA Reference Method 7E, section 8, of appendix A-4 of this part according to (b)(4)(iv) of this section, or follow the dynamic spike procedure according to paragraph (b)(4)(v) of this section.

(i) For a wet-basis measurement system, you must measure and report temperature of sample line and components (up to analyzer inlet) to demonstrate that the temperatures remain above the sample gas dew point at all times during the sampling.

(ii) You may use a dilution probe to reduce the dew point of the sample gas.

(iii) You may use a refrigerated-type condenser or similar device (e.g., permeation dryer) to remove condensate continuously from sample gas while maintaining minimal contact between condensate and sample gas.

(iv) If your analyzer measures nitric oxide (NO) and nitrogen dioxide (NO) separately, you must use both NO and NOcalibration gases. Otherwise, you must substitute NOcalibration gas for NO calibration gas in the performance of system bias checks.

(v) You must conduct dynamic spiking according to EPA Reference Method 7E, section 16.1, of appendix A-4 of this part using NOas the spike gas.

(5) Instead of a NOconcentration CEMS meeting Performance Specification 2, you may apply an FTIR CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 15 of appendix B of this part to measure NOconcentrations. Should you use an FTIR CEMS, you must replace the Relative Accuracy Test Audit requirements of Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part with the validation requirements and criteria of Performance Specification 15, sections 11.1.1 and 12.0, of appendix B of this part.
