
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ga - Standards of Performance for Nitric Acid Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After October 14, 2011
###### ยง 60.73a Emissions testing and monitoring.
####### Determining NO,mass emissions rate values.

(c)You must use the NOconcentration CEMS, acid production, gas flow rate monitor and other monitoring data to calculate emissions data in units of the applicable limit (lb NO/ton of acid produced expressed as 100 percent nitric acid).

(1) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for measuring and recording the stack gas flow rates to use in combination with data from the CEMS for measuring emissions concentrations of NOto produce data in units of mass rate (e.g., lb/hr) of NOon an hourly basis. You will operate and certify the continuous emissions rate monitoring system (CERMS) in accordance with the provisions of ยง 60.13 and Performance Specification 6 of appendix B of this part. You must comply with the following provisions in (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must use a stack gas flow rate sensor with a full scale output of at least 125 percent of the maximum expected exhaust volumetric flow rate (see Performance Specification 6, section 8, of appendix B of this part).

(ii) For conducting the relative accuracy test audits, per Performance Specification 6, section 8.2 of appendix B of this part and Procedure 1, section 5.1.1, of appendix F of this part, you must use either EPA Reference Method 2, 2F, or 2G of appendix A-4 of this part. You may also apply Method 2H in conjunction with other velocity measurements.

(iii) You must verify that the CERMS complies with the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part. You must conduct relative accuracy testing to provide for calculating the relative accuracy for RATA and RAA determinations in units of lb/hour.

(2) You must determine the nitric acid production parameters (production rate and concentration) by installing, calibrating, maintaining, and operating a permanent monitoring system (e.g., weigh scale, volume flow meter, mass flow meter, tank volume) to measure and record the weight rates of nitric acid produced in tons per hour. If your nitric acid production rate measurements are for periods longer than hourly (e.g., daily values), you will determine average hourly production values, tons acid/hr, by dividing the total acid production by the number of hours of process operation for the subject measurement period. You must comply with the following provisions in (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) You must verify that each component of the monitoring system has an accuracy and precision of no more than +/-5 percent of full scale.

(ii) You must analyze product concentration via titration or by determining the temperature and specific gravity of the nitric acid. You may also use ASTM E1584-11 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 60.17), for determining the concentration of nitric acid in percent. You must determine product concentration daily.

(iii) You must use the acid concentration to express the nitric acid production as 100 percent nitric acid.

(iv) You must record the nitric acid production, expressed as 100 percent nitric acid, and the hours of operation.

(3) You must calculate hourly NOemissions rates in units of the standard (lb/ton acid) for each hour of process operation. For process operating periods for which there is little or no acid production (e.g., startup or shutdown), you must use the average hourly acid production rate determined from the data collected over the previous 30 days of normal acid production periods (see ยง 60.75a).
