
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ga - Standards of Performance for Nitric Acid Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After October 14, 2011
###### ยง 60.76a Recordkeeping.

(a) For the NOemissions rate, you must keep records for and results of the performance evaluations of the continuous emissions monitoring systems.

(b) You must maintain records of the following information for each 30 operating day period:

(1) Hours of operation.

(2) Production rate of nitric acid, expressed as 100 percent nitric acid.

(3) 30 operating day average NOemissions rate values.

(c) You must maintain records of the following time periods:

(1) Times when you were not in compliance with the emissions standards.

(2) Times when the pollutant concentration exceeded full span of the NOmonitoring equipment.

(3) Times when the volumetric flow rate exceeded the high value of the volumetric flow rate monitoring equipment.

(d) You must maintain records of the reasons for any periods of noncompliance and description of corrective actions taken.

(e) You must maintain records of any modifications to CEMS which could affect the ability of the CEMS to comply with applicable performance specifications.

(f) For each malfunction, you must maintain records of the following information:

(1) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (i.e., process equipment) or the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.

(2) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with ยง 60.11(d), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.
