
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ga - Standards of Performance for Nitric Acid Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After October 14, 2011
###### ยง 60.77a Reporting.
####### https://cdx.epa.gov/SSL/cdx/EPA__Home.asp,http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html

(e) Within 60 days of completion of the relative accuracy test audit (RATA) required by this subpart, you must submit the data from that audit to EPA's WebFIRE database by using the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (). You must submit performance test data in the file format generated through use of EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (). Only data collected using test methods listed on the ERT Web site are subject to this requirement for submitting reports electronically to WebFIRE. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI) must submit a complete ERT file including information claimed to be CBI on a compact disk or other commonly used electronic storage media (including, but not limited to, flash drives) by registered letter to EPA and the same ERT file with the CBI omitted to EPA via CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. Mark the compact disk or other commonly used electronic storage media clearly as CBI and mail to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. At the discretion of the delegated authority, you must also submit these reports to the delegated authority in the format specified by the delegated authority. You must submit the other information as required in the performance evaluation as described in ยง 60.2 and as required in this chapter.

(f) If a malfunction occurred during the reporting period, you must submit a report that contains the following:

(1) The number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded.

(2) A description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected facility to minimize emissions in accordance with ยง 60.11(d), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.
