
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart H - Standards of Performance for Sulfuric Acid Plants
###### § 60.85 Test methods and procedures.

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b). Acceptable alternative methods and procedures are given in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the SOacid mist, and visible emission standards in §§ 60.82 and 60.83 as follows:

(1) The emission rate (E) of acid mist or SOshall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(2) Method 8 shall be used to determine the acid mist and SOconcentrations (C's) and the volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas. The moisture content may be considered to be zero. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 1.15 dscm (40.6 dscf).

(3) Suitable methods shall be used to determine the production rate (P) of 100 percent HSOfor each run. Material balance over the production system shall be used to confirm the production rate.

(4) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.

(c) The owner or operator may use the following as alternatives to the reference methods and procedures specified in this section:

(1) If a source processes elemental sulfur or an ore that contains elemental sulfur and uses air to supply oxygen, the following procedure may be used instead of determining the volumetric flow rate and production rate:

(i) The integrated technique of Method 3 is used to determine the Oconcentration and, if required, COconcentration.

(ii) The SOor acid mist emission rate is calculated as described in § 60.84(d), substituting the acid mist concentration for Cas appropriate.
