
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart J - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries
###### § 60.105 Monitoring of emissions and operations.

(a) Continuous monitoring systems shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated by the owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart as follows:

(1) For fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerators subject to § 60.102(a)(2), an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the opacity of emissions into the atmosphere. The instrument shall be spanned at 60, 70, or 80 percent opacity.

(2) For fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerators subject to § 60.103(a), an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis) of CO emissions into the atmosphere, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) (ii) of this section.

(i) The span value for this instrument is 1,000 ppm CO.

(ii) A CO continuous monitoring system need not be installed if the owner or operator demonstrates that the average CO emissions are less than 50 ppm (dry basis) and also files a written request for exemption to the Administrator and receives such an exemption. The demonstration shall consist of continuously monitoring CO emissions for 30 days using an instrument that shall meet the requirements of Performance Specification 4 of appendix B of this part. The span value shall be 100 ppm CO instead of 1,000 ppm, and the relative accuracy limit shall be 10 percent of the average CO emissions or 5 ppm CO, whichever is greater. For instruments that are identical to Method 10 and employ the sample conditioning system of Method 10A, the alternative relative accuracy test procedure in § 10.1 of Performance Specification 2 may be used in place of the relative accuracy test.

(3) For fuel gas combustion devices subject to § 60.104(a)(1), either an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis, zero percent excess air) of SOemissions into the atmosphere or monitoring as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section). The monitor shall include an oxygen monitor for correcting the data for excess.

(i) The span values for this monitor are 50 ppm SOand 25 percent oxygen (O).

(ii) The SOmonitoring level equivalent to the HS standard under § 60.104(a)(1) shall be 20 ppm (dry basis, zero percent excess air).

(iii) The performance evaluations for this SOmonitor under § 60.13(c) shall use Performance Specification 2. Methods 6 or 6C and 3 or 3A shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. Method 6 samples shall be taken at a flow rate of approximately 2 liters/min for at least 30 minutes. The relative accuracy limit shall be 20 percent or 4 ppm, whichever is greater, and the calibration drift limit shall be 5 percent of the established span value.

(iv) Fuel gas combustion devices having a common source of fuel gas may be monitored at only one location (i.e., after one of the combustion devices), if monitoring at this location accurately represents the SOemissions into the atmosphere from each of the combustion devices.

(4) Instead of the SOmonitor in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for fuel gas combustion devices subject to § 60.104(a)(1), an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis) of HS in fuel gases before being burned in any fuel gas combustion device.

(i) The span value for this instrument is 425 mg/dscm HS.

(ii) Fuel gas combustion devices having a common source of fuel gas may be monitored at only one location, if monitoring at this location accurately represents the concentration of HS in the fuel gas being burned.

(iii) The performance evaluations for this HS monitor under § 60.13(c) shall use Performance Specification 7. Method 11, 15, 15A, or 16 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.

(iv) The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device is not required to comply with paragraph (a)(3) or (4) of this section for fuel gas streams that are exempt under § 60.104(a)(1) and fuel gas streams combusted in a fuel gas combustion device that are inherently low in sulfur content. Fuel gas streams meeting one of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(4)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section will be considered inherently low in sulfur content. If the composition of a fuel gas stream changes such that it is no longer exempt under § 60.104(a)(1) or it no longer meets one of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(4)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section, the owner or operator must begin continuous monitoring under paragraph (a)(3) or (4) of this section within 15 days of the change.

(A) Pilot gas for heaters and flares.

(B) Fuel gas streams that meet a commercial-grade product specification for sulfur content of 30 ppmv or less. In the case of a liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) product specification in the pressurized liquid state, the gas phase sulfur content should be evaluated assuming complete vaporization of the LPG and sulfur containing-compounds at the product specification concentration.

(C) Fuel gas streams produced in process units that are intolerant to sulfur contamination, such as fuel gas streams produced in the hydrogen plant, the catalytic reforming unit, the isomerization unit, and HF alkylation process units.

(D) Other fuel gas streams that an owner or operator demonstrates are low-sulfur according to the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section.

(5) For Claus sulfur recovery plants with oxidation control systems or reduction control systems followed by incineration subject to § 60.104(a)(2)(i), an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, zero percent excess air) of SOemissions into the atmosphere. The monitor shall include an oxygen monitor for correcting the data for excess air.

(i) The span values for this monitor are 500 ppm SOand 25 percent O.

(ii) The performance evaluations for this SOmonitor under § 60.13(c) shall use Performance Specification 2. Methods 6 or 6C and 3 or 3A shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.

(6) For Claus sulfur recovery plants with reduction control systems not followed by incineration subject to § 60.104(a)(2)(ii), an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of reduced sulfur and Oemissions into the atmosphere. The reduced sulfur emissions shall be calculated as SO(dry basis, zero percent excess air).

(i) The span values for this monitor are 450 ppm reduced sulfur and 25 percent O.

(ii) The performance evaluations for this reduced sulfur (and O) monitor under § 60.13(c) shall use Performance Specification 5 of appendix B of this part(and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B of this partfor the Oanalyzer). Methods 15 or 15A and Method 3 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. If Method 3 yields Oconcentrations below 0.25 percent during the performance specification test, the Oconcentration may be assumed to be zero and the reduced sulfur CEMS need not include an Omonitor.

(7) In place of the reduced sulfur monitor under paragraph (a)(6) of this section, an instrument using an air or Odilution and oxidation system to convert the reduced sulfur to SOfor continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, zero percent excess air) of the resultant SO. The monitor shall include an oxygen monitor for correcting the data for excess oxygen.

(i) The span values for this monitor are 375 ppm SOand 25 percent O.

(ii) For reporting purposes, the SOexceedance level for this monitor is 250 ppm (dry basis, zero percent excess air).

(iii) The performance evaluations for this SO(and O) monitor under § 60.13(c) shall use Performance Specification 5. Methods 15 or 15A and Method 3 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.

(8) An instrument for continuously monitoring and recording concentrations of SOin the gases at both the inlet and outlet of the SOcontrol device from any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator for which the owner or operator seeks to comply specifically with the 90 percent reduction option under § 60.104(b)(1).

(i) The span value of the inlet monitor shall be set at 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential SOemission concentration entering the control device, and the span value of the outlet monitor shall be set at 50 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential SOemission concentration entering the control device.

(ii) The performance evaluations for these SOmonitors under § 60.13(c) shall use Performance Specification 2. Methods 6 or 6C and 3 or 3A shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.

(9) An instrument for continuously monitoring and recording concentrations of SOin the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator for which the owner or operator seeks to comply specifically with the 50 ppmv emission limit under § 60.104 (b)(1).

(i) The span value of the monitor shall be set at 50 percent of the maximum hourly potential SOemission concentration of the control device.

(ii) The performance evaluations for this SOmonitor under § 60.13 (c) shall use Performance Specification 2. Methods 6 or 6C and 3 or 3A shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.

(10) An instrument for continuously monitoring and recording concentrations of oxygen (O) in the gases at both the inlet and outlet of the sulfur dioxide control device (or the outlet only if specifically complying with the 50 ppmv standard) from any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator for which the owner or operator has elected to comply with § 60.104(b)(1). The span of this continuous monitoring system shall be set at 10 percent.

(11) The continuous monitoring systems under paragraphs (a)(8), (a)(9), and (a)(10) of this section are operated and data recorded during all periods of operation of the affected facility including periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, except for continuous monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments.

(12) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures to evaluate the continuous monitoring systems under paragraphs (a)(8), (a)(9), and (a)(10) of this section.

(i) Method 3 or 3A and Method 6 or 6C for the relative accuracy evaluations under the § 60.13(e) performance evaluation.

(ii) Appendix F, Procedure 1, including quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests.

(13) When seeking to comply with § 60.104(b)(1), when emission data are not obtained because of continuous monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks and zero and span adjustments, emission data will be obtained by using one of the following methods to provide emission data for a minimum of 18 hours per day in at least 22 out of 30 rolling successive calendar days.

(i) The test methods as described in § 60.106(k);

(ii) A spare continuous monitoring system; or

(iii) Other monitoring systems as approved by the Administrator.

(b) An owner or operator may demonstrate that a fuel gas stream combusted in a fuel gas combustion device subject to § 60.104(a)(1) that is not specifically exempted in § 60.105(a)(4)(iv) is inherently low in sulfur. A fuel gas stream that is determined to be low-sulfur is exempt from the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section until there are changes in operating conditions or stream composition.

(1) The owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator a written application for an exemption from monitoring. The application must contain the following information:

(i) A description of the fuel gas stream/system to be considered, including submission of a portion of the appropriate piping diagrams indicating the boundaries of the fuel gas stream/system, and the affected fuel gas combustion device(s) to be considered;

(ii) A statement that there are no crossover or entry points for sour gas (high HS content) to be introduced into the fuel gas stream/system (this should be shown in the piping diagrams);

(iii) An explanation of the conditions that ensure low amounts of sulfur in the fuel gas stream (i.e., control equipment or product specifications) at all times;

(iv) The supporting test results from sampling the requested fuel gas stream/system demonstrating that the sulfur content is less than 5 ppmv. Sampling data must include, at minimum, 2 weeks of daily monitoring (14 grab samples) for frequently operated fuel gas streams/systems; for infrequently operated fuel gas streams/systems, seven grab samples must be collected unless other additional information would support reduced sampling. The owner or operator shall use detector tubes ("length-of-stain tube" type measurement) following the "Gas Processors Association Standard 2377-86 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17), using tubes with a maximum span between 10 and 40 ppmv inclusive when 1&#x2264;N&#x2264;10, where N = number of pump strokes, to test the applicant fuel gas stream for HS; and

(v) A description of how the 2 weeks (or seven samples for infrequently operated fuel gas streams/systems) of monitoring results compares to the typical range of HS concentration (fuel quality) expected for the fuel gas stream/system going to the affected fuel gas combustion device (e.g., the 2 weeks of daily detector tube results for a frequently operated loading rack included the entire range of products loaded out, and, therefore, should be representative of typical operating conditions affecting HS content in the fuel gas stream going to the loading rack flare).

(2) The effective date of the exemption is the date of submission of the information required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section).

(3) No further action is required unless refinery operating conditions change in such a way that affects the exempt fuel gas stream/system (e.g., the stream composition changes). If such a change occurs, the owner or operator will follow the procedures in paragraph (b)(3)(i), (b)(3)(ii), or (b)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) If the operation change results in a sulfur content that is still within the range of concentrations included in the original application, the owner or operator shall conduct an HS test on a grab sample and record the results as proof that the concentration is still within the range.

(ii) If the operation change results in a sulfur content that is outside the range of concentrations included in the original application, the owner or operator may submit new information following the procedures of paragraph (b)(1) of this section within 60 days (or within 30 days after the seventh grab sample is tested for infrequently operated process units).

(iii) If the operation change results in a sulfur content that is outside the range of concentrations included in the original application and the owner or operator chooses not to submit new information to support an exemption, the owner or operator must begin HS monitoring using daily stain sampling to demonstrate compliance using length-of stain tubes with a maximum span between 200 and 400 ppmv inclusive when 1&#x2264;N&#x2264;5, where N = number of pump strokes. The owner or operator must begin monitoring according to the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section as soon as practicable but in no case later than 180 days after the operation change. During daily stain tube sampling, a daily sample exceeding 162 ppmv is an exceedance of the 3-hour HS concentration limit.

(c) The average coke burn-off rate (Mg (tons) per hour) and hours of operation shall be recorded daily for any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator subject to § 60.102, § 60.103, or § 60.104(b)(2).

(d) For any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator under § 60.102 that uses an incinerator-waste heat boiler to combust the exhaust gases from the catalyst regenerator, the owner or operator shall record daily the rate of combustion of liquid or solid fossil-fuels and the hours of operation during which liquid or solid fossil-fuels are combusted in the incinerator-waste heat boiler.

(e) For the purpose of reports under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions that shall be determined and reported are defined as follows:
