
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart J - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries
###### § 60.107 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to § 60.104(b) shall notify the Administrator of the specific provisions of § 60.104(b) with which the owner or operator seeks to comply. Notification shall be submitted with the notification of initial startup required by § 60.7(a)(3). If an owner or operator elects at a later date to comply with an alternative provision of § 60.104(b), then the Administrator shall be notified by the owner or operator in the report described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) Each owner or operator subject to § 60.104(b) shall record and maintain the following information:

(1) If subject to § 60.104(b)(1),

(i) All data and calibrations from continuous monitoring systems located at the inlet and outlet to the control device, including the results of the daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy assessments required under appendix F, Procedure 1;

(ii) Measurements obtained by supplemental sampling (refer to § 60.105(a)(13) and § 60.106(k)) for meeting minimum data requirements; and

(iii) The written procedures for the quality control program required by appendix F, Procedure 1.

(2) If subject to § 60.104(b)(2), measurements obtained in the daily Method 8 testing, or those obtained by alternative measurement methods, if § 60.106(i)(12) applies.

(3) If subject to § 60.104(b)(3), data obtained from the daily feed sulfur tests.

(4) Each 7-day rolling average compliance determination.

(c) Each owner or operator subject to § 60.104(b) shall submit a report except as provided by paragraph (d) of this section. The following information shall be contained in the report:

(1) Any 7-day period during which:

(i) The average percent reduction and average concentration of sulfur dioxide on a dry, O-free basis in the gases discharged to the atmosphere from any fluid cracking unit catalyst regenerator for which the owner or operator seeks to comply with § 60.104(b)(1) is below 90 percent and above 50 ppmv, as measured by the continuous monitoring system prescribed under § 60.105(a)(8), or above 50 ppmv, as measured by the outlet continuous monitoring system prescribed under § 60.105(a)(9). The average percent reduction and average sulfur dioxide concentration shall be determined using the procedures specified under § 60.106(h);

(ii) The average emission rate of sulfur dioxide in the gases discharged to the atmosphere from any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator for which the owner or operator seeks to comply with § 60.104(b)(2) exceeds 9.8 kg SOper 1,000 kg coke burn-off, as measured by the daily testing prescribed under § 60.106(i). The average emission rate shall be determined using the procedures specified under § 60.106(i); and

(iii) The average sulfur content of the fresh feed for which the owner or operator seeks to comply with § 60.104(b)(3) exceeds 0.30 percent by weight. The fresh feed sulfur content, a 7-day rolling average, shall be determined using the procedures specified under § 60.106(j).

(2) Any 30-day period in which the minimum data requirements specified in § 60.104(d) are not obtained.

(3) For each 7-day period during which an exceedance has occurred as defined in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iii) and (c)(2) of this section:

(i) The date that the exceedance occurred;

(ii) An explanation of the exceedance;

(iii) Whether the exceedance was concurrent with a startup, shutdown, or malfunction of the fluid catalytic cracking unit or control system; and

(iv) A description of the corrective action taken, if any.

(4) If subject to § 60.104(b)(1),

(i) The dates for which and brief explanations as to why fewer than 18 valid hours of data were obtained for the inlet continuous monitoring system;

(ii) The dates for which and brief explanations as to why fewer than 18 valid hours of data were obtained for the outlet continuous monitoring system;

(iii) Identification of times when hourly averages have been obtained based on manual sampling methods;

(iv) Identification of the times when the pollutant concentration exceeded full span of the continuous monitoring system; and

(v) Description of any modifications to the continuous monitoring system that could affect the ability of the continuous monitoring system to comply with Performance Specifications 2 or 3.

(vi) Results of daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy assessments as required under appendix F, Procedure 1.

(5) If subject to § 60.104(b)(2), for each day in which a Method 8 sample result required by § 60.106(i) was not obtained, the date for which and brief explanation as to why a Method 8 sample result was not obtained, for approval by the Administrator.

(6) If subject to § 60.104(b)(3), for each 8-hour period in which a feed sulfur measurement required by § 60.106(j) was not obtained, the date for which and brief explanation as to why a feed sulfur measurement was not obtained, for approval by the Administrator.

(d) For any periods for which sulfur dioxide or oxides emissions data are not available, the owner or operator of the affected facility shall submit a signed statement indicating if any changes were made in operation of the emission control system during the period of data unavailability which could affect the ability of the system to meet the applicable emission limit. Operations of the control system and affected facility during periods of data unavailability are to be compared with operation of the control system and affected facility before and following the period of data unavailability.

(e) For each fuel gas stream combusted in a fuel gas combustion device subject to § 60.104(a)(1), if an owner or operator determines that one of the exemptions listed in § 60.105(a)(4)(iv) applies to that fuel gas stream, the owner or operator shall maintain records of the specific exemption chosen for each fuel gas stream. If the owner or operator applies for the exemption described in § 60.105(a)(4)(iv)(D), the owner or operator must keep a copy of the application as well as the letter from the Administrator granting approval of the application.

(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit the reports required under this subpart to the Administrator semiannually for each six-month period. All semiannual reports shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each six-month period.

(g) The owner or operator of the affected facility shall submit a signed statement certifying the accuracy and completeness of the information contained in the report.
