
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart J - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 60.104 Standards for sulfur oxides.

Each owner or operator that is subject to the requirements of this subpart shall comply with the emission limitations set forth in this section on and after the date on which the initial performance test, required by ยง 60.8, is completed, but not later than 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, or 180 days after initial startup, whichever comes first.

(a) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall:

(1) Burn in any fuel gas combustion device any fuel gas that contains hydrogen sulfide (HS) in excess of 230 mg/dscm (0.10 gr/dscf). The combustion in a flare of process upset gases or fuel gas that is released to the flare as a result of relief valve leakage or other emergency malfunctions is exempt from this paragraph.

(2) Discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere from any Claus sulfur recovery plant containing in excess of:

(i) For an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by incineration, 250 ppm by volume (dry basis) of sulfur dioxide (SO) at zero percent excess air.

(ii) For a reduction control system not followed by incineration, 300 ppm by volume of reduced sulfur compounds and 10 ppm by volume of hydrogen sulfide (HS), each calculated as ppm SOby volume (dry basis) at zero percent excess air.

(b) Each owner or operator that is subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with one of the following conditions for each affected fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator:

(1) With an add-on control device, reduce SOemissions to the atmosphere by 90 percent or maintain SOemissions to the atmosphere less than or equal to 50 ppm by volume (ppmv), whichever is less stringent; or

(2) Without the use of an add-on control device to reduce SOemission, maintain sulfur oxides emissions calculated as SOto the atmosphere less than or equal to 9.8 kg/Mg (20 lb/ton) coke burn-off; or

(3) Process in the fluid catalytic cracking unit fresh feed that has a total sulfur content no greater than 0.30 percent by weight.

(c) Compliance with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section is determined daily on a 7-day rolling average basis using the appropriate procedures outlined in ยง 60.106.

(d) A minimum of 22 valid days of data shall be obtained every 30 rolling successive calendar days when complying with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
