
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### ยง 60.102a Emissions limitations.
####### refinerynsps@epa.gov.

(iii) The request shall also be submitted to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, U.S. EPA Mailroom (E143-01), Attention: Refinery Sector Lead, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Electronic copies in lieu of hard copies may also be submitted to

(4) The approval process for a request for a facility-specific NOemissions limit is described in paragraphs (i)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Approval by the Administrator of a facility-specific NOemissions limit request will be based on the completeness, accuracy and reasonableness of the request. Factors that the EPA will consider in reviewing the request for approval include, but are not limited to, the following:

(A) A demonstration that the process heater meets one of the four classes of process heaters outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) of this section;

(B) A description of the low-NOburner designs and other combustion modifications considered for reducing NOemissions;

(C) The combustion modification option selected; and

(D) The operating conditions (firing rate, heater box temperature and excess oxygen concentration) at which the NOemission level was established.

(ii) If the request is approved by the Administrator, a facility-specific NOemissions limit will be established at the NOemission level demonstrated in the approved request.

(iii) If the Administrator finds any deficiencies in the request, the request must be revised to address the deficiencies and be re-submitted for approval.
