
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### ยง 60.102a Emissions limitations.
####### i.e.,

(iv) A process heater operating at reduced firing conditions for an extended period of time (operating in turndown mode). The site-specific NOemissions limit will only apply for those operating conditions.

(2) The request shall include sufficient and appropriate data, as determined by the Administrator, to allow the Administrator to confirm that the process heater is unable to comply with the applicable NOemissions limit in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. At a minimum, the request shall contain the information described in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The design and dimensions of the process heater, evaluation of available combustion modification-based technology, description of fuel gas and, if applicable, fuel oil characteristics, information regarding the combustion conditions (temperature, oxygen content, firing rates) and other information needed to demonstrate that the process heater meets one of the four classes of process heaters listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.

(ii) An explanation of how the data in paragraph (i)(2)(i) demonstrate that ultra-low NOburners, flue gas recirculation, control of excess air or other combustion modification-based technology (including combinations of these combustion modification-based technologies) cannot be used to meet the applicable emissions limit in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(iii) Results of a performance test conducted under representative conditions using the applicable methods specified in ยง 60.104a(i) to demonstrate the performance of the technology the owner or operator will use to minimize NOemissions.

(iv) The means by which the owner or operator will document continuous compliance with the site-specific emissions limit.

(3) The request shall be submitted and followed as described in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator of a process heater that meets one of the criteria in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section may request approval from the Administrator within 180 days after initial startup of the process heater for a NOemissions limit which shall apply specifically to that affected facility.

(ii) The request must be submitted to the Administrator for approval. The owner or operator must comply with the request as submitted until it is approved.
