
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.102a Emissions limitations.

(a) Each owner or operator that is subject to the requirements of this subpart shall comply with the emissions limitations in paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section on and after the date on which the initial performance test, required by § 60.8, is completed, but not later than 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated or 180 days after initial startup, whichever comes first.

(b) An owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall not discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any FCCU or FCU:

(1) Particulate matter (PM) in excess of the limits in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) 1.0 gram per kilogram (g/kg) (1 pound (lb) per 1,000 lb) coke burn-off or, if a PM continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) is used, 0.040 grain per dry standard cubic feet (gr/dscf) corrected to 0 percent excess air for each modified or reconstructed FCCU.

(ii) 0.5 gram per kilogram (g/kg) coke burn-off (0.5 lb PM/1,000 lb coke burn-off) or, if a PM CEMS is used, 0.020 gr/dscf corrected to 0 percent excess air for each newly constructed FCCU.

(iii) 1.0 g/kg (1 lb/1,000 lb) coke burn-off or, if a PM CEMS is used, 0.040 grain per dry standard cubic feet (gr/dscf) corrected to 0 percent excess air for each affected FCU.

(2) Nitrogen oxides (NO) in excess of 80 parts per million by volume (ppmv), dry basis corrected to 0 percent excess air, on a 7-day rolling average basis.

(3) Sulfur dioxide (SO) in excess of 50 ppmv dry basis corrected to 0 percent excess air, on a 7-day rolling average basis and 25 ppmv, dry basis corrected to 0 percent excess air, on a 365-day rolling average basis.

(4) Carbon monoxide (CO) in excess of 500 ppmv, dry basis corrected to 0 percent excess air, on an hourly average basis.

(c) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that uses a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) according to § 60.105a(b)(1) shall comply with the applicable control device parameter operating limit in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) If the FCCU or FCU is controlled using an electrostatic precipitator:

(i) The 3-hour rolling average total power and secondary current to the entire system must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test; and

(ii) The daily average exhaust coke burn-off rate must not exceed the level established during the most recent performance test.

(2) If the FCCU or FCU is controlled using a wet scrubber:

(i) The 3-hour rolling average pressure drop must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test; and

(ii) The 3-hour rolling average liquid-to-gas ratio must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test.

(d) If an FCCU or FCU uses a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS) according to the alternative monitoring option in § 60.105a(e), the 3-hour rolling average opacity of emissions from the FCCU or FCU as measured by the COMS must not exceed the site-specific opacity limit established during the most recent performance test.

(e) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that is exempted from the requirement for a CO continuous emissions monitoring system under § 60.105a(h)(3) shall comply with the parameter operating limits in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) For a FCCU or FCU with no post-combustion control device:

(i) The hourly average temperature of the exhaust gases exiting the FCCU or FCU must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test.

(ii) The hourly average oxygen (O) concentration of the exhaust gases exiting the FCCU or FCU must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test.

(2) For a FCCU or FCU with a post-combustion control device:

(i) The hourly average temperature of the exhaust gas vent stream exiting the control device must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test.

(ii) The hourly average Oconcentration of the exhaust gas vent stream exiting the control device must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test.

(f) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, each owner or operator of an affected sulfur recovery plant shall comply with the applicable emission limits in paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) For a sulfur recovery plant with a design production capacity greater than 20 long tons per day (LTD), the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable emission limit in paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. If the sulfur recovery plant consists of multiple process trains or release points, the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable emission limit for each process train or release point individually or comply with the applicable emission limit in paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) as a flow rate weighted average for a group of release points from the sulfur recovery plant provided that flow is monitored as specified in § 60.106a(a)(7); if flow is not monitored as specified in § 60.106a(a)(7), the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable emission limit in paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) for each process train or release point individually. For a sulfur recovery plant with a design production capacity greater than 20 long LTD and a reduction control system not followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall also comply with the HS emission limit in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section for each individual release point.

(i) For a sulfur recovery plant with an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases containing SOinto the atmosphere in excess of the emission limit calculated using Equation 1 of this section. For Claus units that use only ambient air in the Claus burner or that elect not to monitor Oconcentration of the air/oxygen mixture used in the Claus burner or for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants, this SOemissions limit is 250 ppmv (dry basis) at zero percent excess air.

(ii) For a sulfur recovery plant with a reduction control system not followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere containing reduced sulfur compounds in excess of the emission limit calculated using Equation 1 of this section. For Claus units that use only ambient air in the Claus burner or for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants, this reduced sulfur compounds emission limit is 300 ppmv calculated as ppmv SO(dry basis) at 0-percent excess air.

(iii) For a sulfur recovery plant with a reduction control system not followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere containing hydrogen sulfide (HS) in excess of 10 ppmv calculated as ppmv SO(dry basis) at zero percent excess air.

(2) For a sulfur recovery plant with a design production capacity of 20 LTD or less, the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable emission limit in paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. If the sulfur recovery plant consists of multiple process trains or release points, the owner or operator may comply with the applicable emission limit for each process train or release point individually or comply with the applicable emission limit in paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (ii) as a flow rate weighted average for a group of release points from the sulfur recovery plant provided that flow is monitored as specified in § 60.106a(a)(7); if flow is not monitored as specified in § 60.106a(a)(7), the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable emission limit in paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (ii) for each process train or release point individually. For a sulfur recovery plant with a design production capacity of 20 LTD or less and a reduction control system not followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall also comply with the HS emission limit in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section for each individual release point.

(i) For a sulfur recovery plant with an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere containing SOin excess of the emission limit calculated using Equation 2 of this section. For Claus units that use only ambient air in the Claus burner or that elect not to monitor Oconcentration of the air/oxygen mixture used in the Claus burner or for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants, this SOemission limit is 2,500 ppmv (dry basis) at zero percent excess air.

(ii) For a sulfur recovery plant with a reduction control system not followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere containing reduced sulfur compounds in excess of the emission limit calculated using Equation 2 of this section. For Claus units that use only ambient air in the Claus burner or for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants, this reduced sulfur compounds emission limit is 3,000 ppmv calculated as ppmv SO(dry basis) at zero percent excess air.

(iii) For a sulfur recovery plant with a reduction control system not followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere containing HS in excess of 100 ppmv calculated as ppmv SO(dry basis) at zero percent excess air.

(3) The emission limits in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section shall not apply during periods of maintenance of the sulfur pit, which shall not exceed 240 hours per year. The owner or operator must document the time periods during which the sulfur pit vents were not controlled and measures taken to minimize emissions during these periods. Examples of these measures include not adding fresh sulfur or shutting off vent fans.

(g) Each owner or operator of an affected fuel gas combustion device shall comply with the emissions limits in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Except as provided in (g)(1)(iii) of this section, for each fuel gas combustion device, the owner or operator shall comply with either the emission limit in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section or the fuel gas concentration limit in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section. For CO boilers or furnaces that are part of a fluid catalytic cracking unit or fluid coking unit affected facility, the owner or operator shall comply with the fuel gas concentration limit in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for all fuel gas streams combusted in these units.

(i) The owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere that contain SOin excess of 20 ppmv (dry basis, corrected to 0-percent excess air) determined hourly on a 3-hour rolling average basis and SOin excess of 8 ppmv (dry basis, corrected to 0-percent excess air), determined daily on a 365 successive calendar day rolling average basis; or

(ii) The owner or operator shall not burn in any fuel gas combustion device any fuel gas that contains HS in excess of 162 ppmv determined hourly on a 3-hour rolling average basis and HS in excess of 60 ppmv determined daily on a 365 successive calendar day rolling average basis.

(iii) The combustion in a portable generator of fuel gas released as a result of tank degassing and/or cleaning is exempt from the emissions limits in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(2) For each process heater with a rated capacity of greater than 40 million British thermal units per hour (MMBtu/hr) on a higher heating value basis, the owner or operator shall not discharge to the atmosphere any emissions of NOin excess of the applicable limits in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) For each natural draft process heater, comply with the limit in either paragraph (g)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section. The owner or operator may comply with either limit at any time, provided that the appropriate parameters for each alternative are monitored as specified in § 60.107a; if fuel gas composition is not monitored as specified in § 60.107a(d), the owner or operator must comply with the concentration limits in paragraph (g)(2)(i)(A) of this section.

(A) 40 ppmv (dry basis, corrected to 0-percent excess air) determined daily on a 30-day rolling average basis; or

(B) 0.040 pounds per million British thermal units (lb/MMBtu) higher heating value basis determined daily on a 30-day rolling average basis.

(ii) For each forced draft process heater, comply with the limit in either paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section. The owner or operator may comply with either limit at any time, provided that the appropriate parameters for each alternative are monitored as specified in § 60.107a; if fuel gas composition is not monitored as specified in § 60.107a(d), the owner or operator must comply with the concentration limits in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.

(A) 60 ppmv (dry basis, corrected to 0-percent excess air) determined daily on a 30-day rolling average basis; or

(B) 0.060 lb/MMBtu higher heating value basis determined daily on a 30-day rolling average basis.

(iii) For each co-fired natural draft process heater, comply with the limit in either paragraph (g)(2)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section. The owner or operator must choose one of the emissions limits with which to comply at all times:

(A) 150 ppmv (dry basis, corrected to 0-percent excess air) determined daily on a 30 successive operating day rolling average basis; or

(B) The daily average emissions limit calculated using Equation 3 of this section:

(iv) For each co-fired forced draft process heater, comply with the limit in either paragraph (g)(2)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section. The owner or operator must choose one of the emissions limits with which to comply at all times:

(A) 150 ppmv (dry basis, corrected to 0-percent excess air) determined daily on a 30 successive operating day rolling average basis; or

(B) The daily average emissions limit calculated using Equation 4 of this section:

(h) [Reserved]

(i) For a process heater that meets any of the criteria of paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, an owner or operator may request approval from the Administrator for a NOemissions limit which shall apply specifically to that affected facility. The request shall include information as described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section. The request shall be submitted and followed as described in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.

(1) A process heater that meets one of the criteria in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section may apply for a site-specific NOemissions limit:

(i) A modified or reconstructed process heater that lacks sufficient space to accommodate installation and proper operation of combustion modification-based technology (e.g., ultra-low NOburners); or

(ii) A modified or reconstructed process heater that has downwardly firing induced draft burners; or

(iii) A co-fired process heater; or
