
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### ยง 60.103a Design, equipment, work practice or operational standards.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator that operates a flare that is subject to this subpart shall develop and implement a written flare management plan no later than the date specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The flare management plan must include the information described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) A listing of all refinery process units, ancillary equipment, and fuel gas systems connected to the flare for each affected flare.

(2) An assessment of whether discharges to affected flares from these process units, ancillary equipment and fuel gas systems can be minimized. The flare minimization assessment must (at a minimum) consider the items in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section. The assessment must provide clear rationale in terms of costs (capital and annual operating), natural gas offset credits (if applicable), technical feasibility, secondary environmental impacts and safety considerations for the selected minimization alternative(s) or a statement, with justifications, that flow reduction could not be achieved. Based upon the assessment, each owner or operator of an affected flare shall identify the minimization alternatives that it has implemented by the due date of the flare management plan and shall include a schedule for the prompt implementation of any selected measures that cannot reasonably be completed as of that date.

(i) Elimination of process gas discharge to the flare through process operating changes or gas recovery at the source.

(ii) Reduction of the volume of process gas to the flare through process operating changes.

(iii) Installation of a flare gas recovery system or, for facilities that are fuel gas rich, a flare gas recovery system and a co-generation unit or combined heat and power unit.

(iv) Minimization of sweep gas flow rates and, for flares with water seals, purge gas flow rates.

(3) A description of each affected flare containing the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) A general description of the flare, including the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) through (G) of this section.

(A) Whether it is a ground flare or elevated (including height).

(B) The type of assist system (e.g., air, steam, pressure, non-assisted).

(C) Whether it is simple or complex flare tip (e.g., staged, sequential).

(D) Whether the flare is part of a cascaded flare system (and if so, whether the flare is primary or secondary).

(E) Whether the flare serves as a backup to another flare.

(F) Whether the flare is an emergency flare or a non-emergency flare.

(G) Whether the flare is equipped with a flare gas recovery system.

(ii) Description and simple process flow diagram showing the interconnection of the following components of the flare: flare tip (date installed, manufacturer, nominal and effective tip diameter, tip drawing); knockout or surge drum(s) or pot(s) (including dimensions and design capacities); flare header(s) and subheader(s); assist system; and ignition system.

(iii) Flare design parameters, including the maximum vent gas flow rate; minimum sweep gas flow rate; minimum purge gas flow rate (if any); maximum supplemental gas flow rate; maximum pilot gas flow rate; and, if the flare is steam-assisted, minimum total steam rate.

(iv) Description and simple process flow diagram showing all gas lines (including flare, purge (if applicable), sweep, supplemental and pilot gas) that are associated with the flare. For purge, sweep, supplemental and pilot gas, identify the type of gas used. Designate which lines are exempt from sulfur, HS or flow monitoring and why (e.g., natural gas, inherently low sulfur, pilot gas). Designate which lines are monitored and identify on the process flow diagram the location and type of each monitor.

(v) For each flow rate, HS, sulfur content, pressure or water seal monitor identified in paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, provide a detailed description of the manufacturer's specifications, including, but not limited to, make, model, type, range, precision, accuracy, calibration, maintenance and quality assurance procedures.

(vi) For emergency flares, secondary flares and flares equipped with a flare gas recovery system designed, sized and operated to capture all flows except those resulting from startup, shutdown or malfunction:

(A) Description of the water seal, including the operating range for the liquid level.

(B) Designation of the monitoring option elected (flow and sulfur monitoring or pressure and water seal liquid level monitoring).

(vii) For flares equipped with a flare gas recovery system:

(A) A description of the flare gas recovery system, including number of compressors and capacity of each compressor.

(B) A description of the monitoring parameters used to quantify the amount of flare gas recovered.

(C) For systems with staged compressors, the maximum time period required to begin gas recovery with the secondary compressor(s), the monitoring parameters and procedures used to minimize the duration of releases during compressor staging and a justification for why the maximum time period cannot be further reduced.
