
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.105a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fluid catalytic cracking units (FCCU) and fluid coking units (FCU).
####### e.g.

(A) As an alternative to pressure drop, the owner or operator of a jet ejector type wet scrubber or other type of wet scrubber equipped with atomizing spray nozzles must conduct a daily check of the air or water pressure to the spray nozzles and record the results of each check. Faulty (, leaking or plugged) air or water lines must be repaired within 12 hours of identification of an abnormal pressure reading.

(B) As an alternative to exhaust gas flow rate, the owner or operator shall comply with the approved alternative for monitoring exhaust gas flow rate in 40 CFR 63.1573(a) of the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units.

(iii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the manufacturer's specifications and requirements.

(iv) The owner or operator shall determine and record the average coke burn-off rate and hours of operation for each FCCU or FCU using the procedures in § 60.104a(d)(4)(iii).

(v) If you use a control device other than an electrostatic precipitator, wet scrubber, fabric filter, or cyclone, you may request approval to monitor parameters other than those required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section by submitting an alternative monitoring plan to the Administrator. The request must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1)(v)(A) through (E) of this section.

(A) A description of each affected facility and the parameter(s) to be monitored to determine whether the affected facility will continuously comply with the emission limitations and an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s).

(B) A description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter(s) can be used to determine whether the affected facility will continuously comply with the emission limitations and the schedule for this demonstration. The owner or operator must certify that an operating limit will be established for the monitored parameter(s) that represents the conditions in existence when the control device is being properly operated and maintained to meet the emission limitation.

(C) The frequency and content of the recordkeeping, recording, and reporting, if monitoring and recording are not continuous. The owner or operator also must include the rationale for the proposed monitoring, recording, and reporting requirements.

(D) Supporting calculations.

(E) Averaging time for the alternative operating parameter.

(2) For use in determining the coke burn-off rate for an FCCU or FCU, the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring the concentrations of CO, O(dry basis), and if needed, CO in the exhaust gases prior to any control or energy recovery system that burns auxiliary fuels. A CO monitor is not required for determining coke burn-off rate when no auxiliary fuel is burned and a continuous CO monitor is not required in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each COand Omonitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part.

(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each COand Omonitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Method 3, 3A or 3B of appendix A-2 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.

(iii) If a CO monitor is required, the owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CO monitor according to Performance Specification 4 or 4A of appendix B to this part. If this CO monitor also serves to demonstrate compliance with the CO emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(4), the span value for this instrument is 1,000 ppm; otherwise, the span value for this instrument should be set at approximately 2 times the typical CO concentration expected in the FCCU of FCU flue gas prior to any emission control or energy recovery system that burns auxiliary fuels.

(iv) If a CO monitor is required, the owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each CO monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 4 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Method 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A-3 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.

(v) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements of procedure 1 of appendix F to this part, including quarterly accuracy determinations for COand CO monitors, annual accuracy determinations for Omonitors, and daily calibration drift tests.
