
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### ยง 60.103a Design, equipment, work practice or operational standards.
####### Alternative means of emission limitation.

(j)(1) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this section may apply to the Administrator for a determination of equivalence for any means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of a specified pollutant at least equivalent to the reduction in emissions of that pollutant achieved by the controls required in this section.

(2) Determination of equivalence to the design, equipment, work practice or operational requirements of this section will be evaluated by the following guidelines:

(i) Each owner or operator applying for a determination of equivalence shall be responsible for collecting and verifying test data to demonstrate the equivalence of the alternative means of emission limitation.

(ii) For each affected facility for which a determination of equivalence is requested, the emission reduction achieved by the design, equipment, work practice or operational requirements shall be demonstrated.

(iii) For each affected facility for which a determination of equivalence is requested, the emission reduction achieved by the alternative means of emission limitation shall be demonstrated.

(iv) Each owner or operator applying for a determination of equivalence to a work practice standard shall commit in writing to work practice(s) that provide for emission reductions equal to or greater than the emission reductions achieved by the required work practice.

(v) The Administrator will compare the demonstrated emission reduction for the alternative means of emission limitation to the demonstrated emission reduction for the design, equipment, work practice or operational requirements and, if applicable, will consider the commitment in paragraph (j)(2)(iv) of this section.

(vi) The Administrator may condition the approval of the alternative means of emission limitation on requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emissions reduction as the design, equipment, work practice or operational requirements.

(3) An owner or operator may offer a unique approach to demonstrate the equivalence of any equivalent means of emission limitation.

(4) Approval of the application for equivalence to the design, equipment, work practice or operational requirements of this section will be evaluated by the following guidelines:

(i) After a request for determination of equivalence is received, the Administrator will publish a notice in theand provide the opportunity for public hearing if the Administrator judges that the request may be approved.

(ii) After notice and opportunity for public hearing, the Administrator will determine the equivalence of a means of emission limitation and will publish the determination in the

(iii) Any equivalent means of emission limitations approved under this section shall constitute a required work practice, equipment, design or operational standard within the meaning of section 111(h)(1) of the CAA.

(5) Manufacturers of equipment used to control emissions may apply to the Administrator for determination of equivalence for any alternative means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions achieved by the equipment, design and operational requirements of this section. The Administrator will make an equivalence determination according to the provisions of paragraphs (j)(2) through (4) of this section.
