
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.104a Performance tests.
####### i.e.

(b) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that elects to monitor control device operating parameters according to the requirements in § 60.105a(b), to use bag leak detectors according to the requirements in § 60.105a(c), or to use COMS according to the requirements in § 60.105a(e) shall conduct a PM performance test at least annually (, once per calendar year, with an interval of at least 8 months but no more than 16 months between annual tests) and furnish the Administrator a written report of the results of each test.

(c) In conducting the performance tests required by this subpart (or as requested by the Administrator), the owner or operator shall use the test methods in 40 CFR part 60, Appendices A-1 through A-8 or other methods as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).

(d) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the PM, NO, SO, and CO emissions limits in § 60.102a(b) for FCCU and FCU using the following methods and procedures:

(1) Method 1 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for sample and velocity traverses.

(2) Method 2 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for velocity and volumetric flow rate.

(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for gas analysis. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.

(4) Method 5, 5B, or 5F of appendix A-3 to part 60 for determining PM emissions and associated moisture content from a FCCU or FCU without a wet scrubber subject to the emissions limit in § 63.102a(b)(1). Use Method 5 or 5B of appendix A-3 to part 60 for determining PM emissions and associated moisture content from a FCCU or FCU with a wet scrubber subject to the emissions limit in § 63.102a(b)(1).

(i) The PM performance test consists of 3 valid test runs; the duration of each test run must be no less than 60 minutes.

(ii) The emissions rate of PM (E) is computed for each run using Equation 5 of this section:

(iii) The coke burn-off rate (R) is computed for each run using Equation 6 of this section:

(iv) During the performance test, the volumetric flow rate of exhaust gas from catalyst regenerator (Q) before any emission control or energy recovery system that burns auxiliary fuel is measured using Method 2 of appendix A-1 to part 60.

(v) For subsequent calculations of coke burn-off rates or exhaust gas flow rates, the volumetric flow rate of Qis calculated using average exhaust gas concentrations as measured by the monitors required in § 60.105a(b)(2), if applicable, using Equation 7 of this section:

(5) Method 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60 for moisture content and for the concentration of SO; the duration of each test run must be no less than 4 hours. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to part 60.

(6) Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 to part 60 for moisture content and for the concentration of NOcalculated as nitrogen dioxide (NO); the duration of each test run must be no less than 4 hours. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 7 or 7C of appendix A-4 to part 60.

(7) Method 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A-4 to part 60 for moisture content and for the concentration of CO. The sampling time for each run must be 60 minutes.

(8) The owner or operator shall adjust PM, NO, SOand CO pollutant concentrations to 0-percent excess air or 0-percent Ousing Equation 8 of this section:

(e) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that is controlled by an electrostatic precipitator or wet scrubber and that is subject to control device operating parameter limits in § 60.102a(c) shall establish the limits based on the performance test results according to the following procedures:

(1) Reduce the parameter monitoring data to hourly averages for each test run;

(2) Determine the hourly average operating limit for each required parameter as the average of the three test runs.

(f) The owner or operator of an FCCU or FCU that uses cyclones to comply with the PM per coke burn-off emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) shall establish a site-specific opacity operating limit according to the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Collect COMS data every 10 seconds during the entire period of the PM performance test and reduce the data to 6-minute averages.

(2) Determine and record the hourly average opacity from all the 6-minute averages.

(3) Compute the site-specific limit using Equation 9 of this section:

(g) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that is exempt from the requirement to install and operate a CO CEMS pursuant to § 60.105a(h)(3) and that is subject to control device operating parameter limits in § 60.102a(c) shall establish the limits based on the performance test results using the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Reduce the temperature and Oconcentrations from the parameter monitoring systems to hourly averages for each test run.

(2) Determine the operating limit for temperature and Oconcentrations as the average of the average temperature and Oconcentration for the three test runs.

(h) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the SOemissions limits for sulfur recovery plants in § 60.102a(f)(1)(i) and (f)(2)(i) and the reduced sulfur compounds and HS emissions limits for sulfur recovery plants in § 60.102a(f)(1)(ii), (f)(1)(iii), (f)(2)(ii), and (f)(2)(iii) using the following methods and procedures:

(1) Method 1 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for sample and velocity traverses.

(2) Method 2 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for velocity and volumetric flow rate.

(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for gas analysis. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.

(4) Method 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60 to determine the SOconcentration. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to part 60.

(5) Method 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 or Method 16 of appendix A-6 to part 60 to determine the reduced sulfur compounds and HS concentrations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.

(i) Each run consists of 16 samples taken over a minimum of 3 hours.

(ii) The owner or operator shall calculate the average HS concentration after correcting for moisture and Oas the arithmetic average of the HS concentration for each sample during the run (ppmv, dry basis, corrected to 0 percent excess air).

(iii) The owner or operator shall calculate the SOequivalent for each run after correcting for moisture and Oas the arithmetic average of the SOequivalent of reduced sulfur compounds for each sample during the run (ppmv, dry basis, corrected to 0 percent excess air).

(iv) The owner or operator shall use Equation 8 of this section to adjust pollutant concentrations to 0-percent Oor 0- percent excess air.

(6) If oxygen or oxygen-enriched air is used in the Claus burner and either Equation 1 or 2 of this subpart is used to determine the applicable emissions limit, determine the average Oconcentration of the air/oxygen mixture supplied to the Claus burner, in percent by volume (dry basis), for the performance test using all hourly average Oconcentrations determined during the test runs using the procedures in § 60.106a(a)(5) or (6).

(i) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the SOand NOemissions limits in § 60.102a(g) for a fuel gas combustion device according to the following test methods and procedures:

(1) Method 1 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for sample and velocity traverses;

(2) Method 2 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for velocity and volumetric flow rate;

(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for gas analysis. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60;

(4) Method 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60 to determine the SOconcentration. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to part 60.

(i) The performance test consists of 3 valid test runs; the duration of each test run must be no less than 1 hour.

(ii) If a single fuel gas combustion device having a common source of fuel gas is monitored as allowed under § 60.107a(a)(1)(v), only one performance test is required. That is, performance tests are not required when a new affected fuel gas combustion device is added to a common source of fuel gas that previously demonstrated compliance.

(5) Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 to part 60 for moisture content and for the concentration of NOcalculated as NO; the duration of each test run must be no less than 4 hours. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 7 or 7C of appendix A-4 to part 60.

(6) For process heaters with a rated heat capacity between 40 and 100 MMBtu/hr that elect to demonstrate continuous compliance with a maximum excess oxygen limit as provided in § 60.107a(c)(6) or (d)(8), the owner or operator shall establish the Ooperating limit or Ooperating curve based on the performance test results according to the requirements in paragraph (i)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section, respectively.

(i) If a single Ooperating limit will be used:

(A) Conduct the performance test following the methods provided in paragraphs (i)(1), (2), (3) and (5) of this section when the process heater is firing at no less than 70 percent of the rated heat capacity. For co-fired process heaters, conduct at least one of the test runs while the process heater is being supplied by both fuel gas and fuel oil and conduct at least one of the test runs while the process heater is being supplied solely by fuel gas.

(B) Each test will consist of three test runs. Calculate the NOconcentration for the performance test as the average of the NOconcentrations from each of the three test runs. If the NOconcentration for the performance test is less than or equal to the numerical value of the applicable NOemissions limit (regardless of averaging time), then the test is considered to be a valid test.

(C) Determine the average Oconcentration for each test run of a valid test.

(D) Calculate the Ooperating limit as the average Oconcentration of the three test runs from a valid test.

(ii) If an Ooperating curve will be used:
