
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.104a Performance tests.
####### i.e.,

(C) If an operating curve is developed for different firing rates, conduct at least one test when the process heater is firing at no less than 70 percent of the rated heat capacity and at least one test under turndown conditions (when the process heater is firing at 50 percent or less of the rated heat capacity). If Ooperating limits are developed for co-fired process heaters based only on overall firing rates (and not by fuel mixtures), conduct at least one of the test runs for each test while the process heater is being supplied by both fuel gas and fuel oil and conduct at least one of the test runs while the process heater is being supplied solely by fuel gas.

(D) Determine the average Oconcentration for each test run of a valid test.

(E) Calculate the Ooperating limit for each operating range as the average Oconcentration of the three test runs from a valid test conducted at the representative conditions for that given operating range.

(F) Identify the firing rates for which the different operating limits apply. If only two operating limits are established based on firing rates, the Ooperating limits established when the process heater is firing at no less than 70 percent of the rated heat capacity must apply when the process heater is firing above 50 percent of the rated heat capacity and the Ooperating limits established for turndown conditions must apply when the process heater is firing at 50 percent or less of the rated heat capacity.

(G) Operating limits associated with each interval will be valid for 2 years or until another operating limit is established for that interval based on a more recent performance test specific for that interval, whichever occurs first. Owners and operators must use the operating limits determined for a given interval based on the most recent performance test conducted for that interval.

(7) The owner or operator of a process heater complying with a NOlimit in terms of lb/MMBtu as provided in § 60.102a(g)(2)(i)(B), (g)(2)(ii)(B), (g)(2)(iii)(B) or (g)(2)(iv)(B) or a process heater with a rated heat capacity between 40 and 100 MMBtu/hr that elects to demonstrate continuous compliance with a maximum excess Olimit, as provided in § 60.107a(c)(6) or (d)(8), shall determine heat input to the process heater in MMBtu/hr during each performance test run by measuring fuel gas flow rate, fuel oil flow rate (as applicable) and heating value content according to the methods provided in § 60.107a(d)(5), (d)(6), and (d)(4) or (d)(7), respectively.

(8) The owner or operator shall use Equation 8 of this section to adjust pollutant concentrations to 0-percent Oor 0- percent excess air.

(j) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the applicable HS emissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(1) for a fuel gas combustion device or the concentration requirement in § 60.103a(h) for a flare according to the following test methods and procedures:

(1)-(3) [Reserved]

(4) EPA Method 11, 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 or EPA Method 16 of appendix A-6 to part 60 for determining the HS concentration for affected facilities using an HS monitor as specified in § 60.107a(a)(2). The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60. The owner or operator may demonstrate compliance based on the mixture used in the fuel gas combustion device or flare or for each individual fuel gas stream used in the fuel gas combustion device or flare.

(i) For Method 11 of appendix A-5 to part 60, the sampling time and sample volume must be at least 10 minutes and 0.010 dscm (0.35 dscf). Two samples of equal sampling times must be taken at about 1-hour intervals. The arithmetic average of these two samples constitutes a run. For most fuel gases, sampling times exceeding 20 minutes may result in depletion of the collection solution, although fuel gases containing low concentrations of HS may necessitate sampling for longer periods of time.

(ii) For Method 15 of appendix A-5 to part 60, at least three injects over a 1-hour period constitutes a run.

(iii) For Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60, a 1-hour sample constitutes a run. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.

(iv) If monitoring is conducted at a single point in a common source of fuel gas as allowed under § 60.107a(a)(2)(iv), only one performance test is required. That is, performance tests are not required when a new affected fuel gas combustion device or flare is added to a common source of fuel gas that previously demonstrated compliance.
