
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.106a Monitoring of emissions and operations for sulfur recovery plants.

(a) The owner or operator of a sulfur recovery plant that is subject to the emissions limits in § 60.102a(f)(1) or § 60.102a(f)(2) shall:

(1) For sulfur recovery plants subject to the SOemission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(i) or § 60.102a(f)(2)(i), the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, zero percent excess air) of any SOemissions into the atmosphere. The monitor shall include an oxygen monitor for correcting the data for excess air.

(i) The span value for the SOmonitor is two times the applicable SOemission limit at the highest Oconcentration in the air/oxygen stream used in the Claus burner, if applicable.

(ii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each SOCEMS according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60.

(iii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each SOmonitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Method 6 or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6.

(iv) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each Omonitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part.

(v) The span value for the Omonitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.

(vi) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the Omonitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to this part.

(vii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to this part for each monitor, including annual accuracy determinations for each Omonitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.

(2) For sulfur recovery plants that are subject to the reduced sulfur compounds emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(ii) or (f)(2)(ii), the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of reduced sulfur compounds and Oemissions into the atmosphere. The reduced sulfur compounds emissions shall be calculated as SO(dry basis, zero percent excess air).

(i) The span value for the reduced sulfur compounds monitor is two times the applicable reduced sulfur compounds emission limit as SOat the highest Oconcentration in the air/oxygen stream used in the Claus burner, if applicable.

(ii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each reduced sulfur compounds CEMS according to Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to this part.

(iii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each reduced sulfur compounds monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.

(iv) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each Omonitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60.

(v) The span value for the Omonitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.

(vi) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the Omonitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.

(vii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to part 60 for each monitor, including annual accuracy determinations for each Omonitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.

(3) In place of the reduced sulfur compounds monitor required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the owner or operator may install, calibrate, operate, and maintain an instrument using an air or Odilution and oxidation system to convert any reduced sulfur to SOfor continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, 0 percent excess air) of the total resultant SO. The monitor must include an Omonitor for correcting the data for excess O.

(i) The span value for this monitor is two times the applicable reduced sulfur compounds emission limit as SOat the highest Oconcentration in the air/oxygen stream used in the Claus burner, if applicable.

(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each SOmonitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.

(iii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each Omonitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60.

(iv) The span value for the Omonitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.

(v) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the Omonitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.

(vi) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to part 60 for each monitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for each SOmonitor, annual accuracy determinations for each Omonitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.

(4) For sulfur recovery plants that are subject to the HS emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(iii) or (f)(2)(iii), the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of HS, and Oemissions into the atmosphere. The HS emissions shall be calculated as SO(dry basis, zero percent excess air).

(i) The span value for this monitor is two times the applicable HS emission limit.

(ii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each HS CEMS according to Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to this part.

(iii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for each HS monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 11 or 15 of appendix A-5 to this part or Method 16 of appendix A-6 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to this part.

(iv) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each Omonitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part.

(v) The span value for the Omonitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.

(vi) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the Omonitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to this part.

(vii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to this part for each monitor, including annual accuracy determinations for each Omonitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.

(5) For sulfur recovery plants that use oxygen or oxygen enriched air in the Claus burner and that elects to monitor Oconcentration of the air/oxygen mixture supplied to the Claus burner, the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the Oconcentration of the air/oxygen mixture supplied to the Claus burner in order to determine the allowable emissions limit.

(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each Omonitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part.

(ii) The span value for the Omonitor shall be 100 percent.

(iii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the Omonitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to this part.

(iv) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to this part for each monitor, including annual accuracy determinations for each Omonitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.
