
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### ยง 60.105a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fluid catalytic cracking units (FCCU) and fluid coking units (FCU).
####### FCCU and fluid coking units subject to CO emissions limit.

(h)Except as specified in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis) of CO emissions into the atmosphere from each FCCU and FCU subject to the CO emissions limit in ยง 60.102a(b)(4).

(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CO monitor according to Performance Specification 4 or 4A of appendix B to this part. The span value for this instrument is 1,000 ppmv CO.

(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each CO monitor according to the requirements in ยง 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 4 or 4A of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A-4 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.

(3) A CO CEMS need not be installed if the owner or operator demonstrates that all hourly average CO emissions are and will remain less than 50 ppmv (dry basis) corrected to 0 percent excess air. The Administrator may revoke this exemption from monitoring upon a determination that CO emissions on an hourly average basis have exceeded 50 ppmv (dry basis) corrected to 0 percent excess air, in which case a CO CEMS shall be installed within 180 days.

(i) The demonstration shall consist of continuously monitoring CO emissions for 30 days using an instrument that meets the requirements of Performance Specification 4 or 4A of appendix B to this part. The span value shall be 100 ppmv CO instead of 1,000 ppmv, and the relative accuracy limit shall be 10 percent of the average CO emissions or 5 ppmv CO, whichever is greater. For instruments that are identical to Method 10 of appendix A-4 to this part and employ the sample conditioning system of Method 10A of appendix A-4 to this part, the alternative relative accuracy test procedure in section 10.1 of Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part may be used in place of the relative accuracy test.

(ii) The owner or operator must submit the following information to the Administrator:

(A) The measurement data specified in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section along with all other operating data known to affect CO emissions; and

(B) Descriptions of the CPMS for exhaust gas temperature and Omonitor required in paragraph (h)(4) of this section and operating limits for those parameters to ensure combustion conditions remain similar to those that exist during the demonstration period.

(iii) The effective date of the exemption from installation and operation of a CO CEMS is the date of submission of the information and data required in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section.

(4) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that is exempted from the requirement to install and operate a CO CEMS in paragraph (h)(3) of this section shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain CPMS to measure and record the operating parameters in paragraph (h)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section. The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the manufacturer's specifications.

(i) For a FCCU or FCU with no post-combustion control device, the temperature and Oconcentration of the exhaust gas stream exiting the unit.

(ii) For a FCCU or FCU with a post-combustion control device, the temperature and Oconcentration of the exhaust gas stream exiting the control device.
