
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.105a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fluid catalytic cracking units (FCCU) and fluid coking units (FCU).
####### Excess emissions.

(i)For the purpose of reports required by § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions for a FCCU or FCU subject to the emissions limitations in § 60.102a(b) are defined as specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (6) of this section. Note: Determine all averages, except for opacity, as the arithmetic average of the applicable 1-hour averages, e.g., determine the rolling 3-hour average as the arithmetic average of three contiguous 1-hour averages.

(1) If a CPMS is used according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, all 3-hour periods during which the average PM control device operating characteristics, as measured by the continuous monitoring systems under paragraph (b)(1), fall below the levels established during the performance test. If the alternative to pressure drop CPMS is used for the owner or operator of a jet ejector type wet scrubber or other type of wet scrubber equipped with atomizing spray nozzles, each day in which abnormal pressure readings are not corrected within 12 hours of identification.

(2) If a bag leak detection system is used according to paragraph (c) of this section, each day in which the cause of an alarm is not alleviated within the time period specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(3) If a PM CEMS is used according to § 60.105a(d), all 7-day periods during which the average PM emission rate, as measured by the continuous PM monitoring system under § 60.105a(d) exceeds 0.040 gr/dscf corrected to 0 percent excess air for a modified or reconstructed FCCU, 0.020 gr/dscf corrected to 0 percent excess air for a newly constructed FCCU, or 0.040 gr/dscf for an affected fluid coking unit.

(4) If a COMS is used according to § 60.105a(e), all 3-hour periods during which the average opacity, as measured by the COMS under § 60.105a(e), exceeds the site-specific limit established during the most recent performance test.

(5) All rolling 7-day periods during which the average concentration of NOas measured by the NOCEMS under § 60.105a(f) exceeds 80 ppmv for an affected FCCU or FCU.

(6) All rolling 7-day periods during which the average concentration of SOas measured by the SOCEMS under § 60.105a(g) exceeds 50 ppmv, and all rolling 365-day periods during which the average concentration of SOas measured by the SOCEMS exceeds 25 ppmv.

(7) All 1-hour periods during which the average CO concentration as measured by the CO continuous monitoring system under paragraph (h) of this section exceeds 500 ppmv or, if applicable, all 1-hour periods during which the average temperature and Oconcentration as measured by the continuous monitoring systems under paragraph (h)(4) of this section fall below the operating limits established during the performance test.
