
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.106a Monitoring of emissions and operations for sulfur recovery plants.
####### i.e.,

(v) The owner or operator shall use the hourly average Oconcentration determined using Equation 8 of § 60.104a(d)(8) for use in Equation 1 or 2 of § 60.102a(f), as applicable, for each hour and determine the allowable emission limit as the arithmetic average of 12 contiguous 1-hour averages (the rolling 12-hour average).

(7) Owners or operators of a sulfur recovery plant that elects to comply with the SOemission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(i) or (f)(2)(i) or the reduced sulfur compounds emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(ii) or (f)(2)(ii) as a flow rate weighted average for a group of release points from the sulfur recovery plant rather than for each process train or release point individually shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a CPMS to measure and record the volumetric gas flow rate of each release point within the group of release points from the sulfur recovery plant as specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate and maintain each flow monitor according to the manufacturer's procedures and specifications and the following requirements.

(A) Locate the monitor in a position that provides a representative measurement of the total gas flow rate.

(B) Use a flow sensor meeting an accuracy requirement of +/-5 percent over the normal range of flow measured or 10 cubic feet per minute, whichever is greater.

(C) Use a flow monitor that is maintainable online, is able to continuously correct for temperature, pressure, and moisture content, and is able to record dry flow in standard conditions (as defined in § 60.2) over one-minute averages.

(D) At least quarterly, perform a visual inspection of all components of the monitor for physical and operational integrity and all electrical connections for oxidation and galvanic corrosion if the flow monitor is not equipped with a redundant flow sensor.

(E) Recalibrate the flow monitor in accordance with the manufacturer's procedures and specifications biennially (every two years) or at the frequency specified by the manufacturer.

(ii) The owner or operator shall correct the flow to 0 percent excess air using Equation 11 of this section:

(iii) The owner or operator shall calculate the flow weighted average SOor reduced sulfur compounds concentration for each hour using Equation 12 of this section:
