
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### ยง 60.106a Monitoring of emissions and operations for sulfur recovery plants.
####### i.e.

(v) The owner or operator shall use the hourly average Oconcentration from this monitor for use in Equation 1 or 2 of ยง 60.102a(f), as applicable, for each hour and determine the allowable emission limit as the arithmetic average of 12 contiguous 1-hour averages (, the rolling 12-hour average).

(6) As an alternative to the Omonitor required in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the owner or operator may install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a CPMS to measure and record the volumetric gas flow rate of ambient air and oxygen-enriched gas supplied to the Claus burner and calculate the hourly average Oconcentration of the air/oxygen mixture used in the Claus burner as specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section in order to determine the allowable emissions limit as specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(v) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate and maintain each flow monitor according to the manufacturer's procedures and specifications and the following requirements.

(A) Locate the monitor in a position that provides a representative measurement of the total gas flow rate.

(B) Use a flow sensor meeting an accuracy requirement of +/-5 percent over the normal range of flow measured or 10 cubic feet per minute, whichever is greater.

(C) Use a flow monitor that is maintainable online, is able to continuously correct for temperature, pressure and, for ambient air flow monitor, moisture content, and is able to record dry flow in standard conditions (as defined in ยง 60.2) over one-minute averages.

(D) At least quarterly, perform a visual inspection of all components of the monitor for physical and operational integrity and all electrical connections for oxidation and galvanic corrosion if the flow monitor is not equipped with a redundant flow sensor.

(E) Recalibrate the flow monitor in accordance with the manufacturer's procedures and specifications biennially (every two years) or at the frequency specified by the manufacturer.

(ii) The owner or operator shall use 20.9 percent as the oxygen content of the ambient air.
