
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.105a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fluid catalytic cracking units (FCCU) and fluid coking units (FCU).
####### FCCU and FCU subject to SO,limit.

(g)The owner or operator subject to the SOemissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(3) for an FCCU or an FCU shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis, corrected to 0 percent excess air) of SOemissions into the atmosphere. The monitor shall include an Omonitor for correcting the data for excess air.

(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each SOmonitor according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this SOmonitor is 200 ppmv SO.

(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each SOmonitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI / ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to part 60.

(3) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each Omonitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this Omonitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.

(4) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each Omonitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.

(5) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60 for each SOand Omonitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for SOmonitors, annual accuracy determinations for Omonitors, and daily calibration drift tests.
