
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.105a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fluid catalytic cracking units (FCCU) and fluid coking units (FCU).
####### Continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS).

(d)An owner or operator subject to the PM concentration emission limit (in gr/dscf) in § 60.102a(b)(1) for an FCCU or FCU shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (0 percent excess air) of PM in the exhaust gases prior to release to the atmosphere. The monitor must include an Omonitor for correcting the data for excess air.

(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each PM monitor according to Performance Specification 11 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this PM monitor is 0.08 gr/dscf PM.

(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each PM monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 11 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use EPA Methods 5 or 5I of appendix A-3 to part 60 or Method 17 of appendix A-6 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.

(3) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each Omonitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this Omonitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.

(4) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each Omonitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.

(5) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements of Procedure 2 of appendix B to part 60 for each PM CEMS and Procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60 for each Omonitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for each PM monitor, annual accuracy determinations for each Omonitor, and daily calibration drift tests.
