
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.107a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fuel gas combustion devices and flares.
####### Fuel gas combustion devices subject to,limit and flares subject to,concentration requirements.

(a)SOor HSHSThe owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device that is subject to § 60.102a(g)(1) and elects to comply with the SOemission limits in § 60.102a(g)(1)(i) shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device that is subject to § 60.102a(g)(1) and elects to comply with the HS concentration limits in § 60.102a(g)(1)(ii) or a flare that is subject to the HS concentration requirement in § 60.103a(h) shall comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device that elects to comply with the SOemissions limits in § 60.102a(g)(1)(i) shall install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, 0-percent excess air) of SOemissions into the atmosphere. The monitor must include an Omonitor for correcting the data for excess air.

(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each SOmonitor according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part. The span value for the SOmonitor is 50 ppmv SO.

(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the SOmonitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to this part. Samples taken by Method 6 of appendix A-4 to this part shall be taken at a flow rate of approximately 2 liters/min for at least 30 minutes. The relative accuracy limit shall be 20 percent or 4 ppmv, whichever is greater, and the calibration drift limit shall be 5 percent of the established span value.

(iii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each Omonitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The span value for the Omonitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.

(iv) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the Omonitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.

(v) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures in appendix F to part 60, including quarterly accuracy determinations for SOmonitors, annual accuracy determinations for Omonitors, and daily calibration drift tests.

(vi) Fuel gas combustion devices having a common source of fuel gas may be monitored at only one location (i.e., after one of the combustion devices), if monitoring at this location accurately represents the SOemissions into the atmosphere from each of the combustion devices.

(2) The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device that elects to comply with the HS concentration limits in § 60.102a(g)(1)(ii) or a flare that is subject to the HS concentration requirement in § 60.103a(h) shall install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis) of HS in the fuel gases before being burned in any fuel gas combustion device or flare.

(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain each HS monitor according to Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to part 60. The span value for this instrument is 300 ppmv HS.

(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for each HS monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Method 11, 15, or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 or Method 16 of appendix A-6 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.

(iii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures in appendix F to part 60 for each HS monitor.

(iv) Fuel gas combustion devices or flares having a common source of fuel gas may be monitored at only one location, if monitoring at this location accurately represents the concentration of HS in the fuel gas being burned in the respective fuel gas combustion devices or flares.

(v) The owner or operator of a flare subject to § 60.103a(c) through (e) may use the instrument required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the HS concentration requirement in § 60.103a(h) if the owner or operator complies with the requirements of paragraph (e)(1)(i) through (iv) and if the instrument has a span (or dual span, if necessary) capable of accurately measuring concentrations between 20 and 300 ppmv. If the instrument required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is used to demonstrate compliance with the HS concentration requirement, the concentration directly measured by the instrument must meet the numeric concentration in § 60.103a(h).

(vi) The owner or operator of modified flare that meets all three criteria in paragraphs (a)(2)(vi)(A) through (C) of this section shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section no later than November 11, 2015. The owner or operator shall comply with the approved alternative monitoring plan or plans pursuant to § 60.13(i) until the flare is in compliance with requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(A) The flare was an affected facility subject to subpart J of this part prior to becoming an affected facility under § 60.100a.

(B) The owner or operator had an approved alternative monitoring plan or plans pursuant to § 60.13(i) for all fuel gases combusted in the flare.

(C) The flare did not have in place on or before September 12, 2012 an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis) of HS in the fuel gases that is capable of complying with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(3) The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device or flare is not required to comply with paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section for fuel gas streams that are exempt under §§ 60.102a(g)(1)(iii) or 60.103a(h) or, for fuel gas streams combusted in a process heater, other fuel gas combustion device or flare that are inherently low in sulfur content. Fuel gas streams meeting one of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section will be considered inherently low in sulfur content.

(i) Pilot gas for heaters and flares.

(ii) Fuel gas streams that meet a commercial-grade product specification for sulfur content of 30 ppmv or less. In the case of a liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) product specification in the pressurized liquid state, the gas phase sulfur content should be evaluated assuming complete vaporization of the LPG and sulfur containing-compounds at the product specification concentration.

(iii) Fuel gas streams produced in process units that are intolerant to sulfur contamination, such as fuel gas streams produced in the hydrogen plant, catalytic reforming unit, isomerization unit, and HF alkylation process units.

(iv) Other fuel gas streams that an owner or operator demonstrates are low-sulfur according to the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section.

(4) If the composition of an exempt fuel gas stream changes, the owner or operator must follow the procedures in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
