
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.107a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fuel gas combustion devices and flares.
####### i.e.,

(i) Any one of the methods listed in paragraph (d)(5) of this section that are applicable to fuel oil ("fluids");

(ii) ANSI/ASME-MFC-5M-1985 (Reaffirmed 2006) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(iii) ASME/ANSI MFC-9M-1988 (Reaffirmed 2006) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(iv) ASME MFC-16-2007 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(v) ASME MFC-22-2007 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17); or

(vi) ISO 8316 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

(7) The owner or operator shall determine the higher heating value of each fuel fed to the process heater using any of the applicable methods included in paragraphs (d)(7)(i) through (ix) of this section. If a common fuel supply system provides fuel gas or fuel oil to several process heaters, the higher heating value of the fuel in each fuel supply system may be determined at a single location in the fuel supply system provided it is representative of the fuel fed to the affected process heater(s). The higher heating value of each fuel fed to the process heater must be determined no less frequently than once per day except as provided in paragraph (d)(7)(x) of this section.

(i) ASTM D240-02 (Reapproved 2007) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

(ii) ASTM D1826-94 (Reapproved 2003) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

(iii) ASTM D1945-03 (Reapproved 2010) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

(iv) ASTM D1946-90 (Reapproved 2006) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

(v) ASTM D3588-98 (Reapproved 2003) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

(vi) ASTM D4809-06 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

(vii) ASTM D4891-89 (Reapproved 2006) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

(viii) GPA 2172-09 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

(ix) Any of the methods specified in section 2.2.7 of appendix D to part 75.

(x) If the fuel oil supplied to the affected co-fired process heater originates from a single storage tank, the owner or operator may elect to use the storage tank sampling method in section 2.2.4.2 of appendix D to part 75 instead of daily sampling, except that the most recent value for heating content must be used.
