
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.107a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fuel gas combustion devices and flares.
####### i.e.,,i.e.,

(5) The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain fuel gas flow monitors according to the manufacturer's recommendations. For volumetric flow meters, temperature and pressure monitors must be installed in conjunction with the flow meter or in a representative location to correct the measured flow to standard conditions (68 &#xB0;F and 1 atmosphere). For mass flow meters, use gas compositions determined according to paragraph (d)(4) of this section to determine the average molecular weight of the fuel gas and convert the mass flow to a volumetric flow at standard conditions (68 &#xB0;F and 1 atmosphere). The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each fuel gas flow monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13 and Performance Specification 6 of appendix B to part 60. Any of the following methods shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations:

(i) EPA Method 2, 2A, 2B, 2C or 2D of appendix A-2 to part 60;

(ii) ASME MFC-3M-2004 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(iii) ANSI/ASME MFC-4M-1986 (Reaffirmed 2008) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(iv) ASME MFC-6M-1998 (Reaffirmed 2005) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(v) ASME/ANSI MFC-7M-1987 (Reaffirmed 2006) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(vi) ASME MFC-11M-2006 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(vii) ASME MFC-14M-2003 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(viii) ASME MFC-18M-2001 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(ix) AGA Report No. 3, Part 1 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(x) AGA Report No. 3, Part 2 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(xi) AGA Report No. 11 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);

(xii) AGA Report No. 7 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17); and

(xiii) API Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 22, Section 2 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

(6) The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain each fuel oil flow monitor according to the manufacturer's recommendations. The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each fuel oil flow monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13 and Performance Specification 6 of appendix B to part 60. Any of the following methods shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations:
