
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### ยง 60.107a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fuel gas combustion devices and flares.
####### Exemption from H,S monitoring requirements for low-sulfur fuel gas streams.

(b)The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device or flare may apply for an exemption from the HS monitoring requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for a fuel gas stream that is inherently low in sulfur content. A fuel gas stream that is demonstrated to be low-sulfur is exempt from the monitoring requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section until there are changes in operating conditions or stream composition.

(1) The owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator a written application for an exemption from monitoring. The application must contain the following information:

(i) A description of the fuel gas stream/system to be considered, including submission of a portion of the appropriate piping diagrams indicating the boundaries of the fuel gas stream/system and the affected fuel gas combustion device(s) or flare(s) to be considered;

(ii) A statement that there are no crossover or entry points for sour gas (high HS content) to be introduced into the fuel gas stream/system (this should be shown in the piping diagrams);

(iii) An explanation of the conditions that ensure low amounts of sulfur in the fuel gas stream (i.e., control equipment or product specifications) at all times;

(iv) The supporting test results from sampling the requested fuel gas stream/system demonstrating that the sulfur content is less than 5 ppmv HS. Sampling data must include, at minimum, 2 weeks of daily monitoring (14 grab samples) for frequently operated fuel gas streams/systems; for infrequently operated fuel gas streams/systems, seven grab samples must be collected unless other additional information would support reduced sampling. The owner or operator shall use detector tubes ("length-of-stain tube" type measurement) following the "Gas Processors Association Standard 2377-86 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17), using tubes with a maximum span between 10 and 40 ppmv inclusive when 1&#x2264;N&#x2264;10, where N = number of pump strokes, to test the applicant fuel gas stream for HS; and

(v) A description of how the 2 weeks (or seven samples for infrequently operated fuel gas streams/systems) of monitoring results compares to the typical range of HS concentration (fuel quality) expected for the fuel gas stream/system going to the affected fuel gas combustion device or flare (e.g., the 2 weeks of daily detector tube results for a frequently operated loading rack included the entire range of products loaded out and, therefore, should be representative of typical operating conditions affecting HS content in the fuel gas stream going to the loading rack flare).

(2) The effective date of the exemption is the date of submission of the information required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) No further action is required unless refinery operating conditions change in such a way that affects the exempt fuel gas stream/system (e.g., the stream composition changes). If such a change occurs, the owner or operator shall follow the procedures in paragraph (b)(3)(i), (b)(3)(ii), or (b)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) If the operation change results in a sulfur content that is still within the range of concentrations included in the original application, the owner or operator shall conduct an HS test on a grab sample and record the results as proof that the concentration is still within the range.

(ii) If the operation change results in a sulfur content that is outside the range of concentrations included in the original application, the owner or operator may submit new information following the procedures of paragraph (b)(1) of this section within 60 days (or within 30 days after the seventh grab sample is tested for infrequently operated process units).

(iii) If the operation change results in a sulfur content that is outside the range of concentrations included in the original application and the owner or operator chooses not to submit new information to support an exemption, the owner or operator must begin HS monitoring using daily stain sampling to demonstrate compliance using length-of-stain tubes with a maximum span between 200 and 400 ppmv inclusive when 1&#x2264;N&#x2264;5, where N = number of pump strokes. The owner or operator must begin monitoring according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section as soon as practicable, but in no case later than 180 days after the operation change. During daily stain tube sampling, a daily sample exceeding 162 ppmv is an exceedance of the 3-hour HS concentration limit. The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device must also determine a rolling 365-day average using the stain sampling results; an average HS concentration of 5 ppmv must be used for days within the rolling 365-day period prior to the operation change.
