
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.107a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fuel gas combustion devices and flares.
####### Process heaters complying with the NO,concentration-based limit.

(c)The owner or operator of a process heater subject to the NOemissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(2) and electing to comply with the applicable emissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(2)(i)(A), (g)(2)(ii)(A), (g)(2)(iii)(A) or (g)(2)(iv)(A) shall install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, 0-percent excess air) of NOemissions into the atmosphere according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. The monitor must include an Omonitor for correcting the data for excess air.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, the owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain each NOmonitor according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this NOmonitor must be between 2 and 3 times the applicable emissions limit, inclusive.

(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each NOmonitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 7 or 7C of appendix A-4 to part 60.

(3) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each Omonitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this Omonitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.

(4) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each Omonitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses," (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.

(5) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60 for each NOand Omonitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for NOmonitors, annual accuracy determinations for Omonitors, and daily calibration drift tests.
