
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### ยง 60.107a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fuel gas combustion devices and flares.
####### Total reduced sulfur monitoring requirements.

(1)The owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument or instruments for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of total reduced sulfur in gas discharged to the flare.

(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain each total reduced sulfur monitor according to Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to part 60. The span value should be determined based on the maximum sulfur content of gas that can be discharged to the flare (e.g., roughly 1.1 to 1.3 times the maximum anticipated sulfur concentration), but may be no less than 5,000 ppmv. A single dual range monitor may be used to comply with the requirements of this paragraph and paragraph (a)(2) of this section provided the applicable span specifications are met.

(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each total reduced sulfur monitor according to the requirements in ยง 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator of each total reduced sulfur monitor shall use EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to this part. The alternative relative accuracy procedures described in section 16.0 of Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part (cylinder gas audits) may be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations, except that it is not necessary to include as much of the sampling probe or sampling line as practical.

(iii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures in appendix F to part 60 for each total reduced sulfur monitor.
