
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.107a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fuel gas combustion devices and flares.
####### H,S monitoring requirements.

(2)The owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument or instruments for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of HS in gas discharged to the flare according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section and shall collect and analyze samples of the gas and calculate total sulfur concentrations as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(iv) through (ix) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain each HS monitor according to Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to part 60. The span value should be determined based on the maximum sulfur content of gas that can be discharged to the flare (e.g., roughly 1.1 to 1.3 times the maximum anticipated sulfur concentration), but may be no less than 5,000 ppmv. A single dual range HS monitor may be used to comply with the requirements of this paragraph and paragraph (a)(2) of this section provided the applicable span specifications are met.

(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each HS monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use EPA Method 11, 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to this part. The alternative relative accuracy procedures described in section 16.0 of Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part (cylinder gas audits) may be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations, except that it is not necessary to include as much of the sampling probe or sampling line as practical.

(iii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures in appendix F to part 60 for each HS monitor.

(iv) In the first 10 operating days after the date the flare must begin to comply with § 60.103a(c)(1), the owner or operator shall collect representative daily samples of the gas discharged to the flare. The samples may be grab samples or integrated samples. The owner or operator shall take subsequent representative daily samples at least once per week or as required in paragraph (e)(2)(ix) of this section.

(v) The owner or operator shall analyze each daily sample for total sulfur using either EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60, EPA Method 16A of appendix A-6 to part 60, ASTM Method D4468-85 (Reapproved 2006) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) or ASTM Method D5504-08 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

(vi) The owner or operator shall develop a 10-day average total sulfur-to-HS ratio and 95-percent confidence interval as follows:

(A) Calculate the ratio of the total sulfur concentration to the HS concentration for each day during which samples are collected.

(B) Determine the 10-day average total sulfur-to-HS ratio as the arithmetic average of the daily ratios calculated in paragraph (e)(2)(vi)(A) of this section.

(C) Determine the acceptable range for subsequent weekly samples based on the 95-percent confidence interval for the distribution of daily ratios based on the 10 individual daily ratios using Equation 14 of this section.

(vii) For each day during the period when data are being collected to develop a 10-day average, the owner or operator shall estimate the total sulfur concentration using the measured total sulfur concentration measured for that day.

(viii) For all days other than those during which data are being collected to develop a 10-day average, the owner or operator shall multiply the most recent 10-day average total sulfur-to-HS ratio by the daily average HS concentrations obtained using the monitor as required by paragraph (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section to estimate total sulfur concentrations.

(ix) If the total sulfur-to-HS ratio for a subsequent weekly sample is outside the acceptable range for the most recent distribution of daily ratios, the owner or operator shall develop a new 10-day average ratio and acceptable range based on data for the outlying weekly sample plus data collected over the following 9 operating days.
