
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### ยง 60.107a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fuel gas combustion devices and flares.
####### Alternative monitoring for certain flares equipped with water seals.

(g)The owner or operator of an affected flare subject to ยง 60.103a(c) through (e) that can be classified as either an emergency flare, a secondary flare or a flare equipped with a flare gas recovery system designed, sized and operated to capture all flows except those resulting from startup, shutdown or malfunction may, as an alternative to the sulfur and flow monitoring requirements of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, install, operate, calibrate and maintain, in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section, a CPMS to measure and record the pressure in the flare gas header between the knock-out pot and water seal and to measure and record the water seal liquid level. If the required monitoring systems are not already in place, the owner or operator of a modified flare shall comply with the requirements of this paragraph by no later than November 11, 2015 or upon startup of the modified flare, whichever is later.

(1) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure and locate the liquid seal level monitor in a position that provides a representative measurement of the water column height.

(2) Minimize or eliminate pulsating pressure, vibration and internal and external corrosion.

(3) Use a pressure sensor and level monitor with a minimum tolerance of 1.27 centimeters of water.

(4) Using a manometer, check pressure sensor calibration quarterly.

(5) Conduct calibration checks any time the pressure sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.
