
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### ยง 60.107a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fuel gas combustion devices and flares.
####### Exemptions from sulfur monitoring requirements.

(4)Flares identified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section are exempt from the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section. For each such flare, except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(iv), engineering calculations shall be used to calculate the SOemissions in the event of a discharge that may trigger a root cause analysis under ยง 60.103a(c)(1).

(i) Flares that can only receive:

(A) Fuel gas streams that are inherently low in sulfur content as described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section; and/or

(B) Fuel gas streams that are inherently low in sulfur content for which the owner or operator has applied for an exemption from the HS monitoring requirements as described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) Emergency flares, provided that for each such flare, the owner or operator complies with the monitoring alternative in paragraph (g) of this section.

(iii) Flares equipped with flare gas recovery systems designed, sized and operated to capture all flows except those resulting from startup, shutdown or malfunction, provided that for each such flare, the owner or operator complies with the monitoring alternative in paragraph (g) of this section.

(iv) Secondary flares that receive gas diverted from the primary flare. In the event of a discharge from the secondary flare, the sulfur content measured by the sulfur monitor on the primary flare should be used to calculate SOemissions, regardless of whether or not the monitoring alternative in paragraph (g) of this section is selected for the secondary flare.
