
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### § 60.108a Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the emissions limitations in § 60.102a shall comply with the notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in § 60.7 and other requirements as specified in this section.

(b) Each owner or operator subject to an emissions limitation in § 60.102a shall notify the Administrator of the specific monitoring provisions of §§ 60.105a, 60.106a and 60.107a with which the owner or operator intends to comply. Each owner or operator of a co-fired process heater subject to an emissions limitation in § 60.102a(g)(2)(iii) or (iv) shall submit to the Administrator documentation showing that the process heater meets the definition of a co-fired process heater in § 60.101a. Notifications required by this paragraph shall be submitted with the notification of initial startup required by § 60.7(a)(3).

(c) The owner or operator shall maintain the following records:

(1) A copy of the flare management plan.

(2) Records of information to document conformance with bag leak detection system operation and maintenance requirements in § 60.105a(c).

(3) Records of bag leak detection system alarms and actions according to § 60.105a(c).

(4) For each FCCU and fluid coking unit subject to the monitoring requirements in § 60.105a(b)(1), records of the average coke burn-off rate and hours of operation.

(5) For each fuel gas stream to which one of the exemptions listed in § 60.107a(a)(3) applies, records of the specific exemption determined to apply for each fuel stream. If the owner or operator applies for the exemption described in § 60.107a(a)(3)(iv), the owner or operator must keep a copy of the application as well as the letter from the Administrator granting approval of the application.

(6) Records of discharges greater than 500 lb SOin any 24-hour period from any affected flare, discharges greater than 500 lb SOin excess of the allowable limits from a fuel gas combustion device or sulfur recovery plant and discharges to an affected flare in excess of 500,000 scf above baseline in any 24-hour period as required by § 60.103a(c). If the monitoring alternative provided in § 60.107a(g) is selected, the owner or operator shall record any instance when the flare gas line pressure exceeds the water seal liquid depth, except for periods attributable to compressor staging that do not exceed the staging time specified in § 60.103a(a)(3)(vii)(C). The following information shall be recorded no later than 45 days following the end of a discharge exceeding the thresholds:

(i) A description of the discharge.

(ii) The date and time the discharge was first identified and the duration of the discharge.

(iii) The measured or calculated cumulative quantity of gas discharged over the discharge duration. If the discharge duration exceeds 24 hours, record the discharge quantity for each 24-hour period. For a flare, record the measured or calculated cumulative quantity of gas discharged to the flare over the discharge duration. If the discharge duration exceeds 24 hours, record the quantity of gas discharged to the flare for each 24-hour period. Engineering calculations are allowed for fuel gas combustion devices, but are not allowed for flares, except for those complying with the alternative monitoring requirements in § 60.107a(g).

(iv) For each discharge greater than 500 lb SOin any 24-hour period from a flare, the measured total sulfur concentration or both the measured HS concentration and the estimated total sulfur concentration in the fuel gas at a representative location in the flare inlet.

(v) For each discharge greater than 500 lb SOin excess of the applicable short-term emissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(1) from a fuel gas combustion device, either the measured concentration of HS in the fuel gas or the measured concentration of SOin the stream discharged to the atmosphere. Process knowledge can be used to make these estimates for fuel gas combustion devices, but cannot be used to make these estimates for flares, except as provided in § 60.107a(e)(4).

(vi) For each discharge greater than 500 lb SOin excess of the allowable limits from a sulfur recovery plant, either the measured concentration of reduced sulfur or SOdischarged to the atmosphere.

(vii) For each discharge greater than 500 lb SOin any 24-hour period from any affected flare or discharge greater than 500 lb SOin excess of the allowable limits from a fuel gas combustion device or sulfur recovery plant, the cumulative quantity of HS and SOreleased into the atmosphere. For releases controlled by flares, assume 99-percent conversion of reduced sulfur or total sulfur to SO. For fuel gas combustion devices, assume 99-percent conversion of HS to SO.

(viii) The steps that the owner or operator took to limit the emissions during the discharge.

(ix) The root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in § 60.103a(d), including an identification of the affected facility, the date and duration of the discharge, a statement noting whether the discharge resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 60.103a(e).

(x) For any corrective action analysis for which corrective actions are required in § 60.103a(e), a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.

(xi) For each discharge from any affected flare that is the result of a planned startup or shutdown of a refinery process unit or ancillary equipment connected to the affected flare, a statement that a root cause analysis and corrective action analysis are not necessary because the owner or operator followed the flare management plan.

(7) If the owner or operator elects to comply with § 60.107a(e)(2) for a flare, records of the HS and total sulfur analyses of each grab or integrated sample, the calculated daily total sulfur-to-HS ratios, the calculated 10-day average total sulfur-to-HS ratios and the 95-percent confidence intervals for each 10-day average total sulfur-to-HS ratio.

(d) Each owner or operator subject to this subpart shall submit an excess emissions report for all periods of excess emissions according to the requirements of § 60.7(c) except that the report shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) The date that the exceedance occurred;

(2) An explanation of the exceedance;

(3) Whether the exceedance was concurrent with a startup, shutdown, or malfunction of an affected facility or control system; and

(4) A description of the action taken, if any.

(5) The information described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section for all discharges listed in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. For a flare complying with the monitoring alternative under § 60.107a(g), following the fifth discharge required to be recorded under paragraph (c)(6) of this section and reported under this paragraph, the owner or operator shall include notification that monitoring systems will be installed according to § 60.107a(e) and (f) within 180 days following the fifth discharge.

(6) For any periods for which monitoring data are not available, any changes made in operation of the emission control system during the period of data unavailability which could affect the ability of the system to meet the applicable emission limit. Operations of the control system and affected facility during periods of data unavailability are to be compared with operation of the control system and affected facility before and following the period of data unavailability.

(7) A written statement, signed by a responsible official, certifying the accuracy and completeness of the information contained in the report.
