
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ja - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007
###### ยง 60.107a Monitoring of emissions and operations for fuel gas combustion devices and flares.
####### SO,or,S limits for fuel gas combustion devices.

(1)H(i) If the owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device elects to comply with the SOemission limits in ยง 60.102a(g)(1)(i), each rolling 3-hour period during which the average concentration of SOas measured by the SOcontinuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section exceeds 20 ppmv, and each rolling 365-day period during which the average concentration of SOas measured by the SOcontinuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section exceeds 8 ppmv.

(ii) If the owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device elects to comply with the HS concentration limits in ยง 60.102a(g)(1)(ii), each rolling 3-hour period during which the average concentration of HS as measured by the HS continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section exceeds 162 ppmv and each rolling 365-day period during which the average concentration as measured by the HS continuous monitoring system under paragraph (a)(2) of this section exceeds 60 ppmv.

(iii) If the owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device becomes subject to the requirements of daily stain tube sampling in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, each day during which the daily concentration of HS exceeds 162 ppmv and each rolling 365-day period during which the average concentration of HS exceeds 60 ppmv.

(2) HS concentration limits for flares. (i) Each rolling 3-hour period during which the average concentration of HS as measured by the HS continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section exceeds 162 ppmv.

(ii) If the owner or operator of a flare becomes subject to the requirements of daily stain tube sampling in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, each day during which the daily concentration of HS exceeds 162 ppmv.
