
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ka - Standards of Performance for Storage Vessels for Petroleum Liquids for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 18, 1978, and Prior to July 23, 1984
###### § 60.114a Alternative means of emission limitation.

(a) If, in the Administrator's judgment, an alternative means of emission limitation will achieve a reduction in emissions at least equivalent to the reduction in emissions achieved by any requirement in § 60.112a, the Administrator will publish in thea notice permitting the use of the alternative means for purposes of compliance with that requirement.

(b) Any notice under paragraph (a) of this section will be published only after notice and an opportunity for a hearing.

(c) Any person seeking permission under this section shall submit to the Administrator a written application including:

(1) An actual emissions test that uses a full-sized or scale-model storage vessel that accurately collects and measures all VOC emissions from a given control device and that accurately simulates wind and accounts for other emission variables such as temperature and barometric pressure.

(2) An engineering evaluation that the Administrator determines is an accurate method of determining equivalence.

(d) The Administrator may condition the permission on requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emissions reduction as specified in § 60.112a.

(e) The primary vapor-mounted seal in the "Volume-Maximizing Seal" manufactured by R.F.I. Services Corporation is approved as equivalent to the vapor-mounted seal required by § 60.112a(a)(1)(i) and must meet the gap criteria specified in § 60.112a(a)(1)(i)(B). There shall be no gaps between the tank wall and any secondary seal used in conjunction with the primary seal in the "Volume-Maximizing Seal".
