
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Ka - Standards of Performance for Storage Vessels for Petroleum Liquids for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 18, 1978, and Prior to July 23, 1984
###### ยง 60.112a Standard for volatile organic compounds (VOC).

(a) The owner or operator of each storage vessel to which this subpart applies which contains a petroleum liquid which, as stored, has a true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 10.3 kPa (1.5 psia) but not greater than 76.6 kPa (11.1 psia) shall equip the storage vessel with one of the following:

(1) An external floating roof, consisting of a pontoon-type or double-deck-type cover that rests on the surface of the liquid contents and is equipped with a closure device between the tank wall and the roof edge. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(D) of this section, the closure device is to consist of two seals, one above the other. The lower seal is referred to as the primary seal and the upper seal is referred to as the secondary seal. The roof is to be floating on the liquid at all times (i.e., off the roof leg supports) except during initial fill and when the tank is completely emptied and subsequently refilled. The process of emptying and refilling when the roof is resting on the leg supports shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as rapidly as possible.

(i) The primary seal is to be either a metallic shoe seal, a liquid-mounted seal, or a vapor-mounted seal. Each seal is to meet the following requirements:

(A) The accumulated area of gaps between the tank wall and the metallic shoe seal or the liquid-mounted seal shall not exceed 212 cmper meter of tank diameter (10.0 inper ft of tank diameter) and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 3.81 cm (1in).

(B) The accumulated area of gaps between the tank wall and the vapor-mounted seal shall not exceed 21.2 cmper meter of tank diameter (1.0 inper ft of tank diameter) and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 1.27 cm (in).

(C) One end of the metallic shoe is to extend into the stored liquid and the other end is to extend a minimum vertical distance of 61 cm (24 in) above the stored liquid surface.

(D) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the shoe, seal fabric, or seal envelope.

(ii) The secondary seal is to meet the following requirements:

(A) The secondary seal is to be installed above the primary seal so that it completely covers the space between the roof edge and the tank wall except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section.

(B) The accumulated area of gaps between the tank wall and the secondary seal used in combination with a metallic shoe or liquid-mounted primary seal shall not exceed 21.2 cmper meter of tank diameter (1.0 inper ft. of tank diameter) and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 1.27 cm (in.). There shall be no gaps between the tank wall and the secondary seal used in combination with a vapor-mounted primary seal.

(C) There are to be no holes, tears or other openings in the seal or seal fabric.

(D) The owner or operator is exempted from the requirements for secondary seals and the secondary seal gap criteria when performing gap measurements or inspections of the primary seal.

(iii) Each opening in the roof except for automatic bleeder vents and rim space vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface. Each opening in the roof except for automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents and leg sleeves is to be equipped with a cover, seal or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (i.e., no visible gap) except when the device is in actual use or as described in pargraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section. Automatic bleeder vents are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating, except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports. Rim vents are to be set to open when the roof is being floated off the roof legs supports or at the manufacturer's recommended setting.

(iv) Each emergency roof drain is to be provided with a slotted membrane fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the area of the opening.

(2) A fixed roof with an internal floating type cover equipped with a continuous closure device between the tank wall and the cover edge. The cover is to be floating at all times, (i.e., off the leg supports) except during initial fill and when the tank is completely emptied and subsequently refilled. The process of emptying and refilling when the cover is resting on the leg supports shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as rapidly as possible. Each opening in the cover except for automatic bleeder vents and the rim space vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface. Each opening in the cover except for automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, stub drains and leg sleeves is to be equipped with a cover, seal, or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (i.e., no visible gap) except when the device is in actual use. Automatic bleeder vents are to be closed at all times when the cover is floating except when the cover is being floated off or is being landed on the leg supports. Rim vents are to be set to open only when the cover is being floated off the leg supports or at the manufacturer's recommended setting.

(3) A vapor recovery system which collects all VOC vapors and gases discharged from the storage vessel, and a vapor return or disposal system which is designed to process such VOC vapors and gases so as to reduce their emission to the atmosphere by at least 95 percent by weight.

(4) A system equivalent to those described in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section as provided in ยง 60.114a.

(b) The owner or operator of each storage vessel to which this subpart applies which contains a petroleum liquid which, as stored, has a true vapor pressure greater than 76.6 kPa (11.1 psia), shall equip the storage vessel with a vapor recovery system which collects all VOC vapors and gases discharged from the storage vessel, and a vapor return or disposal system which is designed to process such VOC vapors and gases so as to reduce their emission to the atmosphere by at least 95 percent by weight.
