
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Kb - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Liquid Storage Vessels (Including Petroleum Liquid Storage Vessels) for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After July 23, 1984
###### ยง 60.110b Applicability and designation of affected facility.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the affected facility to which this subpart applies is each storage vessel with a capacity greater than or equal to 75 cubic meters (m) that is used to store volatile organic liquids (VOL) for which construction, reconstruction, or modification is commenced after July 23, 1984.

(b) This subpart does not apply to storage vessels with a capacity greater than or equal to 151 mstoring a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure less than 3.5 kilopascals (kPa) or with a capacity greater than or equal to 75 mbut less than 151 mstoring a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure less than 15.0 kPa.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) This subpart does not apply to the following:

(1) Vessels at coke oven by-product plants.

(2) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kPa and without emissions to the atmosphere.

(3) Vessels permanently attached to mobile vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships.

(4) Vessels with a design capacity less than or equal to 1,589.874 mused for petroleum or condensate stored, processed, or treated prior to custody transfer.

(5) Vessels located at bulk gasoline plants.

(6) Storage vessels located at gasoline service stations.

(7) Vessels used to store beverage alcohol.

(8) Vessels subject to subpart GGGG of 40 CFR part 63.
