
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Kb - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Liquid Storage Vessels (Including Petroleum Liquid Storage Vessels) for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After July 23, 1984
###### § 60.110b Applicability and designation of affected facility.
####### Option to comply with part 63, subpart WW, of this chapter.

(5)Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section, owners or operators may choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.112b through 60.117b for storage vessels either with a design capacity greater than or equal to 151 mcontaining a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 5.2 kPa but less than 76.6 kPa, or with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 mbut less than 151 mcontaining a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 27.6 kPa but less than 76.6 kPa.

(i) The general provisions in subpart A of this part apply instead of the general provisions in subpart A of part 63 of this chapter.

(ii) Where terms are defined in both this subpart and 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW, the definitions in this subpart apply.

(iii) Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW, also must comply with the monitoring requirements of § 60.116b(a), (c), (e), and (f)(1), except as specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The reference to all records applies only to the records required by § 60.116b(c);

(B) The reference to § 60.116b(b) does not apply; and

(C) The reference to § 60.116b(g) does not apply.

(iv) Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW, must also keep records and furnish reports as specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(iv)(A) through (F) of this section.

(A) For each affected facility, the owner or operator must notify the Administrator at least 30 days before the first inspection is conducted under 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW. After this notification is submitted to the Administrator, the owner or operator must continue to comply with the alternative standard described in this paragraph (e)(5) until the owner or operator submits another notification to the Administrator indicating the affected facility is using the requirements of §§ 60.112b through 60.117b instead of the alternative standard described in this paragraph (e)(5). The compliance schedule for events does not reset upon switching between compliance with this subpart and 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW.

(B) Keep a record of each affected facility using the alternative standard described in this paragraph (e)(5) when conducting an inspection required by § 63.1063(c)(1) of this chapter.

(C) Keep a record of each affected facility using the alternative standard described in this paragraph (e)(5) when conducting an inspection required by § 63.1063(c)(2) of this chapter.

(D) Copies of all records and reports kept pursuant to § 60.115b(a) and (b) that have not met the 2-year record retention required by the introductory text of § 60.115b must be kept for an additional 2 years after the date of submittal of the inspection notification specified in paragraph (e)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, indicating the affected facility is using the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW.

(E) Copies of all records and reports kept pursuant to § 63.1065 of this chapter that have not met the 5-year record retention required by the introductory text of § 63.1065 must be kept for an additional 5 years after the date of submittal of the notification specified in paragraph (e)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, indicating the affected facility is using the requirements of §§ 60.112b through 60.117b.

(F) The following exceptions to the reporting requirements of § 63.1066 of this chapter apply:
