
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Kb - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Liquid Storage Vessels (Including Petroleum Liquid Storage Vessels) for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After July 23, 1984
###### § 60.115b Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

The owner or operator of each storage vessel as specified in § 60.112b(a) shall keep records and furnish reports as required by paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section depending upon the control equipment installed to meet the requirements of § 60.112b. The owner or operator shall keep copies of all reports and records required by this section, except for the record required by (c)(1), for at least 2 years. The record required by (c)(1) will be kept for the life of the control equipment.

(a) After installing control equipment in accordance with § 60.112b(a)(1) (fixed roof and internal floating roof), the owner or operator shall meet the following requirements.

(1) Furnish the Administrator with a report that describes the control equipment and certifies that the control equipment meets the specifications of § 60.112b(a)(1) and § 60.113b(a)(1). This report shall be an attachment to the notification required by § 60.7(a)(3).

(2) Keep a record of each inspection performed as required by § 60.113b (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4). Each record shall identify the storage vessel on which the inspection was performed and shall contain the date the vessel was inspected and the observed condition of each component of the control equipment (seals, internal floating roof, and fittings).

(3) If any of the conditions described in § 60.113b(a)(2) are detected during the annual visual inspection required by § 60.113b(a)(2), a report shall be furnished to the Administrator within 30 days of the inspection. Each report shall identify the storage vessel, the nature of the defects, and the date the storage vessel was emptied or the nature of and date the repair was made.

(4) After each inspection required by § 60.113b(a)(3) that finds holes or tears in the seal or seal fabric, or defects in the internal floating roof, or other control equipment defects listed in § 60.113b(a)(3)(ii), a report shall be furnished to the Administrator within 30 days of the inspection. The report shall identify the storage vessel and the reason it did not meet the specifications of § 60.112b(a)(1) or § 60.113b(a)(3) and list each repair made.

(b) After installing control equipment in accordance with § 60.112b(a)(2) (external floating roof), the owner or operator shall meet the following requirements.

(1) Furnish the Administrator with a report that describes the control equipment and certifies that the control equipment meets the specifications of § 60.112b(a)(2) and § 60.113b(b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4). This report shall be an attachment to the notification required by § 60.7(a)(3).

(2) Within 60 days of performing the seal gap measurements required by § 60.113b(b)(1), furnish the Administrator with a report that contains:

(i) The date of measurement.

(ii) The raw data obtained in the measurement.

(iii) The calculations described in § 60.113b (b)(2) and (b)(3).

(3) Keep a record of each gap measurement performed as required by § 60.113b(b). Each record shall identify the storage vessel in which the measurement was performed and shall contain:

(i) The date of measurement.

(ii) The raw data obtained in the measurement.

(iii) The calculations described in § 60.113b (b)(2) and (b)(3).

(4) After each seal gap measurement that detects gaps exceeding the limitations specified by § 60.113b(b)(4), submit a report to the Administrator within 30 days of the inspection. The report will identify the vessel and contain the information specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and the date the vessel was emptied or the repairs made and date of repair.

(c) After installing control equipment in accordance with § 60.112b (a)(3) or (b)(1) (closed vent system and control device other than a flare), the owner or operator shall keep the following records.

(1) A copy of the operating plan.

(2) A record of the measured values of the parameters monitored in accordance with § 60.113b(c)(2).

(d) After installing a closed vent system and flare to comply with § 60.112b, the owner or operator shall meet the following requirements.

(1) A report containing the measurements required by § 60.18(f) (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) shall be furnished to the Administrator as required by § 60.8 of the General Provisions. This report shall be submitted within 6 months of the initial start-up date.

(2) Records shall be kept of all periods of operation during which the flare pilot flame is absent.

(3) Semiannual reports of all periods recorded under § 60.115b(d)(2) in which the pilot flame was absent shall be furnished to the Administrator.
