
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Kb - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Liquid Storage Vessels (Including Petroleum Liquid Storage Vessels) for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After July 23, 1984
###### § 60.116b Monitoring of operations.

(a) The owner or operator shall keep copies of all records required by this section, except for the record required by paragraph (b) of this section, for at least 2 years. The record required by paragraph (b) of this section will be kept for the life of the source.

(b) The owner or operator of each storage vessel as specified in § 60.110b(a) shall keep readily accessible records showing the dimension of the storage vessel and an analysis showing the capacity of the storage vessel.

(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, the owner or operator of each storage vessel either with a design capacity greater than or equal to 151 mstoring a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure greater than or equal to 3.5 kPa or with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 mbut less than 151 mstoring a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure greater than or equal to 15.0 kPa shall maintain a record of the VOL stored, the period of storage, and the maximum true vapor pressure of that VOL during the respective storage period.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, the owner or operator of each storage vessel either with a design capacity greater than or equal to 151 mstoring a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure that is normally less than 5.2 kPa or with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 mbut less than 151 mstoring a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure that is normally less than 27.6 kPa shall notify the Administrator within 30 days when the maximum true vapor pressure of the liquid exceeds the respective maximum true vapor vapor pressure values for each volume range.

(e) Available data on the storage temperature may be used to determine the maximum true vapor pressure as determined below.

(1) For vessels operated above or below ambient temperatures, the maximum true vapor pressure is calculated based upon the highest expected calendar-month average of the storage temperature. For vessels operated at ambient temperatures, the maximum true vapor pressure is calculated based upon the maximum local monthly average ambient temperature as reported by the National Weather Service.

(2) For crude oil or refined petroleum products the vapor pressure may be obtained by the following:

(i) Available data on the Reid vapor pressure and the maximum expected storage temperature based on the highest expected calendar-month average temperature of the stored product may be used to determine the maximum true vapor pressure from nomographs contained in API Bulletin 2517 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17), unless the Administrator specifically requests that the liquid be sampled, the actual storage temperature determined, and the Reid vapor pressure determined from the sample(s).

(ii) The true vapor pressure of each type of crude oil with a Reid vapor pressure less than 13.8 kPa or with physical properties that preclude determination by the recommended method is to be determined from available data and recorded if the estimated maximum true vapor pressure is greater than 3.5 kPa.

(3) For other liquids, the vapor pressure:

(i) May be obtained from standard reference texts, or

(ii) Determined by ASTM D2879-83, 96, or 97 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17); or

(iii) Measured by an appropriate method approved by the Administrator; or

(iv) Calculated by an appropriate method approved by the Administrator.

(f) The owner or operator of each vessel storing a waste mixture of indeterminate or variable composition shall be subject to the following requirements.

(1) Prior to the initial filling of the vessel, the highest maximum true vapor pressure for the range of anticipated liquid compositions to be stored will be determined using the methods described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) For vessels in which the vapor pressure of the anticipated liquid composition is above the cutoff for monitoring but below the cutoff for controls as defined in § 60.112b(a), an initial physical test of the vapor pressure is required; and a physical test at least once every 6 months thereafter is required as determined by the following methods:

(i) ASTM D2879-83, 96, or 97 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17); or

(ii) ASTM D323-82 or 94 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17); or

(iii) As measured by an appropriate method as approved by the Administrator.

(g) The owner or operator of each vessel equipped with a closed vent system and control device meeting the specification of § 60.112b or with emissions reductions equipment as specified in 40 CFR 65.42(b)(4), (b)(5), (b)(6), or (c) is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
