
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Kb - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Liquid Storage Vessels (Including Petroleum Liquid Storage Vessels) for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After July 23, 1984
###### § 60.112b Standard for volatile organic compounds (VOC).

(a) The owner or operator of each storage vessel either with a design capacity greater than or equal to 151 mcontaining a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 5.2 kPa but less than 76.6 kPa or with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 mbut less than 151 mcontaining a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 27.6 kPa but less than 76.6 kPa, shall equip each storage vessel with one of the following:

(1) A fixed roof in combination with an internal floating roof meeting the following specifications:

(i) The internal floating roof shall rest or float on the liquid surface (but not necessarily in complete contact with it) inside a storage vessel that has a fixed roof. The internal floating roof shall be floating on the liquid surface at all times, except during initial fill and during those intervals when the storage vessel is completely emptied or subsequently emptied and refilled. When the roof is resting on the leg supports, the process of filling, emptying, or refilling shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as rapidly as possible.

(ii) Each internal floating roof shall be equipped with one of the following closure devices between the wall of the storage vessel and the edge of the internal floating roof:

(A) A foam- or liquid-filled seal mounted in contact with the liquid (liquid-mounted seal). A liquid-mounted seal means a foam- or liquid-filled seal mounted in contact with the liquid between the wall of the storage vessel and the floating roof continuously around the circumference of the tank.

(B) Two seals mounted one above the other so that each forms a continuous closure that completely covers the space between the wall of the storage vessel and the edge of the internal floating roof. The lower seal may be vapor-mounted, but both must be continuous.

(C) A mechanical shoe seal. A mechanical shoe seal is a metal sheet held vertically against the wall of the storage vessel by springs or weighted levers and is connected by braces to the floating roof. A flexible coated fabric (envelope) spans the annular space between the metal sheet and the floating roof.

(iii) Each opening in a noncontact internal floating roof except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and the rim space vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface.

(iv) Each opening in the internal floating roof except for leg sleeves, automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, column wells, ladder wells, sample wells, and stub drains is to be equipped with a cover or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (i.e., no visible gap) except when the device is in actual use. The cover or lid shall be equipped with a gasket. Covers on each access hatch and automatic gauge float well shall be bolted except when they are in use.

(v) Automatic bleeder vents shall be equipped with a gasket and are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports.

(vi) Rim space vents shall be equipped with a gasket and are to be set to open only when the internal floating roof is not floating or at the manufacturer's recommended setting.

(vii) Each penetration of the internal floating roof for the purpose of sampling shall be a sample well. The sample well shall have a slit fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the opening.

(viii) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a column supporting the fixed roof shall have a flexible fabric sleeve seal or a gasketed sliding cover.

(ix) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a ladder shall have a gasketed sliding cover.

(2) An external floating roof. An external floating roof means a pontoon-type or double-deck type cover that rests on the liquid surface in a vessel with no fixed roof. Each external floating roof must meet the following specifications:

(i) Each external floating roof shall be equipped with a closure device between the wall of the storage vessel and the roof edge. The closure device is to consist of two seals, one above the other. The lower seal is referred to as the primary seal, and the upper seal is referred to as the secondary seal.

(A) The primary seal shall be either a mechanical shoe seal or a liquid-mounted seal. Except as provided in § 60.113b(b)(4), the seal shall completely cover the annular space between the edge of the floating roof and tank wall.

(B) The secondary seal shall completely cover the annular space between the external floating roof and the wall of the storage vessel in a continuous fashion except as allowed in § 60.113b(b)(4).

(ii) Except for automatic bleeder vents and rim space vents, each opening in a noncontact external floating roof shall provide a projection below the liquid surface. Except for automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, roof drains, and leg sleeves, each opening in the roof is to be equipped with a gasketed cover, seal, or lid that is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (i.e., no visible gap) except when the device is in actual use. Automatic bleeder vents are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports. Rim vents are to be set to open when the roof is being floated off the roof legs supports or at the manufacturer's recommended setting. Automatic bleeder vents and rim space vents are to be gasketed. Each emergency roof drain is to be provided with a slotted membrane fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the area of the opening.

(iii) The roof shall be floating on the liquid at all times (i.e., off the roof leg supports) except during initial fill until the roof is lifted off leg supports and when the tank is completely emptied and subsequently refilled. The process of filling, emptying, or refilling when the roof is resting on the leg supports shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as rapidly as possible.

(3) A closed vent system and control device meeting the following specifications:

(i) The closed vent system shall be designed to collect all VOC vapors and gases discharged from the storage vessel and operated with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background and visual inspections, as determined in part 60, subpart VV, § 60.485(b).

(ii) The control device shall be designed and operated to reduce inlet VOC emissions by 95 percent or greater. If a flare is used as the control device, it shall meet the specifications described in the general control device requirements (§ 60.18) of the General Provisions.

(4) A system equivalent to those described in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section as provided in § 60.114b of this subpart.

(b) The owner or operator of each storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 mwhich contains a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure greater than or equal to 76.6 kPa shall equip each storage vessel with one of the following:

(1) A closed vent system and control device as specified in § 60.112b(a)(3).

(2) A system equivalent to that described in paragraph (b)(1) as provided in § 60.114b of this subpart.
