
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Kb - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Liquid Storage Vessels (Including Petroleum Liquid Storage Vessels) for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After July 23, 1984
###### § 60.113b Testing and procedures.

The owner or operator of each storage vessel as specified in § 60.112b(a) shall meet the requirements of paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section. The applicable paragraph for a particular storage vessel depends on the control equipment installed to meet the requirements of § 60.112b.

(a) After installing the control equipment required to meet § 60.112b(a)(1) (permanently affixed roof and internal floating roof), each owner or operator shall:

(1) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, and the secondary seal (if one is in service), prior to filling the storage vessel with VOL. If there are holes, tears, or other openings in the primary seal, the secondary seal, or the seal fabric or defects in the internal floating roof, or both, the owner or operator shall repair the items before filling the storage vessel.

(2) For Vessels equipped with a liquid-mounted or mechanical shoe primary seal, visually inspect the internal floating roof and the primary seal or the secondary seal (if one is in service) through manholes and roof hatches on the fixed roof at least once every 12 months after initial fill. If the internal floating roof is not resting on the surface of the VOL inside the storage vessel, or there is liquid accumulated on the roof, or the seal is detached, or there are holes or tears in the seal fabric, the owner or operator shall repair the items or empty and remove the storage vessel from service within 45 days. If a failure that is detected during inspections required in this paragraph cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, a 30-day extension may be requested from the Administrator in the inspection report required in § 60.115b(a)(3). Such a request for an extension must document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable and specify a schedule of actions the company will take that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel will be emptied as soon as possible.

(3) For vessels equipped with a double-seal system as specified in § 60.112b(a)(1)(ii)(B):

(i) Visually inspect the vessel as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section at least every 5 years; or

(ii) Visually inspect the vessel as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(4) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, the secondary seal (if one is in service), gaskets, slotted membranes and sleeve seals (if any) each time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed. If the internal floating roof has defects, the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, or the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, or the gaskets no longer close off the liquid surfaces from the atmosphere, or the slotted membrane has more than 10 percent open area, the owner or operator shall repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph exist before refilling the storage vessel with VOL. In no event shall inspections conducted in accordance with this provision occur at intervals greater than 10 years in the case of vessels conducting the annual visual inspection as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3)(ii) of this section and at intervals no greater than 5 years in the case of vessels specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.

(5) Notify the Administrator in writing at least 30 days prior to the filling or refilling of each storage vessel for which an inspection is required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(4) of this section to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. If the inspection required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 days in advance or refilling the tank, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling of the storage vessel. Notification shall be made by telephone immediately followed by written documentation demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned. Alternatively, this notification including the written documentation may be made in writing and sent by express mail so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling.

(b) After installing the control equipment required to meet § 60.112b(a)(2) (external floating roof), the owner or operator shall:

(1) Determine the gap areas and maximum gap widths, between the primary seal and the wall of the storage vessel and between the secondary seal and the wall of the storage vessel according to the following frequency.

(i) Measurements of gaps between the tank wall and the primary seal (seal gaps) shall be performed during the hydrostatic testing of the vessel or within 60 days of the initial fill with VOL and at least once every 5 years thereafter.

(ii) Measurements of gaps between the tank wall and the secondary seal shall be performed within 60 days of the initial fill with VOL and at least once per year thereafter.

(iii) If any source ceases to store VOL for a period of 1 year or more, subsequent introduction of VOL into the vessel shall be considered an initial fill for the purposes of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(2) Determine gap widths and areas in the primary and secondary seals individually by the following procedures:

(i) Measure seal gaps, if any, at one or more floating roof levels when the roof is floating off the roof leg supports.

(ii) Measure seal gaps around the entire circumference of the tank in each place where a 0.32-cm diameter uniform probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against seal) between the seal and the wall of the storage vessel and measure the circumferential distance of each such location.

(iii) The total surface area of each gap described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section shall be determined by using probes of various widths to measure accurately the actual distance from the tank wall to the seal and multiplying each such width by its respective circumferential distance.

(3) Add the gap surface area of each gap location for the primary seal and the secondary seal individually and divide the sum for each seal by the nominal diameter of the tank and compare each ratio to the respective standards in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(4) Make necessary repairs or empty the storage vessel within 45 days of identification in any inspection for seals not meeting the requirements listed in (b)(4) (i) and (ii) of this section:

(i) The accumulated area of gaps between the tank wall and the mechanical shoe or liquid-mounted primary seal shall not exceed 212 cmper meter of tank diameter, and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 3.81 cm.

(A) One end of the mechanical shoe is to extend into the stored liquid, and the other end is to extend a minimum vertical distance of 61 cm above the stored liquid surface.

(B) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the shoe, seal fabric, or seal envelope.

(ii) The secondary seal is to meet the following requirements:

(A) The secondary seal is to be installed above the primary seal so that it completely covers the space between the roof edge and the tank wall except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.

(B) The accumulated area of gaps between the tank wall and the secondary seal shall not exceed 21.2 cmper meter of tank diameter, and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 1.27 cm.

(C) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or seal fabric.

(iii) If a failure that is detected during inspections required in paragraph (b)(1) of § 60.113b(b) cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, a 30-day extension may be requested from the Administrator in the inspection report required in § 60.115b(b)(4). Such extension request must include a demonstration of unavailability of alternate storage capacity and a specification of a schedule that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel will be emptied as soon as possible.

(5) Notify the Administrator 30 days in advance of any gap measurements required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.

(6) Visually inspect the external floating roof, the primary seal, secondary seal, and fittings each time the vessel is emptied and degassed.

(i) If the external floating roof has defects, the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, or the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, the owner or operator shall repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph exist before filling or refilling the storage vessel with VOL.

(ii) For all the inspections required by paragraph (b)(6) of this section, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in writing at least 30 days prior to the filling or refilling of each storage vessel to afford the Administrator the opportunity to inspect the storage vessel prior to refilling. If the inspection required by paragraph (b)(6) of this section is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 days in advance of refilling the tank, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling of the storage vessel. Notification shall be made by telephone immediately followed by written documentation demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned. Alternatively, this notification including the written documentation may be made in writing and sent by express mail so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling.

(c) The owner or operator of each source that is equipped with a closed vent system and control device as required in § 60.112b (a)(3) or (b)(2) (other than a flare) is exempt from § 60.8 of the General Provisions and shall meet the following requirements.

(1) Submit for approval by the Administrator as an attachment to the notification required by § 60.7(a)(1) or, if the facility is exempt from § 60.7(a)(1), as an attachment to the notification required by § 60.7(a)(2), an operating plan containing the information listed below.

(i) Documentation demonstrating that the control device will achieve the required control efficiency during maximum loading conditions. This documentation is to include a description of the gas stream which enters the control device, including flow and VOC content under varying liquid level conditions (dynamic and static) and manufacturer's design specifications for the control device. If the control device or the closed vent capture system receives vapors, gases, or liquids other than fuels from sources that are not designated sources under this subpart, the efficiency demonstration is to include consideration of all vapors, gases, and liquids received by the closed vent capture system and control device. If an enclosed combustion device with a minimum residence time of 0.75 seconds and a minimum temperature of 816 &#xB0;C is used to meet the 95 percent requirement, documentation that those conditions will exist is sufficient to meet the requirements of this paragraph.

(ii) A description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control device will be operated in conformance with its design and an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters).

(2) Operate the closed vent system and control device and monitor the parameters of the closed vent system and control device in accordance with the operating plan submitted to the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the plan was modified by the Administrator during the review process. In this case, the modified plan applies.

(d) The owner or operator of each source that is equipped with a closed vent system and a flare to meet the requirements in § 60.112b (a)(3) or (b)(2) shall meet the requirements as specified in the general control device requirements, § 60.18 (e) and (f).
