
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart N - Standards of Performance for Primary Emissions from Basic Oxygen Process Furnaces for Which Construction is Commenced After June 11, 1973
###### ยง 60.143 Monitoring of operations.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall maintain a single time-measuring instrument which shall be used in recording daily the time and duration of each steel production cycle, and the time and duration of any diversion of exhaust gases from the main stack servicing the BOPF.

(b) The owner or operator of any affected facility that uses venturi scrubber emission control equipment shall install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate monitoring devices as follows:

(1) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the pressure loss through the venturi constriction of the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within +/-250 Pa (+/-1 inch water).

(2) A monitoring device for the continual measurement of the water supply pressure to the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within +/-5 percent of the design water supply pressure. The monitoring device's pressure sensor or pressure tap must be located close to the water discharge point. The Administrator must be consulted for approval in advance of selecting alternative locations for the pressure sensor or tap.

(3) All monitoring devices shall be synchronized each day with the time-measuring instrument used under paragraph (a) of this section. The chart recorder error directly after synchronization shall not exceed 0.08 cm (inch).

(4) All monitoring devices shall use chart recorders which are operated at a minimum chart speed of 3.8 cm/hr (1.5 in/hr).

(5) All monitoring devices are to be recalibrated annually, and at other times as the Administrator may require, in accordance with the procedures under ยง 60.13(b).

(c) Any owner or operator subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall report to the Administrator, on a semiannual basis, all measurements over any 3-hour period that average more than 10 percent below the average levels maintained during the most recent performance test conducted under ยง 60.8 in which the affected facility demonstrated compliance with the mass standards under ยง 60.142(a)(1), (b)(1)(i) or (b)(2)(i). The accuracy of the respective measurements, not to exceed the values specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, may be taken into consideration when determining the measurement results that must be reported.
