
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart N - Standards of Performance for Primary Emissions from Basic Oxygen Process Furnaces for Which Construction is Commenced After June 11, 1973
###### § 60.144 Test methods and procedures.

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).

(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.142 as follows:

(1) The time-measuring instrument of § 60.143 shall be used to document the time and duration of each steel production cycle and each diversion period during each run.

(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 1.50 dscm (53 dscf). Sampling shall be discontinued during periods of diversions.

(i) For affected facilities that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction on or before January 20, 1983, the sampling for each run shall continue for an integral number of steel production cycles. A cycle shall start at the beginning of either the scrap preheat or the oxygen blow and shall terminate immediately before tapping.

(ii) For affected facilities that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after January 20, 1983, the sampling for each run shall continue for an integral number of primary oxygen blows.

(3) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity. Observations taken during a diversion period shall not be used in determining compliance with the opacity standard. Opacity observations taken at 15-second intervals immediately before and after a diversion of exhaust gases from the stack may be considered to be consecutive for the purpose of computing an average opacity for a 6-minute period.

(c) The owner or operator shall use the monitoring devices of § 60.143(b)(1) and (2) for the duration of the particulate matter runs. The arithmetic average of all measurements taken during these runs shall be used to determine compliance with § 60.143(c).
