
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Na - Standards of Performance for Secondary Emissions from Basic Oxygen Process Steelmaking Facilities for Which Construction is Commenced After January 20, 1983
###### § 60.144a Test methods and procedures.
####### Section 2.5.

(ii)Opacity shall be determined as an average of 12 consecutive observations recorded at 15-second intervals. For each steel production cycle, divide the observations recorded into sets of 12 consecutive observations. Sets need not be consecutive in time, and in no case shall two sets overlap. For each set of 12 observations, calculate the average by summing the opacity of 12 consecutive observations and dividing this sum by 12.

(c) In complying with the requirements of § 60.143a(c), the owner or operator shall conduct an initial test as follows:

(1) For devices that monitor and record the exhaust ventilation rate, compare velocity readings recorded by the monitoring device against the velocity readings obtained by Method 2. Take Method 2 readings at a point or points that would properly characterize the monitoring device's performance and that would adequately reflect the various rates of exhaust ventilation. Obtain readings at sufficient intervals to obtain 12 pairs of readings for each duct of the secondary emission capture system. Compare the averages of the two sets to determine whether the monitoring device velocity is within +/-10 percent of the Method 2 average.

(2) For devices that monitor the level of exhaust ventilation and record only step changes when a set point rate is reached, compare step changes recorded by the monitoring device against the velocity readings obtained by Method 2. Take Method 2 readings at a point or points that would properly characterize the performance of the monitoring device and that would adequately reflect the various rates of exhaust ventilation. Obtain readings at sufficient intervals to obtain 12 pairs of readings for each duct of the secondary emission capture system. Compare the averages of the two sets to determine whether the monitoring device step change is within +/-10 percent of the setpoint rate.

(d) To comply with § 60.143a(d) or (e), the owner or operator shall use the monitoring device of § 60.143a(a) to determine the exhaust ventilation rates or levels during the particulate matter runs. Each owner or operator shall then use these rates or levels to determine the 3-hour averages required by § 60.143a(d) and (e).
