
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart O - Standards of Performance for Sewage Treatment Plants
###### § 60.154 Test methods and procedures.

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided for in § 60.8(b).

(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter emission standards in § 60.152 as follows:

(1) The emission rate (E) of particulate matter for each run shall be computed using the following equation:

(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration (c) and the volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf).

(3) The dry sludge charging rate (S) for each run shall be computed using either of the following equations:

(4) the flow measuring device of § 60.153(a)(1) shall be used to determine the total mass (S) or volume (S) of sludge charged to the incinerator during each run. If the flow measuring device is on a time rate basis, readings shall be taken and recorded at 5-minute intervals during the run and the total charge of sludge shall be computed using the following equations, as applicable:

(5) Samples of the sludge charged to the incinerator shall be collected in nonporous jars at the beginning of each run and at approximately 1-hour intervals thereafter until the test ends; and "2540 G. Total, Fixed, and Volatile Solids in Solid and Semisolid Samples, in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 20th Edition, 1998" (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) shall be used to determine dry sludge content of each sample (total solids residue), except that:

(i) Evaporating dishes shall be ignited to at least 103 &#xB0;C rather than the 550 &#xB0;C specified in step 3(a)(1).

(ii) Determination of volatile residue, step 3(b) may be deleted.

(iii) The quantity of dry sludge per unit sludge charged shall be determined in terms of kg/m(lb/gal) or kg/kg (ton/ton).

(iv) The average dry sludge content shall be the arithmetic average of all the samples taken during the run.

(6) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) The owner or operator of any sludge incinerator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall conduct a performance test during which the monitoring and recording devices required under § 60.153(a)(1), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) are installed and operating and for which the sampling and analysis procedures required under § 60.153(b)(5) are performed. The owner or operator shall provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of the performance test to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.

(1) For incinerators that commenced construction or modification on or before April 18, 1986, the performance test shall be conducted within 360 days of the effective date of these regulations unless the monitoring and recording devices required under § 60.153(a)(1), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) were installed and operating and the sampling and analysis procedures required under § 60.153(b)(5) were performed during the most recent performance test and a record of the measurements taken during the performance test is available.

(2) For incinerators that commence construction or modification after April 18, 1986, the date of the performance test shall be determined by the requirements in § 60.8.
