
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart O - Standards of Performance for Sewage Treatment Plants
###### ยง 60.155 Reporting.

(a) The owner or operator of any multiple hearth, fluidized bed, or electric sludge incinerator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit to the Administrator semi-annually a report in writing which contains the following:

(1) A record of average scrubber pressure drop measurements for each period of 15 minutes duration or more during which the pressure drop of the scrubber was less than, by a percentage specified below, the average scrubber pressure drop measured during the most recent performance test. The percent reduction in scrubber pressure drop for which a report is required shall be determined as follows:

(i) For incinerators that achieved an average particulate matter emission rate of 0.38 kg/Mg (0.75 lb/ton) dry sludge input or less during the most recent performance test, a scrubber pressure drop reduction of more than 30 percent from the average scrubber pressure drop recorded during the most recent performance test shall be reported.

(ii) For incinerators that achieved an average particulate matter emission rate of greater than 0.38 kg/Mg (0.75 lb/ton) dry sludge input during the most recent performance test, a percent reduction in pressure drop greater than that calculated according to the following equation shall be reported:

(2) A record of average oxygen content in the incinerator exhaust gas for each period of 1-hour duration or more that the oxygen content of the incinerator exhaust gas exceeds the average oxygen content measured during the most recent performance test by more than 3 percent.

(b) The owner or operator of any multiple hearth, fluidized bed, or electric sludge incinerator from which the average particulate matter emission rate measured during the performance test required under ยง 60.154(d) exceeds 0.38 g/kg of dry sludge input (0.75 lb/ton of dry sludge input) shall include in the report for each calendar day that a decrease in scrubber pressure drop or increase in oxygen content of exhaust gas is reported a record of the following:

(1) Scrubber pressure drop averaged over each 1-hour incinerator operating period.

(2) Oxygen content in the incinerator exhaust averaged over each 1-hour incinerator operating period.

(3) Temperatures of every hearth in multiple hearth incinerators; of the bed and outlet of fluidized bed incinerators; and of the drying, combustion, and cooling zones of electric incinerators averaged over each 1-hour incinerator operating period.

(4) Rate of sludge charged to the incinerator averaged over each 1-hour incinerator operating period.

(5) Incinerator fuel use averaged over each 8-hour incinerator operating period.

(6) Moisture and volatile solids content of the daily grab sample of sludge charged to the incinerator.

(c) The owner or operator of any sludge incinerator other than a multiple hearth, fluidized bed, or electric incinerator or any sludge incinerator equipped with a control device other than a wet scrubber shall include in the semi-annual report a record of control device operation measurements, as specified in the plan approved under ยง 60.153(e).
