
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart R - Standards of Performance for Primary Lead Smelters
###### § 60.185 Monitoring of operations.

(a) The owner or operator of any primary lead smelter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install and operate:

(1) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record the opacity of gases discharged into the atmosphere from any blast furnace, dross reverberatory furnace, or sintering machine discharge end. The span of this system shall be set at 80 to 100 percent opacity.

(2) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record sulfur dioxide emissions discharged into the atmosphere from any sintering machine, electric furnace or converter subject to § 60.183. The span of this system shall be set at a sulfur dioxide concentration of 0.20 percent by volume.

(i) The continuous monitoring system performance evaluation required under § 60.13(c) shall be completed prior to the initial performance test required under § 60.8.

(ii) For the purpose of the continuous monitoring system performance evaluation required under § 60.13(c), the reference method referred to under the Relative Accuracy Test Procedure in Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part shall be Method 6. For the performance evaluation, each concentration measurement shall be of one hour duration. The pollutant gases used to prepare the calibration gas mixtures required under Performance Specification 2 of appendix B, and for calibration checks under § 60.13(d), shall be sulfur dioxide.

(b) Two-hour average sulfur dioxide concentrations shall be calculated and recorded daily for the twelve consecutive two-hour periods of each operating day. Each two-hour average shall be determined as the arithmetic mean of the appropriate two contiguous one-hour average sulfur dioxide concentrations provided by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions that shall be reported are defined as follows:

(1) Opacity. Any six-minute period during which the average opacity, as measured by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a) of this section, exceeds the standard under § 60.184(a).

(2) Sulfur dioxide. Any two-hour period, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, during which the average emissions of sulfur dioxide, as measured by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a) of this section, exceeds the standard under § 60.183.
