
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart S - Standards of Performance for Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants
###### § 60.195 Test methods and procedures.

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).

(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the total fluorides and visible emission standards in §§ 60.192 and 60.193 as follows:

(1) The emission rate (E) of total fluorides from potroom groups shall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(2) The emission rate (E) of total fluorides from anode bake plants shall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(3) Methods 13A or 13B shall be used for ducts or stacks, and Method 14 for roof monitors not employing stacks or pollutant collection systems, to determine the total fluorides concentration (C) and volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 8 hours and 6.80 dscm (240 dscf) for potroom groups and at least 4 hours and 3.40 dscm (120 dscf) for anode bake plants.

(4) The monitoring devices of § 60.194(a) shall be used to determine the daily weight of aluminum and anode produced.

(i) The aluminum production rate (P) shall be determined by dividing 720 hours into the weight of aluminum tapped from the affected facility during a period of 30 days before and including the final run of a performance test.

(ii) The aluminum equivalent production rate (P) for anodes shall be determined as 2 times the average weight of anode produced during a representative oven cycle divided by the cycle time. An owner or operator may establish a multiplication factor other than 2 by submitting production records of the amount of aluminum produced and the concurrent weight of anodes consumed by the potrooms.

(5) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
