
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart S - Standards of Performance for Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants
###### ยง 60.194 Monitoring of operations.

(a) The owner or operator of any affected facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices which can be used to determine daily the weight of aluminum and anode produced. The weighing devices shall have an accuracy of +/-5 percent over their operating range.

(b) The owner or operator of any affected facility shall maintain a record of daily production rates of aluminum and anodes, raw material feed rates, and cell or potline voltages.

(c) Following the initial performance test as required under ยง 60.8(a), an owner or operator shall conduct a performance test at least once each month during the life of the affected facility, except when malfunctions prevent representative sampling, as provided under ยง 60.8(c). The owner or operator shall give the Administrator at least 15 days advance notice of each test. The Administrator may require additional testing under section 114 of the Clean Air Act.

(d) An owner or operator may petition the Administrator to establish an alternative testing requirement that requires testing less frequently than once each month for a primary control system or an anode bake plant. If the owner or operator show that emissions from the primary control system or the anode bake plant have low variability during day-to-day operations, the Administrator may establish such an alternative testing requirement. The alternative testing requirement shall include a testing schedule and, in the case of a primary control system, the method to be used to determine primary control system emissions for the purpose of performance tests. The Administrator shall publish the alternative testing requirement in the

(1) Alternative testing requirements are established for Anaconda Aluminum Company's Sebree plant in Henderson, Kentucky: The anode bake plant and primary control system are to be tested once a year rather than once a month.

(2) Alternative testing requirements are established for Alumax of South Carolina's Mt. Holly Plant in Mt. Holly, South Carolina: The anode bake plant and primary control system are to be tested once a year rather than once a month.
