
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart X - Standards of Performance for the Phosphate Fertilizer Industry: Granular Triple Superphosphate Storage Facilities
###### § 60.243 Monitoring of operations.

(a) The owner or operator of any granular triple superphosphate storage facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain an accurate account of triple superphosphate in storage to permit the determination of the amount of equivalent POstored.

(b) The owner or operator of any granular triple superphosphate storage facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain a daily record of total equivalent POstored by multiplying the percentage POcontent, as determined by § 60.244(c)(3), times the total mass of granular triple superphosphate stored.

(c) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator of any granular triple superphosphate storage facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device that continuously measures and permanently records the total pressure drop across any absorber. The monitoring device shall have an accuracy of +/-5 percent over its operating range.

(d) The owner or operator of any granular triple superphosphate storage facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall develop for approval by the Administrator a site-specific methodology including sufficient recordkeeping for the purposes of demonstrating compliance with § 60.242 (b).

(e) Any facility under § 60.240(a) that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after November 7, 2014 is subject to the requirements of this paragraph instead of the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. If an absorber is used to comply with § 60.232, then the owner or operator shall continuously monitor pressure drop through the absorber and meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system (CMS) that continuously measures and permanently records the pressure at the gas stream inlet and outlet of the absorber. The pressure at the gas stream inlet of the absorber may be measured using amperage on the blower if a correlation between pressure and amperage is established.

(2) The CMS must have an accuracy of +/-5 percent over the normal range measured or 0.12 kilopascals (0.5 inches of water column), whichever is greater.

(3) The owner or operator shall establish an allowable range for the pressure drop through the absorber. The allowable range is +/-20 percent of the arithmetic average of the three test runs conducted during the performance test required in § 60.8. The Administrator retains the right to reduce the +/-20 percent adjustment to the baseline average values of operating ranges in those instances where performance test results indicate that a source's level of emissions is near the value of an applicable emissions standard. However, the adjustment must not be reduced to less than +/-10 percent under any instance.

(4) The owner or operator shall demonstrate continuous compliance by maintaining the daily average pressure drop through the absorber to within the allowable range established in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The daily average pressure drop through the absorber for each operating day shall be calculated using the data recorded by the monitoring system. If the emissions unit operation is continuous, the operating day is a 24-hour period. If the emissions unit operation is not continuous, the operating day is the total number of hours of control device operation per 24-hour period. Valid data points must be available for 75 percent of the operating hours in an operating day to compute the daily average.
