
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart X - Standards of Performance for the Phosphate Fertilizer Industry: Granular Triple Superphosphate Storage Facilities
###### § 60.244 Test methods and procedures.

(a) The owner or operator shall conduct performance tests required in § 60.8 only when the following quantities of product are being cured or stored in the facility.

(1) Total granular triple superphosphate is at least 10 percent of the building capacity, and

(2) Fresh granular triple superphosphate is at least 6 percent of the total amount of triple superphosphate, or

(3) If the provision in paragraph (a)(2) of this section exceeds production capabilities for fresh granular triple superphosphate, fresh granular triple superphosphate is equal to at least 5 days maximum production.

(b) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).

(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the total fluorides standard in § 60.242 as follows:

(1) The emission rate (E) of total fluorides shall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(2) Method 13A or 13B shall be used to determine the total fluorides concentration (C) and volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas from each of the emission points. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).

(3) The equivalent POfeed rate (P) shall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(i) The accountability system of § 60.243(a) shall be used to determine the amount of product (M) in storage.

(ii) The Association of Official Analytical Chemists (AOAC) Method 9 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the POcontent (R) of the product in storage.
