
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Y - Standards of Performance for Coal Preparation and Processing Plants
###### ยง 60.252 Standards for thermal dryers.
####### i.e.,

(ii) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases that either contain SOin excess of 520 ng/J (1.20 lb/MMBtu) heat input or contain SOin excess of 10 percent of the potential combustion concentration (the facility must achieve at least a 90 percent reduction of the potential combustion concentration and may not exceed a maximum emissions rate of 1.2 lb/MMBtu (520 ng/J)).

(iii) Thermal dryers that receive all of their thermal input from a source other than coal or residual oil, that receive all of their thermal input from a source subject to an SOlimit under another subpart of this part, or that use waste heat or residual from the combustion of coal or residual oil as their only thermal input are not subject to the SOlimits of this section.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator must meet the requirements for combined NOand CO emissions in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(ii) of this section, as applicable to the affected facility.

(i) For each thermal dryer constructed after May 27, 2009, the owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases which contain a combined concentration of NOand CO in excess of 280 ng/J (0.65 lb/MMBtu) heat input.

(ii) For each thermal dryer reconstructed or modified after May 27, 2009, the owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases which contain combined concentration of NOand CO in excess of 430 ng/J (1.0 lb/MMBtu) heat input.

(iii) Thermal dryers that receive all of their thermal input from a source other than coal or residual oil, that receive all of their thermal input from a source subject to a NOlimit and/or CO limit under another subpart of this part, or that use waste heat or residual from the combustion of coal or residual oil as their only thermal input, are not subject to the combined NOand CO limits of this section.

(c) Thermal dryers receiving all of their thermal input from an affected facility covered under another 40 CFR Part 60 subpart must meet the applicable requirements in that subpart but are not subject to the requirements in this subpart.
