
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Y - Standards of Performance for Coal Preparation and Processing Plants
###### ยง 60.258 Reporting and recordkeeping.

(a) The owner or operator of a coal preparation and processing plant that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, shall maintain in a logbook (written or electronic) on-site and make it available upon request. The logbook shall record the following:

(1) The manufacturer's recommended maintenance procedures and the date and time of any maintenance and inspection activities and the results of those activities. Any variance from manufacturer recommendation, if any, shall be noted.

(2) The date and time of periodic coal preparation and processing plant visual observations, noting those sources with visible emissions along with corrective actions taken to reduce visible emissions. Results from the actions shall be noted.

(3) The amount and type of coal processed each calendar month.

(4) The amount of chemical stabilizer or water purchased for use in the coal preparation and processing plant.

(5) Monthly certification that the dust suppressant systems were operational when any coal was processed and that manufacturer's recommendations were followed for all control systems. Any variance from the manufacturer's recommendations, if any, shall be noted.

(6) Monthly certification that the fugitive coal dust emissions control plan was implemented as described. Any variance from the plan, if any, shall be noted. A copy of the applicable fugitive coal dust emissions control plan and any letters from the Administrator providing approval of any alternative control measures shall be maintained with the logbook. Any actions, e.g., objections, to the plan and any actions relative to the alternative control measures, e.g., approvals, shall be noted in the logbook as well.

(7) For each bag leak detection system, the owner or operator must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output;

(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection settings; and

(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and whether the cause of the alarm was alleviated within 3 hours of the alarm.

(8) A copy of any applicable monitoring plan for a digital opacity compliance system and monthly certification that the plan was implemented as described. Any variance from plan, if any, shall be noted.

(9) During a performance test of a wet scrubber, and each operating day thereafter, the owner or operator shall record the measurements of the scrubber pressure loss, water supply flow rate, and pH of the wet scrubber liquid.

(10) During a performance test of control equipment other than a wet scrubber, and each operating day thereafter, the owner or operator shall record the measurements of the reagent injection flow rate, as applicable.

(b) For the purpose of reports required under section 60.7(c), any owner operator subject to the provisions of this subpart also shall report semiannually periods of excess emissions as follow:

(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility with a wet scrubber shall submit semiannual reports to the Administrator or delegated authority of occurrences when the measurements of the scrubber pressure loss, water supply flow rate, or pH of the wet scrubber liquid vary by more than 10 percent from the average determined during the most recent performance test.

(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility with control equipment other than a wet scrubber shall submit semiannual reports to the Administrator or delegated authority of occurrences when the measurements of the reagent injection flow rate, as applicable, vary by more than 10 percent from the average determined during the most recent performance test.

(3) All 6-minute average opacities that exceed the applicable standard.

(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit the results of initial performance tests to the Administrator or delegated authority, consistent with the provisions of section 60.8. The owner or operator who elects to comply with the reduced performance testing provisions of sections 60.255(c) or (d) shall include in the performance test report identification of each affected facility that will be subject to the reduced testing. The owner or operator electing to comply with section 60.255(d) shall also include information which demonstrates that the control devices are identical.
