
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Y - Standards of Performance for Coal Preparation and Processing Plants
###### § 60.257 Test methods and procedures.

(a) The owner or operator must determine compliance with the applicable opacity standards as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part and the procedures in § 60.11 must be used to determine opacity, with the exceptions specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii).

(i) The duration of the Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test shall be 1 hour (ten 6-minute averages).

(ii) If, during the initial 30 minutes of the observation of a Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test, all of the 6-minute average opacity readings are less than or equal to half the applicable opacity limit, then the observation period may be reduced from 1 hour to 30 minutes.

(2) To determine opacity for fugitive coal dust emissions sources, the additional requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) must be used.

(i) The minimum distance between the observer and the emission source shall be 5.0 meters (16 feet), and the sun shall be oriented in the 140-degree sector of the back.

(ii) The observer shall select a position that minimizes interference from other fugitive coal dust emissions sources and make observations such that the line of vision is approximately perpendicular to the plume and wind direction.

(iii) The observer shall make opacity observations at the point of greatest opacity in that portion of the plume where condensed water vapor is not present. Water vapor is not considered a visible emission.

(3) A visible emissions observer may conduct visible emission observations for up to three fugitive, stack, or vent emission points within a 15-second interval if the following conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section are met.

(i) No more than three emissions points may be read concurrently.

(ii) All three emissions points must be within a 70 degree viewing sector or angle in front of the observer such that the proper sun position can be maintained for all three points.

(iii) If an opacity reading for any one of the three emissions points is within 5 percent opacity from the applicable standard (excluding readings of zero opacity), then the observer must stop taking readings for the other two points and continue reading just that single point.

(b) The owner or operator must conduct all performance tests required by § 60.8 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions standards specified in § 60.252 according to the requirements in § 60.8 using the applicable test methods and procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of the emissions source if no control device is present) prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(2) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.
