
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Y - Standards of Performance for Coal Preparation and Processing Plants
###### ยง 60.257 Test methods and procedures.
####### e.g.,

(iv) Method 5D of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used for positive pressure fabric filters and other similar applications (stub stacks and roof vents).

(v) Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part may be used at facilities with or without wet scrubber systems provided the stack gas temperature does not exceed a temperature of 160 &#xB0;C (320 &#xB0;F). The procedures of sections 8.1 and 11.1 of Method 5B of appendix A-3 of this part may be used in Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part only if it is used after a wet FGD system. Do not use Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part after wet FGD systems if the effluent is saturated or laden with water droplets.

(6) Method 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to determine the SOconcentration. A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise an SOperformance test.

(7) Method 7 or 7E of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to determine the NOconcentration. A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise an NOperformance test.

(8) Method 10 of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to determine the CO concentration. A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise a CO performance test. CO performance tests are conducted concurrently (or within a 60-minute period) with NOperformance tests.
