
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Y - Standards of Performance for Coal Preparation and Processing Plants
###### ยง 60.255 Performance tests and other compliance requirements.
####### see

(2) Prepare a written site-specific monitoring plan for a digital opacity compliance system for approval by the Administrator or delegated authority. The plan shall require observations of at least one digital image every 15 seconds for 10-minute periods (during normal operation) every operating day. An approvable monitoring plan must include a demonstration that the occurrences of visible emissions are not in excess of 5 percent of the observation period. For reference purposes in preparing the monitoring plan,OAQPS "Determination of Visible Emission Opacity from Stationary Sources Using Computer-Based Photographic Analysis Systems." This document is available from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA); Office of Air Quality and Planning Standards; Sector Policies and Programs Division; Measurement Group (D243-02), Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. This document is also available on the Technology Transfer Network (TTN) under Emission Measurement Center Preliminary Methods. The monitoring plan approved by the Administrator or delegated authority shall be implemented by the owner or operator.

(g) As an alternative to meeting the requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an owner or operator of an affected facility that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, subject to a visible emissions standard under this subpart may install, operate, and maintain a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS). Each COMS used to comply with provisions of this subpart must be installed, calibrated, maintained, and continuously operated according to the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The COMS must meet Performance Specification 1 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(2) The COMS must comply with the quality assurance requirements in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator must automatically (intrinsic to the opacity monitor) check the zero and upscale (span) calibration drifts at least once daily. For particular COMS, the acceptable range of zero and upscale calibration materials is as defined in the applicable version of Performance Specification 1 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(ii) The owner or operator must adjust the zero and span whenever the 24-hour zero drift or 24-hour span drift exceeds 4 percent opacity. The COMS must allow for the amount of excess zero and span drift measured at the 24-hour interval checks to be recorded and quantified. The optical surfaces exposed to the effluent gases must be cleaned prior to performing the zero and span drift adjustments, except for systems using automatic zero adjustments. For systems using automatic zero adjustments, the optical surfaces must be cleaned when the cumulative automatic zero compensation exceeds 4 percent opacity.

(iii) The owner or operator must apply a method for producing a simulated zero opacity condition and an upscale (span) opacity condition using a certified neutral density filter or other related technique to produce a known obscuration of the light beam. All procedures applied must provide a system check of the analyzer internal optical surfaces and all electronic circuitry including the lamp and photodetector assembly.

(iv) Except during periods of system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, the COMS must be in continuous operation and must complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.

(v) The owner or operator must reduce all data from the COMS to 6-minute averages. Six-minute opacity averages must be calculated from 36 or more data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period. Data recorded during periods of system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments must not be included in the data averages. An arithmetic or integrated average of all data may be used.

(h) The owner or operator of each affected coal truck dump operation that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Conduct an initial performance test using Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part according to the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and(ii).

(i) Opacity readings shall be taken during the duration of three separate truck dump events. Each truck dump event commences when the truck bed begins to elevate and concludes when the truck bed returns to a horizontal position.

(ii) Compliance with the applicable opacity limit is determined by averaging all 15-second opacity readings made during the duration of three separate truck dump events.

(2) Conduct monthly visual observations of all process and control equipment. If any deficiencies are observed, the necessary maintenance must be performed as expeditiously as possible.

(3) Conduct a performance test using Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part at least once every 5 calendar years for each affected facility.
