
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Y - Standards of Performance for Coal Preparation and Processing Plants
###### ยง 60.255 Performance tests and other compliance requirements.
####### e.g.,

(c) If any affected coal processing and conveying equipment (breakers, crushers, screens, conveying systems), coal storage systems, or coal transfer and loading systems that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, are enclosed in a building, and emissions from the building do not exceed any of the standards in ยง 60.254 that apply to the affected facility, then the facility shall be deemed to be in compliance with such standards.

(d) An owner or operator of an affected facility (other than a thermal dryer) that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, is subject to a PM emission standard and uses a control device with a design controlled potential PM emissions rate of 1.0 Mg (1.1 tons) per year or less is exempted from the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section provided that the owner or operator meets all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. This exemption does not apply to thermal dryers.

(1) PM emissions, as determined by the most recent performance test, are less than or equal to the applicable limit,

(2) The control device manufacturer's recommended maintenance procedures are followed, and

(3) All 6-minute average opacity readings from the most recent performance test are equal to or less than half the applicable opacity limit or the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section are followed.

(e) For an owner or operator of a group of up to five of the same type of affected facilities that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, that are subject to PM emissions standards and use identical control devices, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow the owner or operator to use a single PM performance test for one of the affected control devices to demonstrate that the group of affected facilities is in compliance with the applicable emissions standards provided that the owner or operator meets all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) PM emissions from the most recent performance test for each individual affected facility are 90 percent or less of the applicable PM standard;

(2) The manufacturer's recommended maintenance procedures are followed for each control device; and

(3) A performance test is conducted on each affected facility at least once every 5 calendar years.

(f) As an alternative to meeting the requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an owner or operator of an affected facility that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, may elect to comply with the requirements in paragraph (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section.

(1) Monitor visible emissions from each affected facility according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Conduct one daily 15-second observation each operating day for each affected facility (during normal operation) when the coal preparation and processing plant is in operation. Each observation must be recorded as either visible emissions observed or no visible emissions observed. Each observer determining the presence of visible emissions must meet the training requirements specified in ยง 2.3 of Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part. If visible emissions are observed during any 15-second observation, the owner or operator must adjust the operation of the affected facility and demonstrate within 24 hours that no visible emissions are observed from the affected facility. If visible emissions are observed, a Method 9, of appendix A-4 of this part, performance test must be conducted within 45 operating days.

(ii) Conduct monthly visual observations of all process and control equipment. If any deficiencies are observed, the necessary maintenance must be performed as expeditiously as possible.

(iii) Conduct a performance test using Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part at least once every 5 calendar years for each affected facility.
