
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Y - Standards of Performance for Coal Preparation and Processing Plants
###### § 60.255 Performance tests and other compliance requirements.

(a) An owner or operator of each affected facility that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification on or before April 28, 2008, must conduct all performance tests required by § 60.8 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards using the methods identified in § 60.257.

(b) An owner or operator of each affected facility that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, must conduct performance tests according to the requirements of § 60.8 and the methods identified in § 60.257 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions standards in this subpart as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For each affected facility subject to a PM, SO, or combined NOand CO emissions standard, an initial performance test must be performed. Thereafter, a new performance test must be conducted according the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) If the results of the most recent performance test demonstrate that emissions from the affected facility are greater than 50 percent of the applicable emissions standard, a new performance test must be conducted within 12 calendar months of the date that the previous performance test was required to be completed.

(ii) If the results of the most recent performance test demonstrate that emissions from the affected facility are 50 percent or less of the applicable emissions standard, a new performance test must be conducted within 24 calendar months of the date that the previous performance test was required to be completed.

(iii) An owner or operator of an affected facility that has not operated for the 60 calendar days prior to the due date of a performance test is not required to perform the subsequent performance test until 30 calendar days after the next operating day.

(2) For each affected facility subject to an opacity standard, an initial performance test must be performed. Thereafter, a new performance test must be conducted according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable, except as provided for in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section. Performance test and other compliance requirements for coal truck dump operations are specified in paragraph (h) of this section.

(i) If any 6-minute average opacity reading in the most recent performance test exceeds half the applicable opacity limit, a new performance test must be conducted within 90 operating days of the date that the previous performance test was required to be completed.

(ii) If all 6-minute average opacity readings in the most recent performance test are equal to or less than half the applicable opacity limit, a new performance test must be conducted within 12 calendar months of the date that the previous performance test was required to be completed.

(iii) An owner or operator of an affected facility continuously monitoring scrubber parameters as specified in § 60.256(b)(2) is exempt from the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) if opacity performance tests are conducted concurrently with (or within a 60-minute period of) PM performance tests.
