
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Z - Standards of Performance for Ferroalloy Production Facilities
###### § 60.262 Standard for particulate matter.

(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any electric submerged arc furnace any gases which:

(1) Exit from a control device and contain particulate matter in excess of 0.45 kg/MW-hr (0.99 lb/MW-hr) while silicon metal, ferrosilicon, calcium silicon, or silicomanganese zirconium is being produced.

(2) Exit from a control device and contain particulate matter in excess of 0.23 kg/MW-hr (0.51 lb/MW-hr) while highcarbon ferrochrome, charge chrome, standard ferromanganese, silicomanganese, calcium carbide, ferrochrome silicon, ferromanganese silicon, or silvery iron is being produced.

(3) Exit from a control device and exhibit 15 percent opacity or greater.

(4) Exit from an electric submerged arc furnace and escape the capture system and are visible without the aid of instruments. The requirements under this subparagraph apply only during periods when flow rates are being established under § 60.265(d).

(5) Escape the capture system at the tapping station and are visible without the aid of instruments for more than 40 percent of each tapping period. There are no limitations on visible emissions under this subparagraph when a blowing tap occurs. The requirements under this subparagraph apply only during periods when flow rates are being established under § 60.265(d).

(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any dust-handling equipment any gases which exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater.
