
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart Z - Standards of Performance for Ferroalloy Production Facilities
###### § 60.265 Monitoring of operations.

(a) The owner or operator of any electric submerged arc furnace subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain daily records of the following information:

(1) Product being produced.

(2) Description of constituents of furnace charge, including the quantity, by weight.

(3) Time and duration of each tapping period and the identification of material tapped (slag or product.)

(4) All furnace power input data obtained under paragraph (b) of this section.

(5) All flow rate data obtained under paragraph (c) of this section or all fan motor power consumption and pressure drop data obtained under paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device to measure and continuously record the furnace power input. The furnace power input may be measured at the output or input side of the transformer. The device must have an accuracy of +/-5 percent over its operating range.

(c) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously measures and records the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood of the capture system, except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section. The owner or operator of an electric submerged arc furnace that is equipped with a water cooled cover which is designed to contain and prevent escape of the generated gas and particulate matter shall monitor only the volumetric flow rate through the capture system for control of emissions from the tapping station. The owner or operator may install the monitoring device(s) in any appropriate location in the exhaust duct such that reproducible flow rate monitoring will result. The flow rate monitoring device must have an accuracy of +/-10 percent over its normal operating range and must be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions. The Administrator may require the owner or operator to demonstrate the accuracy of the monitoring device relative to Methods 1 and 2 of appendix A to this part.

(d) When performance tests are conducted under the provisions of § 60.8 of this part to demonstrate compliance with the standards under §§ 60.262(a) (4) and (5), the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood of the capture system must be determined using the monitoring device required under paragraph (c) of this section. The volumetric flow rates must be determined for furnace power input levels at 50 and 100 percent of the nominal rated capacity of the electric submerged arc furnace. At all times the electric submerged arc furnace is operated, the owner or operator shall maintain the volumetric flow rate at or above the appropriate levels for that furnace power input level determined during the most recent performance test. If emissions due to tapping are captured and ducted separately from emissions of the electric submerged arc furnace, during each tapping period the owner or operator shall maintain the exhaust flow rates through the capture system over the tapping station at or above the levels established during the most recent performance test. Operation at lower flow rates may be considered by the Administrator to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility. The owner or operator may request that these flow rates be reestablished by conducting new performance tests under § 60.8 of this part.

(e) The owner or operator may as an alternative to paragraph (c) of this section determine the volumetric flow rate through each fan of the capture system from the fan power consumption, pressure drop across the fan and the fan performance curve. Only data specific to the operation of the affected electric submerged arc furnace are acceptable for demonstration of compliance with the requirements of this paragraph. The owner or operator shall maintain on file a permanent record of the fan performance curve (prepared for a specific temperature) and shall:

(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device to continuously measure and record the power consumption of the fan motor (measured in kilowatts), and

(2) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device to continuously measure and record the pressure drop across the fan. The fan power consumption and pressure drop measurements must be synchronized to allow real time comparisions of the data. The monitoring devices must have an accuracy of +/-5 percent over their normal operating ranges.

(f) The volumetric flow rate through each fan of the capture system must be determined from the fan power consumption, fan pressure drop, and fan performance curve specified under paragraph (e) of this section, during any performance test required under § 60.8 to demonstrate compliance with the standards under §§ 60.262(a)(4) and (5). The owner or operator shall determine the volumetric flow rate at a representative temperature for furnace power input levels of 50 and 100 percent of the nominal rated capacity of the electric submerged arc furnace. At all times the electric submerged arc furnace is operated, the owner or operator shall maintain the fan power consumption and fan pressure drop at levels such that the volumetric flow rate is at or above the levels established during the most recent performance test for that furnace power input level. If emissions due to tapping are captured and ducted separately from emissions of the electric submerged arc furnace, during each tapping period the owner or operator shall maintain the fan power consumption and fan pressure drop at levels such that the volumetric flow rate is at or above the levels established during the most recent performance test. Operation at lower flow rates may be considered by the Administrator to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility. The owner or operator may request that these flow rates be reestablished by conducting new performance tests under § 60.8. The Administrator may require the owner or operator to verify the fan performance curve by monitoring necessary fan operating parameters and determining the gas volume moved relative to Methods 1 and 2 of appendix A to this part.

(g) All monitoring devices required under paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section are to be checked for calibration annually in accordance with the procedures under § 60.13(b).
