
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AA - Standards of Performance for Steel Plants: Electric Arc Furnaces Constructed After October 21, 1974, and On or Before August 17, 1983
###### § 60.274 Monitoring of operations.

(a) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain records daily of the following information:

(1) Time and duration of each charge;

(2) Time and duration of each tap;

(3) All flow rate data obtained under paragraph (b) of this section, or equivalent obtained under paragraph (d) of this section; and

(4) All pressure data obtained under paragraph (f) of this section.

(b) Except as provided under paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall check and record on a once-per-shift basis furnace static pressure (if a DEC system is in use, and a furnace static pressure gauge is installed according to paragraph (f) of this section) and either: check and record the control system fan motor amperes and damper positions on a once-per-shift basis; install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood; or install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the volumetric flow rate at the control device inlet and check and record damper positions on a once-per-shift basis. The monitoring device(s) may be installed in any appropriate location in the exhaust duct such that reproducible flow rate monitoring will result. The flow rate monitoring device(s) shall have an accuracy of +/-10 percent over its normal operating range and shall be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions. The Administrator may require the owner or operator to demonstrate the accuracy of the monitoring device(s) relative to Methods 1 and 2 of appendix A of this part.

(c) When the owner or operator of an affected facility is required to demonstrate compliance with the standards under § 60.272(a)(3) and at any other time that the Administrator may require (under section 114 of the CAA, as amended) either: the control system fan motor amperes and all damper positions, the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood, or the volumetric flow rate at the control device inlet and all damper positions shall be determined during all periods in which a hood is operated for the purpose of capturing emissions from the affected facility subject to paragraph (b) of this section. The owner or operator may petition the Administrator for reestablishment of these parameters whenever the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the EAF operating conditions upon which the parameters were previously established are no longer applicable. The values of these parameters as determined during the most recent demonstration of compliance shall be maintained at the appropriate level for each applicable period. Operation at other than baseline values may be subject to the requirements of § 60.276(a).

(d) The owner or operator may petition the Administrator to approve any alternative method that will provide a continuous record of operation of each emission capture system.

(e) The owner or operator shall perform monthly operational status inspections of the equipment that is important to the performance of the total capture system (i.e., pressure sensors, dampers, and damper switches). This inspection shall include observations of the physical appearance of the equipment (e.g., presence of hole in ductwork or hoods, flow constrictions caused by dents or accumulated dust in ductwork, and fan erosion). Any deficiencies shall be noted and proper maintenance performed.

(f) Except as provided for under § 60.273(d), where emissions during any phase of the heat time are controlled by use of a direct shell evacuation system, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the pressure in the free space inside the EAF. The pressure shall be recorded as 15-minute integrated averages. The monitoring device may be installed in any appropriate location in the EAF or DEC duct prior to the introduction of ambient air such that reproducible results will be obtained. The pressure monitoring device shall have an accuracy of +/-5 mm of water gauge over its normal operating range and shall be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions.

(g) Except as provided for under § 60.273(d), when the owner or operator of an EAF is required to demonstrate compliance with the standard under § 60.272(a)(3) and at any other time the Administrator may require (under section 114 of the Act, as amended), the pressure in the free space inside the furnace shall be determined during the meltdown and refining period(s) using the monitoring device under paragraph (f) of this section. The owner or operator may petition the Administrator for reestablishment of the 15-minute integrated average pressure whenever the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the EAF operating conditions upon which the pressures were previously established are no longer applicable. The pressure determined during the most recent demonstration of compliance shall be maintained at all times the EAF is operating in a meltdown and refining period. Operation at higher pressures may be considered by the Administrator to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility.

(h) Where the capture system is designed and operated such that all emissions are captured and ducted to a control device, the owner or operator shall not be subject to the requirements of this section.

(i) During any performance test required under § 60.8, and for any report thereof required by § 60.276(c) of this subpart or to determine compliance with § 60.272(a)(3) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall monitor the following information for all heats covered by the test:

(1) Charge weights and materials, and tap weights and materials;

(2) Heat times, including start and stop times, and a log of process operation, including periods of no operation during testing and the pressure inside the furnace where direct-shell evacuation systems are used;

(3) Control device operation log; and

(4) Continuous opacity monitor or Method 9 data.
