
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AA - Standards of Performance for Steel Plants: Electric Arc Furnaces Constructed After October 21, 1974, and On or Before August 17, 1983
###### § 60.275 Test methods and procedures.

(a) During performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall not add gaseous diluent to the effluent gas after the fabric in any pressurized fabric collector, unless the amount of dilution is separately determined and considered in the determination of emissions.

(b) When emissions from any EAF(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart but controlled by a common capture system and control device, the owner or operator shall use either or both of the following procedures during a performance test (see also § 60.276(b)):

(1) Determine compliance using the combined emissions.

(2) Use a method that is acceptable to the Administrator and that compensates for the emissions from the facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(c) When emissions from any EAF(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart, the owner or operator shall use either or both of the following procedures to demonstrate compliance with § 60.272(a)(3):

(1) Determine compliance using the combined emissions.

(2) Shut down operation of facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart during the performance test.

(d) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).

(e) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.272 as follows:

(1) Method 5 shall be used for negative-pressure fabric filters and other types of control devices and Method 5D shall be used for positive-pressure fabric filters to determine the particular matter concentration and, if applicable, the volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 4 hours and 4.5 dscm (160 dscf) and, when a single EAF is sampled, the sampling time shall include an integral number of heats.

(2) When more than one control device serves the EAF(s) being tested, the concentration of particulate matter shall be determined using the following equation:

(3) Method 9 and the procedures of § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.

(4) To demonstrate compliance with § 60.272(a) (1), (2), and (3), the Method 9 test runs shall be conducted concurrently with the particulate matter test runs, unless inclement weather interferes.

(f) To comply with § 60.274 (c), (f), (g), and (i), the owner or operator shall obtain the information in these paragraphs during the particulate matter runs.

(g) Where emissions from any EAF(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart but controlled by a common capture system and control device, the owner or operator may use any of the following procedures during a performance test:

(1) Base compliance on control of the combined emissions.

(2) Utilize a method acceptable to the Administrator which compensates for the emissions from the facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(3) Any combination of the criteria of paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section.

(h) Where emissions from any EAF(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart, the owner or operator may use any of the following procedures for demonstrating compliance with § 60.272(a)(3):

(1) Base compliance on control of the combined emissions.

(2) Shut down operation of facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(3) Any combination of the criteria of paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section.

(i) If visible emissions observations are made in lieu of using a continuous opacity monitoring system, as allowed for by § 60.273(c), visible emission observations shall be conducted at least once per day for at least three 6-minute periods when the furnace is operating in the melting and refining period. All visible emissions observations shall be conducted in accordance with Method 9. If visible emissions occur from more than one point, the opacity shall be recorded for any points where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission sites relate to only one incident of the visible emission, only one set of three 6-minute observations will be required. In that case, the Method 9 observations must be made for the site of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident. Records shall be maintained of any 6-minute average that is in excess of the emission limit specified in § 60.272(a).

(j) Unless the presence of inclement weather makes concurrent testing infeasible, the owner or operator shall conduct concurrently the performance tests required under § 60.8 to demonstrate compliance with § 60.272(a) (1), (2), and (3) of this subpart.
