
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAa - Standards of Performance for Steel Plants: Electric Arc Furnaces and Argon-Oxygen Decarburization Vessels Constructed After August 17, 1983
###### ยง 60.274a Monitoring of operations.

(a) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain records of the following information:

(1) All data obtained under paragraph (b) of this section; and

(2) All monthly operational status inspections performed under paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall check and record on a once-per-shift basis the furnace static pressure (if DEC system is in use, and a furnace static pressure gauge is installed according to paragraph (f) of this section) and either: check and record the control system fan motor amperes and damper position on a once-per-shift basis; install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood; or install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the volumetric flow rate at the control device inlet and check and record damper positions on a once-per-shift basis. The monitoring device(s) may be installed in any appropriate location in the exhaust duct such that reproducible flow rate monitoring will result. The flow rate monitoring device(s) shall have an accuracy of +/-10 percent over its normal operating range and shall be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions. The Administrator may require the owner or operator to demonstrate the accuracy of the monitoring device(s) relative to Methods 1 and 2 of appendix A of this part.

(c) When the owner or operator of an affected facility is required to demonstrate compliance with the standards under ยง 60.272a(a)(3) and at any other time that the Administrator may require (under section 114 of the CAA, as amended) either: the control system fan motor amperes and all damper positions, the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood, or the volumetric flow rate at the control device inlet and all damper positions shall be determined during all periods in which a hood is operated for the purpose of capturing emissions from the affected facility subject to paragraph (b) of this section. The owner or operator may petition the Administrator for reestablishment of these parameters whenever the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the affected facility operating conditions upon which the parameters were previously established are no longer applicable. The values of these parameters as determined during the most recent demonstration of compliance shall be maintained at the appropriate level for each applicable period. Operation at other than baseline values may be subject to the requirements of ยง 60.276a(c).
