
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAa - Standards of Performance for Steel Plants: Electric Arc Furnaces and Argon-Oxygen Decarburization Vessels Constructed After August 17, 1983
###### § 60.274a Monitoring of operations.
####### i.e.

(d) Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall perform monthly operational status inspections of the equipment that is important to the performance of the total capture system (, pressure sensors, dampers, and damper switches). This inspection shall include observations of the physical appearance of the equipment (e.g., presence of holes in ductwork or hoods, flow constrictions caused by dents or accumulated dust in ductwork, and fan erosion). Any deficiencies shall be noted and proper maintenance performed.

(e) The owner or operator may petition the Administrator to approve any alternative to either the monitoring requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section or the monthly operational status inspections specified in paragraph (d) of this section if the alternative will provide a continuous record of operation of each emission capture system.

(f) Except as provided for under § 60.273a(d), if emissions during any phase of the heat time are controlled by the use of a DEC system, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that allows the pressure in the free space inside the EAF to be monitored. The pressure shall be recorded as 15-minute integrated averages. The monitoring device may be installed in any appropriate location in the EAF or DEC duct prior to the introduction of ambient air such that reproducible results will be obtained. The pressure monitoring device shall have an accuracy of +/-5 mm of water gauge over its normal operating range and shall be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions.

(g) Except as provided for under § 60.273a(d), when the owner or operator of an EAF controlled by a DEC is required to demonstrate compliance with the standard under § 60.272a(a)(3), and at any other time the Administrator may require (under section 114 of the Clean Air Act, as amended), the pressure in the free space inside the furnace shall be determined during the meltdown and refining period(s) using the monitoring device required under paragraph (f) of this section. The owner or operator may petition the Administrator for reestablishment of the pressure whenever the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the EAF operating conditions upon which the pressures were previously established are no longer applicable. The pressure determined during the most recent demonstration of compliance shall be maintained at all times when the EAF is operating in a meltdown and refining period. Operation at higher pressures may be considered by the Administrator to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility.

(h) During any performance test required under § 60.8, and for any report thereof required by § 60.276a(f) of this subpart, or to determine compliance with § 60.272a(a)(3) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall monitor the following information for all heats covered by the test:

(1) Charge weights and materials, and tap weights and materials;

(2) Heat times, including start and stop times, and a log of process operation, including periods of no operation during testing and the pressure inside an EAF when direct-shell evacuation control systems are used;

(3) Control device operation log; and

(4) Continuous opacity monitor or Method 9 data.
