
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAa - Standards of Performance for Steel Plants: Electric Arc Furnaces and Argon-Oxygen Decarburization Vessels Constructed After August 17, 1983
###### § 60.275a Test methods and procedures.

(a) During performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall not add gaseous diluents to the effluent gas stream after the fabric in any pressurized fabric filter collector, unless the amount of dilution is separately determined and considered in the determination of emissions.

(b) When emissions from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart but controlled by a common capture system and control device, the owner or operator shall use either or both of the following procedures during a performance test (see also § 60.276a(e)):

(1) Determine compliance using the combined emissions.

(2) Use a method that is acceptable to the Administrator and that compensates for the emissions from the facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(c) When emission from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart, the owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance with § 60.272(a)(3) based on emissions from only the affected facility(ies).

(d) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).

(e) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.272a as follows:

(1) Method 5 shall be used for negative-pressure fabric filters and other types of control devices and Method 5D shall be used for positive-pressure fabric filters to determine the particulate matter concentration and volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 4 hours and 4.50 dscm (160 dscf) and, when a single EAF or AOD vessel is sampled, the sampling time shall include an integral number of heats.

(2) When more than one control device serves the EAF(s) being tested, the concentration of particulate matter shall be determined using the following equation:

(3) Method 9 and the procedures of § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.

(4) To demonstrate compliance with § 60.272a(a) (1), (2), and (3), the Method 9 test runs shall be conducted concurrently with the particulate matter test runs, unless inclement weather interferes.

(f) To comply with § 60.274a (c), (f), (g), and (h), the owner or operator shall obtain the information required in these paragraphs during the particulate matter runs.

(g) Any control device subject to the provisions of the subpart shall be designed and constructed to allow measurement of emissions using applicable test methods and procedures.

(h) Where emissions from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart but controlled by a common capture system and control device, the owner or operator may use any of the following procedures during a performance test:

(1) Base compliance on control of the combined emissions;

(2) Utilize a method acceptable to the Administrator that compensates for the emissions from the facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart, or;

(3) Any combination of the criteria of paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section.

(i) Where emissions from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart, determinations of compliance with § 60.272a(a)(3) will only be based upon emissions originating from the affected facility(ies).

(j) Unless the presence of inclement weather makes concurrent testing infeasible, the owner or operator shall conduct concurrently the performance tests required under § 60.8 to demonstrate compliance with § 60.272a(a) (1), (2), and (3) of this subpart.
