
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BB - Standards of Performance for Kraft Pulp Mills
###### § 60.284 Monitoring of emissions and operations.

(a) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the following continuous monitoring systems:

(1) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record the opacity of the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any recovery furnace. The span of this system shall be set at 70 percent opacity.

(2) Continuous monitoring systems to monitor and record the concentration of TRS emissions on a dry basis and the percent of oxygen by volume on a dry basis in the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any lime kiln, recovery furnace, digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system, except where the provisions of § 60.283(a)(1) (iii) or (iv) apply. These systems shall be located downstream of the control device(s) and the spans of these continuous monitoring system(s) shall be set:

(i) At a TRS concentration of 30 ppm for the TRS continuous monitoring system, except that for any cross recovery furnace the span shall be set at 50 ppm.

(ii) At 25 percent oxygen for the continuous oxygen monitoring system.

(b) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the following continuous monitoring devices:

(1) For any incinerator, a monitoring device which measures and records the combustion temperature at the point of incineration of effluent gases which are emitted from any digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, black liquor oxidation system, or condensate stripper system where the provisions of § 60.283(a)(1)(iii) apply. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within +/-1 percent of the temperature being measured.

(2) For any lime kiln or smelt dissolving tank using a scrubber emission control device:

(i) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the pressure loss of the gas stream through the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within a gage pressure of +/-500 pascals (ca. +/-2 inches water gage pressure).

(ii) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the scrubbing liquid supply pressure to the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within +/-15 percent of design scrubbing liquid supply pressure. The pressure sensor or tap is to be located close to the scrubber liquid discharge point. The Administrator may be consulted for approval of alternative locations.

(c) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall, except where the provisions of § 60.283(a)(1)(iii) or (iv) apply, perform the following:

(1) Calculate and record on a daily basis 12-hour average TRS concentrations for the two consecutive periods of each operating day. Each 12-hour average shall be determined as the arithmetic mean of the appropriate 12 contiguous 1-hour average total reduced sulfur concentrations provided by each continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) Calculate and record on a daily basis 12-hour average oxygen concentrations for the two consecutive periods of each operating day for the recovery furnace and lime kiln. These 12-hour averages shall correspond to the 12-hour average TRS concentrations under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and shall be determined as an arithmetic mean of the appropriate 12 contiguous 1-hour average oxygen concentrations provided by each continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(3) Using the following equation, correct all 12-hour average TRS concentrations to 10 volume percent oxygen, except that all 12-hour average TRS concentrations from a recovery furnace shall be corrected to 8 volume percent oxygen instead of 10 percent, and all 12-hour average TRS concentrations from a facility to which the provisions of § 60.283(a)(1)(v) apply shall not be corrected for oxygen content:

(4) Record once per shift measurements obtained from the continuous monitoring devices installed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(d) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall report semiannually periods of excess emissions as follows:

(1) For emissions from any recovery furnace periods of excess emissions are:

(i) All 12-hour averages of TRS concentrations above 5 ppm by volume for straight kraft recovery furnaces and above 25 ppm by volume for cross recovery furnaces.

(ii) All 6-minute average opacities that exceed 35 percent.

(2) For emissions from any lime kiln, periods of excess emissions are all 12-hour average TRS concentration above 8 ppm by volume.

(3) For emissions from any digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system periods of excess emissions are:

(i) All 12-hour average TRS concentrations above 5 ppm by volume unless the provisions of § 60.283(a)(1) (i), (ii), or (iv) apply; or

(ii) All periods in excess of 5 minutes and their duration during which the combustion temperature at the point of incineration is less than 650 &#xB0;C (1200 &#xB0;F), where the provisions of § 60.283(a)(1)(iii) apply.

(e) The Administrator will not consider periods of excess emissions reported under paragraph (d) of this section to be indicative of a violation of § 60.11(d) provided that:

(1) The percent of the total number of possible contiguous periods of excess emissions in a quarter (excluding periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction and periods when the facility is not operating) during which excess emissions occur does not exceed:

(i) One percent for TRS emissions from recovery furnaces.

(ii) Six percent for average opacities from recovery furnaces.

(2) The Administrator determines that the affected facility, including air pollution control equipment, is maintained and operated in a manner which is consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions during periods of excess emissions.

(f) The procedures under § 60.13 shall be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the continuous monitoring systems required under this section. All continuous monitoring systems shall be operated in accordance with the applicable procedures under Performance Specifications 1, 3, and 5 of appendix B of this part.
