
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BB - Standards of Performance for Kraft Pulp Mills
###### ยง 60.283 Standard for total reduced sulfur (TRS).

(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by ยง 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:

(1) From any digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system any gases which contain TRS in excess of 5 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 10 percent oxygen, unless the following conditions are met:

(i) The gases are combusted in a lime kiln subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(5) of this section; or

(ii) The gases are combusted in a recovery furnace subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section; or

(iii) The gases are combusted with other waste gases in an incinerator or other device, or combusted in a lime kiln or recovery furnace not subject to the provisions of this subpart, and are subjected to a minimum temperature of 650 &#xB0;C (1200 &#xB0;F) for at least 0.5 second; or

(iv) It has been demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction by the owner or operator that incinerating the exhaust gases from a new, modified, or reconstructed brown stock washer system is technologically or economically unfeasible. Any exempt system will become subject to the provisions of this subpart if the facility is changed so that the gases can be incinerated.

(v) The gases from the digester system, brown stock washer system, or condensate stripper system are controlled by a means other than combustion. In this case, this system shall not discharge any gases to the atmosphere which contain TRS in excess of 5 ppm by volume on a dry basis, uncorrected for oxygen content.

(vi) The uncontrolled exhaust gases from a new, modified, or reconstructed digester system contain TRS less than 0.005 g/kg air dried pulp (ADP) (0.01 lb/ton ADP).

(2) From any straight kraft recovery furnace any gases which contain TRS in excess of 5 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 8 percent oxygen.

(3) From any cross recovery furnace any gases which contain TRS in excess of 25 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 8 percent oxygen.

(4) From any smelt dissolving tank any gases which contain TRS in excess of 0.016 g/kg black liquor solids as HS (0.033 lb/ton black liquor solids as HS).

(5) From any lime kiln any gases which contain TRS in excess of 8 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 10 percent oxygen.
