
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BB - Standards of Performance for Kraft Pulp Mills
###### § 60.285 Test methods and procedures.

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b). Acceptable alternative methods and procedures are given in paragraph (f) of this section.

(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.282(a) (1) and (3) as follows:

(1) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf). Water shall be used as the cleanup solvent instead of acetone in the sample recovery procedure. The particulate concentration shall be corrected to the appropriate oxygen concentration according to § 60.284(c)(3).

(2) The emission rate correction factor, integrated sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B shall be used to determine the oxygen concentration. The gas sample shall be taken at the same time and at the same traverse points as the particulate sample.

(3) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.

(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particular matter standard in § 60.282(a)(2) as follows:

(1) The emission rate (E) of particulate matter shall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration (c) and the volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf). Water shall be used instead of acetone in the sample recovery.

(3) Process data shall be used to determine the black liquor solids (BLS) feed rate on a dry weight basis.

(d) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the TRS standards in § 60.283, except § 60.283(a)(1)(vi) and (4), as follows:

(1) Method 16 shall be used to determine the TRS concentration. The TRS concentration shall be corrected to the appropriate oxygen concentration using the procedure in § 60.284(c)(3). The sampling time shall be at least 3 hours, but no longer than 6 hours.

(2) The emission rate correction factor, integrated sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B shall be used to determine the oxygen concentration. The sample shall be taken over the same time period as the TRS samples.

(3) When determining whether a furnace is a straight kraft recovery furnace or a cross recovery furnace, TAPPI Method T.624 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) shall be used to determine sodium sulfide, sodium hydroxide, and sodium carbonate. These determinations shall be made 3 times daily from the green liquor, and the daily average values shall be converted to sodium oxide (Na0) and substituted into the following equation to determine the green liquor sulfidity:

(e) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the TRS standards in § 60.283(a)(1)(vi) and (4) as follows:

(1) The emission rate (E) of TRS shall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(2) Method 16 shall be used to determine the TRS concentration (C).

(3) Method 2 shall be used to determine the volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas.

(4) Process data shall be used to determine the black liquor feed rate or the pulp production rate (P).

(f) The owner or operator may use the following as alternatives to the reference methods and procedures specified in this section:

(1) For Method 5, Method 17 may be used if a constant value of 0.009 g/dscm (0.004 gr/dscf) is added to the results of Method 17 and the stack temperature is no greater than 204 &#xB0;C (400 &#xB0;F).

(2) In place of Method 16, Method 16A or 16B may be used.
