
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BBa - Standards of Performance for Kraft Pulp Mill Affected Sources for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 23, 2013
###### § 60.282a Standard for filterable particulate matter.

(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:

(1) From any modified recovery furnace any gases which:

(i) Contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.10 gram per dry standard cubic meter (g/dscm) (0.044 grain per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf)) corrected to 8-percent oxygen.

(ii) Exhibit 20-percent opacity or greater, where an electrostatic precipitator (ESP) emission control device is used, except where it is used in combination with a wet scrubber.

(2) From any new or reconstructed recovery furnace any gases which:

(i) Contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.034 g/dscm (0.015 gr/dscf) corrected to 8-percent oxygen.

(ii) Exhibit 20-percent opacity or greater, where an ESP emission control device is used, except where it is used in combination with a wet scrubber.

(3) From any modified or reconstructed smelt dissolving tank, or from any new smelt dissolving tank that is not associated with a new or reconstructed recovery furnace subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any gases which contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.1 gram per kilogram (g/kg) (0.2 pound per ton (lb/ton)) of black liquor solids (dry weight).

(4) From any new smelt dissolving tank associated with a new or reconstructed recovery furnace subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any gases which contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.060 g/kg (0.12 lb/ton) black liquor solids (dry weight).

(5) From any modified lime kiln any gases which:

(i) Contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.15 g/dscm (0.064 gr/dscf) corrected to 10-percent oxygen.

(ii) Exhibit 20-percent opacity or greater, where an ESP emission control device is used, except where it is used in combination with a wet scrubber.

(6) From any new or reconstructed lime kiln any gases which:

(i) Contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.023 g/dscm (0.010 gr/dscf) corrected to 10-percent oxygen.

(ii) Exhibit 20-percent opacity or greater, where an ESP emission control device is used, except where it is used in combination with a wet scrubber.

(b) These standards apply at all times as specified in §§ 60.284a and 60.285a.

(c) The exemptions to opacity standards under 40 CFR 60.11(c) do not apply to subpart BBa.
