
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BBa - Standards of Performance for Kraft Pulp Mill Affected Sources for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 23, 2013
###### § 60.283a Standard for total reduced sulfur (TRS).

(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart must cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:

(1) From any digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system any gases which contain TRS in excess of 5 parts per million (ppm) by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 10-percent oxygen, unless one of the following conditions are met:

(i) The gases are collected in an LVHC or HVLC closed-vent system meeting the requirements of § 63.450 and combusted in a lime kiln subject to the provisions of either paragraph (a)(5) of this section or § 60.283(a)(5); or

(ii) The gases are collected in an LVHC or HVLC closed-vent system meeting the requirements of § 63.450 and combusted in a recovery furnace subject to the provisions of either paragraphs (a)(2) or (3) of this section or § 60.283(a)(2) or (3); or

(iii) The gases are collected in an LVHC or HVLC closed-vent system meeting the requirements of § 63.450 and combusted with other waste gases in an incinerator or other device, or combusted in a lime kiln or recovery furnace not subject to the provisions of this subpart (or subpart BB of this part), and are subjected to a minimum temperature of 650 &#xB0;C (1200 14 &#xB0;F) for at least 0.5 second; or

(iv) It has been demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction by the owner or operator that incinerating the exhaust gases from a new, modified, or reconstructed brown stock washer system is technologically or economically unfeasible. Any exempt system will become subject to the provisions of this subpart if the facility is changed so that the gases can be incinerated.

(v) The gases from the digester system, brown stock washer system, or condensate stripper system are collected in an LVHC or HVLC closed-vent system meeting the requirements of § 63.450 and controlled by a means other than combustion. In this case, this system must not discharge any gases to the atmosphere which contain TRS in excess of 5 ppm by volume on a dry basis, uncorrected for oxygen content.

(vi) The uncontrolled exhaust gases from a new, modified, or reconstructed digester system contain TRS less than 0.005 g/kg (0.01 lb/ton) air dried pulp (ADP).

(2) From any straight kraft recovery furnace any gases which contain TRS in excess of 5 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 8-percent oxygen.

(3) From any cross recovery furnace any gases which contain TRS in excess of 25 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 8-percent oxygen.

(4) From any smelt dissolving tank any gases which contain TRS in excess of 0.016 g/kg (0.033 lb/ton) of black liquor solids as hydrogen sulfide (HS).

(5) From any lime kiln any gases which contain TRS in excess of 8 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 10-percent oxygen.

(b) These standards apply at all times as specified in §§ 60.284a and 60.285a.
