
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart CC - Standards of Performance for Glass Manufacturing Plants
###### § 60.296 Test methods and procedures.

(a) If a glass melting furnace with modified processes is changed to one without modified processes or if a glass melting furnace without modified processes is changed to one with modified processes, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 60 days before the change is scheduled to occur.

(b) When gaseous and liquid fuels are fired simultaneously in a glass melting furnace, the owner or operator shall determine the applicable standard under § 60.292(a)(2) as follows:

(1) The ratio (Y) of liquid fuel heating value to total (gaseous and liquid) fuel heating value fired in the glass melting furnaces shall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(2) Suitable methods shall be used to determine the rates (L and G) of fuels burned during each test period and a material balance over the glass melting furnace shall be used to confirm the rates.

(3) ASTM Method D240-76 or 92 (liquid fuels) and D1826-77 or 94 (gaseous fuels) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17), as applicable, shall be used to determine the gross calorific values.

(c) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).

(d) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in §§ 60.292 and 60.293 as follows:

(1) The emission rate (E) of particulate matter shall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration (c) and volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf). The probe and filter holder heating system may be set to provide a gas temperature no greater than 177 +/-14 &#xB0;C (350 +/-25 &#xB0;F), except under the conditions specified in § 60.293(e).

(3) Direct measurement or material balance using good engineering practice shall be used to determine the amount of glass pulled during the performance test. The rate of glass produced is defined as the weight of glass pulled from the affected facility during the performance test divided by the number of hours taken to perform the performance test.

(4) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
