
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart CC - Standards of Performance for Glass Manufacturing Plants
###### § 60.293 Standards for particulate matter from glass melting furnace with modified-processes.

(a) An owner or operator of a glass melting furnaces with modified-processes is not subject to the provisions of § 60.292 if the affected facility complies with the provisions of this section.

(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator of a glass melting furnace with modified-processes subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility:

(1) Particulate matter at emission rates exceeding 0.5 gram of particulate per kilogram of glass produced (g/kg) as measured according to paragraph (e) of this section for container glass, flat glass, and pressed and blown glass with a soda-lime recipe melting furnaces.

(2) Particulate matter at emission rates exceeding 1.0 g/kg as measured according to paragraph (e) of this section for pressed and blown glass with a borosilicate recipe melting furnace.

(3) Particulate matter at emission rates exceeding 0.5 g/kg as measured according to paragraph (e) of this section for textile fiberglass and wool fiberglass melting furnaces.

(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility that is subject to emission limits specified under paragraph (b) of this section shall:

(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility.

(2) During the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8, conduct continuous opacity monitoring during each test run.

(3) Calculate 6-minute opacity averages from 24 or more data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period during the test runs.

(4) Determine, based on the 6-minute opacity averages, the opacity value corresponding to the 99 percent upper confidence level of a normal distribution of average opacity values.

(5) For the purposes of § 60.7, report to the Administrator as excess emissions all of the 6-minute periods during which the average opacity, as measured by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, exceeds the opacity value corresponding to the 99 percent upper confidence level determined under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(d)(1) After receipt and consideration of written application, the Administrator may approve alternative continuous monitoring systems for the measurement of one or more process or operating parameters that is or are demonstrated to enable accurate and representative monitoring of an emission limit specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) After the Administrator approves an alternative continuous monitoring system for an affected facility, the requirements of paragraphs (c) (1) through (5) of this section will not apply for that affected facility.

(e) An owner or operator may redetermine the opacity value corresponding to the 99 percent upper confidence level as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section if the owner or operator:

(1) Conducts continuous opacity monitoring during each test run of a performance test that demonstrates compliance with an emission limit of paragraph (b) of this section,

(2) Recalculates the 6-minute opacity averages as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and

(3) Uses the redetermined opacity value corresponding to the 99 percent upper confidence level for the purposes of paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(f) Test methods and procedures as specified in § 60.296 shall be used to determine compliance with this section except that to determine compliance for any glass melting furnace using modified processes and fired with either a gaseous fuel or a liquid fuel containing less than 0.50 weight percent sulfur, Method 5 shall be used with the probe and filter holder heating system in the sampling train set to provide a gas temperature of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F).
