
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart DD - Standards of Performance for Grain Elevators
###### ยง 60.302 Standard for particulate matter.

(a) On and after the 60th day of achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, but no later than 180 days after initial startup, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any gases which exhibit greater than 0 percent opacity from any:

(1) Column dryer with column plate perforation exceeding 2.4 mm diameter (ca. 0.094 inch).

(2) Rack dryer in which exhaust gases pass through a screen filter coarser than 50 mesh.

(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by ยง 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility except a grain dryer any process emission which:

(1) Contains particulate matter in excess of 0.023 g/dscm (ca. 0.01 gr/dscf).

(2) Exhibits greater than 0 percent opacity.

(c) On and after the 60th day of achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, but no later than 180 days after initial startup, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any fugitive emission from:

(1) Any individual truck unloading station, railcar unloading station, or railcar loading station, which exhibits greater than 5 percent opacity.

(2) Any grain handling operation which exhibits greater than 0 percent opacity.

(3) Any truck loading station which exhibits greater than 10 percent opacity.

(4) Any barge or ship loading station which exhibits greater than 20 percent opacity.

(d) The owner or operator of any barge or ship unloading station shall operate as follows:

(1) The unloading leg shall be enclosed from the top (including the receiving hopper) to the center line of the bottom pulley and ventilation to a control device shall be maintained on both sides of the leg and the grain receiving hopper.

(2) The total rate of air ventilated shall be at least 32.1 actual cubic meters per cubic meter of grain handling capacity (ca. 40 ft/bu).

(3) Rather than meet the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section the owner or operator may use other methods of emission control if it is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction that they would reduce emissions of particulate matter to the same level or less.
