
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart GG - Standards of Performance for Stationary Gas Turbines
###### ยง 60.332 Standard for nitrogen oxides.

(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required by ยง 60.8 is completed, every owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart as specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall comply with one of the following, except as provided in paragraphs (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), and (l) of this section.

(1) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any stationary gas turbine, any gases which contain nitrogen oxides in excess of:

(2) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any stationary gas turbine, any gases which contain nitrogen oxides in excess of:

(3) The use of F in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section is optional. That is, the owner or operator may choose to apply a NOallowance for fuel-bound nitrogen and determine the appropriate F-value in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section or may accept an F-value of zero.

(4) If the owner or operator elects to apply a NOemission allowance for fuel-bound nitrogen, F shall be defined according to the nitrogen content of the fuel during the most recent performance test required under ยง 60.8 as follows:

(b) Electric utility stationary gas turbines with a heat input at peak load greater than 107.2 gigajoules per hour (100 million Btu/hour) based on the lower heating value of the fuel fired shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(c) Stationary gas turbines with a heat input at peak load equal to or greater than 10.7 gigajoules per hour (10 million Btu/hour) but less than or equal to 107.2 gigajoules per hour (100 million Btu/hour) based on the lower heating value of the fuel fired, shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(d) Stationary gas turbines with a manufacturer's rated base load at ISO conditions of 30 megawatts or less except as provided in ยง 60.332(b) shall comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(e) Stationary gas turbines with a heat input at peak load equal to or greater than 10.7 gigajoules per hour (10 million Btu/hour) but less than or equal to 107.2 gigajoules per hour (100 million Btu/hour) based on the lower heating value of the fuel fired and that have commenced construction prior to October 3, 1982 are exempt from paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) Stationary gas turbines using water or steam injection for control of NOemissions are exempt from paragraph (a) when ice fog is deemed a traffic hazard by the owner or operator of the gas turbine.

(g) Emergency gas turbines, military gas turbines for use in other than a garrison facility, military gas turbines installed for use as military training facilities, and fire fighting gas turbines are exempt from paragraph (a) of this section.

(h) Stationary gas turbines engaged by manufacturers in research and development of equipment for both gas turbine emission control techniques and gas turbine efficiency improvements are exempt from paragraph (a) on a case-by-case basis as determined by the Administrator.

(i) Exemptions from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section will be granted on a case-by-case basis as determined by the Administrator in specific geographical areas where mandatory water restrictions are required by governmental agencies because of drought conditions. These exemptions will be allowed only while the mandatory water restrictions are in effect.

(j) Stationary gas turbines with a heat input at peak load greater than 107.2 gigajoules per hour that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction between the dates of October 3, 1977, and January 27, 1982, and were required in the September 10, 1979,(44 FR 52792) to comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, except electric utility stationary gas turbines, are exempt from paragraph (a) of this section.

(k) Stationary gas turbines with a heat input greater than or equal to 10.7 gigajoules per hour (10 million Btu/hour) when fired with natural gas are exempt from paragraph (a)(2) of this section when being fired with an emergency fuel.

(l) Regenerative cycle gas turbines with a heat input less than or equal to 107.2 gigajoules per hour (100 million Btu/hour) are exempt from paragraph (a) of this section.
