
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart GG - Standards of Performance for Stationary Gas Turbines
###### § 60.334 Monitoring of operations.
####### i.e.

(A) If the maximum fuel sulfur content obtained from the 720 hourly samples does not exceed 20 grains/100 scf (, the maximum total sulfur content of natural gas as defined in § 60.331(u)), no additional monitoring of the sulfur content of the gas is required, for the purposes of this subpart.

(B) If the maximum fuel sulfur content obtained from any of the 720 hourly samples exceeds 20 grains/100 scf, but none of the sulfur content values (when converted to weight percent sulfur) exceeds 0.4 weight percent (4000 ppmw), then the minimum required sampling frequency shall be one sample at 12 month intervals.

(C) If any sample result exceeds 0.4 weight percent sulfur (4000 ppmw), but none exceeds 0.8 weight percent sulfur (8000 ppmw), follow the provisions of paragraph (i)(3)(i)(C) of this section.

(D) If the sulfur content of any of the 720 hourly samples exceeds 0.8 weight percent (8000 ppmw), follow the provisions of paragraph (i)(3)(i)(D) of this section.

(j) For each affected unit that elects to continuously monitor parameters or emissions, or to periodically determine the fuel sulfur content or fuel nitrogen content under this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit reports of excess emissions and monitor downtime, in accordance with § 60.7(c). Excess emissions shall be reported for all periods of unit operation, including startup, shutdown and malfunction. For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions and monitor downtime that shall be reported are defined as follows:

(1) Nitrogen oxides.

(i) For turbines using water or steam to fuel ratio monitoring:

(A) An excess emission shall be any unit operating hour for which the average steam or water to fuel ratio, as measured by the continuous monitoring system, falls below the acceptable steam or water to fuel ratio needed to demonstrate compliance with § 60.332, as established during the performance test required in § 60.8. Any unit operating hour in which no water or steam is injected into the turbine shall also be considered an excess emission.

(B) A period of monitor downtime shall be any unit operating hour in which water or steam is injected into the turbine, but the essential parametric data needed to determine the steam or water to fuel ratio are unavailable or invalid.

(C) Each report shall include the average steam or water to fuel ratio, average fuel consumption, ambient conditions (temperature, pressure, and humidity), gas turbine load, and (if applicable) the nitrogen content of the fuel during each excess emission. You do not have to report ambient conditions if you opt to use the worst case ISO correction factor as specified in § 60.334(b)(3)(ii), or if you are not using the ISO correction equation under the provisions of § 60.335(b)(1).

(ii) If the owner or operator elects to take an emission allowance for fuel bound nitrogen, then excess emissions and periods of monitor downtime are as described in paragraphs (j)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) An excess emission shall be the period of time during which the fuel-bound nitrogen (N) is greater than the value measured during the performance test required in § 60.8 and used to determine the allowance. The excess emission begins on the date and hour of the sample which shows that N is greater than the performance test value, and ends with the date and hour of a subsequent sample which shows a fuel nitrogen content less than or equal to the performance test value.

(B) A period of monitor downtime begins when a required sample is not taken by its due date. A period of monitor downtime also begins on the date and hour that a required sample is taken, if invalid results are obtained. The period of monitor downtime ends on the date and hour of the next valid sample.

(iii) For turbines using NOand diluent CEMS:

(A) An hour of excess emissions shall be any unit operating hour in which the 4-hour rolling average NOconcentration exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 60.332(a)(1) or (2). For the purposes of this subpart, a "4-hour rolling average NOconcentration" is the arithmetic average of the average NOconcentration measured by the CEMS for a given hour (corrected to 15 percent Oand, if required under § 60.335(b)(1), to ISO standard conditions) and the three unit operating hour average NOconcentrations immediately preceding that unit operating hour.

(B) A period of monitor downtime shall be any unit operating hour in which sufficient data are not obtained to validate the hour, for either NOconcentration or diluent (or both).

(C) Each report shall include the ambient conditions (temperature, pressure, and humidity) at the time of the excess emission period and (if the owner or operator has claimed an emission allowance for fuel bound nitrogen) the nitrogen content of the fuel during the period of excess emissions. You do not have to report ambient conditions if you opt to use the worst case ISO correction factor as specified in § 60.334(b)(3)(ii), or if you are not using the ISO correction equation under the provisions of § 60.335(b)(1).

(iv) For owners or operators that elect, under paragraph (f) of this section, to monitor combustion parameters or parameters that document proper operation of the NOemission controls:

(A) An excess emission shall be a 4-hour rolling unit operating hour average in which any monitored parameter does not achieve the target value or is outside the acceptable range defined in the parameter monitoring plan for the unit.

(B) A period of monitor downtime shall be a unit operating hour in which any of the required parametric data are either not recorded or are invalid.

(2) Sulfur dioxide. If the owner or operator is required to monitor the sulfur content of the fuel under paragraph (h) of this section:

(i) For samples of gaseous fuel and for oil samples obtained using daily sampling, flow proportional sampling, or sampling from the unit's storage tank, an excess emission occurs each unit operating hour included in the period beginning on the date and hour of any sample for which the sulfur content of the fuel being fired in the gas turbine exceeds 0.8 weight percent and ending on the date and hour that a subsequent sample is taken that demonstrates compliance with the sulfur limit.
