
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart GG - Standards of Performance for Stationary Gas Turbines
###### § 60.334 Monitoring of operations.
####### i.e.

(i) For each unit operating hour in which a valid hourly average, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, is obtained for both NOand diluent, the data acquisition and handling system must calculate and record the hourly NOemissions in the units of the applicable NOemission standard under § 60.332(a),, percent NOby volume, dry basis, corrected to 15 percent Oand International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standard conditions (if required as given in § 60.335(b)(1)). For any hour in which the hourly average Oconcentration exceeds 19.0 percent O, a diluent cap value of 19.0 percent Omay be used in the emission calculations.

(ii) A worst case ISO correction factor may be calculated and applied using historical ambient data. For the purpose of this calculation, substitute the maximum humidity of ambient air (Ho), minimum ambient temperature (T), and minimum combustor inlet absolute pressure (P) into the ISO correction equation.

(iii) If the owner or operator has installed a NOCEMS to meet the requirements of part 75 of this chapter, and is continuing to meet the ongoing requirements of part 75 of this chapter, the CEMS may be used to meet the requirements of this section, except that the missing data substitution methodology provided for at 40 CFR part 75, subpart D, is not required for purposes of identifying excess emissions. Instead, periods of missing CEMS data are to be reported as monitor downtime in the excess emissions and monitoring performance report required in § 60.7(c).

(c) For any turbine that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification after October 3, 1977, but before July 8, 2004, and which does not use steam or water injection to control NOemissions, the owner or operator may, but is not required to, for purposes of determining excess emissions, use a CEMS that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. Also, if the owner or operator has previously submitted and received EPA, State, or local permitting authority approval of a procedure for monitoring compliance with the applicable NOemission limit under § 60.332, that approved procedure may continue to be used.

(d) The owner or operator of any new turbine constructed after July 8, 2004, and which uses water or steam injection to control NOemissions may elect to use either the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section for continuous water or steam to fuel ratio monitoring or may use a NOCEMS installed, certified, operated, maintained, and quality-assured as described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(e) The owner or operator of any new turbine that commences construction after July 8, 2004, and which does not use water or steam injection to control NOemissions, may, but is not required to, elect to use a NOCEMS installed, certified, operated, maintained, and quality-assured as described in paragraph (b) of this section. Other acceptable monitoring approaches include periodic testing approved by EPA or the State or local permitting authority or continuous parameter monitoring as described in paragraph (f) of this section.

(f) The owner or operator of a new turbine that commences construction after July 8, 2004, which does not use water or steam injection to control NOemissions may, but is not required to, perform continuous parameter monitoring as follows:

(1) For a diffusion flame turbine without add-on selective catalytic reduction controls (SCR), the owner or operator shall define at least four parameters indicative of the unit's NOformation characteristics and shall monitor these parameters continuously.

(2) For any lean premix stationary combustion turbine, the owner or operator shall continuously monitor the appropriate parameters to determine whether the unit is operating in low-NOmode.

(3) For any turbine that uses SCR to reduce NOemissions, the owner or operator shall continuously monitor appropriate parameters to verify the proper operation of the emission controls.

(4) For affected units that are also regulated under part 75 of this chapter, if the owner or operator elects to monitor NOemission rate using the methodology in appendix E to part 75 of this chapter, or the low mass emissions methodology in § 75.19 of this chapter, the requirements of this paragraph (f) may be met by performing the parametric monitoring described in section 2.3 of appendix E or in § 75.19(c)(1)(iv)(H) of this chapter.

(g) The steam or water to fuel ratio or other parameters that are continuously monitored as described in paragraphs (a), (d) or (f) of this section shall be monitored during the performance test required under § 60.8, to establish acceptable values and ranges. The owner or operator may supplement the performance test data with engineering analyses, design specifications, manufacturer's recommendations and other relevant information to define the acceptable parametric ranges more precisely. The owner or operator shall develop and keep on-site a parameter monitoring plan which explains the procedures used to document proper operation of the NOemission controls. The plan shall include the parameter(s) monitored and the acceptable range(s) of the parameter(s) as well as the basis for designating the parameter(s) and acceptable range(s). Any supplemental data such as engineering analyses, design specifications, manufacturer's recommendations and other relevant information shall be included in the monitoring plan. For affected units that are also subject to part 75 of this chapter and that use the low mass emissions methodology in § 75.19 of this chapter or the NOemission measurement methodology in appendix E to part 75, the owner or operator may meet the requirements of this paragraph by developing and keeping on-site (or at a central location for unmanned facilities) a quality-assurance plan, as described in § 75.19 (e)(5) or in section 2.3 of appendix E and section 1.3.6 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.

(h) The owner or operator of any stationary gas turbine subject to the provisions of this subpart:

(1) Shall monitor the total sulfur content of the fuel being fired in the turbine, except as provided in paragraph (h)(3) of this section. The sulfur content of the fuel must be determined using total sulfur methods described in § 60.335(b)(10). Alternatively, if the total sulfur content of the gaseous fuel during the most recent performance test was less than 0.4 weight percent (4000 ppmw), ASTM D4084-82, 94, D5504-01, D6228-98, or Gas Processors Association Standard 2377-86 (all of which are incorporated by reference-see § 60.17), which measure the major sulfur compounds may be used; and
