
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart GG - Standards of Performance for Stationary Gas Turbines
###### ยง 60.334 Monitoring of operations.
####### i.e.

(1) Each CEMS must be installed and certified according to PS 2 and 3 (for diluent) of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, except the 7-day calibration drift is based on unit operating days, not calendar days. Appendix F, Procedure 1 is not required. The relative accuracy test audit (RATA) of the NOand diluent monitors may be performed individually or on a combined basis,, the relative accuracy tests of the CEMS may be performed either:

(i) On a ppm basis (for NO) and a percent Obasis for oxygen; or

(ii) On a ppm at 15 percent Obasis; or

(iii) On a ppm basis (for NO) and a percent CObasis (for a COmonitor that uses the procedures in Method 20 to correct the NOdata to 15 percent O).

(2) As specified in ยง 60.13(e)(2), during each full unit operating hour, each monitor must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each 15-minute quadrant of the hour, to validate the hour. For partial unit operating hours, at least one valid data point must be obtained for each quadrant of the hour in which the unit operates. For unit operating hours in which required quality assurance and maintenance activities are performed on the CEMS, a minimum of two valid data points (one in each of two quadrants) are required to validate the hour.

(3) For purposes of identifying excess emissions, CEMS data must be reduced to hourly averages as specified in ยง 60.13(h).
