
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart GG - Standards of Performance for Stationary Gas Turbines
###### ยง 60.334 Monitoring of operations.
####### Custom schedules.

(3)Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (i)(2) of this section, operators or fuel vendors may develop custom schedules for determination of the total sulfur content of gaseous fuels, based on the design and operation of the affected facility and the characteristics of the fuel supply. Except as provided in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) and (i)(3)(ii) of this section, custom schedules shall be substantiated with data and shall be approved by the Administrator before they can be used to comply with the standard in ยง 60.333.

(i) The two custom sulfur monitoring schedules set forth in paragraphs (i)(3)(i)(A) through (D) and in paragraph (i)(3)(ii) of this section are acceptable, without prior Administrative approval:

(A) The owner or operator shall obtain daily total sulfur content measurements for 30 consecutive unit operating days, using the applicable methods specified in this subpart. Based on the results of the 30 daily samples, the required frequency for subsequent monitoring of the fuel's total sulfur content shall be as specified in paragraph (i)(3)(i)(B), (C), or (D) of this section, as applicable.

(B) If none of the 30 daily measurements of the fuel's total sulfur content exceeds 0.4 weight percent (4000 ppmw), subsequent sulfur content monitoring may be performed at 12 month intervals. If any of the samples taken at 12-month intervals has a total sulfur content between 0.4 and 0.8 weight percent (4000 and 8000 ppmw), follow the procedures in paragraph (i)(3)(i)(C) of this section. If any measurement exceeds 0.8 weight percent (8000 ppmw), follow the procedures in paragraph (i)(3)(i)(D) of this section.

(C) If at least one of the 30 daily measurements of the fuel's total sulfur content is between 0.4 and 0.8 weight percent (4000 and 8000 ppmw), but none exceeds 0.8 weight percent (8000 ppmw), then:
