
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KK - Standards of Performance for Lead-Acid Battery Manufacturing Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After January 14, 1980, and On or Before February 23, 2022
###### ยง 60.372 Standards for lead.

(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by ยง 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:

(1) From any grid casting facility any gases that contain lead in excess of 0.40 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000175 gr/dscf).

(2) From any paste mixing facility any gases that contain in excess of 1.00 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000437 gr/dscf).

(3) From any three-process operation facility any gases that contain in excess of 1.00 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000437 gr/dscf).

(4) From any lead oxide manufacturing facility any gases that contain in excess of 5.0 milligrams of lead per kilogram of lead feed (0.010 lb/ton).

(5) From any lead reclamation facility any gases that contain in excess of 4.50 milligrams of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.00197 gr/dscf).

(6) From any other lead-emitting operation any gases that contain in excess of 1.00 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000437 gr/dscf).

(7) From any affected facility other than a lead reclamation facility any gases with greater than 0 percent opacity (measured according to Method 9 and rounded to the nearest whole percentage).

(8) From any lead reclamation facility any gases with greater than 5 percent opacity (measured according to Method 9 and rounded to the nearest whole percentage).

(b) When two or more facilities at the same plant (except the lead oxide manufacturing facility) are ducted to a common control device, an equivalent standard for the total exhaust from the commonly controlled facilities shall be determined as follows:
