
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KK - Standards of Performance for Lead-Acid Battery Manufacturing Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After January 14, 1980, and On or Before February 23, 2022
###### § 60.374 Test methods and procedures.

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).

(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the lead standards in § 60.372, except § 60.372(a)(4), as follows:

(1) Method 12 or Method 29 shall be used to determine the lead concentration (C) and, if applicable, the volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).

(2) When different operations in a three-process operation facility are ducted to separate control devices, the lead emission concentration (C) from the facility shall be determined as follows:

(3) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity. The opacity numbers shall be rounded off to the nearest whole percentage.

(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the lead standard in § 60.372(a)(4) as follows:

(1) The emission rate (E) from lead oxide manufacturing facility shall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(2) Method 12 or Method 29 shall be used to determine the lead concentration (C) and the volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).

(3) The average lead feed rate (P) shall be determined for each run using the following equation:
