
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKa - Standards of Performance for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Plants for Which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After February 23, 2022
###### ยง 60.372a Standards for lead.

(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by ยง 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart may cause the emissions listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section to be discharged into the atmosphere. The emission limitations and opacity limitations listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction. As provided in ยง 60.11(f), this paragraph (a) supersedes the exemptions for periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction in the general provisions in subpart A of this part. You must also comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(1) From any grid casting facility, any gases that contain lead in excess of 0.08 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000035 gr/dscf).

(2) From any paste mixing facility, any gases that contain in excess of 0.10 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.0000437 gr/dscf) or emit no more than 0.9 gram of lead per hour (0.002 lbs/hr) total from all paste mixing sources. If a facility is complying with the 0.9 gram of lead per hour, you must sum the emission rate from all the paste mixing sources.

(3) From any three-process operation facility, any gases that contain in excess of 1.00 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000437 gr/dscf).

(4) From any lead oxide manufacturing facility, any gases that contain in excess of 5.0 milligrams of lead per kilogram of lead feed (0.010 lb/ton).

(5) From any lead reclamation facility, any gases that contain in excess of 0.45 milligrams of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000197 gr/dscf).

(6) From any other lead-emitting operation, any gases that contain in excess of 1.00 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000437 gr/dscf).

(7) From any affected facility other than a lead reclamation facility, any gases with greater than 0 percent opacity (measured according to EPA Method 9 of appendix A to this part and rounded to the nearest whole percentage or measured according to EPA Method 22 of appendix A to this part).

(8) From any lead reclamation facility, any gases with greater than 5 percent opacity (measured according to EPA Method 9 of appendix A to this part and rounded to the nearest whole percentage).

(b) When two or more facilities at the same plant (except the lead oxide manufacturing facility) are ducted to a common control device, an equivalent standard for the total exhaust from the commonly controlled facilities must be determined using equation 1 to this paragraph (b) as follows:

(c) The owner or operator must prepare, and at all times operate according to, a fugitive dust mitigation plan that describes in detail the measures that will be put in place and implemented to control fugitive dust emissions in the lead oxide unloading and storage areas. You must prepare a fugitive dust mitigation plan according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator must submit the fugitive dust mitigation plan to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval when initially developed and any time changes are made.

(2) The fugitive dust mitigation plan must at a minimum include the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
