
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKa - Standards of Performance for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Plants for Which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After February 23, 2022
###### § 60.374a Test methods and procedures.
####### e.g.,,e.g.,

(1) If you elect to test representative affected sources, the affected sources that are grouped together must be of the same process type (grid casting, paste mixing, three-process operations) and also have the same type of air pollution control device (fabric filters). You cannot group affected sources from different process types or with different air pollution control device types together for the purposes of this section.

(2) The results of the performance test conducted for the affected source selected as representative of a group of similar affected sources will represent the results for each affected source within the group. In the performance test report, all affected sources in the group will need to be listed.

(3) If you plan to conduct subsequent performance tests on representative emission units, you must submit a test plan. This test plan must be submitted to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval no later than 90 days prior to the first scheduled performance test. The test plan must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) A list of all emission units. This list must clearly identify all emission units that have been grouped together as similar emission units. Within each group of emission units, you must identify the emission unit that will be the representative unit for that group and subject to performance testing.

(ii) A list of the process type and type of air pollution control device on each emission unit.

(iii) The date of last test for each emission unit and a schedule indicating when you will conduct performance tests for each emission unit within the representative groups.

(4) If you conduct subsequent performance tests on representative emission units, the unit with the oldest test must be tested first, and each subsequent performance test must be performed for a different unit until all units in the group have been tested. The order of testing for each subsequent test must proceed such that the unit in the group with the least recent performance test is the next unit to be tested.

(5) You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. You must make available to the Administrator in the test report, records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(d) The owner or operator must determine compliance with the lead and opacity standards in § 60.372a, as follows:

(1) EPA Method 12 or EPA Method 29 of appendix A to this part must be used to determine the lead concentration (CPb) and the volumetric flow rate (Qsda) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run must be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).

(2) EPA Method 9 of appendix A to this part and the procedures in § 60.11 must be used to determine opacity during the performance test. For EPA Method 9, the opacity numbers must be rounded off to the nearest whole percentage. ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 9 with the specified conditions in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16, you or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).

(ii) You must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16.

(iii) You must follow the record keeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.

(iv) You or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four (4) independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of any one reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.

(v) This approval does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 and this letter is on the facility, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.

(3) When different operations in a three-process operation facility are ducted to separate control devices, the lead emission concentration (C) from the facility must be determined using equation 1 to this paragraph (d)(3) as follows:

(4) The owner or operator of lead oxide manufacturing facility must determine compliance with the lead standard in § 60.372a(a)(5) as follows:

(i) The emission rate (E) from lead oxide manufacturing facility must be computed for each run using equation 2 to this paragraph (d)(4)(i) as follows:

(ii) The average lead feed rate (P) must be determined for each run using equation 3 to this paragraph (d)(4)(ii) as follows:
