
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKa - Standards of Performance for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Plants for Which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After February 23, 2022
###### ยง 60.375a Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
####### https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri,https://cdx.epa.gov/

(c) You must submit a report of excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report and summary report according to ยง 60.7(c) and (d) to the Administrator semiannually. Report the number of failures to meet an applicable standard in this part. For each instance, report the date, time, cause, and duration of each failure. For each failure, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions. You must use the appropriate spreadsheet template on the CEDRI website () for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Submit all reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. As stated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. If you claim CBI, submit the report following description in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to CEDRI as described in this section.

(d) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.

(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.

(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.

(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.

(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:

(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;

(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;

(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and

(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.

(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.

(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
