
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKa - Standards of Performance for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Plants for Which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After February 23, 2022
###### § 60.374a Test methods and procedures.

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator must use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A to this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).

(b) After the initial performance test required in § 60.8(a), you must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the lead and opacity standards in § 60.372a. Performance testing must be conducted for each affected source subject to lead and opacity standards in § 60.372a, that has not had a performance test within the last 5 years, except as described in paragraph (c) of this section. Thereafter, subsequent performance tests for each affected source must be completed no less frequently than every 5 years from the date the emissions source was last tested.

(c) In lieu of conducting subsequent performance tests for each affected source, you may elect to group similar affected sources together and conduct subsequent performance tests on one representative affected source within each group of similar affected sources. The determination of whether affected sources are similar must meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If you decide to test representative affected sources, you must prepare and submit a testing plan as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
