
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKa - Standards of Performance for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Plants for Which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After February 23, 2022
###### ยง 60.373a Monitoring of emissions and operations.
####### 6

() Shutting down the process producing the lead emissions.

(6) Emissions points controlled by a fabric filter equipped with a secondary filter, such as a HEPA filter, are exempt from the requirement in paragraph (b)(5) of this section to be equipped with a bag leak detection system. You must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section and either paragraph (b)(6)(ii) or (iii) of this section.

(i) If it is not possible for you to take the corrective actions specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) or (iv) of this section for a process or fabric filter control device, you must keep at least one replacement primary fabric filter and one replacement secondary filter onsite at all times for that process or fabric filter control device. The characteristics of the replacement filters must be the same as the current fabric filters in use or have characteristics that would achieve equal or greater emission reductions.

(ii) You must perform the pressure drop monitoring requirements in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. You may perform these requirements once per week rather than once or twice daily.

(iii) You must perform the visible emissions observation requirements in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. You may perform these requirements once per week rather than once or twice daily.
