
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart LL - Standards of Performance for Metallic Mineral Processing Plants
###### § 60.386 Test methods and procedures.

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).

(b) The owner or operator shall determine complance with the particulate matter standards § 60.382 as follows:

(1) Method 5 or 17 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration. The sample volume for each run shall be at least 1.70 dscm (60 dscf). The sampling probe and filter holder of Method 5 may be operated without heaters if the gas stream being sampled is at ambient temperature. For gas streams above ambient temperature, the Method 5 sampling train shall be operated with a probe and filter temperature slightly above the effluent temperature (up to a maximum filter temperature of 121 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F)) in order to prevent water condensation on the filter.

(2) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity from stack emissions and process fugitive emissions. The observer shall read opacity only when emissions are clearly identified as emanating solely from the affected facility being observed. A single visible emission observer may conduct visible emission observations for up to three fugitive, stack, or vent emission points within a 15-second interval. This option is subject to the following limitations:

(i) No more than three emission points are read concurrently;

(ii) All three emission points must be within a 70&#xB0; viewing sector or angle in front of the observer such that the proper sun position can be maintained for all three points; and

(iii) If an opacity reading for any one of the three emission points is within 5 percent opacity of the application standard, then the observer must stop taking readings for the other two points and continue reading just that single point.

(c) To comply with § 60.385(c), the owner or operator shall use the monitoring devices in § 60.384(a) and (b) to determine the pressure loss of the gas stream through the scrubber and scrubbing liquid flow rate at any time during each particulate matter run, and the average of the three determinations shall be computed.
