
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart MM - Standards of Performance for Automobile and Light Duty Truck Surface Coating Operations
###### ยง 60.393 Performance test and compliance provisions.

(a) Section 60.8 (d) and (f) do not apply to the performance test procedures required by this section.

(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test in accordance with ยง 60.8(a) and thereafter for each calendar month for each affected facility according to the procedures in this section.

(c) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for determining the monthly volume weighted average mass of VOC emitted per volume of applied coating solids.

(1) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility which does not use a capture system and a control device to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under ยง 60.392.

(i) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids for each calendar month for each affected facility. The owner or operator shall determine the composition of the coatings by formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating or from data determined by an analysis of each coating, as received, by Method 24. The Administrator may require the owner or operator who uses formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating to determine data used in the calculation of the VOC content of coatings by Method 24 or an equivalent or alternative method. The owner or operator shall determine from company records on a monthly basis the volume of coating consumed, as received, and the mass of solvent used for thinning purposes. The volume weighted average of the total mass of VOC per volume of coating solids used each calendar month will be determined by the following procedures.

(A) Calculate the mass of VOC used in each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation where "n" is the total number of coatings used and "m" is the total number of VOC solvents used:

(B) Calculate the total volume of coating solids used in each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation where "n" is the total number of coatings used:

(C) Select the appropriate transfer efficiency (T) from the following tables for each surface coating operation:
