
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart MM - Standards of Performance for Automobile and Light Duty Truck Surface Coating Operations
###### § 60.393 Performance test and compliance provisions.
####### 1

() In subsequent months, the owner or operator shall use the most recently determined VOC destruction efficiency for the performance test.

(C) If an emission control device controls the emissions from more than one affected facility, the owner or operator shall measure the VOC concentration (C) in the effluent gas entering the control device (in parts per million by volume) and the volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas (in dry standard cubic meters per hour) entering the device through each stack. The destruction or removal efficiency determined using these data shall be applied to each affected facility served by the control device.

(iii) If the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied solids emitted after the control device (N) calculated on a calendar month basis is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility which uses a capture system and a control device that recovers the VOC (e.g., carbon adsorber) to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.392.

(i) Calculate the mass of VOC (M+ M) used during each calendar month for each affected facility as described under § 60.393(c)(1)(i).

(ii) Calculate the total volume of coating solids (L) used in each calendar month for each affected facility as described under § 60.393(c)(1)(i).

(iii) Calculate the mass of VOC recovered (M) each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation: M= LD

(iv) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids emitted after the control device during a calendar month by the following equation:

(v) If the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied solids emitted after the control device (N) calculated on a calendar month basis is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test for the purposes of this subpart.
