
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart MM - Standards of Performance for Automobile and Light Duty Truck Surface Coating Operations
###### § 60.395 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall include the data outlined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) in the initial compliance report required by § 60.8.

(1) The owner or operator shall report the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids for each affected facility.

(2) Where compliance is achieved through the use of incineration, the owner or operator shall include the following additional data in the control device initial performance test requried by § 60.8(a) or subsequent performance tests at which destruction efficiency is determined: the combustion temperature (or the gas temperature upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed), the total mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids before and after the incinerator, capture efficiency, the destruction efficiency of the incinerator used to attain compliance with the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392 and a description of the method used to establish the fraction of VOC captured and sent to the control device.

(b) Following the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall identify, record, and submit a written report to the Administrator every calendar quarter of each instance in which the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere per volume of applied coating solids (N) is greater than the limit specified under § 60.392. If no such instances have occurred during a particular quarter, a report stating this shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually. Where compliance is achieved through the use of a capture system and control device, the volume-weighted average after the control device should be reported.

(c) Where compliance with § 60.392 is achieved through the use of incineration, the owner or operator shall continuously record the incinerator combustion temperature during coating operations for thermal incineration or the gas temperature upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed during coating operations for catalytic incineration. The owner or operator shall submit a written report at the frequency specified in § 60.7(c) and as defined below.

(1) For thermal incinerators, every three-hour period shall be reported during which the average temperature measured is more than 28 &#xB0;C less than the average temperature during the most recent control device performance test at which the destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.393.

(2) For catalytic incinerators, every three-hour period shall be reported during which the average temperature immediately before the catalyst bed, when the coating system is operational, is more than 28 &#xB0;C less than the average temperature immediately before the catalyst bed during the most recent control device performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.393. In addition, every three-hour period shall be reported each quarter during which the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed when the coating system is operational is less than 80 percent of the average temperature difference of the device during the most recent control device performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.393.

(3) For thermal and catalytic incinerators, if no such periods occur, the owner or operator shall submit a negative report.

(d) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator 30 days in advance of any test by Method 25.
