
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart MM - Standards of Performance for Automobile and Light Duty Truck Surface Coating Operations
###### ยง 60.396 Reference methods and procedures.

(a) The reference methods in appendix A to this part, except as provided in ยง 60.8 shall be used to conduct performance tests.

(1) Method 24 or an equivalent or alternative method approved by the Administrator shall be used for the determination of the data used in the calculation of the VOC content of the coatings used for each affected facility. Manufacturers' formulation data is approved by the Administrator as an alternative method to Method 24. In the event of dispute, Method 24 shall be the referee method.

(2) Method 25 or an equivalent or alternative method approved by the Administrator shall be used for the determination of the VOC concentration in the effluent gas entering and leaving the emission control device for each stack equipped with an emission control device and in the effluent gas leaving each stack not equipped with a control device.

(3) The following methods shall be used to determine the volumetric flow rate in the effluent gas in a stack:

(i) Method 1 for sample and velocity traverses,

(ii) Method 2 for velocity and volumetric flow rate,

(iii) Method 3 for gas analysis, and

(iv) Method 4 for stack gas moisture.

(b) For Method 24, the coating sample must be a 1-liter sample taken in a 1-liter container.

(c) For Method 25, the sampling time for each of three runs must be at least one hour. The minimum sample volume must be 0.003 dscm except that shorter sampling times or smaller volumes, when necessitated by process variables or other factors, may be approved by the Administrator. The Administrator will approve the sampling of representative stacks on a case-by-case basis if the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the testing of representative stacks would yield results comparable to those that would be obtained by testing all stacks.
