
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart MM - Standards of Performance for Automobile and Light Duty Truck Surface Coating Operations
###### § 60.398 Innovative technology waivers.
####### Chrysler Corporation, Sterling Heights, MI, automobile assembly plant.

(f)(1) Pursuant to section 111(j) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7411(j), each topcoat operation at Chrysler Corporation's automobile assembly plant located in Sterling Heights, MI, shall comply with the following conditions:

(i) The Chrysler Corporation shall obtain the necessary permits as required under Parts C and D of the Clean Air Act, as amended August 1977, to operate the Sterling Heights assembly plant.

(ii) Commencing on September 9, 1985, and continuing to December 31, 1986, or until the basecoat/clearcoat (BC/CC) topcoat system that can achieve the standard specified under § 60.392(c) of this subpart is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction, whichever is sooner, the Chrysler Corporation shall limit the discharge of VOC emissions to the atmosphere from each topcoat operation at the Sterling Heights, MI assembly plant, to either:

(A) 1.7 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from BC/CC topcoats, and 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all other topcoat coatings; or

(B) 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all topcoat coatings.

(iii) Commencing on the day after the expiration of the period described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) and continuing thereafter, emissions of VOC's from each topcoat operation shall not exceed 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids as specified under § 60.392(c) of this subpart.

(iv) Each topcoat operation shall comply with the provisions of §§ 60.393, 60.394, 60.395, 60.396, and 60.397. Separate calculations shall be made for BC/CC coatings and all other topcoat coatings when necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified under paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.

(v) A technology development report shall be sent to EPA Region V, 230 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL 60604, postmarked before 60 days after the promulgation of this waiver and annually thereafter while this waiver is in effect. A copy of this report shall be sent to Director, Emission Standards and Engineering Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, MD-13, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. The technology development report shall summarize the BC/CC development work including the results of exposure and endurance tests of the various coatings being evaluated. The report shall include an updated schedule of attainment of § 60.392(c) of this subpart, based on the most current information.

(2) This waiver shall be a federally promulgated standard of performance. As such, it shall be unlawful for the Chrysler Corporation to operate a topcoat operation in violation of the requirements established in this waiver. Violation of the terms and conditions of this waiver shall subject the Chrysler Corporation to enforcement under sections 113 (b) and (c) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7412 (b) and (c)) and under section 120 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7420), as well as possible citizen enforcement under section 304 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7604).

(3) This waiver shall not be construed to constrain the State of Michigan from imposing upon the Chrysler Corporation any emission reduction requirement at Chrysler's Sterling Heights automobile assembly plant necessary for the maintenance of reasonable further progress or the attainment of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone or the maintenance of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone. Furthermore, this waiver shall not be construed as granting any exemptions from the applicability, enforcement, or other provisions of any other standards that apply or may apply to topcoat operations or any other operations at this automobile assembly plant.
