
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart NN - Standards of Performance for Phosphate Rock Plants
###### § 60.403 Monitoring of emissions and operations.

(a) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, to monitor and record the opacity of the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any phosphate rock dryer, calciner, or grinder. The span of this system shall be set at 40-percent opacity.

(b) For ground phosphate rock storage and handling systems, continuous monitoring systems for measuring opacity are not required.

(c) The owner or operator of any affected phosphate rock facility using a wet scrubbing emission control device shall not be subject to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, but shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the following continuous monitoring devices:

(1) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the pressure loss of the gas stream through the scrubber. The monitoring device must be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within +/-250 pascals (+/-1 inch water) gauge pressure.

(2) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the scrubbing liquid supply pressure to the control device. The monitoring device must be accurate within +/-5 percent of design scrubbing liquid supply pressure.

(d) For the purpose of conducting a performance test under § 60.8, the owner or operator of any phosphate rock plant subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device for measuring the phosphate rock feed to any affected dryer, calciner, or grinder. The measuring device used must be accurate to within +/-5 percent of the mass rate over its operating range.

(e) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions that shall be reported are defined as all 6-minute periods during which the average opacity of the plume from any phosphate rock dryer, calciner, or grinder subject to paragraph (a) of this section exceeds the applicable opacity limit.

(f) Any owner or operator subject to the requirements under paragraph (c) of this section shall report on a frequency specified in § 60.7(c) all measurement results that are less than 90 percent of the average levels maintained during the most recent performance test conducted under § 60.8 in which the affected facility demonstrated compliance with the standard under § 60.402.
