
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart RR - Standards of Performance for Pressure Sensitive Tape and Label Surface Coating Operations
###### § 60.443 Compliance provisions.

(a) To determine compliance with § 60.442 the owner or operator of the affected facility shall calculate a weighted average of the mass of solvent used per mass of coating solids applied for a one calendar month period according to the following procedures:

(1) Determine the weight fraction of organics and the weight fraction of solids of each coating applied by using Reference Method 24 or by the coating manufacturer's formulation data.

(2) Compute the weighted average by the following equation:

(3) For each affected facility where the value of G is less than or equal to 0.20 kg VOC per kg of coating solids applied, the affected facility is in compliance with § 60.442(a)(1).

(b) To determine compliance with § 60.442(a)(2), the owner or operator shall calculate the required overall VOC emission reduction according to the following equation:

(c) Where compliance with the emission limits specified in § 60.442(a)(2) is achieved through the use of a solvent recovery system, the owner or operator shall determine the overall VOC emission reduction for a one calendar month period by the following equation:

(d) Where compliance with the emission limit specified in § 60.442(a)(2) is achieved through the use of a solvent destruction device, the owner or operator shall determine calendar monthly compliance by comparing the monthly required overall VOC emission reduction specified in paragraph (b) of this section to the overall VOC emission reduction demonstrated in the most recent performance test which complied with § 60.442(a)(2). If the monthly required overall VOC emission reduction is less than or equal to the overall VOC reduction of the most recent performance test, the affected facility is in compliance with § 60.442(a)(2).

(e) Where compliance with § 60.442(a)(2) is achieved through the use of a solvent destruction device, the owner or operator shall continuously record the destruction device combustion temperature during coating operations for thermal incineration destruction devices or the gas temperature upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed during coating operations for catalytic incineration destruction devices. For thermal incineration destruction devices the owner or operator shall record all 3-hour periods (during actual coating operations) during which the average temperature of the device is more than 28 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) below the average temperature of the device during the most recent performance test complying with § 60.442(a)(2). For catalytic incineration destruction devices, the owner or operator shall record all 3-hour periods (during actual coating operations) during which the average temperature of the device immediately before the catalyst bed is more than 28 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) below the average temperature of the device during the most recent performance test complying with § 60.442(a)(2), and all 3-hour periods (during actual coating operations) during which the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed is less than 80 percent of the average temperature difference of the device during the most recent performance test complying with § 60.442(a)(2).

(f) After the initial performance test required for all affected facilities under § 60.8, compliance with the VOC emission limitation and percentage reduction requirements under § 60.442 is based on the average emission reduction for one calendar month. A separate compliance test is completed at the end of each calendar month after the initial performance test, and a new calendar month's average VOC emission reduction is calculated to show compliance with the standard.

(g) If a common emission control device is used to recover or destroy solvent from more than one affected facility, the performance of that control device is assumed to be equal for each of the affected facilities. Compliance with § 60.442(a)(2) is determined by the methods specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and is performed simultaneously on all affected facilities.

(h) If a common emission control device is used to recover solvent from an existing facility (or facilities) as well as from an affected facility (or facilities), the overall VOC emission reduction for the affected facility (or facilities), for the purpose of compliance, shall be determined by the following procedures:

(1) The owner or operator of the existing facility (or facilities) shall determine the mass of solvent recovered for a calendar month period from the existing facility (or facilities) prior to the connection of the affected facility (or facilities) to the emission control device.

(2) The affected facility (or facilities) shall then be connected to the emission control device.

(3) The owner or operator shall determine the total mass of solvent recovered from both the existing and affected facilities over a calendar month period. The mass of solvent determined in paragraph (h)(1) of this section from the existing facility shall be subtracted from the total mass of recovered solvent to obtain the mass of solvent recovered from the affected facility (or facilities). The overall VOC emission reduction of the affected facility (or facilities) can then be determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(i) If a common emission control device(s) is used to destruct solvent from an existing facility (or facilities) as well as from an affected facility (or facilities), the overall VOC emission reduction for the affected facility (or facilities), for the purpose of compliance, shall be determined by the following procedures:

(1) The owner or operator shall operate the emission control device with both the existing and affected facilities connected.

(2) The concentration of VOC (in parts per million by volume) after the common emission control device shall be determined as specified in § 60.444(c). This concentration is used in the calculation of compliance for both the existing and affected facilities.

(3) The volumetric flow out of the common control device attributable to the affected facility (or facilities) shall be calculated by first determining the ratio of the volumetric flow entering the common control device attributable to the affected facility (facilities) to the total volumetric flow entering the common control device from both existing and affected facilities. The multiplication of this ratio by the total volumetric flow out of the common control device yields the flow attributable to the affected facility (facilities). Compliance is determined by the use of the equation specified in § 60.444(c).

(j) Startups and shutdowns are normal operation for this source category. Emissions from these operations are to be included when determining if the standard specified at § 60.442(a)(2) is being attained.
