
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart RR - Standards of Performance for Pressure Sensitive Tape and Label Surface Coating Operations
###### § 60.445 Monitoring of operations and recordkeeping.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to this subpart shall maintain a calendar month record of all coatings used and the results of the reference test method specified in § 60.446(a) or the manufacturer's formulation data used for determining the VOC content of those coatings.

(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a solvent recovery device shall maintain a calendar month record of the amount of solvent applied in the coating at each affected facility.

(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a solvent recovery device shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device for indicating the cumulative amount of solvent recovered by the device over a calendar month period. The monitoring device shall be accurate within +/-2.0 percent. The owner or operator shall maintain a calendar month record of the amount of solvent recovered by the device.

(d) The owner or operator of an affected facility operating at the conditions specified in § 60.440(b) shall maintain a 12 month record of the amount of solvent applied in the coating at the facility.

(e) The owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a thermal incineration solvent destruction device shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device which continuously indicates and records the temperature of the solvent destruction device's exhaust gases. The monitoring device shall have an accuracy of the greater of +/-0.75 percent of the temperature being measured expressed in degrees Celsius or +/-2.5 &#xB0;C.

(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a catalytic incineration solvent destruction device shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device which continuously indicates and records the gas temperature both upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed.

(g) The owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a solvent destruction device which uses a hood or enclosure to capture fugitive VOC emissions shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device which continuously indicates that the hood or enclosure is operating. No continuous monitor shall be required if the owner or operator can demonstrate that the hood or enclosure system is interlocked with the affected facility's oven recirculation air system.

(h) Records of the measurements required in §§ 60.443 and 60.445 must be retained for at least two years following the date of the measurements.
