
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart RR - Standards of Performance for Pressure Sensitive Tape and Label Surface Coating Operations
###### § 60.447 Reporting requirements.

(a) For all affected facilities subject to compliance with § 60.442, the performance test data and results from the performance test shall be submitted to the Administrator as specified in § 60.8(a) of the General Provisions (40 CFR part 60, subpart A).

(b) Following the initial performance test, the owner or operator of each affected facility shall submit quarterly reports to the Administrator of exceedances of the VOC emission limits specified in § 60.442. If no such exceedances occur during a particular quarter, a report stating this shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually.

(c) The owner or operator of each affected facility shall also submit reports at the frequency specified in § 60.7(c) when the incinerator temperature drops as defined under § 60.443(e). If no such periods occur, the owner or operator shall state this in the report.

(d) The requirements of this subsection remain in force until and unless EPA, in delegating enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such States. In that event, affected sources within the State will be relieved of the obligation to comply with this subsection, provided that they comply with the requirements established by the State.
