
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TT - Standards of Performance for Metal Coil Surface Coating
###### ยง 60.463 Performance test and compliance provisions.
####### l

(c) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for determining monthly volume-weighted average emissions of VOC's in kg/of coating solids applied.

(1) An owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility that does not use a capture system and control device to comply with the emission limit specified under ยง 60.462(a)(1). The owner or operator shall determine the composition of the coatings by formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating or by an analysisof each coating, as received, using Method 24. The Administrator may require the owner or operator who uses formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coatings to determine the VOC content of coatings using Method 24 or an equivalent or alternative method. The owner or operator shall determine the volume of coating and the mass of VOC-solvent added to coatings from company records on a monthly basis. If a common coating distribution system serves more than one affected facility or serves both affected and existing facilities, the owner or operator shall estimate the volume of coating used at each affected facility by using the average dry weight of coating and the surface area coated by each affected and existing facility or by other procedures acceptable to the Administrator.

(i) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's consumed per unit volume of coating solids applied during each calendar month for each affected facility, except as provided under paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. The weighted average of the total mass of VOC's used per unit volume of coating solids applied each calendar month is determined by the following procedures.

(A) Calculate the mass of VOC's used (Mo + Md) during each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:

(B) Calculate the total volume of coating solids used (L) in each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:

(C) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's used per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) during the calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:

(ii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions to the atmosphere (N) during the calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
