
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TT - Standards of Performance for Metal Coil Surface Coating
###### § 60.465 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Where compliance with the numerical limit specified in § 60.462(a) (1), (2), or (4) is achieved through the use of low VOC-content coatings without emission control devices or through the use of higher VOC-content coatings in conjunction with emission control devices, each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall include in the initial compliance report required by § 60.8 the weighted average of the VOC content of coatings used during a period of one calendar month for each affected facility. Where compliance with § 60.462(a)(4) is achieved through the intermittent use of a control device, reports shall include separate values of the weighted average VOC content of coatings used with and without the control device in operation.

(b) Where compliance with § 60.462(a)(2), (3), or (4) is achieved through the use of an emission control device that destroys VOC's, each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall include the following data in the initial compliance report required by § 60.8:

(1) The overall VOC destruction rate used to attain compliance with § 60.462(a)(2), (3), or (4) and the calculated emission limit used to attain compliance with § 60.462(a)(4); and

(2) The combustion temperature of the thermal incinerator or the gas temperature, both upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed, used to attain compliance with § 60.462(a)(2), (3), or (4).

(c) Following the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall identify, record, and submit a written report to the Administrator every calendar quarter of each instance in which the volume-weighted average of the local mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere per volume of applied coating solids (N) is greater than the limit specified under § 60.462. If no such instances have occurred during a particular quarter, a report stating this shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually.

(d) The owner or operator of each affected facility shall also submit reports at the frequency specified in § 60.7(c) when the incinerator temperature drops as defined under § 60.464(c). If no such periods occur, the owner or operator shall state this in the report.

(e) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain at the source, for a period of at least 2 years, records of all data and calculations used to determine monthly VOC emissions from each affected facility and to determine the monthly emission limit, where applicable. Where compliance is achieved through the use of thermal incineration, each owner or operator shall maintain, at the source, daily records of the incinerator combustion temperature. If catalytic incineration is used, the owner or operator shall maintain at the source daily records of the gas temperature, both upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed.
