
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart UU - Standards of Performance for Asphalt Processing and Asphalt Roofing Manufacture
###### § 60.473 Monitoring of operations.

(a) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart, and using either an electrostatic precipitator or a high velocity air filter to meet the emission limit in § 60.472(a)(1) and/or (b)(1) shall continuously monitor and record the temperature of the gas at the inlet of the control device. The temperature monitoring instrument shall have an accuracy of +/-15 &#xB0;C (+/-25 &#xB0;F) over its range.

(b) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart and using an afterburner to meet the emission limit in § 60.472(a)(1) and/or (b)(1) shall continuously monitor and record the temperature in the combustion zone of the afterburner. The monitoring instrument shall have an accuracy of +/-10 &#xB0;C (+/-18 &#xB0;F) over its range.

(c) An owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart and using a control device not mentioned in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall provide to the Administrator information describing the operation of the control device and the process parameter(s) which would indicate proper operation and maintenance of the device. The Administrator may require continuous monitoring and will determine the process parameters to be monitored.

(d) The industry is exempted from the quarterly reports required under § 60.7(c). The owner/operator is required to record and report the operating temperature of the control device during the performance test and, as required by § 60.7(d), maintain a file of the temperature monitoring results for at least two years.
