
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart UU - Standards of Performance for Asphalt Processing and Asphalt Roofing Manufacture
###### ยง 60.472 Standards for particulate matter.

(a) On and after the date on which ยง 60.8(b) requires a performance test to be completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any saturator:

(1) Particulate matter in excess of:

(i) 0.04 kg/Mg (0.08 lb/ton) of asphalt shingle or mineral-surfaced roll roofing produced, or

(ii) 0.4 kg/Mg (0.8 lb/ton) of saturated felt or smooth-surfaced roll roofing produced;

(2) Exhaust gases with opacity greater than 20 percent; and

(3) Any visible emissions from a saturator capture system for more than 20 percent of any period of consecutive valid observations totaling 60 minutes. Saturators that were constructed before November 18, 1980, and that have not been reconstructed since that date and that become subject to these standards through modification are exempt from the visible emissions standard. Saturators that have been newly constructed or reconstructed since November 18, 1980 are subject to the visible emissions standard.

(b) On and after the date on which ยง 60.8(b) requires a performance test to be completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any blowing still:

(1) Particulate matter in excess of 0.67 kg/Mg (1.3 lb/ton) of asphalt charged to the still when a catalyst is added to the still; and

(2) Particulate matter in excess of 0.71 kg/Mg (1.4 lb/ton) of asphalt charged to the still when a catalyst is added to the still and when No. 6 fuel oil is fired in the afterburner; and

(3) Particulate matter in excess of 0.60 kg/Mg (1.2 lb/ton) of asphalt charged to the still during blowing without a catalyst; and

(4) Particulate matter in excess of 0.64 kg/Mg (1.3 lb/ton) of asphalt charged to the still during blowing without a catalyst and when No. 6 fuel oil is fired in the afterburner; and

(5) Exhaust gases with an opacity greater than 0 percent unless an opacity limit for the blowing still when fuel oil is used to fire the afterburner has been established by the Administrator in accordance with the procedures in ยง 60.474(g).

(c) Within 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, but not later than 180 days after initial startup of such facility, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any asphalt storage tank exhaust gases with opacity greater than 0 percent, except for one consecutive 15-minute period in any 24-hour period when the transfer lines are being blown for clearing. The control device shall not be bypassed during this 15-minute period. If, however, the emissions from any asphalt storage tank(s) are ducted to a control device for a saturator, the combined emissions shall meet the emission limit contained in paragraph (a) of this section during the time the saturator control device is operating. At any other time the asphalt storage tank(s) must meet the opacity limit specified above for storage tanks.

(d) Within 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, but not later than 180 days after initial startup of such facility, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any mineral handling and storage facility emissions with opacity greater than 1 percent.
