
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart VV - Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC in the Synthetic Organic Chemicals Manufacturing Industry for which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After January 5, 1981, and on or Before November 7, 2006
###### § 60.480 Applicability and designation of affected facility.

(a)(1) The provisions of this subpart apply to affected facilities in the synthetic organic chemicals manufacturing industry.

(2) The group of all equipment (defined in § 60.481) within a process unit is an affected facility.

(b) Any affected facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, reconstruction, or modification after January 5, 1981, and on or before November 7, 2006, shall be subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(c) Addition or replacement of equipment for the purpose of process improvement which is accomplished without a capital expenditure shall not by itself be considered a modification under this subpart.

(d)(1) If an owner or operator applies for one or more of the exemptions in this paragraph, then the owner or operator shall maintain records as required in § 60.486(i).

(2) Any affected facility that has the design capacity to produce less than 1,000 Mg/yr (1,102 ton/yr) of a chemical listed in § 60.489 is exempt from §§ 60.482-1 through 60.482-10.

(3) If an affected facility produces heavy liquid chemicals only from heavy liquid feed or raw materials, then it is exempt from §§ 60.482-1 through 60.482-10.

(4) Any affected facility that produces beverage alcohol is exempt from §§ 60.482-1 through 60.482-10.

(5) Any affected facility that has no equipment in volatile organic compounds (VOC) service is exempt from §§ 60.482-1 through 60.482-10.
