
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart VV - Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC in the Synthetic Organic Chemicals Manufacturing Industry for which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After January 5, 1981, and on or Before November 7, 2006
###### § 60.482-5 Standards: Sampling connection systems.

(a) Each sampling connection system shall be equipped with a closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system, except as provided in § 60.482-1(c) and paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system as required in paragraph (a) of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Gases displaced during filling of the sample container are not required to be collected or captured.

(2) Containers that are part of a closed-purge system must be covered or closed when not being filled or emptied.

(3) Gases remaining in the tubing or piping between the closed-purge system valve(s) and sample container valve(s) after the valves are closed and the sample container is disconnected are not required to be collected or captured.

(4) Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system shall be designed and operated to meet requirements in either paragraph (b)(4)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section.

(i) Return the purged process fluid directly to the process line.

(ii) Collect and recycle the purged process fluid to a process.

(iii) Capture and transport all the purged process fluid to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10.

(iv) Collect, store, and transport the purged process fluid to any of the following systems or facilities:

(A) A waste management unit as defined in § 63.111, if the waste management unit is subject to and operated in compliance with the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, applicable to Group 1 wastewater streams;

(B) A treatment, storage, or disposal facility subject to regulation under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266;

(C) A facility permitted, licensed, or registered by a state to manage municipal or industrial solid waste, if the process fluids are not hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261;

(D) A waste management unit subject to and operated in compliance with the treatment requirements of § 61.348(a), provided all waste management units that collect, store, or transport the purged process fluid to the treatment unit are subject to and operated in compliance with the management requirements of §§ 61.343 through 61.347; or

(E) A device used to burn off-specification used oil for energy recovery in accordance with 40 CFR part 279, subpart G, provided the purged process fluid is not hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261.

(c) In situ sampling systems and sampling systems without purges are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
