
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart VV - Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC in the Synthetic Organic Chemicals Manufacturing Industry for which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After January 5, 1981, and on or Before November 7, 2006
###### § 60.482-10 Standards: Closed vent systems and control devices.

(a) Owners or operators of closed vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall comply with the provisions of this section.

(b) Vapor recovery systems (for example, condensers and absorbers) shall be designed and operated to recover the VOC emissions vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, whichever is less stringent.

(c) Enclosed combustion devices shall be designed and operated to reduce the VOC emissions vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, on a dry basis, corrected to 3 percent oxygen, whichever is less stringent or to provide a minimum residence time of 0.75 seconds at a minimum temperature of 816 &#xB0;C.

(d) Flares used to comply with this subpart shall comply with the requirements of § 60.18.

(e) Owners or operators of control devices used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall monitor these control devices to ensure that they are operated and maintained in conformance with their designs.

(f) Except as provided in paragraphs (i) through (k) of this section, each closed vent system shall be inspected according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.

(1) If the vapor collection system or closed vent system is constructed of hard-piping, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(1)(ii) of this section:

(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in § 60.485(b); and

(ii) Conduct annual visual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.

(2) If the vapor collection system or closed vent system is constructed of ductwork, the owner or operator shall:

(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in § 60.485(b); and

(ii) Conduct annual inspections according to the procedures in § 60.485(b).

(g) Leaks, as indicated by an instrument reading greater than 500 parts per million by volume above background or by visual inspections, shall be repaired as soon as practicable except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.

(1) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.

(2) Repair shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected.

(h) Delay of repair of a closed vent system for which leaks have been detected is allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown or if the owner or operator determines that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be complete by the end of the next process unit shutdown.

(i) If a vapor collection system or closed vent system is operated under a vacuum, it is exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(2) of this section.

(j) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section, as unsafe to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(2) of this section if they comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section:

(1) The owner or operator determines that the equipment is unsafe to inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (f)(1)(i) or (f)(2) of this section; and

(2) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practicable during safe-to-inspect times.

(k) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in paragraph (l)(2) of this section, as difficult to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(2) of this section if they comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(3) of this section:

(1) The owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface; and

(2) The process unit within which the closed vent system is located becomes an affected facility through §§ 60.14 or 60.15, or the owner or operator designates less than 3.0 percent of the total number of closed vent system equipment as difficult to inspect; and

(3) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 5 years. A closed vent system is exempt from inspection if it is operated under a vacuum.

(l) The owner or operator shall record the information specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(5) of this section.

(1) Identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as unsafe to inspect, an explanation of why the equipment is unsafe to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.

(2) Identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as difficult to inspect, an explanation of why the equipment is difficult to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.

(3) For each inspection during which a leak is detected, a record of the information specified in § 60.486(c).

(4) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 60.485(b) during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.

(5) For each visual inspection conducted in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.

(m) Closed vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall be operated at all times when emissions may be vented to them.
