
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart VVa - Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC in the Synthetic Organic Chemicals Manufacturing Industry for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After November 7, 2006
###### ยง 60.482-1a Standards: General.
####### i.e.

(ii) When monitoring is conducted semiannually (, once every 2 quarters), monitoring events must be separated by at least 60 calendar days.

(iii) When monitoring is conducted in 3 quarters per year, monitoring events must be separated by at least 90 calendar days.

(iv) When monitoring is conducted annually, monitoring events must be separated by at least 120 calendar days.

(g) If the storage vessel is shared with multiple process units, the process unit with the greatest annual amount of stored materials (predominant use) is the process unit the storage vessel is assigned to. If the storage vessel is shared equally among process units, and one of the process units has equipment subject to this subpart, the storage vessel is assigned to that process unit. If the storage vessel is shared equally among process units, none of which have equipment subject to this subpart of this part, the storage vessel is assigned to any process unit subject to subpart VV of this part. If the predominant use of the storage vessel varies from year to year, then the owner or operator must estimate the predominant use initially and reassess every 3 years. The owner or operator must keep records of the information and supporting calculations that show how predominant use is determined. All equipment on the storage vessel must be monitored when in VOC service.
