
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart VVa - Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC in the Synthetic Organic Chemicals Manufacturing Industry for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After November 7, 2006
###### § 60.486a Recordkeeping requirements.

(a)(1) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of this section.

(2) An owner or operator of more than one affected facility subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the recordkeeping requirements for these facilities in one recordkeeping system if the system identifies each record by each facility.

(3) The owner or operator shall record the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section for each monitoring event required by §§ 60.482-2a, 60.482-3a, 60.482-7a, 60.482-8a, 60.482-11a, and 60.483-2a.

(i) Monitoring instrument identification.

(ii) Operator identification.

(iii) Equipment identification.

(iv) Date of monitoring.

(v) Instrument reading.

(b) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 60.482-2a, 60.482-3a, 60.482-7a, 60.482-8a, 60.482-11a, and 60.483-2a, the following requirements apply:

(1) A weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.

(2) The identification on a valve may be removed after it has been monitored for 2 successive months as specified in § 60.482-7a(c) and no leak has been detected during those 2 months.

(3) The identification on a connector may be removed after it has been monitored as specified in § 60.482-11a(b)(3)(iv) and no leak has been detected during that monitoring.

(4) The identification on equipment, except on a valve or connector, may be removed after it has been repaired.

(c) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 60.482-2a, 60.482-3a, 60.482-7a, 60.482-8a, 60.482-11a, and 60.483-2a, the following information shall be recorded in a log and shall be kept for 2 years in a readily accessible location:

(1) The instrument and operator identification numbers and the equipment identification number, except when indications of liquids dripping from a pump are designated as a leak.

(2) The date the leak was detected and the dates of each attempt to repair the leak.

(3) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.

(4) Maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part at the time the leak is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable, except when a pump is repaired by eliminating indications of liquids dripping.

(5) "Repair delayed" and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.

(6) The signature of the owner or operator (or designate) whose decision it was that repair could not be effected without a process shutdown.

(7) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if a leak is not repaired within 15 days.

(8) Dates of process unit shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.

(9) The date of successful repair of the leak.

(d) The following information pertaining to the design requirements for closed vent systems and control devices described in § 60.482-10a shall be recorded and kept in a readily accessible location:

(1) Detailed schematics, design specifications, and piping and instrumentation diagrams.

(2) The dates and descriptions of any changes in the design specifications.

(3) A description of the parameter or parameters monitored, as required in § 60.482-10a(e), to ensure that control devices are operated and maintained in conformance with their design and an explanation of why that parameter (or parameters) was selected for the monitoring.

(4) Periods when the closed vent systems and control devices required in §§ 60.482-2a, 60.482-3a, 60.482-4a, and 60.482-5a are not operated as designed, including periods when a flare pilot light does not have a flame.

(5) Dates of startups and shutdowns of the closed vent systems and control devices required in §§ 60.482-2a, 60.482-3a, 60.482-4a, and 60.482-5a.

(e) The following information pertaining to all equipment subject to the requirements in §§ 60.482-1a to 60.482-11a shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location:

(1) A list of identification numbers for equipment subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(2)(i) A list of identification numbers for equipment that are designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of §§ 60.482-2a(e), 60.482-3a(i), and 60.482-7a(f).

(ii) The designation of equipment as subject to the requirements of § 60.482-2a(e), § 60.482-3a(i), or § 60.482-7a(f) shall be signed by the owner or operator. Alternatively, the owner or operator may establish a mechanism with their permitting authority that satisfies this requirement.

(3) A list of equipment identification numbers for pressure relief devices required to comply with § 60.482-4a.

(4)(i) The dates of each compliance test as required in §§ 60.482-2a(e), 60.482-3a(i), 60.482-4a, and 60.482-7a(f).

(ii) The background level measured during each compliance test.

(iii) The maximum instrument reading measured at the equipment during each compliance test.

(5) A list of identification numbers for equipment in vacuum service.

(6) A list of identification numbers for equipment that the owner or operator designates as operating in VOC service less than 300 hr/yr in accordance with § 60.482-1a(e), a description of the conditions under which the equipment is in VOC service, and rationale supporting the designation that it is in VOC service less than 300 hr/yr.

(7) The date and results of the weekly visual inspection for indications of liquids dripping from pumps in light liquid service.

(8) Records of the information specified in paragraphs (e)(8)(i) through (vi) of this section for monitoring instrument calibrations conducted according to sections 8.1.2 and 10 of Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part and § 60.485a(b).

(i) Date of calibration and initials of operator performing the calibration.

(ii) Calibration gas cylinder identification, certification date, and certified concentration.

(iii) Instrument scale(s) used.

(iv) A description of any corrective action taken if the meter readout could not be adjusted to correspond to the calibration gas value in accordance with section 10.1 of Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part.

(v) Results of each calibration drift assessment required by § 60.485a(b)(2) (i.e., instrument reading for calibration at end of monitoring day and the calculated percent difference from the initial calibration value).

(vi) If an owner or operator makes their own calibration gas, a description of the procedure used.

(9) The connector monitoring schedule for each process unit as specified in § 60.482-11a(b)(3)(v).

(10) Records of each release from a pressure relief device subject to § 60.482-4a.

(f) The following information pertaining to all valves subject to the requirements of § 60.482-7a(g) and (h), all pumps subject to the requirements of § 60.482-2a(g), and all connectors subject to the requirements of § 60.482-11a(e) shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location:

(1) A list of identification numbers for valves, pumps, and connectors that are designated as unsafe-to-monitor, an explanation for each valve, pump, or connector stating why the valve, pump, or connector is unsafe-to-monitor, and the plan for monitoring each valve, pump, or connector.

(2) A list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as difficult-to-monitor, an explanation for each valve stating why the valve is difficult-to-monitor, and the schedule for monitoring each valve.

(g) The following information shall be recorded for valves complying with § 60.483-2a:

(1) A schedule of monitoring.

(2) The percent of valves found leaking during each monitoring period.

(h) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location:

(1) Design criterion required in §§ 60.482-2a(d)(5) and 60.482-3a(e)(2) and explanation of the design criterion; and

(2) Any changes to this criterion and the reasons for the changes.

(i) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location for use in determining exemptions as provided in § 60.480a(d):

(1) An analysis demonstrating the design capacity of the affected facility,

(2) A statement listing the feed or raw materials and products from the affected facilities and an analysis demonstrating whether these chemicals are heavy liquids or beverage alcohol, and

(3) An analysis demonstrating that equipment is not in VOC service.

(j) Information and data used to demonstrate that a piece of equipment is not in VOC service shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location.

(k) The provisions of § 60.7(b) and (d) do not apply to affected facilities subject to this subpart.
