
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart WW - Standards of Performance for the Beverage Can Surface Coating Industry
###### ยง 60.496 Test methods and procedures.

(a) The reference methods in appendix A to this part, except as provided in ยง 60.8, shall be used to conduct performance tests.

(1) Method 24, an equivalent or alternative method approved by the Administrator, or manufacturers' formulation data from which the VOC content of the coatings used for each affected facility can be calculated. In the event of a dispute, Method 24 data shall govern. When VOC content of water-borne coatings, determined from data generated by Method 24, is used to determine compliance of affected facilities, the results of the Method 24 analysis shall be adjusted as described in Section 12.6 of Method 24.

(2) Method 25 or an equivalent or alternative method for the determination of the VOC concentration in the effluent gas entering and leaving the control device for each stack equipped with an emission control device. The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 30 days in advance of any State test using Method 25. The following reference methods are to be used in conjunction with Method 25:

(i) Method 1 for sample and velocity traverses,

(ii) Method 2 for velocity and volumetric flow rate,

(iii) Method 3 for gas analysis, and

(iv) Method 4 for stack gas moisture.

(b) For Method 24, the coating sample must be a 1-litre sample collected in a 1-litre container at a point where the sample will be representative of the coating material.

(c) For Method 25, the sampling time for each of three runs must be at least 1 hour. The minimum sample volume must be 0.003 dscm except that shorter sampling times or smaller volumes, when necessitated by process variables or other factors, may be approved by the Administrator. The Administrator will approve the sampling of representative stacks on a case-by-case basis if the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the testing of representative stacks would yield results comparable to those that would be obtained by testing all stacks.
