
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart XX - Standards of Performance for Bulk Gasoline Terminals
###### ยง 60.502 Standard for Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions from bulk gasoline terminals.

On and after the date on which ยง 60.8(a) requires a performance test to be completed, the owner or operator of each bulk gasoline terminal containing an affected facility shall comply with the requirements of this section.

(a) Each affected facility shall be equipped with a vapor collection system designed to collect the total organic compounds vapors displaced from tank trucks during product loading.

(b) The emissions to the atmosphere from the vapor collection system due to the loading of liquid product into gasoline tank trucks are not to exceed 35 milligrams of total organic compounds per liter of gasoline loaded, except as noted in paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) For each affected facility equipped with an existing vapor processing system, the emissions to the atmosphere from the vapor collection system due to the loading of liquid product into gasoline tank trucks are not to exceed 80 milligrams of total organic compounds per liter of gasoline loaded.

(d) Each vapor collection system shall be designed to prevent any total organic compounds vapors collected at one loading rack from passing to another loading rack.

(e) Loadings of liquid product into gasoline tank trucks shall be limited to vapor-tight gasoline tank trucks using the following procedures:

(1) The owner or operator shall obtain the vapor tightness documentation described in ยง 60.505(b) for each gasoline tank truck which is to be loaded at the affected facility.

(2) The owner or operator shall require the tank identification number to be recorded as each gasoline tank truck is loaded at the affected facility.

(3)(i) The owner or operator shall cross-check each tank identification number obtained in paragraph (e)(2) of this section with the file of tank vapor tightness documentation within 2 weeks after the corresponding tank is loaded, unless either of the following conditions is maintained:

(A) If less than an average of one gasoline tank truck per month over the last 26 weeks is loaded without vapor tightness documentation then the documentation cross-check shall be performed each quarter; or

(B) If less than an average of one gasoline tank truck per month over the last 52 weeks is loaded without vapor tightness documentation then the documentation cross-check shall be performed semiannually.

(ii) If either the quarterly or semiannual cross-check provided in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) (A) through (B) of this section reveals that these conditions were not maintained, the source must return to biweekly monitoring until such time as these conditions are again met.

(4) The terminal owner or operator shall notify the owner or operator of each non-vapor-tight gasoline tank truck loaded at the affected facility within 1 week of the documentation cross-check in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(5) The terminal owner or operator shall take steps assuring that the nonvapor-tight gasoline tank truck will not be reloaded at the affected facility until vapor tightness documentation for that tank is obtained.

(6) Alternate procedures to those described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section for limiting gasoline tank truck loadings may be used upon application to, and approval by, the Administrator.

(f) The owner or operator shall act to assure that loadings of gasoline tank trucks at the affected facility are made only into tanks equipped with vapor collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system.

(g) The owner or operator shall act to assure that the terminal's and the tank truck's vapor collection systems are connected during each loading of a gasoline tank truck at the affected facility. Examples of actions to accomplish this include training drivers in the hookup procedures and posting visible reminder signs at the affected loading racks.

(h) The vapor collection and liquid loading equipment shall be designed and operated to prevent gauge pressure in the delivery tank from exceeding 4,500 pascals (450 mm of water) during product loading. This level is not to be exceeded when measured by the procedures specified in ยง 60.503(d).

(i) No pressure-vacuum vent in the bulk gasoline terminal's vapor collection system shall begin to open at a system pressure less than 4,500 pascals (450 mm of water).

(j) Each calendar month, the vapor collection system, the vapor processing system, and each loading rack handling gasoline shall be inspected during the loading of gasoline tank trucks for total organic compounds liquid or vapor leaks. For purposes of this paragraph, detection methods incorporating sight, sound, or smell are acceptable. Each detection of a leak shall be recorded and the source of the leak repaired within 15 calendar days after it is detected.
