
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart XX - Standards of Performance for Bulk Gasoline Terminals
###### ยง 60.505 Reporting and recordkeeping.

(a) The tank truck vapor tightness documentation required under ยง 60.502(e)(1) shall be kept on file at the terminal in a permanent form available for inspection.

(b) The documentation file for each gasoline tank truck shall be updated at least once per year to reflect current test results as determined by Method 27. This documentation shall include, as a minimum, the following information:

(1) Test title: Gasoline Delivery Tank Pressure Test-EPA Reference Method 27.

(2) Tank owner and address.

(3) Tank identification number.

(4) Testing location.

(5) Date of test.

(6) Tester name and signature.

(7) Witnessing inspector, if any: Name, signature, and affiliation.

(8) Test results: Actual pressure change in 5 minutes, mm of water (average for 2 runs).

(c) A record of each monthly leak inspection required under ยง 60.502(j) shall be kept on file at the terminal for at least 2 years. Inspection records shall include, as a minimum, the following information:

(1) Date of inspection.

(2) Findings (may indicate no leaks discovered; or location, nature, and severity of each leak).

(3) Leak determination method.

(4) Corrective action (date each leak repaired; reasons for any repair interval in excess of 15 days).

(5) Inspector name and signature.

(d) The terminal owner or operator shall keep documentation of all notifications required under ยง 60.502(e)(4) on file at the terminal for at least 2 years.

(e) As an alternative to keeping records at the terminal of each gasoline cargo tank test result as required in paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section, an owner or operator may comply with the requirements in either paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) An electronic copy of each record is instantly available at the terminal.

(i) The copy of each record in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is an exact duplicate image of the original paper record with certifying signatures.

(ii) The permitting authority is notified in writing that each terminal using this alternative is in compliance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
