
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAA - Standards of Performance for New Residential Wood Heaters
###### § 60.530 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you manufacture, sell, offer for sale, import for sale, distribute, offer to distribute, introduce or deliver for introduction into commerce in the United States, or install or operate an affected wood heater specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) Each adjustable burn rate wood heater, single burn rate wood heater and pellet stove manufactured on or after July 1, 1988, with a current EPA certificate of compliance issued prior to May 15, 2015 according to the certification procedures in effect in this subpart at the time of certification is an affected wood heater.

(2) All other residential wood heaters as defined in § 60.531 manufactured or sold on or after May 15, 2015 are affected wood heaters, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) Each affected wood heater must comply with the provisions of this subpart unless exempted under paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section. These exemptions are determined by rule applicability and do not require EPA notification or public notice.

(1) Affected wood heaters manufactured in the United States for export are exempt from the applicable emission limits of § 60.532 and the requirements of § 60.533.

(2) Affected wood heaters used for research and development purposes that are never offered for sale or sold and that are not used for the purpose of providing heat are exempt from the applicable emission limits of § 60.532 and the requirements of § 60.533. No more than 50 wood heaters manufactured per model line can be exempted for this purpose.

(3) Appliances that do not burn wood or wood pellets (such as coal-only heaters that meet the definition in § 60.531 or corn-only pellet stoves) are exempt from the applicable emission limits of § 60.532 and the requirements of § 60.533 provided that all advertising and warranties exclude wood burning.

(4) Cook stoves as defined in § 60.531 are exempt from the applicable emission limits of § 60.532 and the requirements of § 60.533.

(5) Camp stoves as defined in § 60.531 are exempt from the applicable emission limits of § 60.532 and the requirements of § 60.533.

(6) Modification or reconstruction, as defined in §§ 60.14 and 60.15 of subpart A of this part does not, by itself, make a wood heater an affected facility under this subpart.

(c) The following are not affected wood heaters and are not subject to this subpart:

(1) Residential hydronic heaters and residential forced-air furnaces subject to subpart QQQQ of this part.

(2) Residential masonry heaters that meet the definition in § 60.531.

(3) Appliances that are not residential heating devices (for example, manufactured or site-built masonry fireplaces).

(4) Traditional Native American bake ovens that meet the definition in § 60.531.
