
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAA - Standards of Performance for New Residential Wood Heaters
###### ยง 60.531 What definitions must I know?
####### Fireplace

means a wood-burning appliance intended to be used primarily for aesthetic enjoyment and not as a space heater. An appliance is a fireplace if it is in a model line that satisfies the requirements in paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.

(1) The model line includes a safety listing under recognized American or Canadian safety standards, as documented by a permanent label from a nationally recognized certification body affixed on each unit sold, and that said safety listing only allows operation of the fireplace with doors fully open. Operation with any required safety screen satisfies this requirement.

(2) The model line has a safety listing that allows operation with doors closed, has no user-operated controls other than flue or outside air dampers that can only be adjusted to either a fully closed or fully opened position, and the requirements in either paragraph (2)(i) or (2)(ii) of this definition are satisfied.

(i) Appliances are sold with tempered glass panel doors only (either as standard or optional equipment), or

(ii) The fire viewing area is equal to or greater than 500 square inches.

(3)(i) A model line that is clearly positioned in the marketplace as intended to be used primarily for aesthetic enjoyment and not as a room heater, as demonstrated by product literature (including owner's manuals), advertising targeted at the trade or public (including web-based promotional materials) or training materials is presumptively a fireplace model line.

(ii) The presumption in paragraph (3)(i) of this definition can be rebutted by test data from an EPA-approved test laboratory reviewed by an EPA-approved third-party certifier that were generated when operating the appliance with the door(s) closed, and that demonstrate an average stack gas carbon dioxide (CO) concentration over the duration of the test run equal to or less than 5.00 percent and a ratio of the average stack gas COto the average stack gas carbon monoxide (CO) equal to or greater than 15:1. The stack gas average COand CO concentrations for the test run shall be determined in accordance with the requirements in CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see ยง 60.17), clause 6.3, using a sampling interval no greater than 1 minute. The average stack gas COand CO concentrations for purposes of this determination shall be the average of the stack gas concentrations from all sampling intervals over the full test run.
