
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAA - Standards of Performance for New Residential Wood Heaters
###### § 60.533 What compliance and certification requirements must I meet and by when?
####### Application for a certificate of compliance.,WoodHeaterReports@epa.gov.

(b)Any manufacturer of an affected wood heater must apply to the Administrator for a certificate of compliance for each model line. The application must be submitted to:The application must be signed by a responsible representative of the manufacturer or an authorized representative and must contain the following:

(1) The model name and design number. The model name and design number must clearly distinguish one model from another. The name and design number cannot include the EPA symbol or logo or name or derivatives such as "EPA."

(2) Engineering drawings and specifications of components that may affect emissions (including specifications for each component listed in paragraph (k)(2), (3) and (4) of this section). Manufacturers may use assembly or design drawings that have been prepared for other purposes, but must designate on the drawings the dimensions of each component listed in paragraph (k) of this section. Manufacturers must identify tolerances of components listed in paragraph (k)(2) of this section that are different from those specified in that paragraph, and show that such tolerances cannot reasonably be anticipated to cause wood heaters in the model line to exceed the applicable emission limits. The drawings must identify how the emission-critical parts, such as air tubes and catalyst, can be readily inspected and replaced.

(3) A statement whether the firebox or any firebox component (including the materials listed in paragraph (k)(3) of this section) will be composed of material different from the material used for the firebox or firebox component in the wood heater on which certification testing was performed, a description of any such differences and demonstration that any such differences may not reasonably be anticipated to adversely affect emissions or efficiency.

(4) Clear identification of any claimed confidential business information (CBI). Submit such information under separate cover to the EPA CBI Office; Attn: Residential Wood Heater Compliance Program Lead, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20004. Note that all emissions data, including all information necessary to determine emission rates in the format of the standard, cannot be claimed as CBI.

(5) All documentation pertaining to a valid certification test, including the complete test report and, for all test runs: Raw data sheets, laboratory technician notes, calculations and test results. Documentation must include the items specified in the applicable test methods. Documentation must include discussion of each test run and its appropriateness and validity, and must include detailed discussion of all anomalies, whether all burn rate categories were achieved, any data not used in the calculations and, for any test runs not completed, the data collected during the test run and the reason(s) that the test run was not completed and why. The burn rate for the low burn rate category must be no greater than the rate that an operator can achieve in home use and no greater than is advertised by the manufacturer or retailer. The test report must include a summary table that clearly presents the individual and overall emission rates, efficiencies and heat outputs. Submit the test report and all associated required information, according to the procedures for electronic reporting specified in § 60.537(f).

(6) A copy of the warranties for the model line, which must include a statement that the warranties are void if the unit is used to burn materials for which the unit is not certified by the EPA and void if not operated according to the owner's manual.

(7) A statement that the manufacturer will conduct a quality assurance program for the model line that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (m) of this section.

(8) A statement describing how the tested unit was sealed by the laboratory after the completion of certification testing and asserting that such unit will be stored by the manufacturer in the sealed state until 5 years after the certification test.

(9) Statements that the wood heaters manufactured under this certificate will be-

(i) Similar in all material respects that would affect emissions as defined in § 60.531 to the wood heater submitted for certification testing, and

(ii) Labeled as prescribed in § 60.536.

(iii) Accompanied by an owner's manual that meets the requirements in § 60.536. In addition, a copy of the owner's manual must be submitted to the Administrator and be available to the public on the manufacturer's Web site.

(10) A statement that the manufacturer has entered into contracts with an approved laboratory and an approved third-party certifier that satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section.

(11) A statement that the approved laboratory and approved third-party certifier are allowed to submit information on behalf of the manufacturer, including any claimed to be CBI.

(12) A statement that the manufacturer will place a copy of the certification test report and summary on the manufacturer's Web site available to the public within 30 days after the Administrator issues a certificate of compliance.

(13) A statement of acknowledgment that the certificate of compliance cannot be transferred to another manufacturer or model line without written approval by the Administrator.

(14) A statement acknowledging that it is unlawful to sell, distribute or offer to sell or distribute an affected wood heater without a valid certificate of compliance.

(15) Contact information for the responsible representative of the manufacturer and all authorized representatives, including name, affiliation, physical address, telephone number and email address.
