
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAA - Standards of Performance for New Residential Wood Heaters
###### ยง 60.533 What compliance and certification requirements must I meet and by when?
####### Quality assurance program.

(m)On or after May 16, 2016, for each certified model line, the manufacturer must conduct a quality assurance program that satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (m)(1) through (5) of this section. The quality assurance program requirements of this paragraph (m) supersede the quality assurance plan requirements previously specified in ยง 60.533(o) that was in effect prior to May 15, 2015. The manufacturer of a model line with a compliance certification under paragraph (h)(1) of this section must conduct a quality assurance program that satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (m) by May 16, 2016.

(1) The manufacturer must prepare and operate according to a quality assurance plan for each certified model line that includes specific inspection and testing requirements for ensuring that all units within a model line are similar in all material respects that would affect emissions to the wood heater submitted for certification testing and meet the emissions standards in ยง 60.532.

(2) The quality assurance plan must be approved by the third-party certifier as part of the certification of conformity process specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(3) The quality assurance plan must include regular (at least annual) unannounced audits by the third-party certifier under ISO-IEC Standard 17065 to ensure that the manufacturer's quality assurance plan is being implemented.

(4) The quality assurance plan must include a report for each audit under ISO-IEC Standard 17065 that fully documents the results of the audit. The third-party certifier must be authorized and required to submit all such reports to the Administrator and the manufacturer within 30 days of the audit. The audit report must identify deviations from the manufacturer's quality assurance plan and specify the corrective actions that need to be taken to address each identified deficiency.

(5) Within 30 days after receiving each audit report, the manufacturer must report to the third-party certifier and to the Administrator its corrective actions and responses to any deficiencies identified in the audit report. No such report is required if an audit report did not identify any deficiencies.
