
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAA - Standards of Performance for New Residential Wood Heaters
###### ยง 60.533 What compliance and certification requirements must I meet and by when?
####### Revocation of certification.

(3)(i) If emissions from a wood heater tested under paragraph (n)(2) of this section exceed the applicable emission standard by more than 50 percent using the same test method used to obtain certification, the Administrator will notify the manufacturer that certification for that model line is suspended effective 72 hours from the receipt of the notice, unless the suspension notice is withdrawn by the Administrator. The suspension will remain in effect until withdrawn by the Administrator, or the date 30 days from its effective date if a revocation notice under paragraph (n)(3)(ii) of this section is not issued within that period, or the date of final agency action on revocation, whichever occurs earliest.

(ii)(A) If emissions from a wood heater tested under paragraph (n)(2) of this section exceed the applicable emission limit, the Administrator will notify the manufacturer that certification is revoked for that model line.

(B) A revocation notice under paragraph (n)(3)(ii)(A) of this section will become final and effective 60 days after the date of written notification to the manufacturer, unless it is withdrawn, a hearing is requested under ยง 60.539(a)(2), or the deadline for requesting a hearing is extended.

(C) The Administrator may extend the deadline for requesting a hearing for up to 60 days for good cause.

(D) A manufacturer may extend the deadline for requesting a hearing for up to 6 months, by agreeing to a voluntary suspension of certification.

(iii) Any notification under paragraph (n)(3)(i) or (n)(3)(ii) of this section will include a copy of a preliminary test report from the approved test laboratory or federal test laboratory. The test laboratory must provide a preliminary test report to the Administrator within 14 days of the completion of testing, if a wood heater exceeds the applicable emission limit in ยง 60.532. The test laboratory must provide the Administrator and the manufacturer, within 30 days of the completion of testing, all documentation pertaining to the test, including the complete test report and raw data sheets, laboratory technician notes, and test results for all test runs.

(iv) Upon receiving notification of a test failure under paragraph (n)(3)(ii) of this section, the manufacturer may request that up to four additional wood heaters from the same model line be tested at the manufacturer's expense, at the test laboratory that performed the emissions test for the Administrator.

(v) Whether or not the manufacturer proceeds under paragraph (n)(3)(iv) of this section, the manufacturer may submit any relevant information to the Administrator, including any other test data generated pursuant to this subpart. The manufacturer must bear the expense of any additional testing.

(vi) The Administrator will withdraw any notice issued under paragraph (n)(3)(ii) of this section if tests under paragraph (n)(3)(iv) of this section show either-

(A) That exactly four additional wood heaters were tested for the manufacturer and all four met the applicable emission limits; or

(B) That exactly two additional wood heaters were tested for the manufacturer and each of them met the applicable emission limits and the average emissions of all three tested heaters (the original audit heater and the two additional heaters) met the applicable emission limits.

(vii) If the Administrator withdraws a notice pursuant to paragraph (n)(3)(vi) of this section, the Administrator will revise the certification values for the model line based on the test data and other relevant information. The manufacturer must then revise the model line's labels and marketing information accordingly.

(viii) The Administrator may withdraw any proposed revocation, if the Administrator finds that an audit test failure has been rebutted by information submitted by the manufacturer under paragraph (n)(3)(iv) of this section and/or (n)(3)(v) of this section or by any other relevant information available to the Administrator.
