
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAA - Standards of Performance for New Residential Wood Heaters
###### § 60.538 What activities are prohibited under this subpart?

(a) No person is permitted to advertise for sale, offer for sale, sell or operate an affected wood heater that does not have affixed to it a permanent label pursuant to § 60.536 (b) through (e), as applicable.

(b) No person is permitted to advertise for sale, offer for sale, or sell an affected wood heater labeled under § 60.536(e)(1) except for export. No person is permitted to operate an affected wood heater in the United States if it is labeled under § 60.536(e)(1).

(c)(1) No commercial owner is permitted to advertise for sale, offer for sale or sell an affected wood heater permanently labeled under § 60.536 (b) through (d), as applicable, unless:

(i) The affected wood heater has been certified to comply with the 2015 or 2020 particulate matter emission standards pursuant to § 60.532, as applicable. This prohibition does not apply to wood heaters affected by this subpart that have been previously owned and operated by a noncommercial owner; and

(ii) The commercial owner provides any purchaser or transferee with an owner's manual that meets the requirements of § 60.536(g) and a copy of the warranty.

(2) No commercial owner is permitted to advertise for sale, offer for sale, or sell an affected wood heater permanently labeled under § 60.536(b) and (c), unless the affected wood heater has been certified to comply with the 2015 or 2020 particulate matter emission standards of § 60.532, as applicable.

(3) A commercial owner other than a manufacturer complies with the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section if the commercial owner-

(i) Receives the required documentation from the manufacturer or a previous commercial owner; and

(ii) Provides that documentation unaltered to any person to whom the wood heater that it covers is sold or transferred.

(d)(1) In any case in which the Administrator revokes a certificate of compliance either for the submission of false or inaccurate information or other fraudulent acts, or based on a finding under § 60.533(l)(1)(ii) that the certification test was not valid, the Administrator may give notice of that revocation and the grounds for it to all commercial owners.

(2) On and after the date of receipt of the notice given under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, no commercial owner is permitted to sell any wood heater covered by the revoked certificate (other than to the manufacturer) unless the model line has been recertified in accordance with this subpart.

(e) No person is permitted to install or operate an affected wood heater except in a manner consistent with the instructions on its permanent label and in the owner's manual pursuant to § 60.536(g), including only using fuels for which the unit is certified.

(f) No person is permitted to operate, sell or offer for sale an affected wood heater that was originally equipped with a catalytic combustor if the catalytic element is deactivated or removed.

(g) No person is permitted to operate, sell or offer for sale an affected wood heater that has been physically altered to exceed the tolerance limits of its certificate of compliance, pursuant to § 60.533(k).

(h) No person is permitted to alter, deface, or remove any permanent label required to be affixed pursuant to § 60.536(a) through (e), as applicable.

(i) If a temporary label is affixed to the wood heater, retailers may not sell or offer for sale that wood heater unless the temporary label affixed is in accordance with § 60.536(f), as applicable.
