
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BBB - Standards of Performance for the Rubber Tire Manufacturing Industry
###### § 60.543 Performance test and compliance provisions.

(a) Section 60.8(d) does not apply to the monthly performance test procedures required by this subpart. Section 60.8(d) does apply to initial performance tests and to the performance tests specified under paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section. Section 60.8(f) does not apply when Method 24 is used.

(b) Performance tests shall be conducted as follows:

(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test, as required under § 60.8(a), except as described under paragraph (j) of this section. The owner or operator of an affected facility shall thereafter conduct a performance test each month, except as described under paragraphs (b)(4), (g)(1), and (j) of this section. Initial and monthly performance tests shall be conducted according to the procedures in this section.

(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to use a VOC emission reduction system with a control device that destroys VOC (e.g., incinerator), as described under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, shall repeat the performance test when directed by the Administrator or when the owner or operator elects to operate the capture system or control device at conditions different from the most recent determination of overall reduction efficiency. The performance test shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures described under paragraphs (f)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section.

(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility who seeks to comply with the equipment design and performance specifications, as described under paragraph (j) of this section, shall repeat the performance test when directed by the Administrator or when the owner or operator elects to operate the capture system or control device at conditions different from the most recent determination of control device efficiency or measurement of capture system retention time or face velocity. The performance test shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures described under paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section.

(4) The owner or operator of each tread end cementing operation and each green tire spraying operation using only water-based sprays (inside and/or outside) containing less than 1.0 percent, by weight, of VOC is not required to conduct a monthly performance test as described in paragraph (d) of this section. In lieu of conducting a monthly performance test, the owner or operator of each tread end cementing operation and each green tire spraying operation shall submit formulation data or the results of Method 24 analysis annually to verify the VOC content of each tread end cement and each green tire spray material, provided the spraying formulation has not changed during the previous 12 months. If the spray material formulation changes, formulation data or Method 24 analysis of the new spray shall be conducted to determine the VOC content of the spray and reported within 30 days as required under § 60.546(j).

(c) For each undertread cementing operation, each sidewall cementing operation, each green tire spraying operation where organic solvent-based sprays are used, each Michelin-A operation, each Michelin-B operation, and each Michelin-C-automatic operation where the owner or operator seeks to comply with the uncontrolled monthly VOC use limits, the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the applicable (depending upon duration of compliance period) uncontrolled monthly VOC use limit specified under § 60.542(a) (1)(ii), (2)(ii), (6)(ii), (7)(iv), (8)(ii), (9)(ii), and (10)(ii). If both undertread cementing and sidewall cementing are performed at the same affected facility during a month, then the kg/mo limit specified under § 60.542(a)(1)(ii) shall apply for that month.

(1) Determine the density and weight fraction VOC (including dilution VOC) of each cement or green tire spray from its formulation or by analysis of the cement or green tire spray using Method 24. If a dispute arises, the Administrator may require an owner or operator who used formulation data to analyze the cement or green tire spray using Method 24.

(2) Calculate the total mass of VOC used at the affected facility for the month (M) by the following procedure:

(i) For each affected facility for which cement or green tire spray is delivered in batch or via a distribution system that serves only the affected facility:

(ii) For each affected facility for which cement or green tire spray is delivered via a common distribution system that also serves other affected or existing facilities:

(A) Calculate the total mass of VOC used for all of the facilities served by the common distribution system for the month (M):

(B) Determine the fraction (F) of M used at the affected facility by comparing the production records and process specifications for the material cemented or sprayed at the affected facility for the month to the production records and process specifications for the material cemented or sprayed at all other facilities served by the common distribution system for the month or by another procedure acceptable to the Administrator.

(C) Calculate the total monthly mass of VOC used at the affected facility for the month (M):

(3) Determine the time duration of the monthly compliance period (T).

(d) For each tread end cementing operation and each green tire spraying operation where water-based cements or sprays containing 1.0 percent, by weight, of VOC or more are used (inside and/or outside) that do not use a VOC emission reduction system, the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the VOC emission per tire limit specified under § 60.542 (a)(3), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(7)(i), and (a)(7)(ii).

(1) Determine the density and weight fraction VOC as specified under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(2) Calculate the total mass of VOC used at the affected facility for the month (M) as specified under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(3) Determine the total number of tires cemented or sprayed at the affected facility for the month (T) by the following procedure:

(i) For a trend end cementing operation, Tequals the number of tread or combined tread/sidewall components that receive an application of tread end cement for the month.

(ii) For a green tire spraying operation that uses water-based inside green tire sprays, Tequals the number of green tires that receive an application of water-based inside green tire spray for the month.

(iii) For a green tire spraying operation that uses water-based outside green tire sprays, Tequals the number of green tires that receive an application of water-based outside green tire spray for the month.

(4) Calculate the mass of VOC used per tire cemented or sprayed at the affected facility for the month (G):

(5) Calculate the mass of VOC emitted per tire cemented or sprayed at the affected facility for the month (N):

(e) For each bead cementing operation that does not use a VOC emission reduction system, the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the VOC emission per bead limit specified under § 60.542(a)(4).

(1) Determine the density and weight fraction VOC as specified under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(2) Calculate the total mass of VOC used at the affected facility for the month (M) as specified under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(3) Determine the number of beads cemented at the affected facility during the month (B) using production records; Bequals the number of beads that receive an application of cement for the month.

(4) Calculate the mass of VOC used per bead cemented at the affected facility for the month (G):

(5) Calculate the mass of VOC emitted per bead cemented at the affected facility for the month (N):

(f) For each tread end cementing operation and each bead cementing operation that uses a VOC emission reduction system with a control device that destroys VOC (e.g., incinerator), the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the emission limit specified under § 60.542(a) (3) and (4).

(1) Calculate the mass of VOC used per tire cemented at the affected facility for the month (G), as specified under paragraphs (d) (1) through (4) of this section, or mass of VOC used per bead cemented at the affected facility for the month (G), as specified under paragraphs (e) (1) through (4) of this section.

(2) Calculate the mass of VOC emitted per tire cemented at the affected facility for the month (N) or mass of VOC emitted per bead cemented for the affected facility for the month (N):

(i) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall construct a temporary enclosure around the application and drying areas during the performance test for the purpose of capturing fugitive VOC emissions. The enclosure must be maintained at a negative pressure to ensure that all evaporated VOC are measurable. Determine the fraction (F) of total VOC used at the affected facility that enters the control device:

(ii) Determine the destruction efficiency of the control device (E) by using values of the volumetric flow rate of each of the gas streams and the VOC content (as carbon) of each of the gas streams in and out of the control device:

(iii) Determine the overall reduction efficiency (R):

(iv) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall have the option of substituting the following procedure as an acceptable alternative to the requirements prescribed under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section. This alternative procedure is acceptable only in cases where a single VOC is used and is present in the capture system. The average capture efficiency value derived from a minimum of three runs shall constitute a test.

(A) For each run, "i," measure the mass of the material containing a single VOC used. This measurement shall be made using a scale that has both a calibration and a readability to within 1 percent of the mass used during the run. This measurement may be made by filling the direct supply reservoir (e.g., trough, tray, or drum that is integral to the operation) and related application equipment (e.g., rollers, pumps, hoses) to a marked level at the start of the run and then refilling to the same mark from a more easily weighed container (e.g., separate supply drum) at the end of the run. The change in mass of the supply drum would equal the mass of material used from the direct supply reservoir. Alternatively, this measurement may be made by weighing the direct supply reservoir at the start and end of the run or by weighing the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the start and end of the run. The change in mass would equal the mass of the material used in the run. If only the direct supply reservoir is weighed, the amount of material in or on the related application equipment must be the same at the start and end of the run. All additions of VOC containing material made to the direct supply reservoir during a run must be properly accounted for in determining the mass of material used during that run.

(B) For each run, "i," measure the mass of the material containing a single VOC which is present in the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the start of the run, unless the ending weight fraction VOC in the material is greater than or equal to 98.5 percent of the starting weight fraction VOC in the material, in which case, this measurement is not required. This measurement may be made directly by emptying the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment and then filling them to a marked level from an easily weighed container (e.g. separate supply drum). The change in mass of the supply drum would equal the mass of material in the filled direct supply reservoir and related application equipment. Alternatively, this measurement may be made by weighing the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the start of the run and subtracting the mass of the empty direct supply reservoir and related application equipment (tare weight).

(C) For each run, "i," the starting weight fraction VOC in the material shall be determined by Method 24 analysis of a sample taken from the direct supply reservoir at the beginning of the run.

(D) For each run, "i," the ending weight fraction VOC in the material shall be determined by Method 24 analysis of a sample taken from the direct supply reservoir at the end of the run.

(E) For each run, "i," in which the ending weight fraction VOC in the material is greater than or equal to 98.5 percent of the starting weight fraction VOC in the material, calculate the mass of the single VOC used (Mi) by multiplying the mass of the material used in the run by the starting weight fraction VOC of the material used in the run.

(F) For each run, "i," in which the ending weight fraction VOC in the material is less than 98.5 percent of the starting weight fraction VOC in the material, calculate the mass of the single VOC used (M) as follows:
