
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart DDD - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions from the Polymer Manufacturing Industry
###### ยง 60.560 Applicability and designation of affected facilities.
####### Polypropylene and polyethylene.

(1)Each process section in a polypropylene or polyethylene production process is a potential affected facility for both continuous and intermittent emissions. The applicability date depends on when the process section was constructed, modified, or reconstructed and, in some instances, on the type of production process.

(i) The applicability date for any polypropylene or polyethylene affected facility that is constructed, modified, or reconstructed after January 10, 1989, regardless of the type of production process being used, is January 10, 1989.

(ii) Only some polypropylene or polyethylene process sections that are constructed, modified, or reconstructed on or before January 10, 1989, but after September 30, 1987, are affected facilities. These process sections (and the type of emissions to be controlled) are identified by an "x" in table 1. The applicability date for the process sections (and the emissions to be controlled) that are identified by an "x" in table 1 is September 30, 1987. Since the affected facilities that have a September 30, 1987, applicability date are determined by the type of production process (e.g., liquid phase, gas phase), each owner or operator shall identify the particular production process that applies to his or her particular process.
