
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BBB - Standards of Performance for the Rubber Tire Manufacturing Industry
###### § 60.543 Performance test and compliance provisions.
####### 3

() The mass of the single VOC used (M) equals the mass of VOC present in the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the start of the run minus the mass of VOC present in the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the end of the run.

(G) If Method 25A is used to determine the concentration of the single VOC in the capture system, then calculate the capture efficiency (FC) for each run, "i," as follows:

(H) If Method 25 is used to determine the concentration of the single VOC in the capture system, then calculate the capture efficiency (FC) for each run, "i," as follows:

(I) Calculate the average capture efficiency value, Fas follows:

(g) For each undertread cementing operation, each sidewall cementing operation, each green tire spraying operation where organic solvent-based sprays are used, each Michelin-A operation, each Michelin-B operation, and each Michelin-C-automatic operation that uses a VOC emission reduction system with a control device that destroys VOC (e.g., incinerator), the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the percent emission reduction requirement specified under § 60.542 (a) (1)(i), (2)(i), (6)(i), (7)(iii), (8)(i), (9)(i), and (10)(i).

(1) For the initial performance test, the overall reduction efficiency (R) shall be determined as prescribed under paragraphs (f)(2) (i) through (iii) of this section. The performance test shall be repeated during conditions described under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. No monthly performance tests are required.

(h) For each tread end cementing operation and each bead cementing operation that uses a VOC emission reduction system with a control device that recovers VOC (e.g., carbon adsorber), the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the emission limit specified under § 60.542(a) (3) and (4).

(1) Calculate the mass of VOC used per tire cemented at the affected facility for the month (G), as specified under paragraphs (d) (1) through (4) of this section, or mass of VOC used per bead cemented at the affected facility for the month (G), as specified under paragraphs (e) (1) through (4) of this section.

(2) Calculate the total mass of VOC recovered from the affected facility for the month (M):

(3) Calculate the overall reduction efficiency for the VOC emission reduction system (R) for the month:

(4) Calculate the mass of VOC emitted per tire cemented at the affected facility for the month (N) or mass of VOC emitted per bead cemeted at the affected facility for the month (N):

(i) For each undertread cementing operation, each sidewall cemeting operation, each green tire spraying operation where organic solvent-based sprays are used, each Michelin-A operation, each Michelin-B operation, and each Michelin-C-automatic operation that uses a VOC emission reduction system with a control device that recovers (VOC) (e.g., carbon adsorber), the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the percent reduction requirement specified under § 60.542(a) (1)(i), (2)(i), (6)(i), (7)(iii), (8)(i), (9)(i), and (10)(i).

(1) Determine the density and weight fraction VOC as specified under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(2) Calculate the total mass of VOC used at the affected facility for the month (M) as described under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(3) Calculate the total mass of VOC recovered from the affected facility for the month (M) as described under paragraph (h)(2) of this section.

(4) Calculate the overall reduction efficiency for the VOC emission reduction system (R) for the month as described under paragraph (h)(3) of this section.

(j) Rather than seeking to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of § 60.542(a) (1)(i), (2)(i), (6)(i), (7)(iii), or (9)(i) using the performance test procedures described under paragraphs (g) and (i) of this section, an owner or operator of an undertread cementing operation, sidewall cementing operation, green tire spraying operation where organic solvent-based sprays are used, or Michelin-B operation that use a VOC emission reduction system may seek to demonstrate compliance by meeting the equipment design and performance specifications listed under paragraphs (j)(1), (2), and (4) through (6) or under paragraphs (j)(1) and (3) through (6) of this section, and by conducting a control device efficiency performance test to determine compliance as described under paragraph (j)(7) of this section. The owner or operator shall conduct this performance test of the control device efficiency no later than 180 days after initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8(a). Meeting the capture system design and performance specifications, in conjunction with operating a 95 percent efficient control device, is an acceptable means of demonstrating compliance with the standard. Therefore, the requirement for the initial performance test on the enclosure, as specified under § 60.8(a), is waived. No monthly performance tests are required.

(1) For each undertread cementing operation, each sidewall cementing operation, and each Michelin-B operation, the cement application and drying area shall be contained in an enclosure that meets the criteria specified under paragraphs (j) (2), (4), and (5) of this section; for each green tire spraying operation where organic solvent-based sprays are used, the spray application and drying area shall be contained in an enclosure that meets the criteria specified under paragraphs (j) (3), (4), and (5) of this section.

(2) The drying area shall be enclosed between the application area and the water bath or to the extent necessary to contain all tire components for at least 30 seconds after cement application, whichever distance is less.

(3) Sprayed green tires shall remain in the enclosure for a minimum of 30 seconds after spray application.

(4) A minimum face velocity of 30.5 meters (100 feet) per minute shall be maintained continuously through each permanent opening into the enclosure when all temporary enclosure openings are closed. The cross-sectional area of each permanent opening shall be divided into at least 12 equal areas, and a velocity measurement shall be performed at the centroid of each equal area with an anemometer or similar velocity monitoring device; the face velocity of each permanent opening is the average value of the velocity measurements taken. The monitoring device shall be calibrated and operated according to the manufacturer's instructions.

(5) The total area of all permanent openings into the enclosure shall not exceed the area that would be necessary to maintain the VOC concentration of the exhaust gas stream at 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) under the following conditions:

(i) The facility is operating at the maximum solvent use rate;

(ii) The face velocity through each permanent opening is 30.5 meters (100 feet) per minute; and

(iii) All temporary openings are closed.

(6) All captured VOC are ducted to a VOC emission control device that is operated on a continuous basis and that achieves at least a 95 percent destruction or recovery efficiency.

(7) The efficiency of the control device (E) for the initial performance test is determined by using values of the volumetric flow rate of each of the gas streams and the VOC content (as carbon) of each of the gas streams in and out of the control device as described under paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section. The control device efficiency shall be redetermined during conditions specified under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(k) Each owner or operator of an affected facility who initially elected to be subject to the applicable percent emission reduction requirement specified under § 60.542(a)(1)(i), (2)(i), (6)(i), (7)(iii), (8)(i), (9)(i), or (10)(i) and who later seeks to comply with the applicable total (uncontrolled) monthly VOC use limit specified under § 60.542(a)(1)(ii), (2)(ii), (6)(ii), (7)(iv), (8)(ii), (9)(ii), or (10)(ii) shall demonstrate, using the procedures described under paragraph (c) of this section, that the total VOC use at the affected facility has not exceeded the applicable total (uncontrolled) monthly VOC use limit during each of the last 6 months of operation. The owner or operator shall be subject to the applicable percent emission reduction requirement until the conditions of this paragraph and § 60.546(h) are satisfied.

(l) In determining compliance for each undertread cementing operation, each sidewall cementing operation, each green tire spraying operation, each Michelin-A operation, each Michelin-B operation, and each Michelin-C-automatic operation, the owner or operator shall include all the VOC used, recovered, or destroyed from cements and organic solvent-based green tire sprays including those cements or sprays used for tires other than those defined under § 60.541(a).

(m) In determining compliance for each tread end cementing operation, each bead cementing operation, and each green tire spraying operation, the owner or operator shall include only those tires defined under § 60.541(a) when determining Tand B.

(n) For each undertread cementing operation and each sidewall cementing operation that does not use a VOC emission reduction system, the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the VOC emission per tire limit specified in § 60.542a:

(1) Calculate the total mass of VOC (M) used at the affected facility for the month by the following procedure.

(i) For each affected facility for which cement is delivered in batch or via a distribution system which serves only that affected facility:

(ii) For each affected facility for which cement is delivered via a common distribution system which also serves other affected or existing facilities.

(A) Calculate the total mass (M) of VOC used for all of the facilities served by the common distribution system for the month:

(B) Determine the fraction (F) of "M" used by the affected facility by comparing the production records and process specifications for the material cemented at the affected facility for the month to the production records and process specifications for the material cemented at all other facilities served by the common distribution system for the month or by another procedure acceptable to the Administrator.

(C) Calculate the total monthly mass of VOC(M) used at the affected facility:

(2) Determine the total number of tires (T) processed at the affected facility for the month by the following procedure.

(i) For undertread cementing, Tequals the number of tread or combined tread/sidewall components which receive an application of undertread cement.

(ii) For sidewall cementing, Tequals the number of sidewall components which receive an application of sidewall cement, divided by 2.

(3) Calculate the mass of VOC used per tire processed (G) by the affected facility for the month:

(4) Calculate the mass of VOC emitted per tire processed (N) for the affected facility for the month:

(5) Where the value of the mass of VOC emitted per tire processed (N) is less than or equal to the VOC emission per tire limit specified under § 60.542a, the affected facility is in compliance.
