
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart DDD - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions from the Polymer Manufacturing Industry
###### § 60.560 Applicability and designation of affected facilities.
####### Affected facilities.

(a)The provisions of this subpart apply to affected facilities involved in the manufacture of polypropylene, polyethylene, polystyrene, or poly (ethylene terephthalate) as defined in § 60.561 of this subpart. The affected facilities designated below for polypropylene and polyethylene are inclusive of all equipment used in the manufacture of these polymers, beginning with raw materials preparation and ending with product storage, and cover all emissions emanating from such equipment.

(1) For process emissions from any polypropylene and polyethylene manufacturing process that uses a continuous process, the affected facilities are each of the following process sections: each raw materials preparation section, each polymerization reaction section, each material recovery section, each product finishing section, and each product storage section. These process sections are affected facilities for process emissions that are emitted continuously and for process emissions that are emitted intermittently.

(2) For process emissions from polystyrene manufacturing processes that use a continuous process, the affected facilities are each material recovery section. These process sections are affected facilities for only those process emissions that are emitted continuously.

(3) For process emissions from poly(ethylene terephthalate) manufacturing processes that use a continuous process, the affected facilities are each polymerization reaction section. If the process uses dimethyl terephthalate, then each material recovery section is also an affected facility. If the process uses terephthalic acid, then each raw materials preparation section is also an affected facility. These process sections are affected facilities for only those process emissions that are emitted continuously.

(4) For VOC emissions from equipment leaks from polypropylene, polyethylene, and polystyrene (including expandable polystyrene) manufacturing processes, the affected facilities are each group of fugitive emissions equipment (as defined in § 60.561) within any process unit (as defined in § 60.561). This subpart does not apply to VOC emissions from equipment leaks from poly(ethylene terephthalate) manufacturing processes.

(i) Affected facilities with a design capacity to produce less than 1,000 Mg/yr (1,102 ton/yr) shall be exempt from § 60.562-2.

(ii) Addition or replacement of equipment for the purposes of improvement which is accomplished without a capital expenditure shall not by itself be considered a modification under § 60.562-2.
