
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart DDD - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions from the Polymer Manufacturing Industry
###### ยง 60.562-1 Standards: Process emissions.
####### Intermittent emissions.

(2)The owner or operator shall control each vent stream that emits intermittent emissions from an affected facility as defined in ยง 60.560-1(a)(1) by meeting one of the control requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section. If a vent stream that emits intermittent emissions is controlled in an existing flare, incinerator, boiler, or process heater, the requirements of this paragraph are waived until such time the control device is reconstructed or replaced or is modified in its operating conditions as a result of State or local regulation, including changes in the operating permit. This paragraph does not apply to emergency vent streams exempted by ยง 60.560(h) and as defined in ยง 60.561.

(i) Combust the emissions in a flare that is:

(A) Designed for and operated with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of 5 minutes during any 2 consecutive hours,

(B) Operated with a flame present at all times, and

(C) Designed to maintain a stable flame.

(ii) Combust the emissions in an incinerator, boiler, or process heater. Such emissions shall be introduced into the flame zone of a boiler or process heater.
