
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart DDD - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions from the Polymer Manufacturing Industry
###### § 60.563 Monitoring requirements.

(a) Whenever a particular item of monitoring equipment is specified in this section to be installed, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to manufacturer's specifications that item as follows:

(1) A temperature monitoring device to measure and record continuously the operating temperature to within 1 percent (relative to degrees Celsius) or +/-0.5 &#xB0;C (+/-0.9 &#xB0;F), whichever is greater.

(2) A flame monitoring device, such as a thermocouple, an ultraviolet sensor, an infrared beam sensor, or similar device to indicate and record continuously whether a flare or pilot light flame is present, as specified.

(3) A flow monitoring indicator to indicate and record whether or not flow exists at least once every fifteen minutes.

(4) An organic monitoring device (based on a detection principle such as infrared, photoionization, or thermal conductivity) to indicate and record continuously the concentration level of organic compounds.

(5) A specific gravity monitoring device to measure and record continuously to within 0.02 specific gravity unit.

(b) The owner or operator shall install, as applicable, the monitoring equipment for the control means used to comply with § 60.562-1, except § 60.562-1(a)(1)(i)(D), as follows:

(1) If the control equipment is an incinerator:

(i) For a noncatalytic incinerator, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the firebox.

(ii) For a catalytic incinerator, temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalytic bed.

(2) If a flare is used:

(i) A flame monitoring device shall be installed to indicate the presence of a flare flame or a flame for each pilot light, if the flare is used to comply with § 60.562-1(a)(1), including those flares controlling both continuous and intermittent emissions.

(ii) A thermocouple or equivalent monitoring device to indicate the presence of a flame at each pilot light, if used to comply with § 60.562-1(a)(2).

(3) If a boiler or process heater is used:

(i) If the boiler or process heater has a heat input design capacity of less than 150 million Btu/hr, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed between the radiant section and the convection zone for watertube boilers and between the furnace (combustion zone) and the firetubes for firetube boilers.

(ii) If the boiler or process heater has a heat input design capacity of 150 million Btu/hr or greater, such records to indicate the periods of operation of the boiler or process heater shall be maintained. The records must be readily available for inspection.

(4) If an absorber is the final unit in a system:

(i) A temperature monitoring device and a specific gravity monitoring device for the scrubber liquid shall be installed, or

(ii) An organic monitoring device shall be installed at the outlet of the absorber.

(5) If a condenser is the final unit in a system:

(i) A temperature monitoring device shall be installed at the condenser exit (product side), or

(ii) An organic monitoring device shall be installed at the outlet of the condenser.

(6) If a carbon adsorber is the final unit in a system, an organic monitoring device shall be installed at the outlet of the carbon bed.

(c) Owners or operators of control devices used to comply with the provisions of this subpart, except § 60.562-1(a)(1)(i)(D), shall monitor these control devices to ensure that they are operated and maintained in conformance with their designs.

(d) Owners or operators using a vent system that contains valves that could divert a vent stream from a control device used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall do one or a combination of the following:

(1) Install a flow indicator immediately downstream of each valve that if opened would allow a vent stream to bypass the control device and be emitted, either directly or indirectly, to the atmosphere. The flow indicator shall be capable of recording flow at least once every fifteen minutes.

(2) Monitor the valves once a month, checking the position of the valves and the condition of the car seal, and identify all times when the car seals have been broken and the valve position has been changed (i.e., from opened to closed for valves in the vent piping to the control device and from closed to open for valves that allow the stream to be vented directly or indirectly to the atmosphere).

(e) An owner or operator complying with the standards specified under § 60.562-1, except § 60.562-1(a)(1)(i)(D), with control devices other than an incinerator, boiler, process heater, flare, absorber, condenser, or carbon adsorber or by any other means shall provide to the Administrator information describing the operation of the control device and the process parameter(s) which would indicate proper operation and maintenance of the device. The Administrator may request further information and will specify appropriate monitoring procedures or requirements.
