
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart DDD - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions from the Polymer Manufacturing Industry
###### ยง 60.562-1 Standards: Process emissions.
####### Level of control

(i)Continuous emission streams determined to be subject to control pursuant to the procedures identified in paragraphs (a)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section, as applicable, shall meet one of the control levels identified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) (A) through (D) of this section. The procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section identify which level of control may be met. The level of control identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(D) of this section is limited to certain continuous emission streams, which are identified through the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section.

(A) Reduce emissions of total organic compounds (minus methane and ethane) (TOC) by 98 weight percent, or to a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv) on a dry basis, whichever is less stringent. The TOC is expressed as the sum of the actual compounds, not carbon equivalents. If an owner or operator elects to comply with the 20 ppmv standard, the concentration shall include a correction to 3 percent oxygen only when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the vent stream.

(B) Combust the emissions in a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 150 million Btu/hour or greater by introducing the vent stream into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater. (Note: A boiler or process heater of lesser design heat capacity may be used, but must demonstrate compliance with paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of this section.)

(C) Combust the emissions in a flare that meets the conditions specified in ยง 60.18. If the flare is used to control both continuous and intermittent emissions, the flare shall meet the conditions specified in ยง 60.18 at all times (i.e., which controlling continuous emissions alone or when controlling both continuous and intermittent emissions).

(D) Vent the emissions to a control device located on the plant site.
