
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart DDD - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions from the Polymer Manufacturing Industry
###### § 60.562-1 Standards: Process emissions.
####### Uncontrolled Continuous Emissions.

(ii)For each vent stream that emits continuous emissions from an affected facility as defined in § 60.560(a)(1) and that is not controlled in an existing control device, the owner or operator shall use the procedures identified in table 3 to identify those continuous emissions from each constructed, modified, or reconstructed affected facility that are to be controlled. The owner shall include in the procedure all uncontrolled continuous vent streams from previously constructed, modified, or reconstructed affected facilities at the plant site each time a process section is constructed, modified, or reconstructed at the plant site. In applying the procedures shown in table 3, the stream characteristics may be either measured or calculated as specified in § 60.564(d). For modified or reconstructed affected facilities, these stream characteristics are to be determined after a modification or reconstruction determination has been made by the Administrator, but before any actual changes have been undertaken, and then again after the actual changes have been made. Figure 1 provides a summary overview of the control determination procedure described in table 3.

For the 5.5 to less than 20 weight percent range, the following equations are used.

(iii) Controlled Continuous Emissions. For each vent stream that emits continuous emissions from an affected facility as defined in § 60.560(a)(1) and that is controlled in an existing control device, each owner or operator shall determine whether the emissions entering the control device are greater than or equal to the calculated threshold emissions (CTE) level, which is to be calculated using the TOC concentration of the inlet vent stream and the equations in footnote b of table 3. If the inlet stream's TOC concentration is equal to or greater than 20 weight percent, the calculated threshold emissions level is 18.2 Mg/yr (20.1 ton/yr). If multiple emission streams are vented to the control device, the individual streams are not to be separated into individual weight percent ranges for calculation purposes as would be done for uncontrolled emission streams. Emissions vented to an existing control device are required to be controlled as described in paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) (A) and (B) of this section. Figure 2 illustrates the control determination procedure for controlled continuous emissions.

(A) If the annual emissions of the stream entering the control device are equal to or greater than the CTE levels, then compliance with one of the requirements identified in § 60.562-1(a)(1)(i) (A), (B), or (C) is required at such time the control device is reconstructed or replaced or has its operating conditions modified as a result of State or local regulations (including changes in the operating permit) including those instances where the control device is reconstructed, replaced, or modified in its operation at the same time the existing process section is modified or reconstructed and becomes an affected facility. If the existing control device already complies with one of the requirements identified in § 60.562-1(a)(1)(i) (A), (B), or (C), no further control is required.

(B) If the annual emissions of the stream entering the control device are less than the CTE level, then the requirements of § 60.562-1(a)(1)(i) (A), (B), or (C) are not applicable at that time. However, if the control device is replaced, reconstructed, or modified at a later date, each owner or operator shall reevaluate the applicability of these standards. This is done by combining with the vent stream entering the control device any uncontrolled vent streams in the same weight percent range as the controlled vent stream and determining whether the annual emissions of the stream entering the control device plus the applicable uncontrolled vent streams are greater than or equal to the CTE level, which is based on the weighted TOC concentration of the controlled vent stream and the uncontrolled vent streams. If the annual emissions entering the control device (including the applicable uncontrolled vent streams) are greater than or equal to the CTE level, then compliance with one of the requirements identified in § 60.562-1(a)(1)(i) (A), (B), or (C) is required at that time for both the controlled and uncontrolled vent streams. If the annual emissions are less than the CTE level, compliance with these standards is again not required at such time. However, if the control device is again replaced, reconstructed, or modified, each owner or operator shall repeat this determination procedure.
