
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart GGGa - Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC in Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After November 7, 2006
###### § 60.592a Standards.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements of §§ 60.482-1a to 60.482-10a as soon as practicable, but no later than 180 days after initial startup.

(b) For a given process unit, an owner or operator may elect to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section as an alternative to the requirements in § 60.482-7a.

(1) Comply with § 60.483-1a.

(2) Comply with § 60.483-2a.

(3) Comply with the Phase III provisions in § 63.168, except an owner or operator may elect to follow the provisions in § 60.482-7a(f) instead of § 63.168 for any valve that is designated as being leakless.

(c) An owner or operator may apply to the Administrator for a determination of equivalency for any means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of VOC at least equivalent to the reduction in emissions of VOC achieved by the controls required in this subpart. In doing so, the owner or operator shall comply with requirements of § 60.484a.

(d) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the provisions of § 60.485a except as provided in § 60.593a.

(e) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the provisions of §§ 60.486a and 60.487a.
