
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart GGGa - Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC in Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After November 7, 2006
###### § 60.593a Exceptions.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the following exceptions to the provisions of subpart VVa of this part.

(b)(1) Compressors in hydrogen service are exempt from the requirements of § 60.592a if an owner or operator demonstrates that a compressor is in hydrogen service.

(2) Each compressor is presumed not to be in hydrogen service unless an owner or operator demonstrates that the piece of equipment is in hydrogen service. For a piece of equipment to be considered in hydrogen service, it must be determined that the percent hydrogen content can be reasonably expected always to exceed 50 percent by volume. For purposes of determining the percent hydrogen content in the process fluid that is contained in or contacts a compressor, procedures that conform to the general method described in ASTM E260-73, 91, or 96, E168-67, 77, or 92, or E169-63, 77, or 93 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17) shall be used.

(3)(i) An owner or operator may use engineering judgment rather than procedures in paragraph (b)(2) of this section to demonstrate that the percent content exceeds 50 percent by volume, provided the engineering judgment demonstrates that the content clearly exceeds 50 percent by volume. When an owner or operator and the Administrator do not agree on whether a piece of equipment is in hydrogen service, however, the procedures in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be used to resolve the disagreement.

(ii) If an owner or operator determines that a piece of equipment is in hydrogen service, the determination can be revised only after following the procedures in paragraph (b)(2).

(c) Any existing reciprocating compressor that becomes an affected facility under provisions of § 60.14 or § 60.15 is exempt from § 60.482-3a(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (h) provided the owner or operator demonstrates that recasting the distance piece or replacing the compressor are the only options available to bring the compressor into compliance with the provisions of § 60.482-3a(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (h).

(d) An owner or operator may use the following provision in addition to § 60.485a(e): Equipment is in light liquid service if the percent evaporated is greater than 10 percent at 150 &#xB0;C as determined by ASTM Method D86-78, 82, 90, 93, 95, or 96 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17).

(e) Pumps in light liquid service and valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service within a process unit that is located in the Alaskan North Slope are exempt from the requirements of §§ 60.482-2a and 60.482-7a.

(f) Open-ended valves or lines containing asphalt as defined in § 60.591a are exempt from the requirements of § 60.482-6a(a) through (c).

(g) Connectors in gas/vapor or light liquid service are exempt from the requirements in § 60.482-11a, provided the owner or operator complies with § 60.482-8a for all connectors, not just those in heavy liquid service.
