
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart HHH - Standards of Performance for Synthetic Fiber Production Facilities
###### ยง 60.603 Performance test and compliance provisions.

(a) Section 60.8(f) does not apply to the performance test procedures required by this subpart.

(b) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall determine compliance with the applicable standard in ยง 60.602(a) by determining and recording monthly the VOC emissions per unit mass solvent feed from each affected facility for the current and preceding 5 consecutive calendar months and using these values to calculate the 6-month average emissions. Each calculation is considered a performance test. The owner or operator of an affected facility shall use the following procedure to determine VOC emissions for each calendar month;

(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices that continuously measure and permanently record for each calendar month the amount of makeup solvent and solvent feed. These values shall be used in calculating VOC emissions according to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. All monitoring devices, meters, and peripheral equipment shall be calibrated and any error recorded. Total compounded error of the flow measuring and recording devices shall not exceed 1 percent accuracy over the operating range. As an alternative to measuring solvent feed, the owner or operator may:

(i) Measure the amount of recovered solvent returned to the solvent feed storage tanks, and use the following equation to determine the amount of solvent feed:

(ii) Measure and record the amount of polymer introduced into the affected facility and the solvent-to-polymer ratio of the spinning solutions, and use the following equation to determine the amount of solvent feed:

(2) VOC emissions shall be determined each calendar month by use of the following equations:

(3) N, as used in the equation in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, equals 13 kg/Mg (26 lb/ton) solvent feed to the spinning solution preparation system and precipitation bath. This value shall be used in all cases unless an owner or operator demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Administrator that greater nongaseous losses occur at the affected facility. In this case, the greater value may be substituted in the equation.
