
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart JJJ - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Dry Cleaners
###### ยง 60.620 Applicability and designation of affected facility.

(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities located at a petroleum dry cleaning plant with a total manufacturers' rated dryer capacity equal to or greater than 38 kilograms (84 pounds): Petroleum solvent dry cleaning dryers, washers, filters, stills, and settling tanks.

(1) When the affected facility is installed in an existing plant that is not expanding the manufacturers' rated capacity of its petroleum solvent dryer(s), the total manufacturers' rated dryer capacity is the summation of the manufacturers' rated capacity for each existing petroleum solvent dryer.

(2) When the affected facility is installed in a plant that is expanding the manufacturers' rated capacity of its petroleum solvent dryers, the total manufacturers' rated dryer capacity is the summation of the manufacturers' rated dryer capacity for each existing and proposed new petroleum solvent dryer.

(3) When the affected facilty is installed in a new plant, the total manufacturers' rated dryer capacity is the summation of the manufacturers' rated dryer capacity for each proposed new petroleum solvent dryer.

(4) The petroleum solvent dryers considered in the determination of the total manufacturers' rated dryer capacity are those new and existing dryers in the plant that will be in service at any time after the proposed new source or modification commences operation.

(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after December 14, 1982, is subject to the requirements of this subpart with the following exception. A dryer installed between December 14, 1982, and September 21, 1984, in a plant with an annual solvent consumption level of less than 17,791 liters (4,700 gallons), is exempt from the requirements of this subpart.
