
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart JJJ - Standards of Performance for Petroleum Dry Cleaners
###### ยง 60.624 Test methods and procedures.

Each owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the provisions of ยง 60.622(a) shall perform an initial test to verify that the flow rate of recovered solvent from the solvent recovery dryer at the termination of the recovery cycle is no greater than 0.05 liters per minute. This test shall be conducted for a duration of no less than 2 weeks during which no less than 50 percent of the dryer loads shall be monitored for their final recovered solvent flow rate. The suggested point for measuring the flow rate of recovered solvent is the outlet of the solvent-water separator. Near the end of the recovery cycle, the entire flow of recovered solvent should be diverted to a graduated cylinder. As the recovered solvent collects in the graduated cylinder, the elapsed time is monitored and recorded in periods of greater than or equal to 1 minute. At the same time, the volume of solvent in the graduated cylinder is monitored and recorded to determine the volume of recovered solvent that is collected during each time period. The recovered solvent flow rate is calculated by dividing the volume of solvent collected per period by the length of time elapsed during the period and converting the result with appropriate factors into units of liters per minute. The recovery cycle and the monitoring procedure should continue until the flow rate of solvent is less than or equal to 0.05 liter per minute. The type of articles cleaned and the total length of the cycle should then be recorded.
