
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKK - Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC From Onshore Natural Gas Processing Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After January 20, 1984, and on or Before August 23, 2011
###### § 60.632 Standards.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements of §§ 60.482-1 (a), (b), and (d) and 60.482-2 through 60.482-10, except as provided in § 60.633, as soon as practicable, but no later than 180 days after initial startup.

(b) An owner or operator may elect to comply with the requirements of §§ 60.483-1 and 60.483-2.

(c) An owner or operator may apply to the Administrator for permission to use an alternative means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of VOC at least equivalent to that achieved by the controls required in this subpart. In doing so, the owner or operator shall comply with requirements of § 60.634 of this subpart.

(d) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the provisions of § 60.485 except as provided in § 60.633(f) of this subpart.

(e) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the provisions of §§ 60.486 and 60.487 except as provided in §§ 60.633, 60.635, and 60.636 of this subpart.

(f) An owner or operator shall use the following provision instead of § 60.485(d)(1): Each piece of equipment is presumed to be in VOC service or in wet gas service unless an owner or operator demonstrates that the piece of equipment is not in VOC service or in wet gas service. For a piece of equipment to be considered not in VOC service, it must be determined that the VOC content can be reasonably expected never to exceed 10.0 percent by weight. For a piece of equipment to be considered in wet gas service, it must be determined that it contains or contacts the field gas before the extraction step in the process. For purposes of determining the percent VOC content of the process fluid that is contained in or contacts a piece of equipment, procedures that conform to the methods described in ASTM E169-63, 77, or 93, E168-67, 77, or 92, or E260-73, 91, or 96 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17) shall be used.
