
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKK - Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC From Onshore Natural Gas Processing Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After January 20, 1984, and on or Before August 23, 2011
###### § 60.633 Exceptions.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the following exceptions to the provisions of subpart VV.

(b)(1) Each pressure relief device in gas/vapor service may be monitored quarterly and within 5 days after each pressure release to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 60.485(b) except as provided in §§ 60.632(c), paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and 60.482-4 (a) through (c) of subpart VV.

(2) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.

(3)(i) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9.

(ii) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.

(4)(i) Any pressure relief device that is located in a nonfractionating plant that is monitored only by nonplant personnel may be monitored after a pressure release the next time the monitoring personnel are on site, instead of within 5 days as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and § 60.482-4(b)(1) of subpart VV.

(ii) No pressure relief device described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section shall be allowed to operate for more than 30 days after a pressure release without monitoring.

(c) Sampling connection systems are exempt from the requirements of § 60.482-5.

(d) Pumps in light liquid service, valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service, and pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service that are located at a nonfractionating plant that does not have the design capacity to process 283,200 standard cubic meters per day (scmd) (10 million standard cubic feet per day) or more of field gas are exempt from the routine monitoring requirements of §§ 60.482-2(a)(1) and 60.482-7(a), and paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(e) Pumps in light liquid service, valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service, and pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service within a process unit that is located in the Alaskan North Slope are exempt from the routine monitoring requirements of §§ 60.482-2(a)(1), 60.482-7(a), and paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(f) Reciprocating compressors in wet gas service are exempt from the compressor control requirements of § 60.482-3.

(g) Flares used to comply with this subpart shall comply with the requirements of § 60.18.

(h) An owner or operator may use the following provisions instead of § 60.485(e):

(1) Equipment is in heavy liquid service if the weight percent evaporated is 10 percent or less at 150 &#xB0;C (302 &#xB0;F) as determined by ASTM Method D86-78, 82, 90, 95, or 96 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17).

(2) Equipment is in light liquid service if the weight percent evaporated is greater than 10 percent at 150 &#xB0;C (302 &#xB0;F) as determined by ASTM Method D86-78, 82, 90, 95, or 96 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17).
