
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKK - Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC From Onshore Natural Gas Processing Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After January 20, 1984, and on or Before August 23, 2011
###### § 60.635 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section in addition to the requirements of § 60.486.

(b) The following recordkeeping requirements shall apply to pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of § 60.633(b)(1) of this subpart.

(1) When each leak is detected as specified in § 60.633(b)(2), a weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, shall be attached to the leaking equipment. The identification on the pressure relief device may be removed after it has been repaired.

(2) When each leak is detected as specified in § 60.633(b)(2), the following information shall be recorded in a log and shall be kept for 2 years in a readily accessible location:

(i) The instrument and operator identification numbers and the equipment identification number.

(ii) The date the leak was detected and the dates of each attempt to repair the leak.

(iii) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.

(iv) "Above 10,000 ppm" if the maximum instrument reading measured by the methods specified in paragraph (a) of this section after each repair attempt is 10,000 ppm or greater.

(v) "Repair delayed" and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.

(vi) The signature of the owner or operator (or designate) whose decision it was that repair could not be effected without a process shutdown.

(vii) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if a leak is not repaired within 15 days.

(viii) Dates of process unit shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.

(ix) The date of successful repair of the leak.

(x) A list of identification numbers for equipment that are designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 60.482-4(a). The designation of equipment subject to the provisions of § 60.482-4(a) shall be signed by the owner or operator.

(c) An owner or operator shall comply with the following requirement in addition to the requirement of § 60.486(j): Information and data used to demonstrate that a reciprocating compressor is in wet gas service to apply for the exemption in § 60.633(f) shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location.
