
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKK - Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC From Onshore Natural Gas Processing Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After January 20, 1984, and on or Before August 23, 2011
###### § 60.636 Reporting requirements.
####### § 60.647 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(a) Records of the calculations and measurements required in §§ 60.642 (a) and (b) and 60.646 (a) through (g) must be retained for at least 2 years following the date of the measurements by owners and operators subject to this subpart. This requirement is included under § 60.7(d) of the General Provisions.

(b) Each owner or operator shall submit a written report of excess emissions to the Administrator semiannually. For the purpose of these reports, excess emissions are defined as:

(1) Any 24-hour period (at consistent intervals) during which the average sulfur emission reduction efficiency (R) is less than the minimum required efficiency (Z).

(2) For any affected facility electing to comply with the provisions of § 60.646(b)(2), any 24-hour period during which the average temperature of the gases leaving the combustion zone of an incinerator is less than the appropriate operating temperature as determined during the most recent performance test in accordance with the provisions of § 60.646(b)(2). Each 24-hour period must consist of at least 96 temperature measurements equally spaced over the 24 hours.

(c) To certify that a facility is exempt from the control requirements of these standards, each owner or operator of a facility with a design capacity less that 2 LT/D of HS in the acid gas (expressed as sulfur) shall keep, for the life of the facility, an analysis demonstrating that the facility's design capacity is less than 2 LT/D of HS expressed as sulfur.

(d) Each owner or operator who elects to comply with § 60.646(e) shall keep, for the life of the facility, a record demonstrating that the facility's design capacity is less than 150 LT/D of HS expressed as sulfur.

(e) The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section remain in force until and unless EPA, in delegating enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such State. In that event, affected sources within the State will be relieved of obligation to comply with paragraph (b) of this section, provided that they comply with the requirements established by the State.
