
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKK - Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC From Onshore Natural Gas Processing Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After January 20, 1984, and on or Before August 23, 2011
###### § 60.636 Reporting requirements.
####### § 60.646 Monitoring of emissions and operations.

(a) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of § 60.642 (a) or (b) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices or perform measurements to determine the following operations information on a daily basis:

(1) The accumulation of sulfur product over each 24-hour period: The monitoring method may incorporate the use of an instrument to measure and record the liquid sulfur production rate, or may be a procedure for measuring and recording the sulfur liquid levels in the storage tanks with a level indicator or by manual soundings, with subsequent calculation of the sulfur production rate based on the tank geometry, stored sulfur density, and elapsed time between readings. The method shall be designed to be accurate within +/-2 percent of the 24-hour sulfur accumulation.

(2) The HS concentration in the acid gas from the sweetening unit for each 24-hour period: At least one sample per 24-hour period shall be collected and analyzed using the method specified in § 60.644(b)(1). The Administrator may require the owner or operator to demonstrate that the HS concentration obtained from one or more samples over a 24-hour period is within +/-20 percent of the average of 12 samples collected at equally spaced intervals during the 24-hour period. In instances where the HS concentration of a single sample is not within +/-20 percent of the average of the 12 equally spaced samples, the Administrator may require a more frequent sampling schedule.

(3) The average acid gas flow rate from the sweetening unit: The owner or operator shall install and operate a monitoring device to continuously measure the flow rate of acid gas. The monitoring device reading shall be recorded at least once per hour during each 24-hour period. The average acid gas flow rate shall be computed from the individual readings.

(4) The sulfur feed rate (X): For each 24-hour period, X shall be computed using the equation in § 60.644(b)(3).

(5) The required sulfur dioxide emission reduction efficiency for the 24-hour period: The sulfur feed rate and the HS concentration in the acid gas for the 24-hour period as applicable, shall be used to determine the required reduction efficiency in accordance with the provisions of § 60.642(b).

(b) Where compliance is achieved through the use of an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by a continually operated incineration device, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices and continuous emission monitors as follows:

(1) A continuous monitoring system to measure the total sulfur emission rate (E) of SOin the gases discharged to the atmosphere. The SOemission rate shall be expressed in terms of equivalent sulfur mass flow rates (kg/hr (lb/hr)). The span of this monitoring system shall be set so that the equivalent emission limit of § 60.642(b) will be between 30 percent and 70 percent of the measurement range of the instrument system.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section: A monitoring device to measure the temperature of the gas leaving the combustion zone of the incinerator, if compliance with § 60.642(a) is achieved through the use of an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by a continually operated incineration device. The monitoring device shall be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within +/-1 percent of the temperature being measured.

(3) Upon promulgation of a performance specification of continuous monitoring systems for total reduced sulfur compounds at sulfur recovery plants, the owner or operator may, as an alternative to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for total reduced sulfur compounds as required in paragraph (d) of this section in addition to a sulfur dioxide emission monitoring system. The sum of the equivalent sulfur mass emission rates from the two monitoring systems shall be used to compute the total sulfur emission rate (E).

(c) Where compliance is achieved through the use of a reduction control system not followed by a continually operated incineration device, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system to measure the emission rate of reduced sulfur compounds as SOequivalent in the gases discharged to the atmosphere. The SOequivalent compound emission rate shall be expressed in terms of equivalent sulfur mass flow rates (kg/hr (lb/hr)). The span of this monitoring system shall be set so that the equivalent emission limit of § 60.642(b) will be between 30 and 70 percent of the measurement range of the system. This requirement becomes effective upon promulgation of a performance specification for continuous monitoring systems for total reduced sulfur compounds at sulfur recovery plants.

(d) For those sources required to comply with paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the average sulfur emission reduction efficiency achieved (R) shall be calculated for each 24-hour clock internal. The 24-hour interval may begin and end at any selected clock time, but must be consistent. The 24-hour average reduction efficiency (R) shall be computed based on the 24-hour average sulfur production rate (S) and sulfur emission rate (E), using the equation in § 60.644(c)(1).

(1) Data obtained from the sulfur production rate monitoring device specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be used to determine S.

(2) Data obtained from the sulfur emission rate monitoring systems specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section shall be used to calculate a 24-hour average for the sulfur emission rate (E). The monitoring system must provide at least one data point in each successive 15-minute interval. At least two data points must be used to calculate each 1-hour average. A minimum of 18 1-hour averages must be used to compute each 24-hour average.

(e) In lieu of complying with (b) or (c) of this section, those sources with a design capacity of less than 152 Mg/D (150 LT/D) of HS expressed as sulfur may calculate the sulfur emission reduction efficiency achieved for each 24-hour period by:

(f) The monitoring devices required in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) and (c) of this section shall be calibrated at least annually according to the manufacturer's specifications, as required by § 60.13(b).

(g) The continuous emission monitoring systems required in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3), and (c) of this section shall be subject to the emission monitoring requirements of § 60.13 of the General Provisions. For conducting the continuous emission monitoring system performance evaluation required by § 60.13(c), Performance Specification 2 shall apply, and Method 6 shall be used for systems required by paragraph (b) of this section.
