
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart NNN - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions From Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry (SOCMI) Distillation Operations
###### § 60.660 Applicability and designation of affected facility.

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to each affected facility designated in paragraph (b) of this section that is part of a process unit that produces any of the chemicals listed in § 60.667 as a product, co-product, by-product, or intermediate, except as provided in paragraph (c).

(b) The affected facility is any of the following for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced after December 30, 1983:

(1) Each distillation unit not discharging its vent stream into a recovery system.

(2) Each combination of a distillation unit and the recovery system into which its vent stream is discharged.

(3) Each combination of two or more distillation units and the common recovery system into which their vent streams are discharged.

(c) Exemptions from the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section are as follows:

(1) Any distillation unit operating as part of a process unit which produces coal tar or beverage alcohols, or which uses, contains, and produces no VOC is not an affected facility.

(2) Any distillation unit that is subject to the provisions of subpart DDD is not an affected facility.

(3) Any distillation unit that is designed and operated as a batch operation is not an affected facility.

(4) Each affected facility that has a total resource effectiveness (TRE) index value greater than 8.0 is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for §§ 60.662; 60.664 (e), (f), and (g); and 60.665 (h) and (l).

(5) Each affected facility in a process unit with a total design capacity for all chemicals produced within that unit of less than one gigagram per year is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in paragraphs (j), (l)(6), and (n) of § 60.665.

(6) Each affected facility operated with a vent stream flow rate less than 0.008 scm/min is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the test method and procedure and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 60.664(g) and paragraphs (i), (l)(5), and (o) of § 60.665.
