
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOO - Standards of Performance for Nonmetallic Mineral Processing Plants
###### § 60.674 Monitoring of operations.

(a) The owner or operator of any affected facility subject to the provisions of this subpart which uses a wet scrubber to control emissions shall install, calibrate, maintain and operate the following monitoring devices:

(1) A device for the continuous measurement of the pressure loss of the gas stream through the scrubber. The monitoring device must be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within +/-250 pascals +/-1 inch water gauge pressure and must be calibrated on an annual basis in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.

(2) A device for the continuous measurement of the scrubbing liquid flow rate to the wet scrubber. The monitoring device must be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within +/-5 percent of design scrubbing liquid flow rate and must be calibrated on an annual basis in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.

(b) The owner or operator of any affected facility for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced on or after April 22, 2008, that uses wet suppression to control emissions from the affected facility must perform monthly periodic inspections to check that water is flowing to discharge spray nozzles in the wet suppression system. The owner or operator must initiate corrective action within 24 hours and complete corrective action as expediently as practical if the owner or operator finds that water is not flowing properly during an inspection of the water spray nozzles. The owner or operator must record each inspection of the water spray nozzles, including the date of each inspection and any corrective actions taken, in the logbook required under § 60.676(b).

(1) If an affected facility relies on water carryover from upstream water sprays to control fugitive emissions, then that affected facility is exempt from the 5-year repeat testing requirement specified in Table 3 of this subpart provided that the affected facility meets the criteria in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section:

(i) The owner or operator of the affected facility conducts periodic inspections of the upstream water spray(s) that are responsible for controlling fugitive emissions from the affected facility. These inspections are conducted according to paragraph (b) of this section and § 60.676(b), and

(ii) The owner or operator of the affected facility designates which upstream water spray(s) will be periodically inspected at the time of the initial performance test required under § 60.11 of this part and § 60.675 of this subpart.

(2) If an affected facility that routinely uses wet suppression water sprays ceases operation of the water sprays or is using a control mechanism to reduce fugitive emissions other than water sprays during the monthly inspection (for example, water from recent rainfall), the logbook entry required under § 60.676(b) must specify the control mechanism being used instead of the water sprays.

(c) Except as specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, the owner or operator of any affected facility for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced on or after April 22, 2008, that uses a baghouse to control emissions must conduct quarterly 30-minute visible emissions inspections using EPA Method 22 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7). The Method 22 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7) test shall be conducted while the baghouse is operating. The test is successful if no visible emissions are observed. If any visible emissions are observed, the owner or operator of the affected facility must initiate corrective action within 24 hours to return the baghouse to normal operation. The owner or operator must record each Method 22 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7) test, including the date and any corrective actions taken, in the logbook required under § 60.676(b). The owner or operator of the affected facility may establish a different baghouse-specific success level for the visible emissions test (other than no visible emissions) by conducting a PM performance test according to § 60.675(b) simultaneously with a Method 22 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7) to determine what constitutes normal visible emissions from that affected facility's baghouse when it is in compliance with the applicable PM concentration limit in Table 2 of this subpart. The revised visible emissions success level must be incorporated into the permit for the affected facility.

(d) As an alternative to the periodic Method 22 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7) visible emissions inspections specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the owner or operator of any affected facility for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced on or after April 22, 2008, that uses a baghouse to control emissions may use a bag leak detection system. The owner or operator must install, operate, and maintain the bag leak detection system according to paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Each bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.

(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 1 milligram per dry standard cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
