
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart PPP - Standard of Performance for Wool Fiberglass Insulation Manufacturing Plants
###### ยง 60.684 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(a) At 30-minute intervals during each 2-hour test run of each performance test of a wet scrubber control device and at least once every 4 hours thereafter, the owner or operator shall record the measurements required by ยง 60.683(a).

(b) At 30-minute intervals during each 2-hour test run of each performance test of a wet electrostatic precipitator control device and at least once every 4 hours thereafter, the owner or operator shall record the measurements required by ยง 60.683(b), except that the concentration of total residue in the water shall be recorded once during each performance test and once per day thereafter.

(c) Records of the measurements required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be retained for at least 2 years.

(d) Each owner or operator shall submit written semiannual reports of exceedances of control device operating parameters required to be monitored by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and written documentation of, and a report of corrective maintenance required as a result of, quarterly calibrations of the monitoring devices required in ยง 60.683(c). For the purpose of these reports, exceedances are defined as any monitoring data that are less than 70 percent of the lowest value or greater than 130 percent of the highest value of each operating parameter recorded during the most recent performance test.

(e) The requirements of this section remain in force until and unless the Agency, in delegating enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such State. In that event, affected facilities within the State will be relieved of the obligation to comply with this section, provided that they comply with the requirements established by the State.
