
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart PPP - Standard of Performance for Wool Fiberglass Insulation Manufacturing Plants
###### § 60.685 Test methods and procedures.

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).

(b) The owner or operator shall conduct performance tests while the product with the highest loss on ignition (LOI) expected to be produced by the affected facility is being manufactured.

(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standard in § 60.682 as follows:

(1) The emission rate (E) of particulate matter shall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(2) Method 5E shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration (C) and the volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume shall be at least 120 minutes and 2.55 dscm (90.1 dscf).

(3) The average glass pull rate (P) for the manufacturing line shall be the arithmetic average of three glass pull rate (P) determinations taken at intervals of at least 30 minutes during each run.

(i) ASTM D2584-68 (Reapproved 1985) or 94 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17), shall be used to determine the LOI for each run.

(ii) Line speed (L), trimmed mat width (W), and mat gram weight (M) shall be determined for each run from the process information or from direct measurements.

(d) To comply with § 60.684(d), the owner or operator shall record measurements as required in § 60.684 (a) and (b) using the monitoring devices in § 60.683 (a) and (b) during the particulate matter runs.
