
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQ - Standards of Performance for VOC Emissions From Petroleum Refinery Wastewater Systems
###### § 60.692-3 Standards: Oil-water separators.

(a) Each oil-water separator tank, slop oil tank, storage vessel, or other auxiliary equipment subject to the requirements of this subpart shall be equipped and operated with a fixed roof, which meets the following specifications, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section or in § 60.693-2.

(1) The fixed roof shall be installed to completely cover the separator tank, slop oil tank, storage vessel, or other auxiliary equipment with no separation between the roof and the wall.

(2) The vapor space under a fixed roof shall not be purged unless the vapor is directed to a control device.

(3) If the roof has access doors or openings, such doors or openings shall be gasketed, latched, and kept closed at all times during operation of the separator system, except during inspection and maintenance.

(4) Roof seals, access doors, and other openings shall be checked by visual inspection initially and semiannually thereafter to ensure that no cracks or gaps occur between the roof and wall and that access doors and other openings are closed and gasketed properly.

(5) When a broken seal or gasket or other problem is identified, first efforts at repair shall be made as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is identified, except as provided in § 60.692-6.

(b) Each oil-water separator tank or auxiliary equipment with a design capacity to treat more than 16 liters per second (250 gallons per minute (gpm)) of refinery wastewater shall, in addition to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, be equipped and operated with a closed vent system and control device, which meet the requirements of § 60.692-5, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section or in § 60.693-2.

(c)(1) Each modified or reconstructed oil-water separator tank with a maximum design capacity to treat less than 38 liters per second (600 gpm) of refinery wastewater which was equipped and operated with a fixed roof covering the entire separator tank or a portion of the separator tank prior to May 4, 1987 shall be exempt from the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, but shall meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, or may elect to comply with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator may elect to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section for the existing fixed roof covering a portion of the separator tank and comply with the requirements for floating roofs in § 60.693-2 for the remainder of the separator tank.

(d) Storage vessels, including slop oil tanks and other auxiliary tanks that are subject to the standards in §§ 60.112, 60.112a, and 60.112b and associated requirements, 40 CFR part 60, subparts K, Ka, or Kb are not subject to the requirements of this section.

(e) Slop oil from an oil-water separator tank and oily wastewater from slop oil handling equipment shall be collected, stored, transported, recycled, reused, or disposed of in an enclosed system. Once slop oil is returned to the process unit or is disposed of, it is no longer within the scope of this subpart. Equipment used in handling slop oil shall be equipped with a fixed roof meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) Each oil-water separator tank, slop oil tank, storage vessel, or other auxiliary equipment that is required to comply with paragraph (a) of this section, and not paragraph (b) of this section, may be equipped with a pressure control valve as necessary for proper system operation. The pressure control valve shall be set at the maximum pressure necessary for proper system operation, but such that the value will not vent continuously.
