
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQ - Standards of Performance for VOC Emissions From Petroleum Refinery Wastewater Systems
###### ยง 60.695 Monitoring of operations.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to manufacturer's specifications the following equipment, unless alternative monitoring procedures or requirements are approved for that facility by the Administrator.

(1) Where a thermal incinerator is used for VOC emission reduction, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder shall be used to measure the temperature of the gas stream in the combustion zone of the incinerator. The temperature monitoring device shall have an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being measured, expressed in &#xB0;C, or +/-0.5 &#xB0;C (0.9 &#xB0;F), whichever is greater.

(2) Where a catalytic incinerator is used for VOC emission reduction, temperature monitoring devices, each equipped with a continuous recorder shall be used to measure the temperature in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed of the incinerator. The temperature monitoring devices shall have an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being measured, expressed in &#xB0;C, or +/-0.5 &#xB0;C (0.9 &#xB0;F), whichever is greater.

(3) Where a carbon adsorber is used for VOC emissions reduction, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the VOC concentration level or reading of organics in the exhaust gases of the control device outlet gas stream or inlet and outlet gas stream shall be used.

(i) For a carbon adsorption system that regenerates the carbon bed directly onsite, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the volatile organic compound concentration level or reading of organics in the exhaust gases of the control device outlet gas stream or inlet and outlet gas stream shall be used.

(ii) For a carbon adsorption system that does not regenerate the carbon bed directly onsite in the control device (e.g., a carbon canister), the concentration level of the organic compounds in the exhaust vent stream from the carbon adsorption system shall be monitored on a regular schedule, and the existing carbon shall be replaced with fresh carbon immediately when carbon breakthrough is indicated. The device shall be monitored on a daily basis or at intervals no greater than 20 percent of the design carbon replacement interval, whichever is greater. As an alternative to conducting this monitoring, an owner or operator may replace the carbon in the carbon adsorption system with fresh carbon at a regular predetermined time interval that is less than the carbon replacement interval that is determined by the maximum design flow rate and organic concentration in the gas stream vented to the carbon adsorption system.

(4) Where a flare is used for VOC emission reduction, the owner or operator shall comply with the monitoring requirements of 40 CFR 60.18(f)(2).

(b) Where a VOC recovery device other than a carbon adsorber is used to meet the requirements specified in ยง 60.692-5(a), the owner or operator shall provide to the Administrator information describing the operation of the control device and the process parameter(s) that would indicate proper operation and maintenance of the device. The Administrator may request further information and will specify appropriate monitoring procedures or requirements.

(c) An alternative operational or process parameter may be monitored if it can be demonstrated that another parameter will ensure that the control device is operated in conformance with these standards and the control device's design specifications.
