
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQ - Standards of Performance for VOC Emissions From Petroleum Refinery Wastewater Systems
###### § 60.693-2 Alternative standards for oil-water separators.

(a) An owner or operator may elect to construct and operate a floating roof on an oil-water separator tank, slop oil tank, storage vessel, or other auxiliary equipment subject to the requirements of this subpart which meets the following specifications.

(1) Each floating roof shall be equipped with a closure device between the wall of the separator and the roof edge. The closure device is to consist of a primary seal and a secondary seal.

(i) The primary seal shall be a liquid-mounted seal or a mechanical shoe seal.

(A) A liquid-mounted seal means a foam- or liquid-filled seal mounted in contact with the liquid between the wall of the separator and the floating roof. A mechanical shoe seal means a metal sheet held vertically against the wall of the separator by springs or weighted levers and is connected by braces to the floating roof. A flexible coated fabric (envelope) spans the annular space between the metal sheet and the floating roof.

(B) The gap width between the primary seal and the separator wall shall not exceed 3.8 cm (1.5 in.) at any point.

(C) The total gap area between the primary seal and the separator wall shall not exceed 67 cm/m (3.2 in./ft) of separator wall perimeter.

(ii) The secondary seal shall be above the primary seal and cover the annular space between the floating roof and the wall of the separator.

(A) The gap width between the secondary seal and the separator wall shall not exceed 1.3 cm (0.5 in.) at any point.

(B) The total gap area between the secondary seal and the separator wall shall not exceed 6.7 cm/m (0.32 in./ft) of separator wall perimeter.

(iii) The maximum gap width and total gap area shall be determined by the methods and procedures specified in § 60.696(d).

(A) Measurement of primary seal gaps shall be performed within 60 calendar days after initial installation of the floating roof and introduction of refinery wastewater and once every 5 years thereafter.

(B) Measurement of secondary seal gaps shall be performed within 60 calendar days of initial introduction of refinery wastewater and once every year thereafter.

(iv) The owner or operator shall make necessary repairs within 30 calendar days of identification of seals not meeting the requirements listed in paragraphs (a)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, each opening in the roof shall be equipped with a gasketed cover, seal, or lid, which shall be maintained in a closed position at all times, except during inspection and maintenance.

(3) The roof shall be floating on the liquid (i.e., off the roof supports) at all times except during abnormal conditions (i.e., low flow rate).

(4) The floating roof may be equipped with one or more emergency roof drains for removal of stormwater. Each emergency roof drain shall be fitted with a slotted membrane fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the drain opening area or a flexible fabric sleeve seal.

(5)(i) Access doors and other openings shall be visually inspected initially and semiannually thereafter to ensure that there is a tight fit around the edges and to identify other problems that could result in VOC emissions.

(ii) When a broken seal or gasket on an access door or other opening is identified, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 30 calendar days after it is identified, except as provided in § 60.692-6.

(b) An owner or operator must notify the Administrator in the report required by 40 CFR 60.7 that the owner or operator has elected to construct and operate a floating roof under paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) For portions of the oil-water separator tank where it is infeasible to construct and operate a floating roof, such as the skimmer mechanism and weirs, a fixed roof meeting the requirements of § 60.692-3(a) shall be installed.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if an owner or operator elects to comply with the provisions of this section, then the owner or operator does not need to comply with the provisions of § 60.692-3 or § 60.694 applicable to the same facilities.
