
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQ - Standards of Performance for VOC Emissions From Petroleum Refinery Wastewater Systems
###### ยง 60.692-2 Standards: Individual drain systems.

(a)(1) Each drain shall be equipped with water seal controls.

(2) Each drain in active service shall be checked by visual or physical inspection initially and monthly thereafter for indications of low water levels or other conditions that would reduce the effectiveness of the water seal controls.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, each drain out of active service shall be checked by visual or physical inspection initially and weekly thereafter for indications of low water levels or other problems that could result in VOC emissions.

(4) As an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if an owner or operator elects to install a tightly sealed cap or plug over a drain that is out of service, inspections shall be conducted initially and semiannually to ensure caps or plugs are in place and properly installed.

(5) Whenever low water levels or missing or improperly installed caps or plugs are identified, water shall be added or first efforts at repair shall be made as soon as practicable, but not later than 24 hours after detection, except as provided in ยง 60.692-6.

(b)(1) Junction boxes shall be equipped with a cover and may have an open vent pipe. The vent pipe shall be at least 90 cm (3 ft) in length and shall not exceed 10.2 cm (4 in) in diameter.

(2) Junction box covers shall have a tight seal around the edge and shall be kept in place at all times, except during inspection and maintenance.

(3) Junction boxes shall be visually inspected initially and semiannually thereafter to ensure that the cover is in place and to ensure that the cover has a tight seal around the edge.

(4) If a broken seal or gap is identified, first effort at repair shall be made as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after the broken seal or gap is identified, except as provided in ยง 60.692-6.

(c)(1) Sewer lines shall not be open to the atmosphere and shall be covered or enclosed in a manner so as to have no visual gaps or cracks in joints, seals, or other emission interfaces.

(2) The portion of each unburied sewer line shall be visually inspected initially and semiannually thereafter for indication of cracks, gaps, or other problems that could result in VOC emissions.

(3) Whenever cracks, gaps, or other problems are detected, repairs shall be made as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after identification, except as provided in ยง 60.692-6.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, each modified or reconstructed individual drain system that has a catch basin in the existing configuration prior to May 4, 1987 shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.

(e) Refinery wastewater routed through new process drains and a new first common downstream junction box, either as part of a new individual drain system or an existing individual drain system, shall not be routed through a downstream catch basin.
