
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart RRR - Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Compound Emissions From Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry (SOCMI) Reactor Processes
###### § 60.700 Applicability and designation of affected facility.

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to each affected facility designated in paragraph (b) of this section that is part of a process unit that produces any of the chemicals listed in § 60.707 as a product, co-product, by-product, or intermediate, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) The affected facility is any of the following for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced after June 29, 1990:

(1) Each reactor process not discharging its vent stream into a recovery system.

(2) Each combination of a reactor process and the recovery system into which its vent stream is discharged.

(3) Each combination of two or more reactor processes and the common recovery system into which their vent streams are discharged.

(c) Exemptions from the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section are as follows:

(1) Any reactor process that is designed and operated as a batch operation is not an affected facility.

(2) Each affected facility that has a total resource effectiveness (TRE) index value greater than 8.0 is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for §§ 60.702(c); 60.704 (d), (e), and (f); and 60.705 (g), (l)(1), (l)(6), and (t).

(3) Each affected facility in a process unit with a total design capacity for all chemicals produced within that unit of less than 1 gigagram per year (1,100 tons per year) is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 60.705 (i), (l)(5), and (n).

(4) Each affected facility operated with a vent stream flow rate less than 0.011 scm/min is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the test method and procedure and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 60.704(g) and 70.705 (h), (l)(4), and (o).

(5) If the vent stream from an affected facility is routed to a distillation unit subject to subpart NNN and has no other releases to the air except for a pressure relief valve, the facility is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for § 60.705(r).

(6) Any reactor process operating as part of a process unit which produces beverage alcohols, or which uses, contains, and produces no VOC is not an affected facility.

(7) Any reactor process that is subject to the provisions of subpart DDD is not an affected facility.

(8) Each affected facility operated with a concentration of total organic compounds (TOC) (less methane and ethane) in the vent stream less than 300 ppmv as measured by Method 18 or a concentration of TOC in the vent stream less than 150 ppmv as measured by Method 25A is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the test method and procedure and the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in § 60.704(h) and paragraphs (j), (l)(8), and (p) of § 60.705.
