
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQ - Standards of Performance for VOC Emissions From Petroleum Refinery Wastewater Systems
###### § 60.697 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of a facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of this section. All records shall be retained for a period of 2 years after being recorded unless otherwise noted.

(b)(1) For individual drain systems subject to § 60.692-2, the location, date, and corrective action shall be recorded for each drain when the water seal is dry or otherwise breached, when a drain cap or plug is missing or improperly installed, or other problem is identified that could result in VOC emissions, as determined during the initial and periodic visual or physical inspection.

(2) For junction boxes subject to § 60.692-2, the location, date, and corrective action shall be recorded for inspections required by § 60.692-2(b) when a broken seal, gap, or other problem is identified that could result in VOC emissions.

(3) For sewer lines subject to §§ 60.692-2 and 60.693-1(e), the location, date, and corrective action shall be recorded for inspections required by §§ 60.692-2(c) and 60.693-1(e) when a problem is identified that could result in VOC emissions.

(c) For oil-water separators subject to § 60.692-3, the location, date, and corrective action shall be recorded for inspections required by § 60.692-3(a) when a problem is identified that could result in VOC emissions.

(d) For closed vent systems subject to § 60.692-5 and completely closed drain systems subject to § 60.693-1, the location, date, and corrective action shall be recorded for inspections required by § 60.692-5(e) during which detectable emissions are measured or a problem is identified that could result in VOC emissions.

(e)(1) If an emission point cannot be repaired or corrected without a process unit shutdown, the expected date of a successful repair shall be recorded.

(2) The reason for the delay as specified in § 60.692-6 shall be recorded if an emission point or equipment problem is not repaired or corrected in the specified amount of time.

(3) The signature of the owner or operator (or designee) whose decision it was that repair could not be effected without refinery or process shutdown shall be recorded.

(4) The date of successful repair or corrective action shall be recorded.

(f)(1) A copy of the design specifications for all equipment used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall be kept for the life of the source in a readily accessible location.

(2) The following information pertaining to the design specifications shall be kept.

(i) Detailed schematics, and piping and instrumentation diagrams.

(ii) The dates and descriptions of any changes in the design specifications.

(3) The following information pertaining to the operation and maintenance of closed drain systems and closed vent systems shall be kept in a readily accessible location.

(i) Documentation demonstrating that the control device will achieve the required control efficiency during maximum loading conditions shall be kept for the life of the facility. This documentation is to include a general description of the gas streams that enter the control device, including flow and volatile organic compound content under varying liquid level conditions (dynamic and static) and manufacturer's design specifications for the control device. If an enclosed combustion device with a minimum residence time of 0.75 seconds and a minimum temperature of 816 &#xB0;C (1,500 &#xB0;F) is used to meet the 95-percent requirement, documentation that those conditions exist is sufficient to meet the requirements of this paragraph.

(ii) For a carbon adsorption system that does not regenerate the carbon bed directly onsite in the control device such as a carbon canister, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature. The design analysis shall also establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level, capacity of carbon bed, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for carbon bed, and design carbon replacement interval based on the total carbon working capacity of the control device and source operating schedule.

(iii) Periods when the closed vent systems and control devices required in § 60.692 are not operated as designed, including periods when a flare pilot does not have a flame shall be recorded and kept for 2 years after the information is recorded.

(iv) Dates of startup and shutdown of the closed vent system and control devices required in § 60.692 shall be recorded and kept for 2 years after the information is recorded.

(v) The dates of each measurement of detectable emissions required in § 60.692, § 60.693, or § 60.692-5 shall be recorded and kept for 2 years after the information is recorded.

(vi) The background level measured during each detectable emissions measurement shall be recorded and kept for 2 years after the information is recorded.

(vii) The maximum instrument reading measured during each detectable emission measurement shall be recorded and kept for 2 years after the information is recorded.

(viii) Each owner or operator of an affected facility that uses a thermal incinerator shall maintain continuous records of the temperature of the gas stream in the combustion zone of the incinerator and records of all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average temperature of the gas stream in the combustion zone is more than 28 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) below the design combustion zone temperature, and shall keep such records for 2 years after the information is recorded.

(ix) Each owner or operator of an affected facility that uses a catalytic incinerator shall maintain continuous records of the temperature of the gas stream both upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed of the incinerator, records of all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average temperature measured before the catalyst bed is more than 28 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) below the design gas stream temperature, and records of all 3-hour periods during which the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed is less than 80 percent of the design temperature difference, and shall keep such records for 2 years after the information is recorded.

(x) Each owner or operator of an affected facility that uses a carbon adsorber shall maintain continuous records of the VOC concentration level or reading of organics of the control device outlet gas stream or inlet and outlet gas stream and records of all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average VOC concentration level or reading of organics in the exhaust gases, or inlet and outlet gas stream, is more than 20 percent greater than the design exhaust gas concentration level, and shall keep such records for 2 years after the information is recorded.

(A) Each owner or operator of an affected facility that uses a carbon adsorber which is regenerated directly onsite shall maintain continuous records of the volatile organic compound concentration level or reading of organics of the control device outlet gas stream or inlet and outlet gas stream and records of all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average volatile organic compound concentration level or reading of organics in the exhaust gases, or inlet and outlet gas stream, is more than 20 percent greater than the design exhaust gas concentration level, and shall keep such records for 2 years after the information is recorded.

(B) If a carbon adsorber that is not regenerated directly onsite in the control device is used, then the owner or operator shall maintain records of dates and times when the control device is monitored, when breakthrough is measured, and shall record the date and time that the existing carbon in the control device is replaced with fresh carbon.

(g) If an owner or operator elects to install a tightly sealed cap or plug over a drain that is out of active service, the owner or operator shall keep for the life of a facility in a readily accessible location, plans or specifications which indicate the location of such drains.

(h) For stormwater sewer systems subject to the exclusion in § 60.692-1(d)(1), an owner or operator shall keep for the life of the facility in a readily accessible location, plans or specifications which demonstrate that no wastewater from any process units or equipment is directly discharged to the stormwater sewer system.

(i) For ancillary equipment subject to the exclusion in § 60.692-1(d)(2), an owner or operator shall keep for the life of a facility in a readily accessible location, plans or specifications which demonsrate that the ancillary equipment does not come in contact with or store oily wastewater.

(j) For non-contact cooling water systems subject to the exclusion in § 60.692-1(d)(3), an owner or operator shall keep for the life of the facility in a readily accessible location, plans or specifications which demonstrate that the cooling water does not contact hydrocarbons or oily wastewater and is not recirculated through a cooling tower.

(k) For oil-water separators subject to § 60.693-2, the location, date, and corrective action shall be recorded for inspections required by §§ 60.693-2(a)(1)(iii)(A) and (B), and shall be maintained for the time period specified in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For inspections required by § 60.693-2(a)(1)(iii)(A), ten years after the information is recorded.

(2) For inspections required by § 60.693-2(a)(1)(iii)(B), two years after the information is recorded.
