
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQ - Standards of Performance for VOC Emissions From Petroleum Refinery Wastewater Systems
###### § 60.696 Performance test methods and procedures and compliance provisions.

(a) Before using any equipment installed in compliance with the requirements of § 60.692-2, § 60.692-3, § 60.692-4, § 60.692-5, or § 60.693, the owner or operator shall inspect such equipment for indications of potential emissions, defects, or other problems that may cause the requirements of this subpart not to be met. Points of inspection shall include, but are not limited to, seals, flanges, joints, gaskets, hatches, caps, and plugs.

(b) The owner or operator of each source that is equipped with a closed vent system and control device as required in § 60.692-5 (other than a flare) is exempt from § 60.8 of the General Provisions and shall use Method 21 to measure the emission concentrations, using 500 ppm as the no detectable emission limit. The instrument shall be calibrated each day before using. The calibration gases shall be:

(1) Zero air (less than 10 ppm of hydrocarbon in air), and

(2) A mixture of either methane or n-hexane and air at a concentration of approximately, but less than, 10,000 ppm methane or n-hexane.

(c) The owner or operator shall conduct a performance test initially, and at other times as requested by the Administrator, using the test methods and procedures in § 60.18(f) to determine compliance of flares.

(d) After installing the control equipment required to meet § 60.693-2(a) or whenever sources that have ceased to treat refinery wastewater for a period of 1 year or more are placed back into service, the owner or operator shall determine compliance with the standards in § 60.693-2(a) as follows:

(1) The maximum gap widths and maximum gap areas between the primary seal and the separator wall and between the secondary seal and the separator wall shall be determined individually within 60 calendar days of the initial installation of the floating roof and introduction of refinery wastewater or 60 calendar days after the equipment is placed back into service using the following procedure when the separator is filled to the design operating level and when the roof is floating off the roof supports.

(i) Measure seal gaps around the entire perimeter of the separator in each place where a 0.32 cm (0.125 in.) diameter uniform probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against seal) between the seal and the wall of the separator and measure the gap width and perimetrical distance of each such location.

(ii) The total surface area of each gap described in (d)(1)(i) of this section shall be determined by using probes of various widths to measure accurately the actual distance from the wall to the seal and multiplying each such width by its respective perimetrical distance.

(iii) Add the gap surface area of each gap location for the primary seal and the secondary seal individually, divide the sum for each seal by the nominal perimeter of the separator basin and compare each to the maximum gap area as specified in § 60.693-2.

(2) The gap widths and total gap area shall be determined using the procedure in paragraph (d)(1) of this section according to the following frequency:

(i) For primary seals, once every 5 years.

(ii) For secondary seals, once every year.
