
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart SSS - Standards of Performance for Magnetic Tape Coating Facilities
###### ยง 60.711 Definitions, symbols, and cross reference tables.
####### Total enclosure

(17)means a structure that is constructed around a source of emissions so that all VOC emissions are collected and exhausted through a stack or duct. With a total enclosure, there will be no fugitive emissions, only stack emissions. The only openings in a total enclosure are forced makeup air and exhaust ducts and any natural draft openings such as those that allow raw materials to enter and exit the enclosure for processing. All access doors or windows are closed during routine operation of the enclosed source. Brief, occasional openings of such doors or windows to accommodate process equipment adjustments are acceptable, but, if such openings are routine or if an access door remains open during the entire operation, the access door must be considered a natural draft opening. The average inward face velocity across the natural draft openings of the enclosure must be calculated including the area of such access doors. The drying oven itself may be part of the total enclosure. A permanent enclosure that meets the requirements found in ยง 60.713(b)(5)(i) is assumed to be a total enclosure. The owner or operator of a permanent enclosure that does not meet the requirements may apply to the Administrator for approval of the enclosure as a total enclosure on a case-by-case basis. Such approval shall be granted upon a demonstration to the satisfaction of the Administrator that all VOC emissions are contained and vented to the control device.
