
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart SSS - Standards of Performance for Magnetic Tape Coating Facilities
###### ยง 60.711 Definitions, symbols, and cross reference tables.
####### Volatile Organic Compounds,VOC

(20)ormeans any organic compounds that participate in atmospheric photochemical reactions or that are measured by Method 18, 24, 25, or 25A or an equivalent or alternative method as defined in 40 CFR 60.2.

(b) The nomenclature used in this subpart has the following meaning:

(1) A= the area of each natural draft opening (k) in a total enclosure, in square meters.

(2) C= the concentration of VOC in each gas stream (j) exiting the emission control device, in parts per million by volume.

(3) C= the concentration of VOC in each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device, in parts per million by volume.

(4) C= the concentration of VOC in each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device from the affected coating operation, in parts per million by volume.

(5) C= the concentration of VOC in each uncontrolled gas stream (k) emitted directly to the atmosphere from the affected coating operation, in parts per million by volume.

(6) C= the concentration of VOC in the gas stream entering each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v), in parts per million by volume. For the purposes of calculating the efficiency of the individual adsorber vessel, Cmay be measured in the carbon adsorption system's common inlet duct prior to the branching of individual inlet ducts.

(7) C= the concentration of VOC in the gas stream exiting each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v), in parts per million by volume.

(8) E = the control device efficiency achieved for the duration of the emission test (expressed as a fraction).

(9) F = the VOC emission capture efficiency of the VOC capture system achieved for the duration of the emission test (expressed as a fraction).

(10) FV = the average inward face velocity across all natural draft openings in a total enclosure, in meters per hour.

(11) G = the calculated weighted average mass of VOC per volume of coating solids (in kilograms per liter) applied each nominal 1-month period.

(12) H= the individual carbon adsorber vessel (v) efficiency achieved for the duration of the emission test (expressed as a fraction).

(13) H= the carbon adsorption system efficiency calculated when each adsorber vessel has an individual exhaust stack.

(14) L= the volume fraction of solids in each coating (i) applied during a nominal 1-month period as determined from the facility's formulation records.

(15) M= the total mass in kilograms of each coating (i) applied at an affected coating operation during a nominal 1-month period as determined from facility records. This quantity shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients (including any dilution solvent) have been added to the coating, or appropriate adjustments shall be made to account for any ingredients added after the mass of the coating has been determined.

(16) M= the total mass in kilograms of VOC recovered for a nominal 1-month period.

(17) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (j) exiting the emission control device, in dry standard cubic meters per hour when Method 18 or 25 is used to measure VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when Method 25A is used to measure VOC concentration.

(18) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device, in dry standard cubic meters per hour when Method 18 or 25 is used to measure VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when Method 25A is used to measure VOC concentration.

(19) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device from the affected coating operation, in dry standard cubic meters per hour when Method 18 or 25 is used to measure VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when Method 25A is used to measure VOC concentration.

(20) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each uncontrolled gas stream (k) emitted directly to the atmosphere from the affected coating operation, in dry standard cubic meters per hour when Method 18 or 25 is used to measure VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when Method 25A is used to measure VOC concentration.

(21) Q= the volumetric flow rate of the gas stream entering each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v), in dry standard cubic meters per hour when Method 18 or 25 is used to measure VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when Method 25A is used to measure VOC concentration. For purposes of calculating the efficiency of the individual adsorber vessel, the value of Qcan be assumed to equal the value of Qmeasured for that adsorber vessel.

(22) Q= the volumetric flow rate of the gas stream exiting each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v), in dry standard cubic meters per hour when Method 18 or 25 is used to measure VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when Method 25A is used to measure VOC concentration.

(23) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (i) entering the total enclosure through a forced makeup air duct, in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis).

(24) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (j) exiting the total enclosure through an exhaust duct or hood, in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis).

(25) R = the overall VOC emission reduction achieved for the duration of the emission test (expressed as a percentage).

(26) RS= the total mass (kg) of VOC retained in the coated base film after oven drying for a given magnetic tape product.

(27) V= the total volume in liters of each coating (i) applied during a nominal 1-month period as determined from facility records.

(28) W= the weight fraction of VOC in each coating (i) applied at an affected coating operation during a nominal 1-month period as determined by Method 24. This value shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients (including any dilution solvent) have been added to the coating, or appropriate adjustments shall be made to account for any ingredients added after the weight fraction of VOC in the coating has been determined.

(c) tables 1a and 1b present a cross reference of the affected facility status and the relevant section(s) of the regulation.
