
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart SSS - Standards of Performance for Magnetic Tape Coating Facilities
###### § 60.714 Installation of monitoring devices and recordkeeping.

All monitoring devices required under the provisions of this section shall be installed and calibrated, according to the manufacturer's specifications, prior to the initial performance tests in locations such that representative values of the monitored parameters will be obtained. The parameters to be monitored shall be continuously measured and recorded during all performance tests.

(a) Each owner or operator of an affected coating operation that utilizes less solvent annually than the applicable cutoff provided in § 60.710(b) and that is not subject to § 60.712 (standards for coating operations) shall maintain records of actual solvent use.

(b) Each owner or operator of an affected coating operation demonstrating compliance by the test method described in § 60.713(b)(1) (liquid material balance) shall maintain records of all the following for each and every nominal 1-month period:

(1) Amount of coating applied at the applicator;

(2) Results of the reference test method specified in § 60.715(a) for determining the VOC content of all coatings applied;

(3) Amount VOC recovered; and

(4) Calculation of the percent VOC recovered.

(c) Each owner or operator of an affected coating operation or affected coating mix preparation equipment controlled by a carbon adsorption system and demonstrating compliance by the procedures described in § 60.713(b)(2), (3), (4), (5), or (6) (which include control device efficiency determinations) shall carry out the monitoring and recordkeeping provisions of paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate.

(1) For carbon adsorption systems with a common exhaust stack for all the individual adsorber vessels, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the concentration level of organic compounds in either the control device outlet gas stream or in both the control device inlet and outlet gas streams. The outlet gas stream would be monitored if the percent increase in the concentration level of organic compounds is used as the basis for reporting, as described in § 60.717(d)(3). The inlet and outlet gas streams would be monitored if the percent control device efficiency is used as the basis for reporting, as described in § 60.717(d)(4).

(2) For carbon adsorption systems with individual exhaust stacks for each adsorber vessel, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the concentration level of organic compounds in the outlet gas stream for a minimum of one complete adsorption cycle per day for each adsorber vessel. The owner or operator may also monitor and record the concentration level of organic compounds in the common carbon adsorption system inlet gas stream or in each individual carbon adsorber vessel inlet stream. The outlet gas streams alone would be monitored if the percent increase in the concentration level of organic compounds is used as the basis for reporting, as described in § 60.717(d)(3). In this case, the owner or operator shall compute daily a 3-day rolling average concentration level of organics in the outlet gas stream from each individual adsorber vessel. The inlet and outlet gas streams would be monitored if the percent control device efficiency is used as the basis for reporting, as described in § 60.717(d)(4). In this case, the owner or operator shall compute daily a 3-day rolling average efficiency for each individual adsorber vessel.

(d) Each owner or operator of an affected coating operation controlled by a condensation system and demonstrating compliance by the procedures described in § 60.713(b)(2), (4), or (5) (which include control device efficiency determinations) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the temperature of the condenser exhaust stream.

(e) Each owner or operator of an affected coating operation or affected coating mix preparation equipment controlled by a thermal incinerator and demonstrating compliance by the procedures described in § 60.713(b)(2), (4), (5), or (6) (which include control device efficiency determinations) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the combustion temperature of the incinerator. The monitoring device shall have an accuracy within +/-1 percent of the temperature being measured in Celsius degrees.

(f) Each owner or operator of an affected coating operation or affected coating mix preparation equipment controlled by a catalytic incinerator and demonstrating compliance by the procedures described in § 60.713(b)(2), (4), (5), or (6) (which include control device efficiency determinations) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the gas temperature both upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed. The monitoring device shall have an accuracy within +/-1 percent of the temperature being measured in Celsius degrees.

(g) Each owner or operator of an affected coating operation demonstrating compliance pursuant to § 60.713(b)(2), (3), or (4) (which include VOC capture system efficiency determinations) shall submit a monitoring plan for the VOC capture system to the Administrator for approval along with the notification of anticipated startup required under § 60.7(a)(2) of the General Provisions. This plan shall identify the parameter to be monitored as an indicator of VOC capture system performance (e.g., the amperage to the exhaust fans or duct flow rates) and the method for monitoring the chosen parameter. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the value of the chosen parameter.

(h) Each owner or operator of an affected coating operation who uses the equipment alternative described in § 60.713(b)(5) to demonstrate compliance shall follow the procedures described in paragraph (g) of this section to establish a monitoring plan for the total enclosure.

(i) Each owner or operator of an affected coating operation shall record time periods of coating operations when an emission control device is not in use.

(j) Each owner or operator of an affected coating operation or affected coating mix preparation equipment complying with § 60.712(e) shall maintain records of the monthly weighted average mass of VOC contained in the coating per volume of coating solids applied for each coating, as described in § 60.713(b)(9)(i) through (iv).

(k) Records of the measurements and calculations required in §§ 60.713 and 60.714 must be retained for at least 2 years following the date of the measurements and calculations.
