
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart SSS - Standards of Performance for Magnetic Tape Coating Facilities
###### § 60.712 Standards for volatile organic compounds.

Each owner or operator of any affected facility that is subject to the requirements of this subpart shall comply with the emission limitations set forth in this section on and after the date on which the initial performance test required by § 60.8 is completed, but not later than 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated or 180 days after initial startup, whichever date comes first.

(a) Each owner or operator shall control emissions from a new coating operation by recovering or destroying at least 93 percent of the VOC content of the coating applied at the coating applicator.

(b) Each owner or operator of a modified or reconstructed coating operation shall meet the appropriate standard set out in (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.

(1) For coating operations demonstrated prior to modification or reconstruction pursuant to § 60.713(a)(1) to have emissions controlled by the recovery or destruction of at least 90 percent of the VOC content of the coating applied at the coating applicator.

(i) Subject to the provisions of (b)(1)(ii) of this section, each owner or operator shall continue to control emissions from the coating operation to at least the demonstrated level or 93 percent, whichever is lower.

(ii) If the VOC control device in use during the emission reduction demonstration made pursuant to § 60.713(a)(1) is subsequently replaced, each owner or operator shall:

(A) Install a control device that is at least 95 percent efficient; and

(B) Control emissions from the coating operation to at least the level determined pursuant to § 60.713(a)(3)(ii).

(2) For coating operations demonstrated prior to modification or reconstruction pursuant to § 60.713(a)(2) to have a total enclosure installed around the coating operation and all VOC emissions ventilated to a control device that is at least 92 percent efficient.

(i) Subject to the provisions of (b)(2)(ii) of this section, each owner or operator shall continue to ventilate all VOC emissions from the total enclosure to the control device and maintain control device efficiency at or above the demonstrated level or 95 percent, whichever is lower.

(ii) If the VOC control device in use during the control device efficiency demonstration made pursuant to § 60.713(a)(2) is subsequently replaced, each owner or operator shall install a VOC control device that is at least 95 percent efficient and ventilate all VOC emissions from the total enclosure to the control device.

(3) For coating operations not subject to paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, each owner or operator shall control emissions from the coating operation by recovering or destroying at least 93 percent of the VOC content of the coating applied at the coating applicator.

(c) Each owner or operator constructing new coating mix preparation equipment with concurrent construction of a new VOC control device (other than a condenser) on a magnetic tape coating operation shall control emissions from the coating mix preparation equipment by installing and using a cover on each piece of equipment and venting the equipment to a 95 percent efficient control device. Each cover shall meet the following specifications:

(1) Cover shall be closed at all times except when adding ingredients, withdrawing samples, transferring the contents, or making visual inspection when such activities cannot be carried out with cover in place. Such activities shall be carried out through ports of the minimum practical size.

(2) Cover shall extend at least 2 cm beyond the outer rim of the opening or shall be attached to the rim;

(3) Cover shall be of such design and construction that contact is maintained between cover and rim along the entire perimeter;

(4) Any breach in the cover (such as an opening for insertion of a mixer shaft or port for addition of ingredients) shall be covered consistent with (c)(2) and (3) of this section when not actively in use. An opening sufficient to allow safe clearance for a mixer shaft is acceptable during those periods when the shaft is in place; and

(5) A polyethylene or nonpermanent cover may be used provided it meets the requirements of (c)(2), (3), and (4) of this section. Such a cover shall not be reused after once being removed.

(d) Each owner or operator of affected coating mix preparation equipment not subject to § 60.712(c) shall control emissions from the coating mix preparation equipment by either:

(1) Installing and using a cover that meets the specifications in paragraphs (c)(1)-(5) of this section and venting VOC emissions from the equipment to a VOC control device; or

(2) Installing and using a cover that meets the specifications in paragraphs (c)(1)-(5) of this section.

(e) In lieu of complying with § 60.712(a) through (d), each owner or operator may use coatings that contain a maximum of 0.20 kg of VOC per liter of coating solids as calculated on a weighted average basis for each nominal 1-month period.
