
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart SSS - Standards of Performance for Magnetic Tape Coating Facilities
###### § 60.715 Test methods and procedures.

Methods in appendix A of this part, except as provided under § 60.8(b), shall be used to determine compliance as follows:

(a) Method 24 is used to determine the VOC content in coatings. If it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Administrator that plant coating formulation data are equivalent to Method 24 results, formulation data may be used. In the event of any inconsistency between a Method 24 test and a facility's formulation data, the Method 24 test will govern. For Method 24, the coating sample must be a 1-liter sample taken into a 1-liter container at a location and time such that the sample will be representative of the coating applied to the base film (i.e., the sample shall include any dilution solvent or other VOC added during the manufacturing process). The container must be tightly sealed immediately after the sample is taken. Any solvent or other VOC added after the sample is taken must be measured and accounted for in the calculations that use Method 24 results.

(b) Method 18, 25, or 25A, as appropriate to the conditions at the site, is used to determine VOC concentration. The owner or operator shall submit notice of the intended test method to the Administrator for approval along with the notification of the performance test required under § 60.8(d) of the General Provisions. Method selection shall be based on consideration of the diversity of organic species present and their total concentration and on consideration of the potential presence of interfering gases. Except as indicated in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, the test shall consist of three separate runs, each lasting a minimum of 30 minutes.

(1) When the method is to be used in the determination of the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with a common exhaust stack for all the individual adsorber vessels pursuant to § 60.713(b)(2), (4), (5), or (6), the test shall consist of three separate runs, each coinciding with one or more complete sequences through the adsorption cycles of all the individual adsorber vessels.

(2) When the method is to be used in the determination of the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each adsorber vessel pursuant to § 60.713(b)(3), (4), (5), or (6), each adsorber vessel shall be tested individually. The test for each adsorber vessel shall consist of three separate runs. Each run shall coincide with one or more complete adsorption cycles.

(c) Method 1 or 1A is used for sample and velocity traverses.

(d) Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D is used for velocity and volumetric flow rates.

(e) Method 3 is used for gas analysis.

(f) Method 4 is used for stack gas moisture.

(g) Methods 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 3, and 4 shall be performed, as applicable, at least twice during each test period.
