
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTT - Standards of Performance for Industrial Surface Coating: Surface Coating of Plastic Parts for Business Machines
###### § 60.724 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The reporting requirements of § 60.8(a) apply only to the initial performance test. Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall include the following data in the report of the initial performance test required under § 60.8(a):

(1) Except as provided for in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere per volume of applied coating solids (N) for the initial nominal 1-month period for each coating operation from each affected facility.

(2) For each affected facility where compliance is determined under the provisions of § 60.723(b)(2)(iii), a list of the coatings used during the initial nominal 1-month period, the VOC content of each coating calculated from data determined using Method 24 of appendix A-7 to this part or an acceptable alternative method, and the lowest transfer efficiency at which each coating is applied during the initial nominal 1-month period. Acceptable alternative methods to Method 24 include: ASTM D2369-20; ASTM D2697-22; and ASTM D6093-97 (all incorporated by reference; see § 60.17).

(b) Following the initial report, each owner or operator shall:

(1) Report the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's per unit volume of coating solids applied for each coating operation for each affected facility during each nominal 1-month period in which the facility is not in compliance with the applicable emission limits specified in § 60.722. Reports of noncompliance shall be submitted on a quarterly basis, occurring every 3 months following the initial report; and

(2) Submit statements that each affected facility has been in compliance with the applicable emission limits specified in § 60.722 during each nominal 1-month period. Statements of compliance shall be submitted on a semiannual basis.

(c) Before May 26, 2023, performance test reports, quarterly reports of noncompliance, and semiannual statements of compliance shall be postmarked not later than 10 days after the end of the periods specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. Beginning May 26, 2023, performance test reports, quarterly reports of noncompliance, and semiannual statements of compliance shall be submitted as a portable document format (PDF) upload not later than 10 days after the end of the periods specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, according to paragraph (f) of this section.

(d) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain at the source, for a period of at least 2 years, records of all data and calculations used to determine monthly VOC emissions from each coating operation for each affected facility as specified in 40 CFR 60.7(d).

(e) Monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements for facilities using add-on controls will be determined by the Administrator on a case-by-case basis.
