
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTT - Standards of Performance for Industrial Surface Coating: Surface Coating of Plastic Parts for Business Machines
###### ยง 60.723 Performance tests and compliance provisions.

(a) Section 60.8(d) through (i) do not apply to the performance test procedures required by this section.

(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test as required under ยง 60.8(a) and thereafter a performance test each nominal 1-month period for each affected facility according to the procedures in this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall determine the composition of coatings by analysis of each coating, as received, using Method 24 of appendix A-7 to this part or an acceptable alternative method, from data that have been determined by the coating manufacturer using Method 24 or an acceptable alternative method. Acceptable alternative methods to Method 24 include: ASTM D2369-20; ASTM D2697-22; and ASTM D6093-97 (all incorporated by reference; see ยง 60.17).

(2) The owner or operator shall determine the volume of coating and the mass of VOC used for dilution of coatings from company records during each nominal 1-month period. If a common coating distribution system serves more than one affected facility or serves both affected and nonaffected spray booths, the owner or operator shall estimate the volume of coatings used at each facility by using procedures approved by the Administrator.

(i) The owner or operator shall calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's in coatings emitted per unit volume of coating solids applied (N) at each coating operation [i.e., for each type of coating (prime, color, texture, and touch-up) used] during each nominal 1-month period for each affected facility. Each 1-month calculation is considered a performance test. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, N will be determined by the following procedures:

(A) Calculate the mass of VOC's used (M+ M) for each coating operation during each nominal 1-month period for each affected facility by the following equation:

(B) Calculate the total volume of coating solids consumed (L) in each nominal 1-month period for each coating operation for each affected facility by the following equation:

(C) Select the appropriate transfer efficiency (T) from table 1 to paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D) of this section for each type of coating applications equipment used at each coating operation. If the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that transfer efficiencies other than those shown are appropriate, the Administrator will approve their use on a case-by-case basis. Transfer efficiency values for application methods not listed below shall be approved by the Administrator on a case-by-case basis. An owner or operator must submit sufficient data for the Administrator to judge the validity of the transfer efficiency claims.

(D) Where more than one application method is used within a single coating operation, the owner or operator shall determine the volume of each coating applied by each method through a means acceptable to the Administrator and compute the volume-weighted average transfer efficiency by the following equation:

(E) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted per unit volume of coating solids applied (N) during each nominal 1-month period for each coating operation for each affected facility by the following equation:

(ii) Where the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (N) is less than or equal to 1.5 kilograms per liter for prime coats, is less than or equal to 1.5 kilograms per liter for color coats, is less than or equal to 2.3 kilograms per liter for texture coats, and is less than or equal to 2.3 kilograms per liter for touch-up coats, the affected facility is in compliance.

(iii) If each individual coating used by an affected facility has a VOC content (kg VOC/l of solids), as received, which when divided by the lowest transfer efficiency at which the coating is applied for each coating operation results in a value equal to or less than 1.5 kilograms per liter for prime and color coats and equal to or less than 2.3 kilograms per liter for texture and touch-up coats, the affected facility is in compliance provided that no VOC's are added to the coatings during distribution or application.

(iv) If an affected facility uses add-on controls to control VOC emissions and if the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator that the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere during each nominal 1-month period per unit volume of coating solids applied (N) is within each of the applicable limits expressed in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section because of this equipment, the affected facility is in compliance. In such cases, compliance will be determined by the Administrator on a case-by-case basis.
