
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTTa - Standards of Performance for Industrial Surface Coating: Surface Coating of Plastic Parts for Business Machines for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After June 21, 2022
###### ยง 60.721a Definitions.
####### VOC emissions,i.e.,

means the mass of VOC's emitted from the surface coating of plastic parts for business machines expressed as kilograms of VOC's per liter of coating solids applied (deposited on the surface).

(b) All symbols used in this subpart not defined in this paragraph (b) are given meaning in the Act or subpart A of this part.

D= density of each coating as received (kilograms per liter).

D= density of each diluent VOC (kilograms per liter).

L= the volume of each coating consumed, as received (liters).

L= the volume of each diluent VOC added to coatings (liters).

L= the volume of coating solids consumed (liters).

M= the mass of diluent VOC's consumed (kilograms).

M= the mass of VOC's in coatings consumed, as received (kilograms).

N = the volume-weighted average mass of VOC emissions to the atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (kilograms per liter).

T = the transfer efficiency for each type of application equipment used at a coating operation (fraction).

T= the volume-weighted average transfer efficiency for a coating operation (fraction).

V= the proportion of solids in each coating, as received (fraction by volume).

W= the proportion of VOC's in each coating, as received (fraction by weight).
