
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart VVV - Standards of Performance for Polymeric Coating of Supporting Substrates Facilities
###### ยง 60.743 Compliance provisions.
####### Monthly liquid material balance.

(3)This method can be used only when a VOC recovery device controls only those emissions from one affected coating operation. It may not be used if the VOC recovery device controls emissions from any other VOC emission sources. When demonstrating compliance by this method, ยง 60.8(f) (Performance Tests) of this part does not apply. The owner or operator using this method shall comply with the following procedures to determine the VOC emission reduction for each nominal 1-month period:

(i) Measure the amount of coating applied at the coating applicator. This quantity shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients (including any dilution solvent) have been added to the coating, or appropriate adjustments shall be made to account for any ingredients added after the amount of coating has been determined;

(ii) Determine the VOC content of all coatings applied using the test method specified in ยง 60.745(a). This value shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients (including any dilution solvent) have been added to the coating, or appropriate adjustments shall be made to account for any ingredients added after the VOC content in the coating has been determined;

(iii) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of VOC recovered by the control device over each nominal 1-month period. The device shall be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within +/-2.0 percent;

(iv) Measure the amount of VOC recovered; and

(v) Calculate the overall VOC emission reduction (R) for each and every nominal 1-month period using Equation 5. Emissions during startups and shutdowns are to be included when determining R because startups and shutdowns are part of normal operation for this source category.

(A) The value of RSis zero unless the owner or operator submits the following information to the Administrator for approval of a measured value of RSthat is greater than zero but less than or equal to 6 percent by weight of the liquid VOC applied:
