
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart VVV - Standards of Performance for Polymeric Coating of Supporting Substrates Facilities
###### § 60.743 Compliance provisions.
####### Gaseous emission test for coating operations not using carbon adsorption beds with individual exhausts.

(1)This method is applicable when the emissions from any affected coating operation are controlled by a control device other than a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each adsorber vessel. The owner or operator using this method shall comply with the following procedures:

(i) Construct the vapor capture system and control device so that all gaseous volumetric flow rates and total VOC emissions can be accurately determined by the applicable test methods and procedures specified in § 60.745(b) through (g);

(ii) Determine capture efficiency from the coating operation by capturing, venting, and measuring all VOC emissions from the coating operation. During a performance test, the owner or operator of an affected coating operation located in an area with other sources of VOC shall isolate the coating operation emissions from all other sources of VOC by one of the following methods:

(A) Build a temporary enclosure, as defined in § 60.741(a) and conforming to the requirements of § 60.743(b)(1), around the affected coating operation. The temporary enclosure must be constructed and ventilated (through stacks suitable for testing) so that it has minimal impact on performance of the capture system; or

(B) Shut down all other sources of VOC and continue to exhaust fugitive emissions from the affected coating operation through any building ventilation system and other room exhausts such as those on drying ovens. All such ventilation air must be vented through stacks suitable for testing because the VOC content in each must be determined.

(iii) Operate the emission control device with all emission sources connected and operating.

(iv) Determine the efficiency (E) of the control device by Equation 1:

(v) Determine the efficiency (F) of the vapor capture system by Equation 2:

(vi) For each affected coating operation subject to § 60.742(b)(1) (emission reduction standard for coating operations), compliance is demonstrated if the product of (E)x(F) is equal to or greater than 0.90.
