
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart VVV - Standards of Performance for Polymeric Coating of Supporting Substrates Facilities
###### § 60.743 Compliance provisions.
####### Short-term liquid material balance.

(4)This method may be used as an alternative to the monthly liquid material balance described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The owner or operator using this method shall comply with the following procedures to determine VOC emission reduction for a 3- to 7-day period and shall continuously monitor VOC emissions as specified in § 60.744.

(i) Use the procedures described in paragraphs (a)(3) (i) through (vi) of this section to determine the overall emission reduction, R. Compliance is demonstrated if the value of R is equal to or greater than 0.90.

(ii) The number of days for the performance test (3 to 7) is to be based on the affected facility's representative performance consistent with the requirements of § 60.8(c). Data demonstrating that the chosen test period is representative shall be submitted to the Administrator for approval with the notification of anticipated startup required under § 60.7(a)(2).

(b) Each owner or operator of an affected coating operation subject to the standard specified in § 60.742(b)(2) (alternative standard for coating operations) shall:

(1) Demonstrate that a total enclosure is installed. The total enclosure shall either be approved by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of § 60.746, or meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) (i) through (vi) of this section, as follows:

(i) The only openings in the enclosure are forced makeup air and exhaust ducts and natural draft openings such as those through which raw materials enter and exist the coating operation;

(ii) Total area of all natural draft openings does not exceed 5 percent of the total surface area of the total enclosure's walls, floor, and ceiling;

(iii) All access doors and windows are closed during normal operation of the enclosed coating operation, except for brief, occasional openings to accommodate process equipment adjustments. If such openings are frequent, or if the access door or window remains open for a significant amount of time during the process operation, it must be considered a natural draft opening. Access doors used routinely by workers to enter and exit the enclosed area shall be equipped with automatic closure devices;

(iv) Average inward face velocity (FV) across all natural draft openings is a minimum of 3,600 meters per hour as determined by the following procedures:

(A) Construct all forced makeup air ducts and all exhaust ducts so that the volumetric flow rate in each can be accurately determined by the test methods and procedures specified in § 60.745 (c) and (d). Volumetric flow rates shall be calculated without the adjustment normally made for moisture content; and

(B) Determine FV by Equation 6:

(v) The air passing through all natural draft openings flows into the enclosure continuously. If FV is less than or equal to 9,000 meters per hour, the continuous inward airflow shall be verified by continuous observation using smoke tubes, streamers, tracer gases, or other means approved by the Administrator over the period that the volumetric flow rate tests required to determine FV are carried out. If FV is greater than 9,000 meters per hour, the direction of airflow thourgh the natural draft openings shall be presumed to be inward at all times without verification.

(vi) All sources of emissions within the enclosure shall be a minimum of four equivalent diameters away from each natural draft opening.

(2) Determine the control device efficiency using Equation (1) or Equations (3) and (4), as applicable, and the test methods and procedures specified in § 60.745 (b) through (g).

(3) Compliance is demonstrated if the installation of a total enclosure is demonstrated and the value of E determined from Equation (1) or the value of Hdetermined from Equations (3) and (4), as applicable, is equal to or greater than 0.95.

(c) To demonstrate compliance with § 60.742(c)(1) (standard for coating mix preparation equipment servicing a coating operation with concurrent construction of a control device that uses at least 130 Mg per year of VOC), each owner or operator of affected coating mix preparation equipment shall demonstrate that:

(1) Covers meeting the following specifications have been installed and are being used properly:

(i) Cover shall be closed at all times except when adding ingredients, withdrawing samples, transferring the contents, or making visual inspection when such activities cannot be carried out with cover in place. Such activities shall be carried out through ports of the minimum practical size;

(ii) Cover shall extend at least 2 centimeters beyond the outer rim of the opening or shall be attached to the rim;

(iii) Cover shall be of such design and construction that contact is maintained between cover and rim along the entire perimeter;

(iv) Any breach in the cover (such as a slit for insertion of a mixer shaft or port for addition of ingredients) shall be covered consistent with paragraphs (c)(1) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section when not actively in use. An opening sufficient to allow safe clearance for a mixer shaft is acceptable during those periods when the shaft is in place; and

(v) A polyehtylene or nonpermanent cover may be used provided it meets the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section. Such a cover shall not be reused after once being removed.

(2) Procedures detailing the proper use of covers, as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, have been posted in all areas where affected coatings mix preparation equipment is used;

(3) The coating mix preparation equipment is vented to a control device while preparation of the coating is taking place within the vessel; and

(4) The control device efficiency (E or H, as applicable) determined using Equation (1) or Equations (3) and (4), respectively, and the test methods and procedures specified in § 60.745 (b) through (g) is equal to or greater than 0.95.

(d) To demonstrate compliance with § 60.742(c)(2) (standard for coating mix preparation equipment servicing a coating operation that does not have concurrent construction of a control device but uses at least 130 Mg of VOC per year) or § 60.742(c)(3) (standard for coating mix preparation equipment servicing a coating operation that uses at least 95 Mg but less than 130 Mg of VOC per year), each owner or operator of affected coating mix preparation equipment shall demonstrate upon inspection that:

(1) Covers satisfying the specifications in paragraphs (c)(1) (i) through (v) of this section have been installed and are being properly operated and maintained; and

(2) Procedures detailing the proper use of covers, as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, have been posted in all areas where affected coating mix preparation equipment is used.

(3) Owners or operators meeting the standard specified in § 60.742 (c)(2)(ii) or (c)(3)(ii) shall also demonstrate that the coating mix preparation equipment is vented to a control device.

(e) If a control device other than a carbon adsorber, condenser, or incinerator is used to control emissions from an affected facility, the necessary operating specifications for that device must be approved by the Administrator. An example of such a device is a flare.
