
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart VVV - Standards of Performance for Polymeric Coating of Supporting Substrates Facilities
###### § 60.744 Monitoring requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall install and calibrate all monitoring devices required under the provisions of this section according to the manufacturer's specifications, prior to the initial performance test in locations such that representative values of the monitored parameters will be obtained. The parameters to be monitored shall be continuously measured and recorded during each performance test.

(b) Each owner or operator of an affected facility that uses less than 95 Mg of VOC per year and each owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the provisions specified in § 60.742(c)(3) shall:

(1) Make semiannual estimates of the projected annual amount of VOC to be used for the manufacture of polymeric coated substrate at the affected coating operation in that year; and

(2) Maintain records of actual VOC use.

(c) Each owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a carbon adsorption system and demonstrating compliance by the procedures described in § 60.743 (a)(1), (2), (b), or (c) (which include control device efficiency determinations) or § 60.743(a)(4) (short-term liquid material balance) shall carry out the monitoring provisions of paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate.

(1) For carbon adsorption systems with a common exhaust stack for all the individual adsorber vessels, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the concentration level of organic compounds in either the control device outlet gas stream or in both the control device inlet and outlet gas streams. The outlet gas stream shall be monitored if the percent increase in the concentration level of organic compounds is used as the basis for reporting, as described in § 60.747(d)(1)(i). The inlet and outlet gas streams shall be monitored if the percent control device efficiency is used as the basis for reporting, as described in § 60.747(d)(2)(i).

(2) For carbon adsorption systems with individual exhaust stacks for each adsorber vessel, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the concentration level of organic compounds in the outlet gas stream for a minimum of one complete adsorption cycle per day for each adsorber vessel. The owner or operator may also monitor and record the concentration level of organic compounds in the common carbon adsorption system inlet gas stream or in each individual carbon adsorber vessel inlet stream. The outlet gas streams shall be monitored if the percent increase in the concentration level of organic compounds is used as the basis for reporting, as described in § 60.747(d)(1)(ii). In this case, the owner or operator shall compute daily a 3-day rolling average concentration level of organics in the outlet gas stream from each individual adsorber vessel. The inlet and outlet gas streams shall be monitored if the percent control device efficiency is used as the basis for reporting, as described in § 60.747(d)(2)(ii). In this case, the owner or operator shall compute daily a 3-day rolling average efficiency for each individual adsorber vessel.

(d) Each owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a condensation system and demonstrating compliance by the test methods described in § 60.743 (a)(1), (2), (b), or (c) (which include control device efficiency determinations) or § 60.743(a)(4) (short-term liquid material balance) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the temperature of the condenser exhaust stream.

(e) Each owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a thermal incinerator and demonstrating compliance by the test methods described in § 60.743 (a)(1), (2), (b), or (c) (which include control device efficiency determinations) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the combustion temperature of the incinerator. The monitoring device shall have an accuracy within +/-1 percent of the temperature being measured in Celsius degrees.

(f) Each owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a catalytic incinerator and demonstrating compliance by the test methods described in § 60.743 (a)(1), (2), (b), or (c) (which include control device efficiency determinations) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the gas temperature both upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed. The monitoring device shall have an accuracy within +/-1 percent of the temperature being measured in Celsius degrees.

(g) Each owner or operator of an affected facility who demonstrates compliance by the test methods described in § 60.743(a)(1) or (2) (which include vapor capture system efficiency determinations) or § 60.743(a)(4) (short-term liquid material balance) shall submit a monitoring plan for the vapor capture system to the Administrator for approval with the notification of anticipated startup required under § 60.7(a)(2) of the General Provisions. This plan shall identify the parameter to be monitored as an indicator of vapor capture system performance (e.g., the amperage to the exhaust fans or duct flow rates) and the method for monitoring the chosen parameter. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a monitoring device that continuously indicates and records the value of the chosen parameter.

(h) Each owner or operator of an affected facility who demonstrates compliance as described in § 60.743(b) shall follow the procedures described in paragraph (g) of this section to establish a monitoring system for the total enclosure.

(i) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall record time periods of mixing or coating operations when the emission control device is malfunctioning or not in use.

(j) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall record time periods of mixing or coating operations when each monitoring device is malfunctioning or not in use.

(k) Records of the measurements and calculations required in §§ 60.743 and 60.744 must be retained for at least 2 years following the date of the measurements and calculations.
