
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart WWW - Standards of Performance for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills That Commenced Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification on or After May 30, 1991, but Before July 18, 2014
###### § 60.752 Standards for air emissions from municipal solid waste landfills.

(a) Each owner or operator of an MSW landfill having a design capacity less than 2.5 million megagrams by mass or 2.5 million cubic meters by volume shall submit an initial design capacity report to the Administrator as provided in § 60.757(a). The landfill may calculate design capacity in either megagrams or cubic meters for comparison with the exemption values. Any density conversions shall be documented and submitted with the report. Submittal of the initial design capacity report shall fulfill the requirements of this subpart except as provided for in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator an amended design capacity report, as provided for in § 60.757(a)(3).

(2) When an increase in the maximum design capacity of a landfill exempted from the provisions of §§ 60.752(b) through 60.759 of this subpart on the basis of the design capacity exemption in paragraph (a) of this section results in a revised maximum design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters, the owner or operator shall comply with the provision of paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) Each owner or operator of an MSW landfill having a design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters, shall either comply with paragraph (b)(2) of this section or calculate an NMOC emission rate for the landfill using the procedures specified in § 60.754. The NMOC emission rate shall be recalculated annually, except as provided in § 60.757(b)(1)(ii) of this subpart. The owner or operator of an MSW landfill subject to this subpart with a design capacity greater than or equal to 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters is subject to part 70 or 71 permitting requirements.

(1) If the calculated NMOC emission rate is less than 50 megagrams per year, the owner or operator shall:

(i) Submit an annual emission report to the Administrator, except as provided for in § 60.757(b)(1)(ii); and

(ii) Recalculate the NMOC emission rate annually using the procedures specified in § 60.754(a)(1) until such time as the calculated NMOC emission rate is equal to or greater than 50 megagrams per year, or the landfill is closed.

(A) If the NMOC emission rate, upon recalculation required in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, is equal to or greater than 50 megagrams per year, the owner or operator shall install a collection and control system in compliance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(B) If the landfill is permanently closed, a closure notification shall be submitted to the Administrator as provided for in § 60.757(d).

(2) If the calculated NMOC emission rate is equal to or greater than 50 megagrams per year, the owner or operator shall:

(i) Submit a collection and control system design plan prepared by a professional engineer to the Administrator within 1 year:

(A) The collection and control system as described in the plan shall meet the design requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(B) The collection and control system design plan shall include any alternatives to the operational standards, test methods, procedures, compliance measures, monitoring, recordkeeping or reporting provisions of §§ 60.753 through 60.758 proposed by the owner or operator.

(C) The collection and control system design plan shall either conform with specifications for active collection systems in § 60.759 or include a demonstration to the Administrator's satisfaction of the sufficiency of the alternative provisions to § 60.759.

(D) The Administrator shall review the information submitted under paragraphs (b)(2)(i) (A),(B) and (C) of this section and either approve it, disapprove it, or request that additional information be submitted. Because of the many site-specific factors involved with landfill gas system design, alternative systems may be necessary. A wide variety of system designs are possible, such as vertical wells, combination horizontal and vertical collection systems, or horizontal trenches only, leachate collection components, and passive systems.

(ii) Install a collection and control system that captures the gas generated within the landfill as required by paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) and (b)(2)(iii) of this section within 30 months after the first annual report in which the emission rate equals or exceeds 50 megagrams per year, unless Tier 2 or Tier 3 sampling demonstrates that the emission rate is less than 50 megagrams per year, as specified in § 60.757(c)(1) or (2).

(A) An active collection system shall:
