
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart WWW - Standards of Performance for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills That Commenced Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification on or After May 30, 1991, but Before July 18, 2014
###### ยง 60.754 Test methods and procedures.
####### Tier 2.

(3)The landfill owner or operator shall determine the NMOC concentration using the following sampling procedure. The landfill owner or operator shall install at least two sample probes per hectare of landfill surface that has retained waste for at least 2 years. If the landfill is larger than 25 hectares in area, only 50 samples are required. The sample probes should be located to avoid known areas of nondegradable solid waste. The owner or operator shall collect and analyze one sample of landfill gas from each probe to determine the NMOC concentration using Method 25 or 25C of appendix A of this part. Method 18 of appendix A of this part may be used to analyze the samples collected by the Method 25 or 25C sampling procedure. Taking composite samples from different probes into a single cylinder is allowed; however, equal sample volumes must be taken from each probe. For each composite, the sampling rate, collection times, beginning and ending cylinder vacuums, or alternative volume measurements must be recorded to verify that composite volumes are equal. Composite sample volumes should not be less than one liter unless evidence can be provided to substantiate the accuracy of smaller volumes. Terminate compositing before the cylinder approaches ambient pressure where measurement accuracy diminishes. If using Method 18, the owner or operator must identify all compounds in the sample and, as a minimum, test for those compounds published in the most recent Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors (AP-42), minus carbon monoxide, hydrogen sulfide, and mercury. As a minimum, the instrument must be calibrated for each of the compounds on the list. Convert the concentration of each Method 18 compound to Cas hexane by multiplying by the ratio of its carbon atoms divided by six. If more than the required number of samples are taken, all samples must be used in the analysis. The landfill owner or operator must divide the NMOC concentration from Method 25 or 25C of appendix A of this part by six to convert from Cas carbon to Cas hexane. If the landfill has an active or passive gas removal system in place, Method 25 or 25C samples may be collected from these systems instead of surface probes provided the removal system can be shown to provide sampling as representative as the two sampling probe per hectare requirement. For active collection systems, samples may be collected from the common header pipe before the gas moving or condensate removal equipment. For these systems, a minimum of three samples must be collected from the header pipe.

(i) The landfill owner or operator shall recalculate the NMOC mass emission rate using the equations provided in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section and using the average NMOC concentration from the collected samples instead of the default value in the equation provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(ii) If the resulting mass emission rate calculated using the site-specific NMOC concentration is equal to or greater than 50 megagrams per year, then the landfill owner or operator shall either comply with ยง 60.752(b)(2), or determine the site-specific methane generation rate constant and recalculate the NMOC emission rate using the site-specific methane generation rate using the procedure specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(iii) If the resulting NMOC mass emission rate is less than 50 megagrams per year, the owner or operator shall submit a periodic estimate of the emission rate report as provided in ยง 60.757(b)(1) and retest the site-specific NMOC concentration every 5 years using the methods specified in this section.
