
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart WWW - Standards of Performance for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills That Commenced Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification on or After May 30, 1991, but Before July 18, 2014
###### § 60.756 Monitoring of operations.

Except as provided in § 60.752(b)(2)(i)(B),

(a) Each owner or operator seeking to comply with § 60.752(b)(2)(ii)(A) for an active gas collection system shall install a sampling port and a thermometer, other temperature measuring device, or an access port for temperature measurements at each wellhead and:

(1) Measure the gauge pressure in the gas collection header on a monthly basis as provided in § 60.755(a)(3); and

(2) Monitor nitrogen or oxygen concentration in the landfill gas on a monthly basis as provided in § 60.755(a)(5); and

(3) Monitor temperature of the landfill gas on a monthly basis as provided in § 60.755(a)(5).

(b) Each owner or operator seeking to comply with § 60.752(b)(2)(iii) using an enclosed combustor shall calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, the following equipment.

(1) A temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder and having a minimum accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being measured expressed in degrees Celsius or +/-0.5 degrees Celsius, whichever is greater. A temperature monitoring device is not required for boilers or process heaters with design heat input capacity equal to or greater than 44 megawatts.

(2) A device that records flow to or bypass of the control device. The owner or operator shall either:

(i) Install, calibrate, and maintain a gas flow rate measuring device that shall record the flow to the control device at least every 15 minutes; or

(ii) Secure the bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and that the gas flow is not diverted through the bypass line.

(c) Each owner or operator seeking to comply with § 60.752(b)(2)(iii) using an open flare shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications the following equipment:

(1) A heat sensing device, such as an ultraviolet beam sensor or thermocouple, at the pilot light or the flame itself to indicate the continuous presence of a flame.

(2) A device that records flow to or bypass of the flare. The owner or operator shall either:

(i) Install, calibrate, and maintain a gas flow rate measuring device that shall record the flow to the control device at least every 15 minutes; or

(ii) Secure the bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and that the gas flow is not diverted through the bypass line.

(d) Each owner or operator seeking to demonstrate compliance with § 60.752(b)(2)(iii) using a device other than an open flare or an enclosed combustor shall provide information satisfactory to the Administrator as provided in § 60.752(b)(2)(i)(B) describing the operation of the control device, the operating parameters that would indicate proper performance, and appropriate monitoring procedures. The Administrator shall review the information and either approve it, or request that additional information be submitted. The Administrator may specify additional appropriate monitoring procedures.

(e) Each owner or operator seeking to install a collection system that does not meet the specifications in § 60.759 or seeking to monitor alternative parameters to those required by §§ 60.753 through 60.756 shall provide information satisfactory to the Administrator as provided in § 60.752(b)(2)(i) (B) and (C) describing the design and operation of the collection system, the operating parameters that would indicate proper performance, and appropriate monitoring procedures. The Administrator may specify additional appropriate monitoring procedures.

(f) Each owner or operator seeking to demonstrate compliance with § 60.755(c), shall monitor surface concentrations of methane according to the instrument specifications and procedures provided in § 60.755(d). Any closed landfill that has no monitored exceedances of the operational standard in three consecutive quarterly monitoring periods may skip to annual monitoring. Any methane reading of 500 ppm or more above background detected during the annual monitoring returns the frequency for that landfill to quarterly monitoring.
