
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAAA - Standards of Performance for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units for Which Construction is Commenced After August 30, 1999 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 6, 2001
###### Preconstruction Requirements: Materials Separation Plan
####### ยง 60.1080 Where and when must I hold a public meeting on my draft materials separation plan?

(a) You must hold a public meeting and accept comments on your draft materials separation plan.

(b) You must hold the public meeting in the county where you will construct the municipal waste combustion unit.

(c) You must schedule the public meeting to occur at least 30 days after you make your draft materials separation plan available to the public.

(d) You may combine the public meeting with any other public meeting required as part of any other Federal, State, or local permit review. However, you may not combine it with the public meeting required for the siting analysis under "Preconstruction Requirements: Siting Analysis" (ยง 60.1140).

(e) You are encouraged to address eight topics at the public meeting for your draft materials separation plan:

(1) Expected size of the service area for your municipal waste combustion unit.

(2) Amount of waste you will collect in the service area.

(3) Types and estimated amounts of materials proposed for separation.

(4) Methods proposed for materials separation.

(5) Amount of residual waste for disposal.

(6) Alternate disposal methods for handling the residual waste.

(7) Where your responses to public comments on the draft materials separation plan will be available for inspection.

(8) Where your revised materials separation plan will be available for inspection.

(f) You must prepare a transcript of the public meeting on your draft materials separation plan.
