
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAAA - Standards of Performance for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units for Which Construction is Commenced After August 30, 1999 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 6, 2001
###### Preconstruction Requirements: Materials Separation Plan
####### ยง 60.1090 What must I do with my revised materials separation plan?

You must do two tasks:

(a) As specified under "Reporting" (ยง 60.1375), submit five items to the Administrator by the date you submit the application for a construction permit under 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, or part 52. (If you are not required to submit an application for a construction permit under 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, or part 52, submit five items to the Administrator by the date of your notice of construction under ยง 60.1380):

(1) Your draft materials separation plan.

(2) Your revised materials separation plan.

(3) Your notice of the public meeting for your draft materials separation plan.

(4) A transcript of the public meeting on your draft materials separation plan.

(5) The document that summarizes your responses to the public comments you received during the public comment period on your draft materials separation plan.

(b) Make your revised materials separation plan available to the public as part of the siting analysis procedures under "Preconstruction Requirements: Siting Analysis" (ยง 60.1130).
