
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAAA - Standards of Performance for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units for Which Construction is Commenced After August 30, 1999 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 6, 2001
###### Preconstruction Requirements: Siting Analysis
####### ยง 60.1130 How do I make my siting analysis available to the public?

(a) Distribute your siting analysis and revised materials separation plan to the main public libraries in the area where you will construct your municipal waste combustion unit.

(b) Publish a notice of a public meeting in the main newspapers that serve two areas:

(1) The area where you will construct your municipal waste combustion unit.

(2) The areas where the waste that your municipal waste combustion unit combusts will be collected.

(c) Include six items in your notice of the public meeting:

(1) The date of the public meeting.

(2) The time of the public meeting.

(3) The location of the public meeting.

(4) The location of the public libraries where the public can find your siting analysis and revised materials separation plan. Include the normal business hours of each library.

(5) An agenda of the topics that will be discussed at the public meeting.

(6) The beginning and ending dates of the public comment period on your siting analysis and revised materials separation plan.
