
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAAA - Standards of Performance for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units for Which Construction is Commenced After August 30, 1999 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 6, 2001
###### Continuous Emission Monitoring
####### ยง 60.1230 What continuous emission monitoring systems must I install for gaseous pollutants?

(a) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate continuous emission monitoring systems for oxygen (or carbon dioxide), sulfur dioxide, and carbon monoxide. If you operate a Class I municipal waste combustion unit, you must also install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for nitrogen oxides. Install the continuous emission monitoring systems for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) at the outlet of the air pollution control device.

(b) You must install, evaluate, and operate each continuous emission monitoring system according to the "Monitoring Requirements" in ยง 60.13.

(c) You must monitor the oxygen (or carbon dioxide) concentration at each location where you monitor sulfur dioxide and carbon monoxide. Additionally, if you operate a Class I municipal waste combustion unit, you must also monitor the oxygen (or carbon dioxide) concentration at the location where you monitor nitrogen oxides.

(d) You may choose to monitor carbon dioxide instead of oxygen as a diluent gas. If you choose to monitor carbon dioxide, then an oxygen monitor is not required, and you must follow the requirements in ยง 60.1255.

(e) If you choose to demonstrate compliance by monitoring the percent reduction of sulfur dioxide, you must also install continuous emission monitoring systems for sulfur dioxide and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) at the inlet of the air pollution control device.

(f) If you prefer to use an alternative sulfur dioxide monitoring method, such as parametric monitoring, or cannot monitor emissions at the inlet of the air pollution control device to determine percent reduction, you can apply to the Administrator for approval to use an alternative monitoring method under ยง 60.13(i).
