
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAAA - Standards of Performance for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units for Which Construction is Commenced After August 30, 1999 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 6, 2001
###### Continuous Emission Monitoring
####### ยง 60.1270 What is required for my continuous opacity monitoring system and how are the data used?

(a) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous opacity monitoring system.

(b) Install, evaluate, and operate each continuous opacity monitoring system according to ยง 60.13.

(c) Complete an initial evaluation of your continuous opacity monitoring system according to Performance Specification 1 in appendix B of this part. Complete the evaluation within 60 days after your municipal waste combustion unit reaches the maximum load level at which it will operate, but no more than 180 days after its initial startup.

(d) Complete each annual evaluation of your continuous opacity monitoring system no more than 13 months after the previous evaluation.

(e) Use tests conducted according to EPA Reference Method 9 in appendix A of this part, as specified in ยง 60.1300, to determine compliance with the opacity limit in table 1 of this subpart. The data obtained from your continuous opacity monitoring system are not used to determine compliance with the opacity limit.
