
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAAA - Standards of Performance for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units for Which Construction is Commenced After August 30, 1999 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 6, 2001
###### Other Monitoring Requirements
####### ยง 60.1330 How do I monitor the injection rate of activated carbon?

If your municipal waste combustion unit uses activated carbon to control dioxins/furans or mercury emissions, you must meet three requirements:

(a) Select a carbon injection system operating parameter that can be used to calculate carbon feed rate (for example, screw feeder speed).

(b) During each dioxins/furans and mercury stack test, determine the average carbon feed rate in kilograms (or pounds) per hour. Also, determine the average operating parameter level that correlates to the carbon feed rate. Establish a relationship between the operating parameter and the carbon feed rate in order to calculate the carbon feed rate based on the operating parameter level.

(c) Continuously monitor the selected operating parameter during all periods when the municipal waste combustion unit is operating and combusting waste, and calculate the 8-hour block average carbon feed rate in kilograms (or pounds) per hour, based on the selected operating parameter. When calculating the 8-hour block average, do two things:

(1) Exclude hours when the municipal waste combustion unit is not operating.

(2) Include hours when the municipal waste combustion unit is operating but the carbon feed system is not working correctly.
