
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAAA - Standards of Performance for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units for Which Construction is Commenced After August 30, 1999 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 6, 2001
###### Other Monitoring Requirements
####### ยง 60.1335 What is the minimum amount of monitoring data I must collect with my continuous parameter monitoring systems and is the data collection requirement enforceable?

(a) Where continuous parameter monitoring systems are used, obtain 1-hour arithmetic averages for three parameters:

(1) Load level of the municipal waste combustion unit.

(2) Temperature of the flue gases at the inlet of your particulate matter control device.

(3) Carbon feed rate if activated carbon is used to control dioxins/furans or mercury emissions.

(b) Obtain at least two data points per hour in order to calculate a valid 1-hour arithmetic average.

(c) Obtain valid 1-hour averages for at least 75 percent of the operating hours per day for 90 percent of the operating days per calendar quarter. An operating day is any day the unit combusts any municipal solid waste or refuse-derived fuel.

(d) If you do not obtain the minimum data required in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, you are in violation of the data collection requirement and you must notify the Administrator according to ยง 60.1410(e).
