
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAAA - Standards of Performance for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units for Which Construction is Commenced After August 30, 1999 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 6, 2001
###### Reporting
####### § 60.1380 What must I include in my notice of construction?

(a) Include ten items:

(1) A statement of your intent to construct the municipal waste combustion unit.

(2) The planned initial startup date of your municipal waste combustion unit.

(3) The types of fuels you plan to combust in your municipal waste combustion unit.

(4) The capacity of your municipal waste combustion unit including supporting capacity calculations, as specified in § 60.1460(d) and (e).

(5) Your siting analysis, as specified in § 60.1125.

(6) Your final materials separation plan, as specified in § 60.1100(b).

(7) Your notice of the second public meeting (siting analysis meeting), as specified in § 60.1130(b).

(8) A transcript of the second public meeting, as specified in § 60.1140(d).

(9) A copy of the document that summarizes your responses to the public comments you received during the second public comment period, as specified in § 60.1145(a).

(10) Your final siting analysis, as specified in § 60.1145(c).

(b) Submit your notice of construction no later than 30 days after you commence construction, reconstruction, or modification of your municipal waste combustion unit.
