
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart AAAA - Standards of Performance for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units for Which Construction is Commenced After August 30, 1999 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 6, 2001
###### Air Curtain Incinerators that Burn 100 Percent Yard Waste
####### ยง 60.1455 What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for air curtain incinerators that burn 100 percent yard waste?

(a) Provide a notice of construction that includes four items:

(1) Your intent to construct the air curtain incinerator.

(2) Your planned initial startup date.

(3) Types of fuels you plan to combust in your air curtain incinerator.

(4) The capacity of your incinerator, including supporting capacity calculations, as specified in ยง 60.1460(d) and (e).

(b) Keep records of results of all opacity tests onsite in either paper copy or electronic format unless the Administrator approves another format.

(c) Keep all records for each incinerator for at least 5 years.

(d) Make all records available for submittal to the Administrator or for onsite review by an inspector.

(e) Submit the results (each 6-minute average) of the opacity tests by February 1 of the year following the year of the opacity emission test.

(f) Submit reports as a paper copy on or before the applicable submittal date. If the Administrator agrees, you may submit reports on electronic media.

(g) If the Administrator agrees, you may change the annual reporting dates (see ยง 60.19(c)).

(h) Keep a copy of all reports onsite for a period of 5 years.
