
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BBBB - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999
###### Introduction
####### ยง 60.1515 What must I include in my State plan?

(a) Include nine items:

(1) Inventory of affected municipal waste combustion units, including those that have ceased operation but have not been dismantled.

(2) Inventory of emissions from affected municipal waste combustion units in your State.

(3) Compliance schedules for each affected municipal waste combustion unit.

(4) Good combustion practices and emission limits for affected municipal waste ombustion units that are at least as protective as the emission guidelines contained in this subpart.

(5) Stack testing, continuous emission monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.

(6) Certification that the hearing on the State plan was held, a list of witnesses and their organizational affiliations, if any, appearing at the hearing, and a brief written summary of each presentation or written submission.

(7) Provision for State progress reports to EPA.

(8) Identification of enforceable State mechanisms that you selected for implementing the emission guidelines of this subpart.

(9) Demonstration of your State's legal authority to carry out the CAA sections 111(d) and 129 State plan.

(b) Your State plan can deviate from the format and content of the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. However, if your State plan does deviate, you must demonstrate that your State plan is as protective as the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. Your State plan must address regulatory applicability, increments of progress for retrofit, operator training and certification, operating practice, emission limits, continuous emission monitoring, stack testing, recordkeeping, reporting, and air curtain incinerator requirements.

(c) Follow the requirements of subpart B of this part in your State plan.
