
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BBBB - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999
###### Applicability of State Plans
####### ยง 60.1560 Can an affected municipal waste combustion unit reduce its capacity to less than 35 tons per day rather than comply with my State plan?

(a) Yes, an owner or operator of an affected municipal waste combustion unit may choose to reduce, by your final compliance date, the maximum combustion capacity of the unit to less than 35 tons per day of municipal solid waste rather than comply with your State plan. They must submit a final control plan and the notifications of achievement of increments of progress as specified in ยง 60.1610.

(b) The final control plan must, at a minimum, include two items:

(1) A description of the physical changes that will be made to accomplish the reduction.

(2) Calculations of the current maximum combustion capacity and the planned maximum combustion capacity after the reduction. Use the equations specified under ยง 60.1935(d) and (e) to calculate the combustion capacity of a municipal waste combustion unit.

(c) A permit restriction or a change in the method of operation does not qualify as a reduction in capacity. Use the equations specified under ยง 60.1935(d) and (e) to calculate the combustion capacity of a municipal waste combustion unit.
