
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BBBB - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999
###### Model Rule - Good Combustion Practices: Operator Training
####### ยง 60.1650 Who must complete the operator training course? By when?

(a) Three types of employees must complete the EPA or State-approved operator training course:

(1) Chief facility operators.

(2) Shift supervisors.

(3) Control room operators.

(b) Those employees must complete the operator training course by the later of three dates:

(1) One year after the effective date of State plan approval.

(2) Six months after your municipal waste combustion unit starts up.

(3) The date before an employee assumes responsibilities that affect operation of the municipal waste combustion unit.

(c) The requirement in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to chief facility operators, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have obtained full certification from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on or before the effective date of State plan approval.

(d) You may request that the EPA Administrator waive the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section for chief facility operators, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have obtained provisional certification from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on or before the effective date of State plan approval.
