
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BBBB - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999
###### Model Rule - Good Combustion Practices: Operator Certification
####### ยง 60.1675 What types of operator certification must the chief facility operator and shift supervisor obtain and by when must they obtain it?

(a) Each chief facility operator and shift supervisor must obtain and keep a current provisional operator certification from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (QRO-1-1994) (incorporated by reference in ยง 60.17(h)(1)) or a current provisional operator certification from your State certification program.

(b) Each chief facility operator and shift supervisor must obtain a provisional certification by the later of three dates:

(1) For Class I units, 12 months after the effective date of State plan approval. For Class II units, 18 months after the effective date of State plan approval.

(2) Six months after the municipal waste combustion unit starts up.

(3) Six months after they transfer to the municipal waste combustion unit or 6 months after they are hired to work at the municipal waste combustion unit.

(c) Each chief facility operator and shift supervisor must take one of three actions:

(1) Obtain a full certification from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers or a State certification program in your State.

(2) Schedule a full certification exam with the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (QRO-1-1994) (incorporated by reference in ยง 60.17(h)(1)).

(3) Schedule a full certification exam with your State certification program.

(d) The chief facility operator and shift supervisor must obtain the full certification or be scheduled to take the certification exam by the later of the following dates:

(1) For Class I units, 12 months after the effective date of State plan approval. For Class II units, 18 months after the effective date of State plan approval.

(2) Six months after the municipal waste combustion unit starts up.

(3) Six months after they transfer to the municipal waste combustion unit or 6 months after they are hired to work at the municipal waste combustion unit.
