
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BBBB - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999
###### Model Rule - Emission Limits
####### ยง 60.1705 What emission limits must I meet? By when?

(a) After the date the initial stack test and continuous emission monitoring system evaluation are required or completed (whichever is earlier), you must meet the applicable emission limits specified in the four tables of this subpart:

(1) For Class I units, see tables 2 and 3 of this subpart.

(2) For Class II units, see table 4 of this subpart.

(3) For carbon monoxide emission limits for both classes of units, see table 5 of this subpart.

(b) If your Class I municipal waste combustion unit began construction, reconstruction, or modification after June 26, 1987, then you must comply with the dioxins/furans and mercury emission limits specified in table 2 of this subpart as applicable by the later of the following two dates:

(1) One year after the effective date of State plan approval.

(2) One year after the issuance of a revised construction or operating permit, if a permit modification is required. Final compliance with the dioxins/furans limits must be achieved no later than December 6, 2005, even if the date 1 year after the issuance of a revised construction or operation permit is later than December 6, 2005.
