
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart BBBB - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999
###### Model Rule - Reporting
####### ยง 60.1875 What must I include in my initial report?

You must include seven items:

(a) The emission levels measured on the date of the initial evaluation of your continuous emission monitoring systems for all of the following five pollutants or parameters as recorded in accordance with ยง 60.1850(b).

(1) The 24-hour daily geometric average concentration of sulfur dioxide emissions or the 24-hour daily geometric percent reduction of sulfur dioxide emissions.

(2) For Class I municipal waste combustion units only, the 24-hour daily arithmetic average concentration of nitrogen oxides emissions.

(3) The 4-hour block or 24-hour daily arithmetic average concentration of carbon monoxide emissions.

(4) The 4-hour block arithmetic average load level of your municipal waste combustion unit.

(5) The 4-hour block arithmetic average flue gas temperature at the inlet of the particulate matter control device.

(b) The results of the initial stack tests for eight pollutants or parameters (use appropriate units as specified in table 2 or 4 of this subpart):

(1) Dioxins/furans.

(2) Cadmium.

(3) Lead.

(4) Mercury.

(5) Opacity.

(6) Particulate matter.

(7) Hydrogen chloride.

(8) Fugitive ash.

(c) The test report that documents the initial stack tests including supporting calculations.

(d) The initial performance evaluation of your continuous emissions monitoring systems. Use the applicable performance specifications in appendix B of this part in conducting the evaluation.

(e) The maximum demonstrated load of your municipal waste combustion unit and the maximum demonstrated temperature of the flue gases at the inlet of the particulate matter control device. Use values established during your initial stack test for dioxins/furans emissions and include supporting calculations.

(f) If your municipal waste combustion unit uses activated carbon to control dioxins/furans or mercury emissions, the average carbon feed rates that you recorded during the initial stack tests for dioxins/furans and mercury emissions. Include supporting calculations as specified in ยง 60.1855(a)(1) and (2).

(g) If you choose to monitor carbon dioxide instead of oxygen as a diluent gas, documentation of the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide, as specified in ยง 60.1745.
