
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart CCCC - Standards of Performance for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units
###### Performance Testing
####### § 60.2125 How do I conduct the initial and annual performance test?

(a) All performance tests must consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under conditions representative of normal operations.

(b) You must document that the waste burned during the performance test is representative of the waste burned under normal operating conditions by maintaining a log of the quantity of waste burned (as required in § 60.2175(b)(1)) and the types of waste burned during the performance test.

(c) All performance tests must be conducted using the minimum run duration specified in table 1 of this subpart or tables 5 through 8 of this subpart.

(d) Method 1 of appendix A of this part must be used to select the sampling location and number of traverse points.

(e) Method 3A or 3B of appendix A of this part must be used for gas composition analysis, including measurement of oxygen concentration. Method 3A or 3B of appendix A of this part must be used simultaneously with each method (except when using Method 9 and Method 22).

(f) All pollutant concentrations, except for opacity, must be adjusted to 7 percent oxygen using equation 5 of this section:

(g) You must determine dioxins/furans toxic equivalency by following the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section:

(1) Measure the concentration of each dioxin/furan tetra-through octa-chlorinated isomer emitted using EPA Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7;

(2) Quantify isomers meeting identification criteria in Section 11.4.3.4 of Method 23, regardless of whether the isomers meet identification criteria in Section 11.4.3.4.1 of Method 23. You must quantify the isomers per Section 11.4.3.5 of Method 23. (Note: You may reanalyze the sample aliquot or split to reduce the number of isomers to meet the identification criteria in Section 11.4.3.4 of Method 23.)

(3) For each dioxin/furan (tetra-through octa-chlorinated) isomer measured in accordance with paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, multiply the isomer concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in table 3 of this subpart; and

(4) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (g)(3) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins/furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.

(h) Method 22 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 of this part must be used to determine compliance with the fugitive ash emission limit in table 1 of this subpart or tables 5 through 8 of this subpart.

(i) If you have an applicable opacity operating limit, you must determine compliance with the opacity limit using Method 9 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, based on three 1-hour blocks consisting of ten 6-minute average opacity values, unless you are required to install a continuous opacity monitoring system, consistent with §§ 60.2145 and 60.2165.

(j) You must determine dioxins/furans total mass basis by following the procedures in paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) Measure the concentration of each dioxin/furan tetra-through octa-chlorinated isomer emitted using EPA Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7;

(2) Quantify isomers meeting identification criteria in Section 11.4.3.4 of Method 23, regardless of whether the isomers meet identification Section 11.4.3.4.1 of Method 23. You must quantify the isomers per Section 11.4.3.5 of Method 23. (Note: You may reanalyze the sample aliquot or split to reduce the number of isomers to meet the identification criteria in Section 11.4.3.4 of Method 23.)

(3) Sum the quantities measured in accordance with paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins/furans emitted in terms of total mass basis.
