
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart CCCC - Standards of Performance for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 60.2145 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and the operating limits?
######## i.e.,

(v) The date upon which you will cease combusting solid waste, and the date (if different) that you intend for any new requirements to become applicable (the effective date of the waste-to-fuel switch), consistent with paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section.

(5) All air pollution control equipment necessary for compliance with any newly applicable emissions limits which apply as a result of the cessation or commencement or recommencement of combusting solid waste must be installed and operational as of the effective date of the waste-to-fuel, or fuel-to-waste switch.

(6) All monitoring systems necessary for compliance with any newly applicable monitoring requirements which apply as a result of the cessation or commencement or recommencement of combusting solid waste must be installed and operational as of the effective date of the waste-to-fuel, or fuel-to-waste switch. All calibration and drift checks must be performed as of the effective date of the waste-to-fuel, or fuel-to-waste switch. Relative accuracy tests must be performed as of the performance test deadline for PM CEMS (if PM CEMS are elected to demonstrate continuous compliance with the particulate matter emission limits). Relative accuracy testing for other CEMS need not be repeated if that testing was previously performed consistent with Clean Air Act section 112 monitoring requirements or monitoring requirements under this subpart.

(b) You must conduct an annual performance test for the pollutants listed in table 1 of this subpart or tables 5 through 8 of this subpart and opacity for each CISWI as required under § 60.2125. The annual performance test must be conducted using the test methods listed in table 1 of this subpart or tables 5 through 8 of this subpart and the procedures in § 60.2125. Annual performance tests are not required if you use CEMS or continuous opacity monitoring systems to determine compliance.

(c) You must continuously monitor the operating parameters specified in § 60.2110 or established under § 60.2115 and as specified in § 60.2170. Use 3-hour block average values to determine compliance (except for baghouse leak detection system alarms) unless a different averaging period is established under § 60.2115 or, for energy recovery units, where the averaging time for each operating parameter is a 30-day rolling, calculated each hour as the average of the previous 720 operating hours. Operation above the established maximum, below the established minimum, or outside the allowable range of operating limits specified in paragraph (a) of this section constitutes a deviation from your operating limits established under this subpart, except during performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission and operating limits or to establish new operating limits. Operating limits are confirmed or reestablished during performance tests.

(d) You must burn only the same types of waste and fuels used to establish subcategory applicability (for energy recovery units) and operating limits during the performance test.

(e) For energy recovery units, incinerators, and small remote units, you must perform an annual visual emissions test for ash handling.

(f) For energy recovery units, you must conduct an annual performance test for opacity (except where particulate matter CEMS or continuous opacity monitoring systems are used are used) and the pollutants listed in table 6 of this subpart.

(g) You may elect to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limit using a carbon monoxide CEMS, as described in § 60.2165(o).

(h) Coal and liquid/gas energy recovery units with average annual heat input rates greater than or equal to 250 million British thermal units/hour (MMBtu/hr) may elect to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the particulate matter emissions limit using a particulate matter CEMS according to the procedures in § 60.2165(n) instead of the PM CPMS specified in § 60.2145. Coal and liquid/gas energy recovery units with annual average heat input rates less than 250 MMBtu/hr, incinerators, and small remote incinerators may also elect to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance using a particulate matter CEMS according to the procedures in § 60.2165(n) instead of particulate matter testing with EPA Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 and, if applicable, the continuous opacity monitoring requirements in paragraph (i) of this section.

(i) For energy recovery units with annual average heat input rates greater than or equal to 10 MMBtu/hr and less than 250 MMBtu/hr that do not use a wet scrubber, fabric filter with bag leak detection system, an electrostatic precipitator, particulate matter CEMS, or particulate matter CPMS, you must install, operate, certify and maintain a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS) according to the procedures in § 60.2165(m).

(j) For waste-burning kilns, you must conduct an annual performance test for particulate matter, cadmium, lead, carbon monoxide, dioxins/furans and hydrogen chloride as listed in Table 7 of this subpart, unless you choose to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance using CEMS, as allowed in paragraph (u) of this section. If you do not use an acid gas wet scrubber or dry scrubber, you must determine compliance with the hydrogen chloride emissions limit using a HCl CEMS according to the requirements in paragraph (j)(1) of this section. You must determine compliance with the mercury emissions limit using a mercury CEMS or an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system according to paragraph (j)(2) of this section. You must determine compliance with nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide using CEMS. You must determine continuing compliance with the particulate matter emissions limit using a PM CPMS according to paragraph (x) of this section.

(1) If you monitor compliance with the HCl emissions limit by operating an HCl CEMS, you must do so in accordance with Performance Specification 15 (PS 15) of appendix B to 40 CFR part 60 or PS 18 of appendix B to 40 CFR part 60. You must operate, maintain, and quality assure a HCl CEMS installed and certified under PS 15 according to the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F to 40 CFR part 60 except that the Relative Accuracy Test Audit requirements of Procedure 1 must be replaced with the validation requirements and criteria of sections 11.1.1 and 12.0 of PS 15. You must operate, maintain and quality assure a HCl CEMS installed and certified under PS 18 according to the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 6 of appendix F to 40 CFR part 60. For any performance specification that you use, you must use Method 321 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 as the reference test method for conducting relative accuracy testing. The span value and calibration requirements in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply to all HCl CEMS used under this subpart:

(i) You must use a measurement span value for any HCl CEMS of 0-10 ppmvw unless the monitor is installed on a kiln without an inline raw mill. Kilns without an inline raw mill may use a higher span value sufficient to quantify all expected emissions concentrations. The HCl CEMS data recorder output range must include the full range of expected HCl concentration values which would include those expected during "mill off" conditions. The corresponding data recorder range shall be documented in the site-specific monitoring plan and associated records;

(ii) In order to quality assure data measured above the span value, you must use one of the three options in paragraphs (j)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section:

(A) Include a second span that encompasses the HCl emission concentrations expected to be encountered during "mill off" conditions. This second span may be rounded to a multiple of 5 ppm of total HCl. The requirements of the appropriate HCl monitor performance specification shall be followed for this second span with the exception that a RATA with the mill off is not required;

(B) Quality assure any data above the span value by proving instrument linearity beyond the span value established in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section using the following procedure. Conduct a weekly "above span linearity" calibration challenge of the monitoring system using a reference gas with a certified value greater than your highest expected hourly concentration or greater than 75% of the highest measured hourly concentration. The "above span" reference gas must meet the requirements of the applicable performance specification and must be introduced to the measurement system at the probe. Record and report the results of this procedure as you would for a daily calibration. The "above span linearity" challenge is successful if the value measured by the HCl CEMS falls within 10 percent of the certified value of the reference gas. If the value measured by the HCl CEMS during the above span linearity challenge exceeds 10 percent of the certified value of the reference gas, the monitoring system must be evaluated and repaired and a new "above span linearity" challenge met before returning the HCl CEMS to service, or data above span from the HCl CEMS must be subject to the quality assurance procedures established in (j)(1)(ii)(D) of this section. In this manner values measured by the HCl CEMS during the above span linearity challenge exceeding +/-20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas must be normalized using equation 6;

(C) Quality assure any data above the span value established in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section using the following procedure. Any time two consecutive one-hour average measured concentration of HCl exceeds the span value you must, within 24 hours before or after, introduce a higher, "above span" HCl reference gas standard to the HCl CEMS. The "above span" reference gas must meet the requirements of the applicable performance specification and target a concentration level between 50 and 150 percent of the highest expected hourly concentration measured during the period of measurements above span, and must be introduced at the probe. While this target represents a desired concentration range that is not always achievable in practice, it is expected that the intent to meet this range is demonstrated by the value of the reference gas. Expected values may include above span calibrations done before or after the above-span measurement period. Record and report the results of this procedure as you would for a daily calibration. The "above span" calibration is successful if the value measured by the HCl CEMS is within 20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas. If the value measured by the HCl CEMS is not within 20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas, then you must normalize the stack gas values measured above span as described in paragraph (j)(1)(ii)(D) of this section. If the "above span" calibration is conducted during the period when measured emissions are above span and there is a failure to collect the one data point in an hour due to the calibration duration, then you must determine the emissions average for that missed hour as the average of hourly averages for the hour preceding the missed hour and the hour following the missed hour. In an hour where an "above span" calibration is being conducted and one or more data points are collected, the emissions average is represented by the average of all valid data points collected in that hour;
