
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart CCCC - Standards of Performance for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units
###### Air Curtain Incinerators (ACIs)
####### ยง 60.2260 What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for air curtain incinerators?

(a) Prior to commencing construction on your ACI, submit the three items described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) Notification of your intent to construct the ACI;

(2) Your planned initial startup date; and

(3) Types of materials you plan to burn in your ACI.

(b) Keep records of results of all initial and annual opacity tests onsite in either paper copy or electronic format, unless the Administrator approves another format, for at least 5 years.

(c) Make all records available for submittal to the Administrator or for an inspector's onsite review.

(d) You must submit the results (as determined by the average of three 1-hour blocks consisting of ten 6-minute average opacity values) of the initial opacity tests no later than 60 days following the initial test. Submit annual opacity test results within 12 months following the previous report.

(e) Submit initial and annual opacity test reports as electronic or paper copy on or before the applicable submittal date.

(f) Keep a copy of the initial and annual reports onsite for a period of 5 years.
