
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart DDDD - Emissions Guidelines and Compliance Times for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units
###### Model Rule - Monitoring
####### ยง 60.2730 What monitoring equipment must I install and what parameters must I monitor?
######## i.e.,

(ii) The PM CPMS must have a cycle time (period required to complete sampling, measurement, and reporting for each measurement) no longer than 60 minutes; and

(iii) The PM CPMS must be capable of detecting and responding to particulate matter concentrations increments no greater than 0.5 mg/actual cubic meter.

(2) During the initial performance test or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the PM limit, you must adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test according to the procedures specified in ยง 60.2675.

(3) Collect PM CPMS hourly average output data for all energy recovery unit or waste-burning kiln operating hours. Express the PM CPMS output as milliamps or the digital signal equivalent.

(4) Calculate the arithmetic 30-day rolling average of all of the hourly average PM CPMS output collected during all energy recovery unit or waste-burning kiln operating hours data (milliamps or digital bits).

(5) You must collect data using the PM CPMS at all times the energy recovery unit or waste-burning kiln is operating and at the intervals specified in paragraph (r)(1)(ii) of this section, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), and any scheduled maintenance as defined in your site-specific monitoring plan.

(6) You must use all the data collected during all energy recovery unit or waste-burning kiln operating hours in assessing the compliance with your operating limit except:

(i) Any data collected during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities conducted during monitoring system malfunctions are not used in calculations (report any such periods in your annual deviation report);

(ii) Any data collected during periods when the monitoring system is out of control as specified in your site-specific monitoring plan, repairs associated with periods when the monitoring system is out of control, or required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities conducted during out-of-control periods are not used in calculations (report emissions or operating levels and report any such periods in your annual deviation report); and

(iii) Any PM CPMS data recorded during periods of CEMS data during startup and shutdown, as defined in this subpart.

(7) You must record and make available upon request results of PM CPMS system performance audits, as well as the dates and duration of periods from when the PM CPMS is out of control until completion of the corrective actions necessary to return the PM CPMS to operation consistent with your site-specific monitoring plan.

(8) For any deviation of the 30-day rolling average PM CPMS average value from the established operating parameter limit, you must:

(i) Within 48 hours of the deviation, visually inspect the air pollution control device;

(ii) If inspection of the air pollution control device identifies the cause of the deviation, take corrective action as soon as possible and return the PM CPMS measurement to within the established value;

(iii) Within 30 days of the deviation or at the time of the annual compliance test, whichever comes first, conduct a PM emissions compliance test to determine compliance with the PM emissions limit and to verify the operation of the emissions control device(s). Within 45 days of the deviation, you must re-establish the CPMS operating limit. You are not required to conduct additional testing for any deviations that occur between the time of the original deviation and the PM emissions compliance test required under this paragraph; and

(iv) PM CPMS deviations leading to more than four required performance tests in a 12-month process operating period (rolling monthly) constitute a violation of this subpart.

(s) If you use a dry scrubber to comply with the emission limits of this subpart, you must monitor the injection rate of each sorbent and maintain the 3-hour block averages at or above the operating limits established during the hydrogen chloride performance test.

(t) If you are required to monitor clinker production because you comply with the production-rate based mercury limit for your waste-burning kiln, you must:

(1) Determine hourly clinker production by one of two methods:

(i) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a permanent weigh scale system to measure and record weight rates in tons-mass per hour of the amount of clinker produced. The system of measuring hourly clinker production must be maintained within +/-5 percent accuracy, or

(ii) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a permanent weigh scale system to measure and record weight rates in tons-mass per hour of the amount of feed to the kiln. The system of measuring feed must be maintained within +/-5 percent accuracy. Calculate your hourly clinker production rate using a kiln-specific feed to clinker ratio based on reconciled clinker production determined for accounting purposes and recorded feed rates. Update this ratio monthly. Note that if this ratio changes at clinker reconciliation, you must use the new ratio going forward, but you do not have to retroactively change clinker production rates previously estimated.

(2) Determine the accuracy of the system of measuring hourly clinker production (or feed mass flow if applicable) before the final compliance date of this rule and during each quarter of source operation.

(3) Conduct accuracy checks in accordance with the procedures outlined in your site-specific monitoring plan under ยง 60.2710(l).
