
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart DDDD - Emissions Guidelines and Compliance Times for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units
###### Model Rule - Definitions
####### ยง 60.2875 What definitions must I know?
######## CEMS data during startup and shutdown

means the following:

(1) For incinerators and small remote incinerators: CEMS data collected during the first hours of operation of a CISWI startup from a cold start until waste is fed into the unit and the hours of operation following the cessation of waste material being fed to the CISWI during a unit shutdown. For each startup event, the length of time that CEMS data may be claimed as being CEMS data during startup must be 48 operating hours or less. For each shutdown event, the length of time that CEMS data may be claimed as being CEMS data during shutdown must be 24 operating hours or less;

(2) For energy recovery units: CEMS data collected during the startup or shutdown periods of operation. Startup begins with either the first-ever firing of fuel in a boiler or process heater for the purpose of supplying useful thermal energy (such as steam or heat) for heating, cooling or process purposes, or producing electricity, or the firing of fuel in a boiler or process heater for any purpose after a shutdown event. Startup ends four hours after when the boiler or process heater makes useful thermal energy (such as heat or steam) for heating, cooling, or process purposes, or generates electricity, whichever is earlier. Shutdown begins when the boiler or process heater no longer makes useful thermal energy (such as heat or steam) for heating, cooling, or process purposes and/or generates electricity or when no fuel is being fed to the boiler or process heater, whichever is earlier. Shutdown ends when the boiler or process heater no longer makes useful thermal energy (such as steam or heat) for heating, cooling, or process purposes and/or generates electricity, and no fuel is being combusted in the boiler or process heater; and

(3) For waste-burning kilns: CEMS data collected during the periods of kiln operation that do not include normal operations. Startup means the time from when a shutdown kiln first begins firing fuel until it begins producing clinker. Startup begins when a shutdown kiln turns on the induced draft fan and begins firing fuel in the main burner. Startup ends when feed is being continuously introduced into the kiln for at least 120 minutes or when the feed rate exceeds 60 percent of the kiln design limitation rate, whichever occurs first. Shutdown means the cessation of kiln operation. Shutdown begins when feed to the kiln is halted and ends when continuous kiln rotation ceases.
