
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart EEEE - Standards of Performance for Other Solid Waste Incineration Units for Which Construction is Commenced After December 9, 2004, or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced on or After June 16, 2006
###### Applicability
####### ยง 60.2889 Who implements and enforces this subpart?

(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If EPA has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency (as well as EPA) has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.

(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency, the authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section are retained by EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.

(1) Approval of alternatives to the emission limitations in table 1 of this subpart and operating limits established under ยง 60.2916 and table 2 of this subpart.

(2) Approval of petitions for specific operating limits in ยง 60.2917.

(3) Approval of major alternatives to test methods.

(4) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring.

(5) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting.

(6) The status report requirements in ยง 60.2911(c)(2).
