
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart EEEE - Standards of Performance for Other Solid Waste Incineration Units for Which Construction is Commenced After December 9, 2004, or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced on or After June 16, 2006
###### Operator Training and Qualification
####### ยง 60.2905 What are the operator training and qualification requirements?

(a) No OSWI unit can be operated unless a fully trained and qualified OSWI unit operator is accessible, either at the facility or can be at the facility within 1 hour. The trained and qualified OSWI unit operator may operate the OSWI unit directly or be the direct supervisor of one or more other plant personnel who operate the unit. If all qualified OSWI unit operators are temporarily not accessible, you must follow the procedures in ยง 60.2911.

(b) Operator training and qualification must be obtained through a State-approved program or by completing the requirements included in paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) Training must be obtained by completing an incinerator operator training course that includes, at a minimum, the three elements described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Training on the thirteen subjects listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (xiii) of this section.

(i) Environmental concerns, including types of emissions.

(ii) Basic combustion principles, including products of combustion.

(iii) Operation of the specific type of incinerator to be used by the operator, including proper startup, waste charging, and shutdown procedures.

(iv) Combustion controls and monitoring.

(v) Operation of air pollution control equipment and factors affecting performance (if applicable).

(vi) Inspection and maintenance of the incinerator and air pollution control devices.

(vii) Methods to monitor pollutants (including monitoring of incinerator and control device operating parameters) and monitoring equipment calibration procedures, where applicable.

(viii) Actions to correct malfunctions or conditions that may lead to malfunction.

(ix) Bottom and fly ash characteristics and handling procedures.

(x) Applicable Federal, State, and local regulations, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration workplace standards.

(xi) Pollution prevention.

(xii) Waste management practices.

(xiii) Recordkeeping requirements.

(2) An examination designed and administered by the instructor.

(3) Written material covering the training course topics that may serve as reference material following completion of the course.
