
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart EEEE - Standards of Performance for Other Solid Waste Incineration Units for Which Construction is Commenced After December 9, 2004, or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced on or After June 16, 2006
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 60.2932 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and the operating limits?

(a) You must conduct an annual performance test for all of the pollutants in table 1 of this subpart for each OSWI unit to determine compliance with the emission limitations. The annual performance test must be conducted using the test methods listed in table 1 of this subpart and the procedures in 60.2922.

(b) You must continuously monitor carbon monoxide emissions to determine compliance with the carbon monoxide emissions limitation. Twelve-hour rolling average values are used to determine compliance. A 12-hour rolling average value above the carbon monoxide emission limit in table 1 of this subpart constitutes a deviation from the emission limitation.

(c) You must continuously monitor the operating parameters specified in § 60.2916 or established under § 60.2917. Three-hour rolling average values are used to determine compliance with the operating limits unless a different averaging period is established under § 60.2917. A 3-hour rolling average value (unless a different averaging period is established under § 60.2917) above the established maximum or below the established minimum operating limits constitutes a deviation from the established operating limits. Operating limits do not apply during performance tests.
