
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart EEEE - Standards of Performance for Other Solid Waste Incineration Units for Which Construction is Commenced After December 9, 2004, or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced on or After June 16, 2006
###### Recordkeeping and Reporting
####### § 60.2949 What records must I keep?

You must maintain the 15 items (as applicable) as specified in paragraphs (a) through (o) of this section for a period of at least 5 years.

(a) Calendar date of each record.

(b) Records of the data described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) The OSWI unit charge dates, times, weights, and hourly charge rates.

(2) Liquor flow rate to the wet scrubber inlet every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable.

(3) Pressure drop across the wet scrubber system every 15 minutes of operation or amperage to the wet scrubber every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable.

(4) Liquor pH as introduced to the wet scrubber every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable.

(5) For OSWI units that establish operating limits for controls other than wet scrubbers under § 60.2917, you must maintain data collected for all operating parameters used to determine compliance with the operating limits.

(6) All 1-hour average concentrations of carbon monoxide emissions.

(7) All 12-hour rolling average values of carbon monoxide emissions and all 3-hour rolling average values of continuously monitored operating parameters.

(8) Records of the dates, times, and durations of any bypass of the control device.

(c) Identification of calendar dates and times for which continuous emission monitoring systems or monitoring systems used to monitor operating limits were inoperative, inactive, malfunctioning, or out of control (except for downtime associated with zero and span and other routine calibration checks). Identify the pollutant emissions or operating parameters not measured, the duration, reasons for not obtaining the data, and a description of corrective actions taken.

(d) Identification of calendar dates, times, and durations of malfunctions, and a description of the malfunction and the corrective action taken.

(e) Identification of calendar dates and times for which monitoring data show a deviation from the carbon monoxide emissions limit in table 1 of this subpart or a deviation from the operating limits in table 2 of this subpart or a deviation from other operating limits established under § 60.2917 with a description of the deviations, reasons for such deviations, and a description of corrective actions taken.

(f) Calendar dates when continuous monitoring systems did not collect the minimum amount of data required under §§ 60.2942 and 60.2945.

(g) For carbon monoxide continuous emissions monitoring systems, document the results of your daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy determinations according to Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part.

(h) Records of the calibration of any monitoring devices required under § 60.2944.

(i) The results of the initial, annual, and any subsequent performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission limits and/or to establish operating limits, as applicable. Retain a copy of the complete test report including calculations and a description of the types of waste burned during the test.

(j) All documentation produced as a result of the siting requirements of §§ 60.2894 and 60.2895.

(k) Records showing the names of OSWI unit operators who have completed review of the information in § 60.2910(a) as required by § 60.2910(b), including the date of the initial review and all subsequent annual reviews.

(l) Records showing the names of the OSWI unit operators who have completed the operator training requirements under § 60.2905, met the criteria for qualification under § 60.2907, and maintained or renewed their qualification under § 60.2908 or § 60.2909. Records must include documentation of training, the dates of the initial and refresher training, and the dates of their qualification and all subsequent renewals of such qualifications.

(m) For each qualified operator, the phone and/or pager number at which they can be reached during operating hours.

(n) Equipment vendor specifications and related operation and maintenance requirements for the incinerator, emission controls, and monitoring equipment.

(o) The information listed in § 60.2910(a).
