
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart EEEE - Standards of Performance for Other Solid Waste Incineration Units for Which Construction is Commenced After December 9, 2004, or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced on or After June 16, 2006
###### Air Curtain Incinerators That Burn Only Wood Waste, Clean Lumber, and Yard Waste
####### ยง 60.2973 What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for air curtain incinerators that burn only wood waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?

(a) Prior to commencing construction on your air curtain incinerator, submit the three items described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Notification of your intent to construct the air curtain incinerator.

(2) Your planned initial startup date.

(3) Types of materials you plan to burn in your air curtain incinerator.

(b) Keep records of results of all initial and annual opacity tests in either paper copy or computer-readable format that can be printed upon request, unless the Administrator approves another format, for at least 5 years. You must keep each record on site for at least 2 years. You may keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years.

(c) Make all records available for submittal to the Administrator or for an inspector's review.

(d) You must submit the results (each 6-minute average) of the initial opacity tests no later than 60 days following the initial test. Submit annual opacity test results within 12 months following the previous report.

(e) Submit initial and annual opacity test reports as electronic or paper copy on or before the applicable submittal date.

(f) Keep a copy of the initial and annual reports on site for a period of 5 years. You must keep each report on site for at least 2 years. You may keep the reports off site for the remaining 3 years.
