
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart I - Grants for Construction of Treatment Works
###### ยง 35.2015 State priority system and project priority list.
####### Categories of need.

(2)All projects must fit into at least one of the categories of need described in this paragraph to be eligible for funding, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) (iii) and (iv) of this section. States will have sole authority to determine the priority for each category of need.

(i) Before October 1, 1984, these categories of need shall include at least the following:

(A) Secondary treatment (category I);

(B) Treatment more stringent than secondary (category II);

(C) Infiltration/inflow correction (category IIIA);

(D) Major sewer system rehabilitation (category IIIB);

(E) New collector sewers and appurtenances (category IVA);

(F) New interceptors and appurtenances (category IVB);

(G) Correction of combined sewer overflows (category V).

(ii) After September 30, 1984, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) (iii) and (iv) of this section, these categories of need shall include only the following:

(A) Secondary treatment or any cost-effective alternative;

(B) Treatment more stringent than secondary or any cost-effective alternative;

(C) New interceptors and appurtenances; and

(D) Infiltration/inflow correction.

(iii) After September 30, 1984, up to 20 percent (as determined by the Governor) of a State's annual allotment may be used for categories of need other than those listed in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section and for any purpose for which grants may be made under sections 319 (h) and (i) of the Act (including any innovative and alternative approaches for the control of nonpoint sources of pollution).

(iv) After September 30, 1984, the Governor may include in the priority system a category for projects needed to correct combined sewer overflows which result in impaired uses in priority water quality areas. Only projects which comply with the requirements of ยง 35.2024(a) may be included in this category.
