
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart I - Grants for Construction of Treatment Works
###### ยง 35.2015 State priority system and project priority list.
####### Regional Administrator review.

(e)The State must submit its priority system, project priority list and revisions of the priority system or priority list to the Regional Administrator for review. The State must also submit each year, by August 31, a new priority list for use in the next fiscal year.

(1) After submission and approval of the initial priority system and submission and acceptance of the project priority lists under paragraph (c) of this section, the State may revise its priority system and list as necessary.

(2) The Regional Administrator shall review the State priority system and any revisions to insure that they are designed to obtain compliance with the criteria established in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section and the enforceable requirements of the Act as defined in ยง 35.2005(b)(15). The Regional Administrator shall complete review of the priority system within 30 days of receipt of the system from the State and will notify the State in writing of approval or disapproval of the priority system, stating any reasons for disapproval.

(3) The Regional Administrator will review the project priority list and any revisions to insure compliance with the State's approved priority system and the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. The Regional Administrator will complete review of the project priority list within 30 days of receipt from the State and will notify the State in writing of acceptance or rejection, stating the reasons for the rejection. Any project which is not contained on an accepted current priority list will not receive funding.
