
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart FFFF - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Other Solid Waste Incineration Units That Commenced Construction On or Before December 9, 2004
###### Introduction
####### ยง 60.2983 What must I include in my State plan?

(a) You must include the following nine items in your State plan:

(1) Inventory of affected incineration units, including those that have ceased operation but have not been dismantled.

(2) Inventory of emissions from affected incineration units in your State.

(3) Compliance schedules for each affected incineration unit.

(4) For each affected incineration unit, emission limitations, operator training and qualification requirements, a waste management plan, and operating parameter requirements that are at least as protective as the emission guidelines contained in this subpart.

(5) Stack testing, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.

(6) Transcript of the public hearing on the State plan.

(7) Provision for State progress reports to EPA.

(8) Identification of enforceable State mechanisms that you selected for implementing the emission guidelines of this subpart.

(9) Demonstration of your State's legal authority to carry out the sections 111(d) and 129 in your State plan.

(b) Your State plan may deviate from the format and content of the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. However, if your State plan does deviate, you must demonstrate that your State plan is at least as protective as the emission guidelines contained in this subpart. Your State plan must address regulatory applicability, compliance schedule, operator training and qualification, a waste management plan, emission limitations, stack testing, operating parameter requirements, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting, and air curtain incinerator requirements.

(c) You must follow the requirements of subpart B of this part (Adoption and Submittal of State Plans for Designated Facilities) in your State plan.
