
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart FFFF - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Other Solid Waste Incineration Units That Commenced Construction On or Before December 9, 2004
###### Model Rule - Performance Testing
####### ยง 60.3027 How do I conduct the initial and annual performance test?

(a) All performance tests must consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under conditions representative of normal operations.

(b) All performance tests must be conducted using the methods in table 2 of this subpart.

(c) All performance tests must be conducted using the minimum run duration specified in table 2 of this subpart.

(d) Method 1 of appendix A of this part must be used to select the sampling location and number of traverse points.

(e) Method 3A or 3B of appendix A of this part must be used for gas composition analysis, including measurement of oxygen concentration. Method 3A or 3B of appendix A of this part must be used simultaneously with each method.

(f) All pollutant concentrations, except for opacity, must be adjusted to 7 percent oxygen using Equation 1 in ยง 60.3076.

(g) Method 26A of appendix A of this part must be used for hydrogen chloride concentration analysis, with the additional requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The probe and filter must be conditioned prior to sampling using the procedure described in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Assemble the sampling train(s) and conduct a conditioning run by collecting between 14 liters per minute (0.5 cubic feet per minute) and 30 liters per minute (1.0 cubic feet per minute) of gas over a 1-hour period. Follow the sampling procedures outlined in section 8.1.5 of Method 26A of appendix A of this part. For the conditioning run, water can be used as the impinger solution.

(ii) Remove the impingers from the sampling train and replace with a fresh impinger train for the sampling run, leaving the probe and filter (and cyclone, if used) in position. Do not recover the filter or rinse the probe before the first run. Thoroughly rinse the impingers used in the preconditioning run with deionized water and discard these rinses.

(iii) The probe and filter assembly are conditioned by the stack gas and are not recovered or cleaned until the end of testing.

(2) For the duration of sampling, a temperature around the probe and filter (and cyclone, if used) between 120 &#xB0;C (248 &#xB0;F) and 134 &#xB0;C (273 &#xB0;F) must be maintained.

(3) If water droplets are present in the sample gas stream, the requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section must be met.

(i) The cyclone described in section 6.1.4 of Method 26A of appendix A of this part must be used.

(ii) The post-test moisture removal procedure described in section 8.1.6 of Method 26A of appendix A of this part must be used.
