
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart FFFF - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Other Solid Waste Incineration Units That Commenced Construction On or Before December 9, 2004
###### Model Rule - Recordkeeping and Reporting
####### § 60.3051 What information must I include in my annual report?

The annual report required under § 60.3050 must include the ten items listed in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section. If you have a deviation from the operating limits or the emission limitations, you must also submit deviation reports as specified in §§ 60.3052 through 60.3054.

(a) Company name and address.

(b) Statement by the owner or operator, with their name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the report. Such certifications must also comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 70.5(d) or 40 CFR 71.5(d).

(c) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(d) The values for the operating limits established pursuant to § 60.3023 or § 60.3024.

(e) If no deviation from any emission limitation or operating limit that applies to you has been reported, a statement that there was no deviation from the emission limitations or operating limits during the reporting period, and that no monitoring system used to determine compliance with the emission limitations or operating limits was inoperative, inactive, malfunctioning or out of control.

(f) The highest recorded 12-hour average and the lowest recorded 12-hour average, as applicable, for carbon monoxide emissions and the highest recorded 3-hour average and the lowest recorded 3-hour average, as applicable, for each operating parameter recorded for the calendar year being reported.

(g) Information recorded under § 60.3046(b)(6) and (c) through (e) for the calendar year being reported.

(h) If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of that test.

(i) If you met the requirements of § 60.3035(a) or (b), and did not conduct a performance test during the reporting period, you must state that you met the requirements of § 60.3035(a) or (b), and, therefore, you were not required to conduct a performance test during the reporting period.

(j) Documentation of periods when all qualified OSWI unit operators were unavailable for more than 12 hours, but less than 2 weeks.
