
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart FFFF - Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Other Solid Waste Incineration Units That Commenced Construction On or Before December 9, 2004
###### Model Rule - Air Curtain Incinerators That Burn Only Wood Waste, Clean Lumber, and Yard Waste
####### ยง 60.3068 What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for air curtain incinerators that burn only wood waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?

(a) Keep records of results of all initial and annual opacity tests in either paper copy or computer-readable format that can be printed upon request, unless the Administrator approves another format, for at least 5 years. You must keep each record on site for at least 2 years. You may keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years.

(b) Make all records available for submittal to the Administrator or for an inspector's review.

(c) You must submit the results (each 6-minute average) of the initial opacity tests no later than 60 days following the initial test. Submit annual opacity test results within 12 months following the previous report.

(d) Submit initial and annual opacity test reports as electronic or paper copy on or before the applicable submittal date.

(e) Keep a copy of the initial and annual reports for a period of 5 years. You must keep each report on site for at least 2 years. You may keep the reports off site for the remaining 3 years.
