
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart I - Grants for Construction of Treatment Works
###### § 35.2024 Combined sewer overflows.
####### Separate fund for combined sewer overflows in marine waters.

(b)(1) After September 30, 1982, the Administrator may award grants under section 201(n)(2) of the Act for addressing impaired uses or public health risks in priority water quality areas in marine bays and estuaries due to the impacts of combined sewer overflows. The Administrator may award such grants provided that the water quality benefits of the proposed project have been demonstrated by the State. The demonstration shall as a minimum prove that significant usage of the water for shellfishing and swimming will not be possible without the proposed project for correction of combined sewer overflows, and the proposed project will result in substantial restoration of an existing impaired use.

(2) The Administrator shall establish priorities for projects with demonstrated water quality benefits based upon the following criteria:

(i) Extent of water use benefits that would result, including swimming and shellfishing;

(ii) Relationship of water quality improvements to project costs; and

(iii) National and regional significance.

(3) If the project is a phase or segment of the proposed treatment works described in the facilities plan, the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be applied to the treatment works described in the facilities plan and each segment proposed for funding.

(4) All requirements of this subpart apply to grants awarded under section 201(n)(2) of the Act except §§ 35.2010, 35.2015, 35.2020, 35.2021, 35.2025(b), 35.2042, 35.2103, 35.2109, and 35.2202.
