
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart IIII - Standards of Performance for Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 60.4200 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to manufacturers, owners, and operators of stationary compression ignition (CI) internal combustion engines (ICE) and other persons as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. For the purposes of this subpart, the date that construction commences is the date the engine is ordered by the owner or operator.

(1) Manufacturers of stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder where the model year is:

(i) 2007 or later, for engines that are not fire pump engines;

(ii) The model year listed in Table 3 to this subpart or later model year, for fire pump engines.

(2) Owners and operators of stationary CI ICE that commence construction after July 11, 2005, where the stationary CI ICE are:

(i) Manufactured after April 1, 2006, and are not fire pump engines, or

(ii) Manufactured as a certified National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) fire pump engine after July 1, 2006.

(3) Owners and operators of any stationary CI ICE that are modified or reconstructed after July 11, 2005 and any person that modifies or reconstructs any stationary CI ICE after July 11, 2005.

(4) The provisions of ยง 60.4208 of this subpart are applicable to all owners and operators of stationary CI ICE that commence construction after July 11, 2005.

(b) The provisions of this subpart are not applicable to stationary CI ICE being tested at a stationary CI ICE test cell/stand.

(c) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.

(d) Stationary CI ICE may be eligible for exemption from the requirements of this subpart as described in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C, except that owners and operators, as well as manufacturers, may be eligible to request an exemption for national security.

(e) Owners and operators of facilities with CI ICE that are acting as temporary replacement units and that are located at a stationary source for less than 1 year and that have been properly certified as meeting the standards that would be applicable to such engine under the appropriate nonroad engine provisions, are not required to meet any other provisions under this subpart with regard to such engines.
