
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart IIII - Standards of Performance for Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Other Requirements for Owners and Operators
####### § 60.4208 What is the deadline for importing or installing stationary CI ICE produced in previous model years?

(a) After December 31, 2008, owners and operators may not install stationary CI ICE (excluding fire pump engines) that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2007 model year engines.

(b) After December 31, 2009, owners and operators may not install stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power of less than 19 KW (25 HP) (excluding fire pump engines) that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2008 model year engines.

(c) After December 31, 2014, owners and operators may not install non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power of greater than or equal to 19 KW (25 HP) and less than 56 KW (75 HP) that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2013 model year non-emergency engines.

(d) After December 31, 2013, owners and operators may not install non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power of greater than or equal to 56 KW (75 HP) and less than 130 KW (175 HP) that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2012 model year non-emergency engines.

(e) After December 31, 2012, owners and operators may not install non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power of greater than or equal to 130 KW (175 HP), including those above 560 KW (750 HP), that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2011 model year non-emergency engines.

(f) After December 31, 2016, owners and operators may not install non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power of greater than or equal to 560 KW (750 HP) that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2015 model year non-emergency engines.

(g) After December 31, 2018, owners and operators may not install non-emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 600 KW (804 HP) and less than 2,000 KW (2,680 HP) and a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder that do not meet the applicable requirements for 2017 model year non-emergency engines.

(h) In addition to the requirements specified in §§ 60.4201, 60.4202, 60.4204, and 60.4205, it is prohibited to import stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder that do not meet the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section after the dates specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.

(i) The requirements of this section do not apply to owners or operators of stationary CI ICE that have been modified, reconstructed, and do not apply to engines that were removed from one existing location and reinstalled at a new location.
