
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart IIII - Standards of Performance for Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Testing Requirements for Owners and Operators
####### ยง 60.4213 What test methods and other procedures must I use if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine with a displacement of greater than or equal to 30 liters per cylinder?

Owners and operators of stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 30 liters per cylinder must conduct performance tests according to paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.

(a) Each performance test must be conducted according to the requirements in ยง 60.8 and under the specific conditions that this subpart specifies in table 7. The test must be conducted within 10 percent of 100 percent peak (or the highest achievable) load.

(b) You may not conduct performance tests during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, as specified in ยง 60.8(c).

(c) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in ยง 60.8(f). Each test run must last at least 1 hour.

(d) To determine compliance with the percent reduction requirement, you must follow the requirements as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You must use Equation 2 of this section to determine compliance with the percent reduction requirement:

(2) You must normalize the NOor PM concentrations at the inlet and outlet of the control device to a dry basis and to 15 percent oxygen (O) using Equation 3 of this section, or an equivalent percent carbon dioxide (CO) using the procedures described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(3) If pollutant concentrations are to be corrected to 15 percent Oand COconcentration is measured in lieu of Oconcentration measurement, a COcorrection factor is needed. Calculate the COcorrection factor as described in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Calculate the fuel-specific Fvalue for the fuel burned during the test using values obtained from Method 19, Section 5.2, and the following equation:

(ii) Calculate the COcorrection factor for correcting measurement data to 15 percent O, as follows:

(iii) Calculate the NOand PM gas concentrations adjusted to 15 percent Ousing COas follows:

(e) To determine compliance with the NOmass per unit output emission limitation, convert the concentration of NOin the engine exhaust using Equation 7 of this section:

(f) To determine compliance with the PM mass per unit output emission limitation, convert the concentration of PM in the engine exhaust using Equation 8 of this section:
