
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart IIII - Standards of Performance for Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Compliance Requirements
####### § 60.4211 What are my compliance requirements if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine?

(a) If you are an owner or operator and must comply with the emission standards specified in this subpart, you must do all of the following, except as permitted under paragraph (g) of this section:

(1) Operate and maintain the stationary CI internal combustion engine and control device according to the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions;

(2) Change only those emission-related settings that are permitted by the manufacturer; and

(3) Meet the requirements of 40 CFR part 1068, as they apply to you.

(b) If you are an owner or operator of a pre-2007 model year stationary CI internal combustion engine and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4204(a) or § 60.4205(a), or if you are an owner or operator of a CI fire pump engine that is manufactured prior to the model years in table 3 to this subpart and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4205(c), you must demonstrate compliance according to one of the methods specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Purchasing an engine certified to emission standards for the same model year and maximum engine power as described in 40 CFR parts 1039 and 1042, as applicable. The engine must be installed and configured according to the manufacturer's specifications.

(2) Keeping records of performance test results for each pollutant for a test conducted on a similar engine. The test must have been conducted using the same methods specified in this subpart and these methods must have been followed correctly.

(3) Keeping records of engine manufacturer data indicating compliance with the standards.

(4) Keeping records of control device vendor data indicating compliance with the standards.

(5) Conducting an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the emission standards according to the requirements specified in § 60.4212, as applicable.

(c) If you are an owner or operator of a 2007 model year and later stationary CI internal combustion engine and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4204(b) or § 60.4205(b), or if you are an owner or operator of a CI fire pump engine that is manufactured during or after the model year that applies to your fire pump engine power rating in table 3 to this subpart and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4205(c), you must comply by purchasing an engine certified to the emission standards in § 60.4204(b), or § 60.4205(b) or (c), as applicable, for the same model year and maximum (or in the case of fire pumps, NFPA nameplate) engine power. The engine must be installed and configured according to the manufacturer's emission-related specifications, except as permitted in paragraph (g) of this section.

(d) If you are an owner or operator and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4204(c) or § 60.4205(d), you must demonstrate compliance according to the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Conducting an initial performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission standards as specified in § 60.4213.

(2) Establishing operating parameters to be monitored continuously to ensure the stationary internal combustion engine continues to meet the emission standards. The owner or operator must petition the Administrator for approval of operating parameters to be monitored continuously. The petition must include the information described in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Identification of the specific parameters you propose to monitor continuously;

(ii) A discussion of the relationship between these parameters and NOand PM emissions, identifying how the emissions of these pollutants change with changes in these parameters, and how limitations on these parameters will serve to limit NOand PM emissions;

(iii) A discussion of how you will establish the upper and/or lower values for these parameters which will establish the limits on these parameters in the operating limitations;

(iv) A discussion identifying the methods and the instruments you will use to monitor these parameters, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of these methods and instruments; and

(v) A discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you will use for monitoring these parameters.

(3) For non-emergency engines with a displacement of greater than or equal to 30 liters per cylinder, conducting annual performance tests to demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission standards as specified in § 60.4213.

(e) If you are an owner or operator of a modified or reconstructed stationary CI internal combustion engine and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4204(e) or § 60.4205(f), you must demonstrate compliance according to one of the methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) Purchasing, or otherwise owning or operating, an engine certified to the emission standards in § 60.4204(e) or § 60.4205(f), as applicable.

(2) Conducting a performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission standards according to the requirements specified in § 60.4212 or § 60.4213, as appropriate. The test must be conducted within 60 days after the engine commences operation after the modification or reconstruction.

(f) If you own or operate an emergency stationary ICE, you must operate the emergency stationary ICE according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section. In order for the engine to be considered an emergency stationary ICE under this subpart, any operation other than emergency operation, maintenance and testing, and operation in non-emergency situations for 50 hours per year, as described in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3), is prohibited. If you do not operate the engine according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3), the engine will not be considered an emergency engine under this subpart and must meet all requirements for non-emergency engines.

(1) There is no time limit on the use of emergency stationary ICE in emergency situations.

(2) You may operate your emergency stationary ICE for the purpose specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section for a maximum of 100 hours per calendar year. Any operation for non-emergency situations as allowed by paragraph (f)(3) of this section counts as part of the 100 hours per calendar year allowed by this paragraph (f)(2).

(i) Emergency stationary ICE may be operated for maintenance checks and readiness testing, provided that the tests are recommended by federal, state or local government, the manufacturer, the vendor, the regional transmission organization or equivalent balancing authority and transmission operator, or the insurance company associated with the engine. The owner or operator may petition the Administrator for approval of additional hours to be used for maintenance checks and readiness testing, but a petition is not required if the owner or operator maintains records indicating that federal, state, or local standards require maintenance and testing of emergency ICE beyond 100 hours per calendar year.

(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]

(3) Emergency stationary ICE may be operated for up to 50 hours per calendar year in non-emergency situations. The 50 hours of operation in non-emergency situations are counted as part of the 100 hours per calendar year for maintenance and testing provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section, the 50 hours per calendar year for non-emergency situations cannot be used for peak shaving or non-emergency demand response, or to generate income for a facility to an electric grid or otherwise supply power as part of a financial arrangement with another entity.

(i) The 50 hours per year for non-emergency situations can be used to supply power as part of a financial arrangement with another entity if all of the following conditions are met:

(A) The engine is dispatched by the local balancing authority or local transmission and distribution system operator;

(B) The dispatch is intended to mitigate local transmission and/or distribution limitations so as to avert potential voltage collapse or line overloads that could lead to the interruption of power supply in a local area or region.

(C) The dispatch follows reliability, emergency operation or similar protocols that follow specific NERC, regional, state, public utility commission or local standards or guidelines.

(D) The power is provided only to the facility itself or to support the local transmission and distribution system.

(E) The owner or operator identifies and records the entity that dispatches the engine and the specific NERC, regional, state, public utility commission or local standards or guidelines that are being followed for dispatching the engine. The local balancing authority or local transmission and distribution system operator may keep these records on behalf of the engine owner or operator.

(ii) [Reserved]

(g) If you do not install, configure, operate, and maintain your engine and control device according to the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions, or you change emission-related settings in a way that is not permitted by the manufacturer, you must demonstrate compliance as follows:

(1) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine with maximum engine power less than 100 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance to demonstrate compliance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, if you do not install and configure the engine and control device according to the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions, or you change the emission-related settings in a way that is not permitted by the manufacturer, you must conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards within 1 year of such action.

(2) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine greater than or equal to 100 HP and less than or equal to 500 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, you must conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards within 1 year of startup, or within 1 year after an engine and control device is no longer installed, configured, operated, and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions, or within 1 year after you change emission-related settings in a way that is not permitted by the manufacturer.

(3) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine greater than 500 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, you must conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards within 1 year of startup, or within 1 year after an engine and control device is no longer installed, configured, operated, and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions, or within 1 year after you change emission-related settings in a way that is not permitted by the manufacturer. You must conduct subsequent performance testing every 8,760 hours of engine operation or 3 years, whichever comes first, thereafter to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards.

(h) The requirements for operators and prohibited acts specified in 40 CFR 1039.665 apply to owners or operators of stationary CI ICE equipped with AECDs for qualified emergency situations as allowed by 40 CFR 1039.665.
