
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart IIII - Standards of Performance for Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Compliance Requirements
####### § 60.4210 What are my compliance requirements if I am a stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturer?

(a) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder to the emission standards specified in §§ 60.4201(a) through (c) and 60.4202(a), (b), and (d) using the certification procedures required in 40 CFR part 1039, subpart C, and must test their engines as specified in 40 CFR part 1039. For the purposes of this subpart, engines certified to the standards in Table 1 to this subpart shall be subject to the same certification procedures required for engines certified to the Tier 1 standards in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I. For the purposes of this subpart, engines certified to the standards in Table 4 to this subpart shall be subject to the same certification procedures required for engines certified to the Tier 1 standards in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I, except that engines with NFPA nameplate power of less than 37 KW (50 HP) certified to model year 2011 or later standards shall be subject to the same requirements as engines certified to the standards in 40 CFR part 1039.

(b) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must certify their stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder to the emission standards specified in §§ 60.4201(d) and (e) and 60.4202(e) and (f) using the certification procedures required in 40 CFR part 1042, subpart C, and must test their engines as specified in 40 CFR part 1042.

(c) Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must meet the requirements of 40 CFR 1039.120, 1039.125, 1039.130, and 1039.135 and 40 CFR part 1068 for engines that are certified to the emission standards in 40 CFR part 1039. Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must meet the corresponding provisions of 40 CFR part 1042 for engines that would be covered by that part if they were nonroad (including marine) engines. Labels on such engines must refer to stationary engines, rather than or in addition to nonroad or marine engines, as appropriate. Stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must label their engines according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Stationary CI internal combustion engines manufactured from January 1, 2006 to March 31, 2006 (January 1, 2006 to June 30, 2006 for fire pump engines), other than those that are part of certified engine families under the nonroad CI engine regulations, must be labeled according to 40 CFR 1039.20.

(2) Stationary CI internal combustion engines manufactured from April 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006 (or, for fire pump engines, July 1, 2006 to December 31 of the year preceding the year listed in table 3 to this subpart) must be labeled according to paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) Stationary CI internal combustion engines that are part of certified engine families under the nonroad regulations must meet the labeling requirements for nonroad CI engines, but do not have to meet the labeling requirements in 40 CFR 1039.20.

(ii) Stationary CI internal combustion engines that meet Tier 1 requirements (or requirements for fire pumps) under this subpart, but do not meet the requirements applicable to nonroad CI engines must be labeled according to 40 CFR 1039.20. The engine manufacturer may add language to the label clarifying that the engine meets Tier 1 requirements (or requirements for fire pumps) of this subpart.

(iii) Stationary CI internal combustion engines manufactured after April 1, 2006 that do not meet Tier 1 requirements of this subpart, or fire pumps engines manufactured after July 1, 2006 that do not meet the requirements for fire pumps under this subpart, may not be used in the U.S. If any such engines are manufactured in the U.S. after April 1, 2006 (July 1, 2006 for fire pump engines), they must be exported or must be brought into compliance with the appropriate standards prior to initial operation. The export provisions of 40 CFR 1068.230 would apply to engines for export and the manufacturers must label such engines according to 40 CFR 1068.230.

(3) Stationary CI internal combustion engines manufactured after January 1, 2007 (for fire pump engines, after January 1 of the year listed in table 3 to this subpart, as applicable) must be labeled according to paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Stationary CI internal combustion engines that meet the requirements of this subpart and the corresponding requirements for nonroad (including marine) engines of the same model year and HP must be labeled according to the provisions in 40 CFR part 1039 or 1042, as appropriate.

(ii) Stationary CI internal combustion engines that meet the requirements of this subpart, but are not certified to the standards applicable to nonroad (including marine) engines of the same model year and HP must be labeled according to the provisions in 40 CFR part 1039 or 1042, as appropriate, but the words "stationary" must be included instead of "nonroad" or "marine" on the label. In addition, such engines must be labeled according to 40 CFR 1039.20.

(iii) Stationary CI internal combustion engines that do not meet the requirements of this subpart must be labeled according to 40 CFR 1068.230 and must be exported under the provisions of 40 CFR 1068.230.

(d) An engine manufacturer certifying an engine family or families to standards under this subpart that are identical to standards applicable under 40 CFR part 1039 or 1042 for that model year may certify any such family that contains both nonroad (including marine) and stationary engines as a single engine family and/or may include any such family containing stationary engines in the averaging, banking, and trading provisions applicable for such engines under those parts.

(e) Manufacturers of engine families discussed in paragraph (d) of this section may meet the labeling requirements referred to in paragraph (c) of this section for stationary CI ICE by either adding a separate label containing the information required in paragraph (c) of this section or by adding the words "and stationary" after the word "nonroad" or "marine," as appropriate, to the label.

(f) Starting with the model years shown in table 5 to this subpart, stationary CI internal combustion engine manufacturers must add a permanent label stating that the engine is for stationary emergency use only to each new emergency stationary CI internal combustion engine greater than or equal to 19 KW (25 HP) that meets all the emission standards for emergency engines in § 60.4202 but does not meet all the emission standards for non-emergency engines in § 60.4201. The label must be added according to the labeling requirements specified in 40 CFR 1039.135(b). Engine manufacturers must specify in the owner's manual that operation of emergency engines is limited to emergency operations and required maintenance and testing.

(g) Manufacturers of fire pump engines may use the test cycle in table 6 to this subpart for testing fire pump engines and may test at the NFPA certified nameplate HP, provided that the engine is labeled as "Fire Pump Applications Only".

(h) Engine manufacturers, including importers, may introduce into commerce uncertified engines or engines certified to earlier standards that were manufactured before the new or changed standards took effect until inventories are depleted, as long as such engines are part of normal inventory. For example, if the engine manufacturers' normal industry practice is to keep on hand a one-month supply of engines based on its projected sales, and a new tier of standards starts to apply for the 2009 model year, the engine manufacturer may manufacture engines based on the normal inventory requirements late in the 2008 model year, and sell those engines for installation. The engine manufacturer may not circumvent the provisions of § 60.4201 or § 60.4202 by stockpiling engines that are built before new or changed standards take effect. Stockpiling of such engines beyond normal industry practice is a violation of this subpart.

(i) The replacement engine provisions of 40 CFR 1068.240 are applicable to stationary CI engines replacing existing equipment that is less than 15 years old.

(j) Stationary CI ICE manufacturers may equip their stationary CI internal combustion engines certified to the emission standards in 40 CFR part 1039 with AECDs for qualified emergency situations according to the requirements of 40 CFR 1039.665. Manufacturers of stationary CI ICE equipped with AECDs as allowed by 40 CFR 1039.665 must meet all the requirements in 40 CFR 1039.665 that apply to manufacturers. Manufacturers must document that the engine complies with the Tier 1 standard in 40 CFR part 1039, appendix I, when the AECD is activated. Manufacturers must provide any relevant testing, engineering analysis, or other information in sufficient detail to support such statement when applying for certification (including amending an existing certificate) of an engine equipped with an AECD as allowed by 40 CFR 1039.665.

(k) Manufacturers of any size may certify their emergency stationary CI internal combustion engines under this section using assigned deterioration factors established by EPA, consistent with 40 CFR 1039.240 and 1042.240.
