
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart IIII - Standards of Performance for Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Emission Standards for Owners and Operators
####### ยง 60.4205 What emission standards must I meet for emergency engines if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine?

(a) Owners and operators of pre-2007 model year emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder that are not fire pump engines must comply with the emission standards in Table 1 to this subpart. Owners and operators of pre-2007 model year emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder and less than 30 liters per cylinder that are not fire pump engines must comply with the Tier 1 emission standards in 40 CFR part 1042, appendix I.

(b) Owners and operators of 2007 model year and later emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder that are not fire pump engines must comply with the emission standards for new nonroad CI engines in ยง 60.4202, for all pollutants, for the same model year and maximum engine power for their 2007 model year and later emergency stationary CI ICE.

(c) Owners and operators of fire pump engines with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder must comply with the emission standards in table 4 to this subpart, for all pollutants.

(d) Owners and operators of emergency stationary CI engines with a displacement of greater than or equal to 30 liters per cylinder must meet the requirements in this section.

(1) For engines installed prior to January 1, 2012, limit the emissions of NOin the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to the following:

(i) 17.0 g/KW-hr (12.7 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is less than 130 rpm;

(ii) 45 &#xB7; ng/KW-hr (34 &#xB7; ng/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is 130 or more but less than 2,000 rpm, where n is maximum engine speed; and

(iii) 9.8 g/kW-hr (7.3 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is 2,000 rpm or more.

(2) For engines installed on or after January 1, 2012, limit the emissions of NOin the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to the following:

(i) 14.4 g/KW-hr (10.7 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is less than 130 rpm;

(ii) 44 &#xB7; ng/KW-hr (33 &#xB7; ng/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is greater than or equal to 130 but less than 2,000 rpm and where n is maximum engine speed; and

(iii) 7.7 g/KW-hr (5.7 g/HP-hr) when maximum engine speed is greater than or equal to 2,000 rpm.

(3) Limit the emissions of PM in the stationary CI internal combustion engine exhaust to 0.40 g/KW-hr (0.30 g/HP-hr).

(e) Owners and operators of emergency stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder who conduct performance tests in-use must meet the NTE standards as indicated in ยง 60.4212.

(f) Owners and operators of any modified or reconstructed emergency stationary CI ICE subject to this subpart must meet the emission standards applicable to the model year, maximum engine power, and displacement of the modified or reconstructed CI ICE that are specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
