
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart IIII - Standards of Performance for Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Notification, Reports, and Records for Owners and Operators
####### § 60.4214 What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements if I am an owner or operator of a stationary CI internal combustion engine?

(a) Owners and operators of non-emergency stationary CI ICE that are greater than 2,237 KW (3,000 HP), or have a displacement of greater than or equal to 10 liters per cylinder, or are pre-2007 model year engines that are greater than 130 KW (175 HP) and not certified, must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Submit an initial notification as required in § 60.7(a)(1). The notification must include the information in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Name and address of the owner or operator;

(ii) The address of the affected source;

(iii) Engine information including make, model, engine family, serial number, model year, maximum engine power, and engine displacement;

(iv) Emission control equipment; and

(v) Fuel used.

(2) Keep records of the information in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) All notifications submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any notification.

(ii) Maintenance conducted on the engine.

(iii) If the stationary CI internal combustion is a certified engine, documentation from the manufacturer that the engine is certified to meet the emission standards.

(iv) If the stationary CI internal combustion is not a certified engine, documentation that the engine meets the emission standards.

(b) If the stationary CI internal combustion engine is an emergency stationary internal combustion engine, the owner or operator is not required to submit an initial notification. Starting with the model years in table 5 to this subpart, if the emergency engine does not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines in the applicable model year, the owner or operator must keep records of the operation of the engine in emergency and non-emergency service that are recorded through the non-resettable hour meter. The owner must record the time of operation of the engine and the reason the engine was in operation during that time.

(c) If the stationary CI internal combustion engine is equipped with a diesel particulate filter, the owner or operator must keep records of any corrective action taken after the backpressure monitor has notified the owner or operator that the high backpressure limit of the engine is approached.

(d) If you own or operate an emergency stationary CI ICE with a maximum engine power more than 100 HP that operates for the purpose specified in § 60.4211(f)(3)(i), you must submit an annual report according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The report must contain the following information:

(i) Company name and address where the engine is located.

(ii) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(iii) Engine site rating and model year.

(iv) Latitude and longitude of the engine in decimal degrees reported to the fifth decimal place.

(v)-(vi) [Reserved]

(vii) Hours spent for operation for the purposes specified in § 60.4211(f)(3)(i), including the date, start time, and end time for engine operation for the purposes specified in § 60.4211(f)(3)(i). The report must also identify the entity that dispatched the engine and the situation that necessitated the dispatch of the engine.

(2) The first annual report must cover the calendar year 2015 and must be submitted no later than March 31, 2016. Subsequent annual reports for each calendar year must be submitted no later than March 31 of the following calendar year.
