
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart IIII - Standards of Performance for Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Special Requirements
####### § 60.4216 What requirements must I meet for engines used in Alaska?

(a) Prior to December 1, 2010, owners and operators of stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 30 liters per cylinder located in areas of Alaska not accessible by the FAHS should refer to 40 CFR part 69 to determine the diesel fuel requirements applicable to such engines.

(b) Except as indicated in paragraph (c) of this section, manufacturers, owners and operators of stationary CI ICE with a displacement of less than 10 liters per cylinder located in remote areas of Alaska may meet the requirements of this subpart by manufacturing and installing engines meeting the Tier 2 or Tier 3 emission standards described in 40 CFR part 1042 for the same model year, displacement, and maximum engine power, as appropriate, rather than the otherwise applicable requirements of 40 CFR part 1039, as indicated in §§ 60.4201(f) and 60.4202(g).

(c) Manufacturers, owners, and operators of stationary CI ICE that are located in remote areas of Alaska may choose to meet the applicable emission standards for emergency engines in §§ 60.4202 and 60.4205, and not those for non-emergency engines in §§ 60.4201 and 60.4204, except that for 2014 model year and later nonemergency CI ICE, the owner or operator of any such engine must have that engine certified as meeting at least the Tier 3 PM standards identified in appendix I of 40 CFR part 1039 or in 40 CFR 1042.101.

(d) The provisions of § 60.4207 do not apply to owners and operators of pre-2014 model year stationary CI ICE subject to this subpart that are located in remote areas of Alaska.

(e) The provisions of § 60.4208(a) do not apply to owners and operators of stationary CI ICE subject to this subpart that are located in areas of Alaska not accessible by the FAHS until after December 31, 2009.

(f) The provisions of this section and § 60.4207 do not prevent owners and operators of stationary CI ICE subject to this subpart that are located in remote areas of Alaska from using fuels mixed with used lubricating oil, in volumes of up to 1.75 percent of the total fuel. The sulfur content of the used lubricating oil must be less than 200 parts per million. The used lubricating oil must meet the on-specification levels and properties for used oil in 40 CFR 279.11.
