
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart IIII - Standards of Performance for Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Definitions
####### § 60.4219 What definitions apply to this subpart?
######## Emergency stationary internal combustion engine

means any stationary reciprocating internal combustion engine that meets all of the criteria in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition. All emergency stationary ICE must comply with the requirements specified in § 60.4211(f) in order to be considered emergency stationary ICE. If the engine does not comply with the requirements specified in § 60.4211(f), then it is not considered to be an emergency stationary ICE under this subpart.

(1) The stationary ICE is operated to provide electrical power or mechanical work during an emergency situation. Examples include stationary ICE used to produce power for critical networks or equipment (including power supplied to portions of a facility) when electric power from the local utility (or the normal power source, if the facility runs on its own power production) is interrupted, or stationary ICE used to pump water in the case of fire or flood, etc.

(2) The stationary ICE is operated under limited circumstances for situations not included in paragraph (1) of this definition, as specified in § 60.4211(f).

(3) The stationary ICE operates as part of a financial arrangement with another entity in situations not included in paragraph (1) of this definition only as allowed in § 60.4211(f)(3)(i).
