
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart JJJJ - Standards of Performance for Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 60.4230 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to manufacturers, owners, and operators of stationary spark ignition (SI) internal combustion engines (ICE) as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section. For the purposes of this subpart, the date that construction commences is the date the engine is ordered by the owner or operator.

(1) Manufacturers of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 19 kilowatt (KW) (25 horsepower (HP)) that are manufactured on or after July 1, 2008.

(2) Manufacturers of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) that are gasoline fueled or that are rich burn engines fueled by liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), where the date of manufacture is:

(i) On or after July 1, 2008; or

(ii) On or after January 1, 2009, for emergency engines.

(3) Manufacturers of stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) that are not gasoline fueled and are not rich burn engines fueled by LPG, where the manufacturer participates in the voluntary manufacturer certification program described in this subpart and where the date of manufacture is:

(i) On or after July 1, 2007, for engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP (except lean burn engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP);

(ii) On or after January 1, 2008, for lean burn engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP;

(iii) On or after July 1, 2008, for engines with a maximum engine power less than 500 HP; or

(iv) On or after January 1, 2009, for emergency engines.

(4) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE that commence construction after June 12, 2006, where the stationary SI ICE are manufactured:

(i) On or after July 1, 2007, for engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP (except lean burn engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP);

(ii) on or after January 1, 2008, for lean burn engines with a maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP and less than 1,350 HP;

(iii) on or after July 1, 2008, for engines with a maximum engine power less than 500 HP; or

(iv) on or after January 1, 2009, for emergency engines with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP).

(5) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE that are modified or reconstructed after June 12, 2006, and any person that modifies or reconstructs any stationary SI ICE after June 12, 2006.

(6) The provisions of ยง 60.4236 of this subpart are applicable to all owners and operators of stationary SI ICE that commence construction after June 12, 2006.

(b) The provisions of this subpart are not applicable to stationary SI ICE being tested at an engine test cell/stand.

(c) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart as applicable.

(d) For the purposes of this subpart, stationary SI ICE using alcohol-based fuels are considered gasoline engines.

(e) Stationary SI ICE may be eligible for exemption from the requirements of this subpart as described in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C (or the exemptions described in 40 CFR parts 1048 and 1054, for engines that would need to be certified to standards in those parts), except that owners and operators, as well as manufacturers, may be eligible to request an exemption for national security.

(f) Owners and operators of facilities with internal combustion engines that are acting as temporary replacement units and that are located at a stationary source for less than 1 year and that have been properly certified as meeting the standards that would be applicable to such engine under the appropriate nonroad engine provisions, are not required to meet any other provisions under this subpart with regard to such engines.
