
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart JJJJ - Standards of Performance for Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Compliance Requirements for Owners and Operators
####### § 60.4243 What are my compliance requirements if I am an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine?

(a) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine that is manufactured after July 1, 2008, and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4233(a) through (c), you must comply by purchasing an engine certified to the emission standards in § 60.4231(a) through (c), as applicable, for the same engine class and maximum engine power. In addition, you must meet one of the requirements specified in (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you operate and maintain the certified stationary SI internal combustion engine and control device according to the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions, you must keep records of conducted maintenance to demonstrate compliance, but no performance testing is required if you are an owner or operator. You must also meet the requirements as specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subparts A through D, as they apply to you. If you adjust engine settings according to and consistent with the manufacturer's instructions, your stationary SI internal combustion engine will not be considered out of compliance.

(2) If you do not operate and maintain the certified stationary SI internal combustion engine and control device according to the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions, your engine will be considered a non-certified engine, and you must demonstrate compliance according to (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, as appropriate.

(i) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine less than 100 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance to demonstrate compliance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions, but no performance testing is required if you are an owner or operator.

(ii) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine greater than or equal to 100 HP and less than or equal to 500 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, you must conduct an initial performance test within 1 year of engine startup to demonstrate compliance.

(iii) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine greater than 500 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, you must conduct an initial performance test within 1 year of engine startup and conduct subsequent performance testing every 8,760 hours or 3 years, whichever comes first, thereafter to demonstrate compliance.

(b) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4233(d) or (e), you must demonstrate compliance according to one of the methods specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Purchasing an engine certified according to procedures specified in this subpart, for the same model year and demonstrating compliance according to one of the methods specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Purchasing a non-certified engine and demonstrating compliance with the emission standards specified in § 60.4233(d) or (e) and according to the requirements specified in § 60.4244, as applicable, and according to paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine greater than 25 HP and less than or equal to 500 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, you must conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance.

(ii) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine greater than 500 HP, you must keep a maintenance plan and records of conducted maintenance and must, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. In addition, you must conduct an initial performance test and conduct subsequent performance testing every 8,760 hours or 3 years, whichever comes first, thereafter to demonstrate compliance.

(c) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine that must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4233(f), you must demonstrate compliance according paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, except that if you comply according to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, you demonstrate that your non-certified engine complies with the emission standards specified in § 60.4233(f).

(d) If you own or operate an emergency stationary ICE, you must operate the emergency stationary ICE according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. In order for the engine to be considered an emergency stationary ICE under this subpart, any operation other than emergency operation, maintenance and testing, and operation in non-emergency situations for 50 hours per year, as described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3), is prohibited. If you do not operate the engine according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3), the engine will not be considered an emergency engine under this subpart and must meet all requirements for non-emergency engines.

(1) There is no time limit on the use of emergency stationary ICE in emergency situations.

(2) You may operate your emergency stationary ICE for the purpose specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section for a maximum of 100 hours per calendar year. Any operation for non-emergency situations as allowed by paragraph (d)(3) of this section counts as part of the 100 hours per calendar year allowed by this paragraph (d)(2).

(i) Emergency stationary ICE may be operated for maintenance checks and readiness testing, provided that the tests are recommended by federal, state or local government, the manufacturer, the vendor, the regional transmission organization or equivalent balancing authority and transmission operator, or the insurance company associated with the engine. The owner or operator may petition the Administrator for approval of additional hours to be used for maintenance checks and readiness testing, but a petition is not required if the owner or operator maintains records indicating that federal, state, or local standards require maintenance and testing of emergency ICE beyond 100 hours per calendar year.

(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]

(3) Emergency stationary ICE may be operated for up to 50 hours per calendar year in non-emergency situations. The 50 hours of operation in non-emergency situations are counted as part of the 100 hours per calendar year for maintenance and testing provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, the 50 hours per year for non-emergency situations cannot be used for peak shaving or non-emergency demand response, or to generate income for a facility to an electric grid or otherwise supply power as part of a financial arrangement with another entity.

(i) The 50 hours per year for non-emergency situations can be used to supply power as part of a financial arrangement with another entity if all of the following conditions are met:

(A) The engine is dispatched by the local balancing authority or local transmission and distribution system operator;

(B) The dispatch is intended to mitigate local transmission and/or distribution limitations so as to avert potential voltage collapse or line overloads that could lead to the interruption of power supply in a local area or region.

(C) The dispatch follows reliability, emergency operation or similar protocols that follow specific NERC, regional, state, public utility commission or local standards or guidelines.

(D) The power is provided only to the facility itself or to support the local transmission and distribution system.

(E) The owner or operator identifies and records the entity that dispatches the engine and the specific NERC, regional, state, public utility commission or local standards or guidelines that are being followed for dispatching the engine. The local balancing authority or local transmission and distribution system operator may keep these records on behalf of the engine owner or operator.

(ii) [Reserved]

(e) Owners and operators of stationary SI natural gas fired engines may operate their engines using propane for a maximum of 100 hours per year as an alternative fuel solely during emergency operations, but must keep records of such use. If propane is used for more than 100 hours per year in an engine that is not certified to the emission standards when using propane, the owners and operators are required to conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the emission standards of § 60.4233.

(f) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine that is less than or equal to 500 HP and you purchase a non-certified engine or you do not operate and maintain your certified stationary SI internal combustion engine and control device according to the manufacturer's written emission-related instructions, you are required to perform initial performance testing as indicated in this section, but you are not required to conduct subsequent performance testing unless the stationary engine undergoes rebuild, major repair or maintenance. Engine rebuilding means to overhaul an engine or to otherwise perform extensive service on the engine (or on a portion of the engine or engine system). For the purpose of this paragraph (f), perform extensive service means to disassemble the engine (or portion of the engine or engine system), inspect and/or replace many of the parts, and reassemble the engine (or portion of the engine or engine system) in such a manner that significantly increases the service life of the resultant engine.

(g) It is expected that air-to-fuel ratio controllers will be used with the operation of three-way catalysts/non-selective catalytic reduction. The AFR controller must be maintained and operated appropriately in order to ensure proper operation of the engine and control device to minimize emissions at all times.

(h) If you are an owner/operator of an stationary SI internal combustion engine with maximum engine power greater than or equal to 500 HP that is manufactured after July 1, 2007 and before July 1, 2008, and must comply with the emission standards specified in sections 60.4233(b) or (c), you must comply by one of the methods specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(4) of this section.

(1) Purchasing an engine certified according to 40 CFR part 1048. The engine must be installed and configured according to the manufacturer's specifications.

(2) Keeping records of performance test results for each pollutant for a test conducted on a similar engine. The test must have been conducted using the same methods specified in this subpart and these methods must have been followed correctly.

(3) Keeping records of engine manufacturer data indicating compliance with the standards.

(4) Keeping records of control device vendor data indicating compliance with the standards.

(i) If you are an owner or operator of a modified or reconstructed stationary SI internal combustion engine and must comply with the emission standards specified in § 60.4233(f), you must demonstrate compliance according to one of the methods specified in paragraphs (i)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) Purchasing, or otherwise owning or operating, an engine certified to the emission standards in § 60.4233(f), as applicable.

(2) Conducting a performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission standards according to the requirements specified in § 60.4244. The test must be conducted within 60 days after the engine commences operation after the modification or reconstruction.
