
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart JJJJ - Standards of Performance for Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Compliance Requirements for Manufacturers
####### § 60.4241 What are my compliance requirements if I am a manufacturer of stationary SI internal combustion engines participating in the voluntary certification program or a manufacturer of equipment containing such engines?

(a) Manufacturers of stationary SI internal combustion engines with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) that do not use gasoline and are not rich burn engines that use LPG can choose to certify their engines to the emission standards in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable, under the voluntary certification program described in this subpart. Manufacturers who certify their engines under the voluntary certification program must meet the requirements as specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section. In addition, manufacturers of stationary SI internal combustion engines who choose to certify their engines under the voluntary certification program, must also meet the requirements as specified in § 60.4247. Manufacturers of stationary SI internal combustion engines who choose not to certify their engines under this section must notify the ultimate purchaser that testing requirements apply as described in § 60.4243(b)(2); manufacturers must keep a copy of this notification for five years after shipping each engine and make those documents available to EPA upon request.

(b) Manufacturers of engines other than those certified to standards in 40 CFR part 1054 must certify their stationary SI ICE using the certification procedures required in 40 CFR part 1048, subpart C, and must follow the same test procedures that apply to Large SI nonroad engines under 40 CFR part 1048, but must use the D-1 cycle of International Organization for Standardization 8178-4: 1996(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) or the test cycle requirements specified in Table 3 to 40 CFR 1048.505, except that Table 3 of 40 CFR 1048.505 applies to high load engines only. Manufacturers of any size may certify their stationary emergency engines at or above 130 hp using assigned deterioration factors established by EPA, consistent with 40 CFR 1048.240. Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers who certify their stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 30 KW (40 HP) with a total displacement less than or equal to 1,000 cc to the certification emission standards and other requirements for new nonroad SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054, and manufacturers of emergency engines that are greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP who meet the Phase 1 standards in 40 CFR part 1054, appendix I, applicable to class II engines, must certify their stationary SI ICE using the certification and testing procedures required in 40 CFR part 1054, subparts C and F. Manufacturers of equipment containing stationary SI internal combustion engines meeting the provisions of 40 CFR part 1054 must meet the provisions of 40 CFR part 1060, subpart C, to the extent they apply to equipment manufacturers.

(c) Certification of stationary SI ICE to the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable, is voluntary, but manufacturers who decide to certify are subject to all of the requirements indicated in this subpart with regard to the engines included in their certification. Manufacturers must clearly label their stationary SI engines as certified or non-certified engines.

(d) Manufacturers of natural gas fired stationary SI ICE who conduct voluntary certification of stationary SI ICE to the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable, must certify their engines for operation using fuel that meets the definition of pipeline-quality natural gas. The fuel used for certifying stationary SI natural gas engines must meet the definition of pipeline-quality natural gas as described in § 60.4248. In addition, the manufacturer must provide information to the owner and operator of the certified stationary SI engine including the specifications of the pipeline-quality natural gas to which the engine is certified and what adjustments the owner or operator must make to the engine when installed in the field to ensure compliance with the emission standards.

(e) Manufacturers of stationary SI ICE that are lean burn engines fueled by LPG who conduct voluntary certification of stationary SI ICE to the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable, must certify their engines for operation using fuel that meets the specifications in 40 CFR 1065.720.

(f) Manufacturers may certify their engines for operation using gaseous fuels in addition to pipeline-quality natural gas; however, the manufacturer must specify the properties of that fuel and provide testing information showing that the engine will meet the emission standards specified in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable, when operating on that fuel. The manufacturer must also provide instructions for configuring the stationary engine to meet the emission standards on fuels that do not meet the pipeline-quality natural gas definition. The manufacturer must also provide information to the owner and operator of the certified stationary SI engine regarding the configuration that is most conducive to reduced emissions where the engine will be operated on gaseous fuels with different quality than the fuel that it was certified to.

(g) A stationary SI engine manufacturer may certify an engine family solely to the standards applicable to landfill/digester gas engines as specified in § 60.4231(d) or (e), as applicable, but must certify their engines for operation using landfill/digester gas and must add a permanent label stating that the engine is for use only in landfill/digester gas applications. The label must be added according to the labeling requirements specified in 40 CFR 1048.135(b).

(h) For purposes of this subpart, when calculating emissions of volatile organic compounds, emissions of formaldehyde should not be included.

(i) For engines being certified to the voluntary certification standards in Table 1 of this subpart, the VOC measurement shall be made by following the procedures in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart C, to determine the total NMHC emissions. As an alternative, manufacturers may measure ethane, as well as methane, for excluding such levels from the total VOC measurement.
