
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart JJJJ - Standards of Performance for Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Testing Requirements for Owners and Operators
####### ยง 60.4244 What test methods and other procedures must I use if I am an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine?

Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE who conduct performance tests must follow the procedures in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.

(a) Each performance test must be conducted within 10 percent of 100 percent peak (or the highest achievable) load and according to the requirements in ยง 60.8 and under the specific conditions that are specified by Table 2 to this subpart.

(b) You may not conduct performance tests during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, as specified in ยง 60.8(c). If your stationary SI internal combustion engine is non-operational, you do not need to startup the engine solely to conduct a performance test; however, you must conduct the performance test immediately upon startup of the engine.

(c) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in ยง 60.8(f). Each test run must be conducted within 10 percent of 100 percent peak (or the highest achievable) load and last at least 1 hour.

(d) To determine compliance with the NOmass per unit output emission limitation, convert the concentration of NOin the engine exhaust using Equation 1 of this section:

(e) To determine compliance with the CO mass per unit output emission limitation, convert the concentration of CO in the engine exhaust using Equation 2 of this section:

(f) For purposes of this subpart, when calculating emissions of VOC, emissions of formaldehyde should not be included. To determine compliance with the VOC mass per unit output emission limitation, convert the concentration of VOC in the engine exhaust using Equation 3 of this section:

(g) If the owner/operator chooses to measure VOC emissions using either Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, or Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, then it has the option of correcting the measured VOC emissions to account for the potential differences in measured values between these methods and Method 25A. The results from Method 18 and Method 320 can be corrected for response factor differences using Equations 4 and 5 of this section. The corrected VOC concentration can then be placed on a propane basis using Equation 6 of this section.
