
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart JJJJ - Standards of Performance for Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Notification, Reports, and Records for Owners and Operators
####### § 60.4245 What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements if I am an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine?

Owners or operators of stationary SI ICE must meet the following notification, reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Owners and operators of all stationary SI ICE must keep records of the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) All notifications submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any notification.

(2) Maintenance conducted on the engine.

(3) If the stationary SI internal combustion engine is a certified engine, documentation from the manufacturer that the engine is certified to meet the emission standards and information as required in 40 CFR parts 1048, 1054, and 1060, as applicable.

(4) If the stationary SI internal combustion engine is not a certified engine or is a certified engine operating in a non-certified manner and subject to § 60.4243(a)(2), documentation that the engine meets the emission standards.

(b) For all stationary SI emergency ICE greater than or equal to 500 HP manufactured on or after July 1, 2010, that do not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, the owner or operator of must keep records of the hours of operation of the engine that is recorded through the non-resettable hour meter. For all stationary SI emergency ICE greater than or equal to 130 HP and less than 500 HP manufactured on or after July 1, 2011 that do not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, the owner or operator of must keep records of the hours of operation of the engine that is recorded through the non-resettable hour meter. For all stationary SI emergency ICE greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP manufactured on or after July 1, 2008, that do not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, the owner or operator of must keep records of the hours of operation of the engine that is recorded through the non-resettable hour meter. The owner or operator must document how many hours are spent for emergency operation, including what classified the operation as emergency and how many hours are spent for non-emergency operation.

(c) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE greater than or equal to 500 HP that have not been certified by an engine manufacturer to meet the emission standards in § 60.4231 must submit an initial notification as required in § 60.7(a)(1). The notification must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Name and address of the owner or operator;

(2) The address of the affected source;

(3) Engine information including make, model, engine family, serial number, model year, maximum engine power, and engine displacement;

(4) Emission control equipment; and

(5) Fuel used.

(d) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE that are subject to performance testing must submit a copy of each performance test as conducted in § 60.4244 within 60 days after the test has been completed. Performance test reports using EPA Method 18, EPA Method 320, or ASTM D6348-03 (incorporated by reference-see 40 CFR 60.17) to measure VOC require reporting of all QA/QC data. For Method 18, report results from sections 8.4 and 11.1.1.4; for Method 320, report results from sections 8.6.2, 9.0, and 13.0; and for ASTM D6348-03 report results of all QA/QC procedures in Annexes 1-7.

(e) If you own or operate an emergency stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power more than 100 HP that operates for the purpose specified in § 60.4243(d)(3)(i), you must submit an annual report according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The report must contain the following information:

(i) Company name and address where the engine is located.

(ii) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(iii) Engine site rating and model year.

(iv) Latitude and longitude of the engine in decimal degrees reported to the fifth decimal place.

(v)-(vi) [Reserved]

(vii) Hours spent for operation for the purposes specified in § 60.4243(d)(3)(i), including the date, start time, and end time for engine operation for the purposes specified in § 60.4243(d)(3)(i). The report must also identify the entity that dispatched the engine and the situation that necessitated the dispatch of the engine.

(2) The first annual report must cover the calendar year 2015 and must be submitted no later than March 31, 2016. Subsequent annual reports for each calendar year must be submitted no later than March 31 of the following calendar year.
