
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart JJJJ - Standards of Performance for Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Compliance Requirements for Manufacturers
####### ยง 60.4242 What other requirements must I meet if I am a manufacturer of stationary SI internal combustion engines or equipment containing stationary SI internal combustion engines or a manufacturer of equipment containing such engines?

(a) Stationary SI internal combustion engine manufacturers must meet the provisions of 40 CFR parts 1048, 1054, and 1068, as applicable, except that engines certified pursuant to the voluntary certification procedures in ยง 60.4241 are subject only to the provisions indicated in ยง 60.4247 and are permitted to provide instructions to owners and operators allowing for deviations from certified configurations, if such deviations are consistent with the provisions of ยง 60.4241(c) through (f). Manufacturers of equipment containing stationary SI internal combustion engines meeting the provisions of 40 CFR part 1054 must meet the provisions of 40 CFR part 1060, as applicable. Labels on engines certified to 40 CFR part 1048 must refer to stationary engines, rather than or in addition to nonroad engines, as appropriate.

(b) An engine manufacturer certifying an engine family or families to standards under this subpart that are identical to standards identified in 40 CFR part 1048 or 1054 for that model year may certify any such family that contains both nonroad and stationary engines as a single engine family and/or may include any such family containing stationary engines in the averaging, banking and trading provisions applicable for such engines under those parts. This paragraph (b) also applies to equipment or component manufacturers certifying to standards under 40 CFR part 1060.

(c) Manufacturers of engine families certified to 40 CFR part 1048 may meet the labeling requirements referred to in paragraph (a) of this section for stationary SI ICE by either adding a separate label containing the information required in paragraph (a) of this section or by adding the words "and stationary" after the word "nonroad" to the label.

(d) For all engines manufactured on or after January 1, 2011, and for all engines with a maximum engine power greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP manufactured on or after July 1, 2008, a stationary SI engine manufacturer that certifies an engine family solely to the standards applicable to emergency engines must add a permanent label stating that the engines in that family are for emergency use only. The label must be added according to the labeling requirements specified in 40 CFR 1048.135(b).

(e) All stationary SI engines subject to mandatory certification that do not meet the requirements of this subpart must be labeled and exported according to 40 CFR 1068.230. Manufacturers of stationary engines with a maximum engine power greater than 25 HP that are not certified to standards and other requirements under 40 CFR part 1048 are subject to the labeling provisions of 40 CFR 1048.20 pertaining to excluded stationary engines.

(f) For manufacturers of gaseous-fueled stationary engines required to meet the warranty provisions in 40 CFR 1054.120, we may establish an hour-based warranty period equal to at least the certified emissions life of the engines (in engine operating hours) if we determine that these engines are likely to operate for a number of hours greater than the applicable useful life within 24 months. We will not approve an alternate warranty under this paragraph (f) for nonroad engines. An alternate warranty period approved under this paragraph (f) will be the specified number of engine operating hours or two years, whichever comes first. The engine manufacturer shall request this alternate warranty period in its application for certification or in an earlier submission. We may approve an alternate warranty period for an engine family subject to the following conditions:

(1) The engines must be equipped with non-resettable hour meters.

(2) The engines must be designed to operate for a number of hours substantially greater than the applicable certified emissions life.

(3) The emission-related warranty for the engines may not be shorter than any published warranty offered by the manufacturer without charge for the engines. Similarly, the emission-related warranty for any component shall not be shorter than any published warranty offered by the manufacturer without charge for that component.
