
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart JJJJ - Standards of Performance for Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
###### Definitions
####### ยง 60.4248 What definitions apply to this subpart?
######## Certified emissions life

means the period during which the engine is designed to properly function in terms of reliability and fuel consumption, without being remanufactured, specified as a number of hours of operation or calendar years, whichever comes first. The values for certified emissions life for stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power less than or equal to 19 KW (25 HP) are given in 40 CFR 1054.107 and 1060.101, as appropriate. The values for certified emissions life for stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 19 KW (25 HP) certified to 40 CFR part 1048 are given in 40 CFR 1048.101(g). The certified emissions life for stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power greater than 75 KW (100 HP) certified under the voluntary manufacturer certification program of this subpart is 5,000 hours or 7 years, whichever comes first. You may request in your application for certification that we approve a shorter certified emissions life for an engine family. We may approve a shorter certified emissions life, in hours of engine operation but not in years, if we determine that these engines will rarely operate longer than the shorter certified emissions life. If engines identical to those in the engine family have already been produced and are in use, your demonstration must include documentation from such in-use engines. In other cases, your demonstration must include an engineering analysis of information equivalent to such in-use data, such as data from research engines or similar engine models that are already in production. Your demonstration must also include any overhaul interval that you recommend, any mechanical warranty that you offer for the engine or its components, and any relevant customer design specifications. Your demonstration may include any other relevant information. The certified emissions life value may not be shorter than any of the following:

(1) 1,000 hours of operation.

(2) Your recommended overhaul interval.

(3) Your mechanical warranty for the engine.
