
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKKK - Standards of Performance for Stationary Combustion Turbines
###### Emission Limits
####### ยง 60.4315 What pollutants are regulated by this subpart?
############### ยง 60.4330 What emission limits must I meet for sulfur dioxide (SO?

(a) If your turbine is located in a continental area, you must comply with either paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section. If your turbine is located in Alaska, you do not have to comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section until January 1, 2008.

(1) You must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the subject stationary combustion turbine any gases which contain SOin excess of 110 nanograms per Joule (ng/J) (0.90 pounds per megawatt-hour (lb/MWh)) gross output;

(2) You must not burn in the subject stationary combustion turbine any fuel which contains total potential sulfur emissions in excess of 26 ng SO/J (0.060 lb SO/MMBtu) heat input. If your turbine simultaneously fires multiple fuels, each fuel must meet this requirement; or

(3) For each stationary combustion turbine burning at least 50 percent biogas on a calendar month basis, as determined based on total heat input, you must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected source any gases that contain SOin excess of 65 ng SO/J (0.15 lb SO/MMBtu) heat input.

(b) If your turbine is located in a noncontinental area or a continental area that the Administrator determines does not have access to natural gas and that the removal of sulfur compounds would cause more environmental harm than benefit, you must comply with one or the other of the following conditions:

(1) You must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the subject stationary combustion turbine any gases which contain SOin excess of 780 ng/J (6.2 lb/MWh) gross output, or

(2) You must not burn in the subject stationary combustion turbine any fuel which contains total sulfur with potential sulfur emissions in excess of 180 ng SO/J (0.42 lb SO/MMBtu) heat input. If your turbine simultaneously fires multiple fuels, each fuel must meet this requirement.
