
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKKK - Standards of Performance for Stationary Combustion Turbines
###### Monitoring
############### § 60.4340 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance for NOif I do not use water or steam injection?

(a) If you are not using water or steam injection to control NOemissions, you must perform annual performance tests in accordance with § 60.4400 to demonstrate continuous compliance. If the NOemission result from the performance test is less than or equal to 75 percent of the NOemission limit for the turbine, you may reduce the frequency of subsequent performance tests to once every 2 years (no more than 26 calendar months following the previous performance test). If the results of any subsequent performance test exceed 75 percent of the NOemission limit for the turbine, you must resume annual performance tests.

(b) As an alternative, you may install, calibrate, maintain and operate one of the following continuous monitoring systems:

(1) Continuous emission monitoring as described in §§ 60.4335(b) and 60.4345, or

(2) Continuous parameter monitoring as follows:

(i) For a diffusion flame turbine without add-on selective catalytic reduction (SCR) controls, you must define parameters indicative of the unit's NOformation characteristics, and you must monitor these parameters continuously.

(ii) For any lean premix stationary combustion turbine, you must continuously monitor the appropriate parameters to determine whether the unit is operating in low-NOmode.

(iii) For any turbine that uses SCR to reduce NOemissions, you must continuously monitor appropriate parameters to verify the proper operation of the emission controls.

(iv) For affected units that are also regulated under part 75 of this chapter, with state approval you can monitor the NOemission rate using the methodology in appendix E to part 75 of this chapter, or the low mass emissions methodology in § 75.19, the requirements of this paragraph (b) may be met by performing the parametric monitoring described in section 2.3 of part 75 appendix E or in § 75.19(c)(1)(iv)(H).
