
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKKK - Standards of Performance for Stationary Combustion Turbines
###### Monitoring
####### ยง 60.4370 How often must I determine the sulfur content of the fuel?
######## Custom schedules.

(c)Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, operators or fuel vendors may develop custom schedules for determination of the total sulfur content of gaseous fuels, based on the design and operation of the affected facility and the characteristics of the fuel supply. Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, custom schedules shall be substantiated with data and shall be approved by the Administrator before they can be used to comply with the standard in ยง 60.4330.

(1) The two custom sulfur monitoring schedules set forth in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) and in paragraph (c)(2) of this section are acceptable, without prior Administrative approval:

(i) The owner or operator shall obtain daily total sulfur content measurements for 30 consecutive unit operating days, using the applicable methods specified in this subpart. Based on the results of the 30 daily samples, the required frequency for subsequent monitoring of the fuel's total sulfur content shall be as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section, as applicable.

(ii) If none of the 30 daily measurements of the fuel's total sulfur content exceeds half the applicable standard, subsequent sulfur content monitoring may be performed at 12-month intervals. If any of the samples taken at 12-month intervals has a total sulfur content greater than half but less than the applicable limit, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section. If any measurement exceeds the applicable limit, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section.

(iii) If at least one of the 30 daily measurements of the fuel's total sulfur content is greater than half but less than the applicable limit, but none exceeds the applicable limit, then:

(A) Collect and analyze a sample every 30 days for 3 months. If any sulfur content measurement exceeds the applicable limit, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. Otherwise, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section.

(B) Begin monitoring at 6-month intervals for 12 months. If any sulfur content measurement exceeds the applicable limit, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. Otherwise, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(C) of this section.

(C) Begin monitoring at 12-month intervals. If any sulfur content measurement exceeds the applicable limit, follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. Otherwise, continue to monitor at this frequency.

(iv) If a sulfur content measurement exceeds the applicable limit, immediately begin daily monitoring according to paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. Daily monitoring shall continue until 30 consecutive daily samples, each having a sulfur content no greater than the applicable limit, are obtained. At that point, the applicable procedures of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section shall be followed.

(2) The owner or operator may use the data collected from the 720-hour sulfur sampling demonstration described in section 2.3.6 of appendix D to part 75 of this chapter to determine a custom sulfur sampling schedule, as follows:

(i) If the maximum fuel sulfur content obtained from the 720 hourly samples does not exceed 20 grains/100 scf, no additional monitoring of the sulfur content of the gas is required, for the purposes of this subpart.

(ii) If the maximum fuel sulfur content obtained from any of the 720 hourly samples exceeds 20 grains/100 scf, but none of the sulfur content values (when converted to weight percent sulfur) exceeds half the applicable limit, then the minimum required sampling frequency shall be one sample at 12 month intervals.

(iii) If any sample result exceeds half the applicable limit, but none exceeds the applicable limit, follow the provisions of paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.

(iv) If the sulfur content of any of the 720 hourly samples exceeds the applicable limit, follow the provisions of paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section.
