
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart KKKK - Standards of Performance for Stationary Combustion Turbines
###### Performance Tests
############### § 60.4400 How do I conduct the initial and subsequent performance tests, regarding NO?

(a) You must conduct an initial performance test, as required in § 60.8. Subsequent NOperformance tests shall be conducted on an annual basis (no more than 14 calendar months following the previous performance test).

(1) There are two general methodologies that you may use to conduct the performance tests. For each test run:

(i) Measure the NOconcentration (in parts per million (ppm)), using EPA Method 7E or EPA Method 20 in appendix A of this part. For units complying with the output based standard, concurrently measure the stack gas flow rate, using EPA Methods 1 and 2 in appendix A of this part, and measure and record the electrical and thermal output from the unit. Then, use the following equation to calculate the NOemission rate:

(ii) Measure the NOand diluent gas concentrations, using either EPA Methods 7E and 3A, or EPA Method 20 in appendix A of this part. Concurrently measure the heat input to the unit, using a fuel flowmeter (or flowmeters), and measure the electrical and thermal output of the unit. Use EPA Method 19 in appendix A of this part to calculate the NOemission rate in lb/MMBtu. Then, use Equations 1 and, if necessary, 2 and 3 in § 60.4350(f) to calculate the NOemission rate in lb/MWh.

(2) Sampling traverse points for NOand (if applicable) diluent gas are to be selected following EPA Method 20 or EPA Method 1 (non-particulate procedures), and sampled for equal time intervals. The sampling must be performed with a traversing single-hole probe, or, if feasible, with a stationary multi-hole probe that samples each of the points sequentially. Alternatively, a multi-hole probe designed and documented to sample equal volumes from each hole may be used to sample simultaneously at the required points.

(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you may test at fewer points than are specified in EPA Method 1 or EPA Method 20 in appendix A of this part if the following conditions are met:

(i) You may perform a stratification test for NOand diluent pursuant to

(A) [Reserved], or

(B) The procedures specified in section 6.5.6.1(a) through (e) of appendix A of part 75 of this chapter.

(ii) Once the stratification sampling is completed, you may use the following alternative sample point selection criteria for the performance test:

(A) If each of the individual traverse point NOconcentrations is within +/-10 percent of the mean concentration for all traverse points, or the individual traverse point diluent concentrations differs by no more than +/-5ppm or +/-0.5 percent CO(or O) from the mean for all traverse points, then you may use three points (located either 16.7, 50.0 and 83.3 percent of the way across the stack or duct, or, for circular stacks or ducts greater than 2.4 meters (7.8 feet) in diameter, at 0.4, 1.2, and 2.0 meters from the wall). The three points must be located along the measurement line that exhibited the highest average NOconcentration during the stratification test; or

(B) For turbines with a NOstandard greater than 15 ppm @ 15% O, you may sample at a single point, located at least 1 meter from the stack wall or at the stack centroid if each of the individual traverse point NOconcentrations is within +/-5 percent of the mean concentration for all traverse points, or the individual traverse point diluent concentrations differs by no more than +/-3ppm or +/-0.3 percent CO(or O) from the mean for all traverse points; or

(C) For turbines with a NOstandard less than or equal to 15 ppm @ 15% O, you may sample at a single point, located at least 1 meter from the stack wall or at the stack centroid if each of the individual traverse point NOconcentrations is within +/-2.5 percent of the mean concentration for all traverse points, or the individual traverse point diluent concentrations differs by no more than +/-1ppm or +/-0.15 percent CO(or O) from the mean for all traverse points.

(b) The performance test must be done at any load condition within plus or minus 25 percent of 100 percent of peak load. You may perform testing at the highest achievable load point, if at least 75 percent of peak load cannot be achieved in practice. You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test. The minimum time per run is 20 minutes.

(1) If the stationary combustion turbine combusts both oil and gas as primary or backup fuels, separate performance testing is required for each fuel.

(2) For a combined cycle and CHP turbine systems with supplemental heat (duct burner), you must measure the total NOemissions after the duct burner rather than directly after the turbine. The duct burner must be in operation during the performance test.

(3) If water or steam injection is used to control NOwith no additional post-combustion NOcontrol and you choose to monitor the steam or water to fuel ratio in accordance with § 60.4335, then that monitoring system must be operated concurrently with each EPA Method 20 or EPA Method 7E run and must be used to determine the fuel consumption and the steam or water to fuel ratio necessary to comply with the applicable § 60.4320 NOemission limit.

(4) Compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 60.4320 must be demonstrated at each tested load level. Compliance is achieved if the three-run arithmetic average NOemission rate at each tested level meets the applicable emission limit in § 60.4320.

(5) If you elect to install a CEMS, the performance evaluation of the CEMS may either be conducted separately or (as described in § 60.4405) as part of the initial performance test of the affected unit.

(6) The ambient temperature must be greater than 0 &#xB0;F during the performance test.
