
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart I - Grants for Construction of Treatment Works
###### ยง 35.2042 Review of grant applications.

(a) All States shall review grant applications to ensure that they are complete. When the State determines the proposed project is entitled to priority it shall forward the State priority certification and, except where application review is delegated, the complete application to the regional Administrator for review.

(b)(1) All States delegated authority to manage the construction grants program under section 205(g) of the Act and subpart F of this part shall furnish a written certification to the Regional Administrator, on a project-by-project basis, stating that the applicable Federal requirements within the scope of authority delegated to the State under the delegation agreement have been met. The certification must be supported by documentation specified in the delegation agreement which will be made available to the Regional Administrator upon request. The Regional Administrator shall accept the certification unless he determines the State has failed to establish adequate grounds for the certification or that an applicable requirement has not been met.

(2)(i) When EPA receives a certification covering all delegable preaward requirements, the Regional Administrator shall approve or disapprove the grant within 45 calendar days of receipt of the certification. The Regional Administrator shall state in writing the reasons for any disapproval, and he shall have an additional 45 days to review any subsequent revised submissions. If the Regional Administrator fails to approve or disapprove the grant within 45 days of receipt of the application, the grant shall be deemed approved and the Regional Adminstrator shall issue the grant agreement.

(ii) Grant increase requests are subject to the 45 day provision of this section if the State has been delegated authority over the subject matter of the request.

(c) Applications for assistance for training facilities funded under section 109(b) and for State advances of allowance under section 201(l)(1) of the Act and ยง 35.2025 will be reviewed in accordance with 2 CFR parts 200 and 1500.
