
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOO - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction, Modification, or Reconstruction Commenced After August 23, 2011, and on or Before September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5375 What standards apply to gas well affected facilities?

If you are the owner or operator of a gas well affected facility, you must comply with paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, for each well completion operation with hydraulic fracturing begun prior to January 1, 2015, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section unless a more stringent state or local emission control requirement is applicable; optionally, you may comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. For each new well completion operation with hydraulic fracturing begun on or after January 1, 2015, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. You must maintain a log as specified in paragraph (b).

(1) For each stage of the well completion operation, as defined in § 60.5430, follow the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) During the initial flowback stage, route the flowback into one or more well completion vessels or storage vessels and commence operation of a separator unless it is technically infeasible for a separator to function. Any gas present in the initial flowback stage is not subject to control under this section.

(ii) During the separation flowback stage, route all recovered liquids from the separator to one or more well completion vessels or storage vessels, re-inject the liquids into the well or another well or route the recovered liquids to a collection system. Route the recovered gas from the separator into a gas flow line or collection system, re-inject the recovered gas into the well or another well, use the recovered gas as an on-site fuel source, or use the recovered gas for another useful purpose that a purchased fuel or raw material would serve. If it is infeasible to route the recovered gas as required above, follow the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If, at any time during the separation flowback stage, it is not technically feasible for a separator to function, you must comply with (a)(1)(i) of this section.

(2) All salable quality recovered gas must be routed to the gas flow line as soon as practicable. In cases where salable quality gas cannot be directed to the flow line, you must follow the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(3) You must capture and direct recovered gas to a completion combustion device, except in conditions that may result in a fire hazard or explosion, or where high heat emissions from a completion combustion device may negatively impact tundra, permafrost or waterways. Completion combustion devices must be equipped with a reliable continuous ignition source.

(4) You have a general duty to safely maximize resource recovery and minimize releases to the atmosphere during flowback and subsequent recovery.

(b) You must maintain a log for each well completion operation at each gas well affected facility. The log must be completed on a daily basis for the duration of the well completion operation and must contain the records specified in § 60.5420(c)(1)(iii).

(c) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the standards that apply to gas well affected facilities as required by § 60.5410.

(d) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards that apply to gas well affected facilities as required by § 60.5415.

(e) You must perform the required notification, recordkeeping and reporting as required by § 60.5420.

(f)(1) For each gas well affected facility specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section.

(i) Each well completion operation with hydraulic fracturing at a wildcat or delineation well.

(ii) Each well completion operation with hydraulic fracturing at a non-wildcat low pressure gas well or non-delineation low pressure gas well.

(2) Route the flowback into one or more well completion vessels and commence operation of a separator unless it is technically infeasible for a separator to function. Any gas present in the flowback before the separator can function is not subject to control under this section. You must capture and direct recovered gas to a completion combustion device, except in conditions that may result in a fire hazard or explosion, or where high heat emissions from a completion combustion device may negatively impact tundra, permafrost or waterways. Completion combustion devices must be equipped with a reliable continuous ignition source. You must also comply with paragraphs (a)(4) and (b) through (e) of this section.

(3) You must maintain records specified in § 60.5420(c)(1)(iii) for wildcat, delineation and low pressure gas wells.
