
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOO - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction, Modification, or Reconstruction Commenced After August 23, 2011, and on or Before September 18, 2015
###### ยง 60.5395 What standards apply to storage vessel affected facilities?
####### Requirements for Group 1 and Group 2 storage vessel affected facilities that are removed from service or returned to service.

(f)If you remove a Group 1 or Group 2 storage vessel affected facility from service, you must comply with paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section. A Group 1 or Group 2 storage vessel is not an affected facility under this subpart for the period that it is removed from service.

(1) For a storage vessel affected facility to be removed from service, you must comply with the requirements of paragraph (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must completely empty and degas the storage vessel, such that the storage vessel no longer contains crude oil, condensate, produced water or intermediate hydrocarbon liquids. A storage vessel where liquid is left on walls, as bottom clingage or in pools due to floor irregularity is considered to be completely empty.

(ii) You must submit a notification as required in ยง 60.5420(b)(6)(vi) in your next annual report, identifying each storage vessel affected facility removed from service during the reporting period and the date of its removal from service.

(2) If a storage vessel identified in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section is returned to service, you must determine its affected facility status as provided in ยง 60.5365(e).

(3) For each storage vessel affected facility returned to service during the reporting period, you must submit a notification in your next annual report as required in ยง 60.5420(b)(6)(vii), identifying each storage vessel affected facility and the date of its return to service.
