
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOO - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction, Modification, or Reconstruction Commenced After August 23, 2011, and on or Before September 18, 2015
###### ยง 60.5395 What standards apply to storage vessel affected facilities?
####### Requirements for Group 2 storage vessel affected facilities.

(c)If you are the owner or operator of a Group 2 storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section.

(d) You must comply with the control requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section unless you meet the conditions specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(1) Reduce VOC emissions by 95.0 percent according to the schedule specified in (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) For each Group 2 storage vessel affected facility, you must achieve the required emissions reductions by April 15, 2014, or within 60 days after startup, whichever is later, except as otherwise provided below in paragraph (f) of this section. For storage vessel affected facilities receiving liquids pursuant to the standards for gas well affected facilities in ยง 60.5375, you must achieve the required emissions reductions within 60 days after startup of production as defined in ยง 60.5430.

(ii) For each Group 1 storage vessel affected facility, you must achieve the required emissions reductions by April 15, 2015.

(2) Maintain the uncontrolled actual VOC emissions from the storage vessel affected facility at less than 4 tpy without considering control. Prior to using the uncontrolled actual VOC emission rate for compliance purposes, you must demonstrate that the uncontrolled actual VOC emissions have remained less than 4 tpy as determined monthly for 12 consecutive months. After such demonstration, you must determine the uncontrolled actual VOC emission rate each month. The uncontrolled actual VOC emissions must be calculated using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology. Monthly calculations must be based on the average throughput for the month. Monthly calculations must be separated by at least 14 days. You must comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section if your storage vessel affected facility meets the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) If a well feeding the storage vessel affected facility undergoes fracturing or refracturing, you must comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section as soon as liquids from the well following fracturing or refracturing are routed to the storage vessel affected facility.

(ii) If the monthly emissions determination required in this section indicates that VOC emissions from your storage vessel affected facility increase to 4 tpy or greater and the increase is not associated with fracturing or refracturing of a well feeding the storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section within 30 days of the monthly calculation.
