
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOO - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction, Modification, or Reconstruction Commenced After August 23, 2011, and on or Before September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5413 What are the performance testing procedures for control devices used to demonstrate compliance at my storage vessel or centrifugal compressor affected facility?
####### Test methods and procedures.

(b)You must use the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable, for each performance test conducted to demonstrate that a control device meets the requirements of § 60.5412(a). You must conduct the initial and periodic performance tests according to the schedule specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(1) You must use Method 1 or 1A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, as appropriate, to select the sampling sites specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. Any references to particulate mentioned in Methods 1 and 1A do not apply to this section.

(i) Sampling sites must be located at the inlet of the first control device, and at the outlet of the final control device, to determine compliance with the control device percent reduction requirement specified in § 60.5412(a)(1)(i) or (a)(2).

(ii) The sampling site must be located at the outlet of the combustion device to determine compliance with the enclosed combustion device total TOC concentration limit specified in § 60.5412(a)(1)(ii).

(2) You must determine the gas volumetric flowrate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, as appropriate.

(3) To determine compliance with the control device percent reduction performance requirement in § 60.5412(a)(1)(i) or (a)(2), you must use Method 25A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. You must use the procedures in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section to calculate percent reduction efficiency.

(i) For each run, you must take either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples per hour. If grab sampling is used, then the samples must be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15-minute intervals during the run.

(ii) You must compute the mass rate of TOC (minus methane and ethane) using the equations and procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) You must use the following equations:

(B) When calculating the TOC mass rate, you must sum all organic compounds (minus methane and ethane) measured by Method 25A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 using the equations in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section.

(iii) You must calculate the percent reduction in TOC (minus methane and ethane) as follows:

(iv) If the vent stream entering a boiler or process heater with a design capacity less than 44 megawatts is introduced with the combustion air or as a secondary fuel, you must determine the weight-percent reduction of total TOC (minus methane and ethane) across the device by comparing the TOC (minus methane and ethane) in all combusted vent streams and primary and secondary fuels with the TOC (minus methane and ethane) exiting the device, respectively.

(4) You must use Method 25A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 to measure TOC (minus methane and ethane) to determine compliance with the enclosed combustion device total VOC concentration limit specified in § 60.5412(a)(1)(ii). You must calculate parts per million by volume concentration and correct to 3 percent oxygen, using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For each run, you must take either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples per hour. If grab sampling is used, then the samples must be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15-minute intervals during the run.

(ii) You must calculate the TOC concentration for each run as follows:

(iii) You must correct the TOC concentration to 3 percent oxygen as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) You must use the emission rate correction factor for excess air, integrated sampling and analysis procedures of Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, ASTM D6522-00 (Reapproved 2005), or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Part 10 (manual portion only) (incorporated by reference as specified in § 60.17) to determine the oxygen concentration. The samples must be taken during the same time that the samples are taken for determining TOC concentration.

(B) You must correct the TOC concentration for percent oxygen as follows:

(5) You must conduct performance tests according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must conduct an initial performance test within 180 days after initial startup for your affected facility. You must submit the performance test results as required in § 60.5420(b)(7).

(ii) You must conduct periodic performance tests for all control devices required to conduct initial performance tests except as specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section. You must conduct the first periodic performance test no later than 60 months after the initial performance test required in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section. You must conduct subsequent periodic performance tests at intervals no longer than 60 months following the previous periodic performance test or whenever you desire to establish a new operating limit. You must submit the periodic performance test results as specified in § 60.5420(b)(7). Combustion control devices meeting the criteria in either paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section are not required to conduct periodic performance tests.

(A) A control device whose model is tested under, and meets the criteria of paragraph (d) of this section.

(B) A combustion control device tested under paragraph (b) of this section that meets the outlet TOC performance level specified in § 60.5412(a)(1)(ii) and that establishes a correlation between firebox or combustion chamber temperature and the TOC performance level.
