
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart I - Grants for Construction of Treatment Works
###### ยง 35.2123 Reserve capacity.

EPA will limit grant assistance for reserve capacity as follows:

(a) If EPA awarded a grant for a Step 3 interceptor segment before December 29, 1981, EPA may award grants for remaining interceptor segments included in the facilities plan with reserve capacity as planned, up to 40 years.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, if EPA awards a grant for a Step 3 or Step 3 segment of a primary, secondary, or advanced treatment facility or its interceptors included in the facilities plan before October 1, 1984, the grant for that Step 3 or Step 3 segment, and any remaining segments, may include 20 years reserve capacity.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, after September 30, 1984, no grant shall be made to provide reserve capacity for a project for secondary treatment or more stringent treatment or new interceptors and appurtenances. Grants for such projects shall be based on capacity necessary to serve existing needs (including existing needs of residential, commercial, industrial, and other users) as determined on the date of the approval of the Step 3 grant. Grant assistance awarded after September 30, 1990 shall be limited to the needs existing on September 30, 1990.

(d) For any application with capacity in excess of that provided by this section:

(1) All incremental costs shall be paid by the applicant. Incremental costs include all costs which would not have been incurred but for the additional excess capacity, i.e., any cost in addition to the most cost-effective alternative with eligible reserve capacity described under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(2) It must be determined that the actual treatment works to be built meets the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act and all applicable laws and regulations.

(3) The Regional Administrator shall approve the plans, specifications and estimates for the actual treatment works.

(4) The grantee shall assure the Regional Administrator satisfactorily that it has assessed the costs and financial impacts of the actual treatment works and has the capability to finance and manage their construction and operation.

(5) The grantee must implement a user charge system which applies to the entire service area of the grantee.

(6) The grantee shall execute appropriate grant conditions or releases protecting the Federal Government from any claim for any of the costs of construction due to the additional capacity.
