
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOO - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction, Modification, or Reconstruction Commenced After August 23, 2011, and on or Before September 18, 2015
###### ยง 60.5413 What are the performance testing procedures for control devices used to demonstrate compliance at my storage vessel or centrifugal compressor affected facility?
####### Performance test exemptions.

(a)You are exempt from the requirements to conduct performance tests and design analyses if you use any of the control devices described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) A flare that is designed and operated in accordance with ยง 60.18(b). You must conduct the compliance determination using Method 22 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, to determine visible emissions.

(2) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts or greater.

(3) A boiler or process heater into which the vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel or is used as the primary fuel.

(4) A boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste for which you have either been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H; or you have certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.

(5) A hazardous waste incinerator for which you have been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O; or you have certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.

(6) A performance test is waived in accordance with ยง 60.8(b).

(7) A control device whose model can be demonstrated to meet the performance requirements of ยง 60.5412(a) through a performance test conducted by the manufacturer, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
