
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOO - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction, Modification, or Reconstruction Commenced After August 23, 2011, and on or Before September 18, 2015
###### ยง 60.5412 What additional requirements must I meet for determining initial compliance with control devices used to comply with the emission standards for my storage vessel or centrifugal compressor affected facility?
####### e.g.,

(1) Each enclosed combustion device (thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) must be designed to reduce the mass content of VOC emissions by 95.0 percent or greater. Each flare must be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of ยง 60.5413(a)(1). You must follow the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Ensure that each enclosed combustion device is maintained in a leak free condition.

(ii) Install and operate a continuous burning pilot flame.

(iii) Operate the enclosed combustion device with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of one minute during any 15 minute period. A visible emissions test using section 11 of EPA Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, must be performed at least once every calendar month, separated by at least 15 days between each test. The observation period shall be 15 minutes. Devices failing the visible emissions test must follow manufacturer's repair instructions, if available, or best combustion engineering practice as outlined in the unit inspection and maintenance plan, to return the unit to compliant operation. All inspection, repair and maintenance activities for each unit must be recorded in a maintenance and repair log and must be available for inspection. Following return to operation from maintenance or repair activity, each device must pass a Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, visual observation as described in this paragraph.
