
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOO - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction, Modification, or Reconstruction Commenced After August 23, 2011, and on or Before September 18, 2015
###### ยง 60.5416 What are the initial and continuous cover and closed vent system inspection and monitoring requirements for my storage vessel, centrifugal compressor and reciprocating compressor affected facilities?
####### No detectable emissions test methods and procedures.

(b)If you are required to conduct an inspection of a closed vent system or cover at your centrifugal compressor or reciprocating compressor affected facility as specified in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (13) of this section.

(1) You must conduct the no detectable emissions test procedure in accordance with Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.

(2) The detection instrument must meet the performance criteria of Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, except that the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 must be for the average composition of the fluid and not for each individual organic compound in the stream.

(3) You must calibrate the detection instrument before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.

(4) Calibration gases must be as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Zero air (less than 10 parts per million by volume hydrocarbon in air).

(ii) A mixture of methane in air at a concentration less than 10,000 parts per million by volume.

(5) You may choose to adjust or not adjust the detection instrument readings to account for the background organic concentration level. If you choose to adjust the instrument readings for the background level, you must determine the background level value according to the procedures in Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.

(6) Your detection instrument must meet the performance criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, the detection instrument must meet the performance criteria of Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 must be for the average composition of the process fluid, not each individual volatile organic compound in the stream. For process streams that contain nitrogen, air, or other inerts that are not organic hazardous air pollutants or volatile organic compounds, you must calculate the average stream response factor on an inert-free basis.

(ii) If no instrument is available that will meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, you may adjust the instrument readings by multiplying by the average response factor of the process fluid, calculated on an inert-free basis, as described in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section.

(7) You must determine if a potential leak interface operates with no detectable emissions using the applicable procedure specified in paragraph (b)(7)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) If you choose not to adjust the detection instrument readings for the background organic concentration level, then you must directly compare the maximum organic concentration value measured by the detection instrument to the applicable value for the potential leak interface as specified in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.

(ii) If you choose to adjust the detection instrument readings for the background organic concentration level, you must compare the value of the arithmetic difference between the maximum organic concentration value measured by the instrument and the background organic concentration value as determined in paragraph (b)(5) of this section with the applicable value for the potential leak interface as specified in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.

(8) A potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions if the organic concentration value determined in paragraph (b)(7) of this section is less than 500 parts per million by volume.
