
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOO - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction, Modification, or Reconstruction Commenced After August 23, 2011, and on or Before September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5415 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards for my gas well affected facility, my centrifugal compressor affected facility, my stationary reciprocating compressor affected facility, my pneumatic controller affected facility, my storage vessel affected facility, and my affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants?
####### 2

() After 120 days and no more than 364 days of operation after the compliance date specified in § 60.5370, you must calculate the average TOC emission reduction as the TOC emission reduction averaged over the number of days between the current day and the applicable compliance date. You have demonstrated compliance with the overall 95.0 percent reduction requirement, if the average TOC emission reduction is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent.

(E) If you have data for 365 days or more of operation, you have demonstrated compliance with the TOC emission reduction if the rolling 365-day average TOC emission reduction calculated in paragraph (b)(2)(viii)(D) of this section is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent.

(3) You must submit the annual report required by 60.5420(b) and maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420(c)(2).

(c) For each reciprocating compressor affected facility complying with § 60.5385(a)(1) or (2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. For each reciprocating compressor affected facility complying with § 60.5385(a)(3), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(1) You must continuously monitor the number of hours of operation for each reciprocating compressor affected facility or track the number of months since initial startup, or October 15, 2012, or the date of the most recent reciprocating compressor rod packing replacement, whichever is later.

(2) You must submit the annual report as required in § 60.5420(b) and maintain records as required in § 60.5420(c)(3).

(3) You must replace the reciprocating compressor rod packing before the total number of hours of operation reaches 26,000 hours or the number of months since the most recent rod packing replacement reaches 36 months.

(4) You must operate the rod packing emissions collection system under negative pressure and continuously comply with the closed vent requirements in § 60.5416(a) and (b).

(d) For each pneumatic controller affected facility, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You must continuously operate the pneumatic controllers as required in § 60.5390(a), (b), or (c).

(2) You must submit the annual report as required in § 60.5420(b).

(3) You must maintain records as required in § 60.5420(c)(4).

(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section for each storage vessel affected facility, for which you are using a control device or routing emissions to a process to meet the requirement of § 60.5395(d)(1).

(1)-(2) [Reserved]

(3) For each storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must reduce VOC emissions as specified in § 60.5395(d).

(ii) For each control device installed to meet the requirements of § 60.5395(d), you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the performance requirements of § 60.5412(d) for each storage vessel affected facility using the procedure specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A) and either (e)(3)(ii)(B) or (e)(3)(ii)(C) of this section.

(A) You must comply with § 60.5416(c) for each cover and closed vent system.

(B) You must comply with § 60.5417(h) for each control device.

(C) Each closed vent system that routes emissions to a process must be operated as specified in § 60.5411(c)(2).

(f) For affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants, continuous compliance with VOC requirements is demonstrated if you are in compliance with the requirements of § 60.5400.

(g) For each sweetening unit affected facility at onshore natural gas processing plants, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards for SOspecified in § 60.5405(b) according to paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The minimum required SOemission reduction efficiency (Z) is compared to the emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by the sulfur recovery technology.

(i) If R ≥ Z, your affected facility is in compliance.

(ii) If R < Z, your affected facility is not in compliance.

(2) The emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by the sulfur reduction technology must be determined using the procedures in § 60.5406(c)(1).
