
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOO - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction, Modification, or Reconstruction Commenced After August 23, 2011, and on or Before September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5420 What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
####### Recordkeeping requirements

(c). You must maintain the records identified as specified in § 60.7(f) and in paragraphs (c)(1) through (14) of this section. All records required by this subpart must be maintained either onsite or at the nearest local field office for at least 5 years.

(1) The records for each gas well affected facility as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Records identifying each well completion operation for each gas well affected facility;

(ii) Records of deviations in cases where well completion operations with hydraulic fracturing were not performed in compliance with the requirements specified in § 60.5375.

(iii) Records required in § 60.5375(b) or (f) for each well completion operation conducted for each gas well affected facility that occurred during the reporting period. You must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) For each gas well affected facility required to comply with the requirements of § 60.5375(a), you must record: The location of the well; the API well number; the date and time of the onset of flowback following hydraulic fracturing or refracturing; the date and time of each attempt to direct flowback to a separator as required in § 60.5375(a)(1)(i); the date and time of each occurrence of returning to the initial flowback stage under § 60.5375(a)(1)(i); and the date and time that the well was shut in and the flowback equipment was permanently disconnected, or the startup of production; the duration of flowback; duration of recovery to the flow line; duration of combustion; duration of venting; and specific reasons for venting in lieu of capture or combustion. The duration must be specified in hours of time.

(B) For each gas well affected facility required to comply with the requirements of § 60.5375(f), you must maintain the records specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A) of this section except that you do not have to record the duration of recovery to the flow line.

(iv) For each gas well facility for which you claim an exception under § 60.5375(a)(3), you must record: The location of the well; the API well number; the specific exception claimed; the starting date and ending date for the period the well operated under the exception; and an explanation of why the well meets the claimed exception.

(v) For each gas well affected facility required to comply with both § 60.5375(a)(1) and (3), if you are using a digital photograph in lieu of the records required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, you must retain the records of the digital photograph as specified in § 60.5410(a)(4).

(2) For each centrifugal compressor affected facility, you must maintain records of deviations in cases where the centrifugal compressor was not operated in compliance with the requirements specified in § 60.5380.

(3) For each reciprocating compressors affected facility, you must maintain the records in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Records of the cumulative number of hours of operation or number of months since initial startup or October 15, 2012, or the previous replacement of the reciprocating compressor rod packing, whichever is later.

(ii) Records of the date and time of each reciprocating compressor rod packing replacement, or date of installation of a rod packing emissions collection system and closed vent system as specified in § 60.5385(a)(3).

(iii) Records of deviations in cases where the reciprocating compressor was not operated in compliance with the requirements specified in § 60.5385.

(4) For each pneumatic controller affected facility, you must maintain the records identified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Records of the date, location and manufacturer specifications for each pneumatic controller constructed, modified or reconstructed.

(ii) Records of the demonstration that the use of pneumatic controller affected facilities with a natural gas bleed rate greater than the applicable standard are required and the reasons why.

(iii) If the pneumatic controller is not located at a natural gas processing plant, records of the manufacturer's specifications indicating that the controller is designed such that natural gas bleed rate is less than or equal to 6 standard cubic feet per hour.

(iv) If the pneumatic controller is located at a natural gas processing plant, records of the documentation that the natural gas bleed rate is zero.

(v) Records of deviations in cases where the pneumatic controller was not operated in compliance with the requirements specified in § 60.5390.

(5) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(5)(v) of this section, for each storage vessel affected facility, you must maintain the records identified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) If required to reduce emissions by complying with § 60.5395(d)(1), the records specified in §§ 60.5420(c)(6) through (8), 60.5416(c)(6)(ii), and 60.6516(c)(7)(ii) of this subpart.

(ii) Records of each VOC emissions determination for each storage vessel affected facility made under § 60.5365(e) including identification of the model or calculation methodology used to calculate the VOC emission rate.

(iii) Records of deviations in cases where the storage vessel was not operated in compliance with the requirements specified in §§ 60.5395, 60.5411, 60.5412, and 60.5413, as applicable.

(iv) For storage vessels that are skid-mounted or permanently attached to something that is mobile (such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships), records indicating the number of consecutive days that the vessel is located at the site. If a storage vessel is removed from the site and, within 30 days, is either returned to or replaced by another storage vessel at the site to serve the same or similar function, then the entire period since the original storage vessel was first located at the site, including the days when the storage vessel was removed, will be added to the count towards the number of consecutive days.

(v) You must maintain records of the identification and location of each storage vessel affected facility.

(6) Records of each closed vent system inspection required under § 60.5416(a)(1) and (2) for centrifugal or reciprocating compressors or § 60.5416(c)(1) for storage vessels.

(7) A record of each cover inspection required under § 60.5416(a)(3) for centrifugal or reciprocating compressors or § 60.5416(c)(2) for storage vessels.

(8) If you are subject to the bypass requirements of § 60.5416(a)(4) for centrifugal or reciprocating compressors or § 60.5416(c)(3) for storage vessels, a record of each inspection or a record each time the key is checked out or a record of each time the alarm is sounded.

(9) If you are subject to the closed vent system no detectable emissions requirements of § 60.5416(b) for centrifugal or reciprocating compressors, a record of the monitoring conducted in accordance with § 60.5416(b).

(10) For each centrifugal compressor affected facility, records of the schedule for carbon replacement (as determined by the design analysis requirements of § 60.5413(c)(2) or (3)) and records of each carbon replacement as specified in § 60.5412(c)(1).

(11) For each centrifugal compressor subject to the control device requirements of § 60.5412(a), (b), and (c), records of minimum and maximum operating parameter values, continuous parameter monitoring system data, calculated averages of continuous parameter monitoring system data, results of all compliance calculations, and results of all inspections.

(12) For each carbon adsorber installed on storage vessel affected facilities, records of the schedule for carbon replacement (as determined by the design analysis requirements of § 60.5412(d)(2)) and records of each carbon replacement as specified in § 60.5412(c)(1).

(13) For each storage vessel affected facility subject to the control device requirements of § 60.5412(c) and (d), you must maintain records of the inspections, including any corrective actions taken, the manufacturers' operating instructions, procedures and maintenance schedule as specified in § 60.5417(h). You must maintain records of EPA Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, section 11 results, which include: company, location, company representative (name of the person performing the observation), sky conditions, process unit (type of control device), clock start time, observation period duration (in minutes and seconds), accumulated emission time (in minutes and seconds), and clock end time. You may create your own form including the above information or use Figure 22-1 in EPA Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Manufacturer's operating instructions, procedures and maintenance schedule must be available for inspection.

(14) A log of records as specified in §§ 60.5412(d)(1)(iii) and 60.5413(e)(4) for all inspection, repair and maintenance activities for each control device failing the visible emissions test.
