
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOO - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction, Modification, or Reconstruction Commenced After August 23, 2011, and on or Before September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5420 What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
####### http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html,https://cdx.epa.gov/

(7)(i) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (see § 60.8 of this part) as required by this subpart, except testing conducted by the manufacturer as specified in § 60.5413(d), you must submit the results of the performance tests required by this subpart to the EPA as follows. You must use the latest version of the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (see) existing at the time of the performance test to generate a submission package file, which documents the performance test. You must then submit the file generated by the ERT through the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed by logging in to the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (). Only data collected using test methods supported by the ERT as listed on the ERT Web site are subject to this requirement for submitting reports electronically. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI) must submit a complete ERT file including information claimed to be CBI on a compact disk or other commonly used electronic storage media (including, but not limited to, flash drives) to EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to EPA via CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. At the discretion of the delegated authority, you must also submit these reports, including the confidential business information, to the delegated authority in the format specified by the delegated authority. For any performance test conducted using test methods that are not listed on the ERT Web site, the owner or operator shall submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4.

(ii) All reports, except as specified in paragraph (b)(8) of this section, required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4 of this part. The Administrator or the delegated authority may request a report in any form suitable for the specific case (e.g., by commonly used electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy).
