
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOO - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for Which Construction, Modification, or Reconstruction Commenced After August 23, 2011, and on or Before September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5420 What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?

(a) You must submit the notifications according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section if you own or operate one or more of the affected facilities specified in § 60.5365 that was constructed, modified, or reconstructed during the reporting period.

(1) If you own or operate a gas well, pneumatic controller, centrifugal compressor, reciprocating compressor or storage vessel affected facility you are not required to submit the notifications required in § 60.7(a)(1), (3), and (4).

(2)(i) If you own or operate a gas well affected facility, you must submit a notification to the Administrator no later than 2 days prior to the commencement of each well completion operation listing the anticipated date of the well completion operation. The notification shall include contact information for the owner or operator; the API well number, the latitude and longitude coordinates for each well in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983; and the planned date of the beginning of flowback. You may submit the notification in writing or in electronic format.

(ii) If you are subject to state regulations that require advance notification of well completions and you have met those notification requirements, then you are considered to have met the advance notification requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.

(b) Reporting requirements. You must submit annual reports containing the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section to the Administrator and performance test reports as specified in paragraph (b)(7) or (8) of this section. The initial annual report is due no later than 90 days after the end of the initial compliance period as determined according to § 60.5410. Subsequent annual reports are due no later than same date each year as the initial annual report. If you own or operate more than one affected facility, you may submit one report for multiple affected facilities provided the report contains all of the information required as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section. Annual reports may coincide with title V reports as long as all the required elements of the annual report are included. You may arrange with the Administrator a common schedule on which reports required by this part may be submitted as long as the schedule does not extend the reporting period.

(1) The general information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The company name and address of the affected facility.

(ii) An identification of each affected facility being included in the annual report.

(iii) Beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(iv) A certification by a certifying official of truth, accuracy, and completeness. This certification shall state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the document are true, accurate, and complete.

(2) For each gas well affected facility, the information in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (ii) of this section.

(i) Records of each well completion operation as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section for each gas well affected facility conducted during the reporting period. In lieu of submitting the records specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) through (iv), the owner or operator may submit a list of the well completions with hydraulic fracturing completed during the reporting period and the records required by paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section for each well completion.

(ii) Records of deviations specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section that occurred during the reporting period.

(3) For each centrifugal compressor affected facility, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) An identification of each centrifugal compressor using a wet seal system constructed, modified or reconstructed during the reporting period.

(ii) Records of deviations specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section that occurred during the reporting period.

(iii) If required to comply with § 60.5380(a)(1), the records specified in paragraphs (c)(6) through (11) of this section.

(4) For each reciprocating compressor affected facility, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (ii) of this section.

(i) The cumulative number of hours of operation or the number of months since initial startup, since October 15, 2012, or since the previous reciprocating compressor rod packing replacement, whichever is later.

(ii) Records of deviations specified in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section that occurred during the reporting period.

(5) For each pneumatic controller affected facility, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) An identification of each pneumatic controller constructed, modified or reconstructed during the reporting period, including the identification information specified in § 60.5390(b)(2) or (c)(2).

(ii) If applicable, documentation that the use of pneumatic controller affected facilities with a natural gas bleed rate greater than 6 standard cubic feet per hour are required and the reasons why.

(iii) Records of deviations specified in paragraph (c)(4)(v) of this section that occurred during the reporting period.

(6) For each storage vessel affected facility, the information in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) An identification, including the location, of each storage vessel affected facility for which construction, modification or reconstruction commenced during the reporting period. The location of the storage vessel shall be in latitude and longitude coordinates in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983.

(ii) Documentation of the VOC emission rate determination according to § 60.5365(e) for each storage vessel that became an affected facility during the reporting period or is returned to service during the reporting period.

(iii) Records of deviations specified in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section that occurred during the reporting period.

(iv) You must submit a notification identifying each Group 1 storage vessel affected facility in your initial annual report. You must include the location of the storage vessel, in latitude and longitude coordinates in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983.

(v) A statement that you have met the requirements specified in § 60.5410(h)(2) and (3).

(vi) You must identify each storage vessel affected facility that is removed from service during the reporting period as specified in § 60.5395(f)(1)(ii), including the date the storage vessel affected facility was removed from service.

(vii) You must identify each storage vessel affected facility returned to service during the reporting period as specified in § 60.5395(f)(3), including the date the storage vessel affected facility was returned to service.
