
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOOa - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5365a Am I subject to this subpart?

You are subject to the applicable provisions of this subpart if you are the owner or operator of one or more of the onshore affected facilities listed in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section, that is located within the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production source category, as defined in § 60.5430a, for which you commence construction, modification, or reconstruction after September 18, 2015.

(a) Each well affected facility, which is a single well that conducts a well completion operation following hydraulic fracturing or refracturing. The provisions of this paragraph do not affect the affected facility status of well sites for the purposes of § 60.5397a. The provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section apply to wells that are hydraulically refractured:

(1) A well that conducts a well completion operation following hydraulic refracturing is not an affected facility, provided that the requirements of § 60.5375a(a)(1) through (4) are met. However, hydraulic refracturing of a well constitutes a modification of the well site for purposes of paragraph (i)(3)(iii) of this section, regardless of affected facility status of the well itself.

(2) A well completion operation following hydraulic refracturing not conducted pursuant to § 60.5375a(a)(1) through (4) is a modification to the well.

(3) Except as provided in § 60.5365a(i)(3)(iii), refracturing of a well, by itself, does not affect the modification status of other equipment, process units, storage vessels, compressors, pneumatic pumps, or pneumatic controllers.

(4) A well initially constructed after September 18, 2015, that conducts a well completion operation following hydraulic refracturing is considered an affected facility regardless of this provision.

(b) Each centrifugal compressor affected facility, which is a single centrifugal compressor using wet seals. A centrifugal compressor located at a well site, or an adjacent well site and servicing more than one well site, is not an affected facility under this subpart.

(c) Each reciprocating compressor affected facility, which is a single reciprocating compressor. A reciprocating compressor located at a well site, or an adjacent well site and servicing more than one well site, is not an affected facility under this subpart.

(d) Each pneumatic controller affected facility:

(1) Each pneumatic controller affected facility not located at a natural gas processing plant, which is a single continuous bleed natural gas-driven pneumatic controller operating at a natural gas bleed rate greater than 6 scfh.

(2) Each pneumatic controller affected facility located at a natural gas processing plant, which is a single continuous bleed natural gas-driven pneumatic controller.

(e) Each storage vessel affected facility, which is a single storage vessel as specified in paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.

(1) A single storage vessel that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after September 18, 2015, and on or before November 16, 2020, is a storage vessel affected facility if its potential for VOC emissions is equal to or greater than 6 tons per year (tpy) as determined according to this paragraph (e)(1). The potential for VOC emissions must be calculated using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology, based on the maximum average daily throughput (as defined in § 60.5430a) determined for a 30-day period prior to the applicable emission determination deadline specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (e)(5)(iv). The determination may take into account requirements under a legally and practicably enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under a Federal, state, local, or tribal authority.

(2) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, a single storage vessel that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification after November 16, 2020, is a storage vessel affected facility if the potential for VOC emissions is equal to or greater than 6 tpy as determined according to paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (e)(5)(iv) of this section. The determination may take into account requirements under a legally and practicably enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under a Federal, state, local, or tribal authority. The potential for VOC emissions is calculated on an individual storage vessel basis and is not averaged across the number of storage vessels at the site.

(i) For each storage vessel receiving liquids pursuant to the standards for well affected facilities in § 60.5375a, including wells subject to § 60.5375a(f), you must determine the potential for VOC emissions within 30 days after startup of production of the well, except as provided in paragraph (e)(5)(iv) of this section. The potential for VOC emissions must be calculated for each individual storage vessel using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology, based on the maximum average daily throughput, as defined in § 60.5430a, determined for a 30-day period of production.

(ii) For each storage vessel located at a compressor station or onshore natural gas processing plant, you must determine the potential for VOC emissions prior to startup of the compressor station or onshore natural gas processing plant using either method described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.

(A) Determine the potential for VOC emissions using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology and based on the throughput established in a legally and practicably enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under a Federal, state, local, or tribal authority; or
