
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOOa - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5365a Am I subject to this subpart?
####### e.g.,

(B) Determine the potential for VOC emissions using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology and based on projected maximum average daily throughput. Maximum average daily throughput is determined using a generally accepted engineering model (volumetric condensate rates from the storage vessels based on the maximum gas throughput capacity of each producing facility) to project the maximum average daily throughput for the storage vessel.

(3) If a storage vessel battery, which consists of two or more storage vessels, meets all of the design and operational criteria specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section through legally and practicably enforceable standards in a permit or other requirement established under Federal, state, local, or tribal authority, then each storage vessel in such storage vessel battery is a storage vessel affected facility.

(i) The storage vessels must be manifolded together with piping such that all vapors are shared among the headspaces of the storage vessels;

(ii) The storage vessels must be equipped with a closed vent system that is designed, operated, and maintained to route the vapors back to the process or to a control device;

(iii) The vapors collected in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section must be routed back to the process or to a control device that reduces VOC emissions by at least 95.0 percent; and

(iv) The VOC emissions, averaged across the number of storage vessels in the battery meeting all of the criteria of paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section, are equal to or greater than 6 tpy.

(v) If a storage vessel battery meeting all of the criteria specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section through legally and practicably enforceable standards in a permit or other requirements established under Federal, state, local, or tribal authority, emits less than 6 tpy of VOC emissions averaged across the number of storage vessels in the battery, none of the storage vessels in the battery are storage vessel affected facilities.

(4) A storage vessel affected facility that subsequently has its potential for VOC emissions decrease to less than 6 tpy shall remain an affected facility under this subpart.

(5) For storage vessels not subject to a legally and practicably enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under Federal, state, local, or tribal authority, any vapor from the storage vessel that is recovered and routed to a process through a VRU designed and operated as specified in this section is not required to be included in the determination of potential for VOC emissions for purposes of determining affected facility status, provided you comply with the requirements in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) You meet the cover requirements specified in § 60.5411a(b).

(ii) You meet the closed vent system requirements specified in § 60.5411a(c) and (d).

(iii) You must maintain records that document compliance with paragraphs (e)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(iv) In the event of removal of apparatus that recovers and routes vapor to a process, or operation that is inconsistent with the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section, you must determine the storage vessel's potential for VOC emissions according to this section within 30 days of such removal or operation.

(6) The requirements of this paragraph (e)(6) apply to each storage vessel affected facility immediately upon startup, startup of production, or return to service. A storage vessel affected facility that is reconnected to the original source of liquids is a storage vessel affected facility subject to the same requirements that applied before being removed from service. Any storage vessel that is used to replace any storage vessel affected facility is subject to the same requirements that applied to the storage vessel affected facility being replaced.

(7) A storage vessel with a capacity greater than 100,000 gallons used to recycle water that has been passed through two stage separation is not a storage vessel affected facility.

(f) The group of all equipment within a process unit at an onshore natural gas processing plant is an affected facility.

(1) Addition or replacement of equipment for the purpose of process improvement that is accomplished without a capital expenditure shall not by itself be considered a modification under this subpart.

(2) Equipment associated with a compressor station, dehydration unit, sweetening unit, underground storage vessel, field gas gathering system, or liquefied natural gas unit is covered by §§ 60.5400a, 60.5401a, 60.5402a, 60.5421a, and 60.5422a if it is located at an onshore natural gas processing plant. Equipment not located at the onshore natural gas processing plant site is exempt from the provisions of §§ 60.5400a, 60.5401a, 60.5402a, 60.5421a, and 60.5422a.

(3) The equipment within a process unit of an affected facility located at onshore natural gas processing plants and described in paragraph (f) of this section are exempt from this subpart if they are subject to and controlled according to subparts VVa, GGG, or GGGa of this part.

(g) Sweetening units located at onshore natural gas processing plants that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after September 18, 2015, and on or before November 16, 2020, and sweetening units that commence construction, modification, or reconstruction after November 16, 2020.

(1) Each sweetening unit that processes natural gas produced from either onshore or offshore wells is an affected facility; and

(2) Each sweetening unit that processes natural gas followed by a sulfur recovery unit is an affected facility.

(3) Facilities that have a design capacity less than 2 long tons per day (LT/D) of hydrogen sulfide (HS) in the acid gas (expressed as sulfur) are required to comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in § 60.5423a(c) but are not required to comply with §§ 60.5405a through 60.5407a and §§ 60.5410a(g) and 60.5415a(g).

(4) Sweetening facilities producing acid gas that is completely re-injected into oil-or-gas-bearing geologic strata or that is otherwise not released to the atmosphere are not subject to §§ 60.5405a through 60.5407a, 60.5410a(g), 60.5415a(g), and 60.5423a.

(h) Each pneumatic pump affected facility:

(1) For natural gas processing plants, each pneumatic pump affected facility, which is a single natural gas-driven diaphragm pump.

(2) For well sites, each pneumatic pump affected facility, which is a single natural gas-driven diaphragm pump. A single natural gas-driven diaphragm pump that is in operation less than 90 days per calendar year is not an affected facility under this subpart provided the owner/operator keeps records of the days of operation each calendar year and submits such records to the EPA Administrator (or delegated enforcement authority) upon request. For the purposes of this section, any period of operation during a calendar day counts toward the 90 calendar day threshold.

(i) Except as provided in § 60.5365a(i)(2), the collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site, as defined in § 60.5430a, is an affected facility.

(1) [Reserved]

(2) A well site that only contains one or more wellheads is not an affected facility under this subpart. The affected facility status of a separate tank battery surface site has no effect on the affected facility status of a well site that only contains one or more wellheads.

(3) For purposes of § 60.5397a, a "modification" to a well site occurs when:

(i) A new well is drilled at an existing well site;

(ii) A well at an existing well site is hydraulically fractured; or

(iii) A well at an existing well site is hydraulically refractured.

(4) For purposes of § 60.5397a, a "modification" to an existing source separate tank battery surface site occurs when:

(i) Any of the actions in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section occurs at an existing source separate tank battery surface site;

(ii) A well sending production to an existing source separate tank battery site is modified, as defined in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section; or

(iii) A well site subject to the requirements in § 60.5397a removes all major production and processing equipment, as defined in § 60.5430a, such that it becomes a wellhead only well site and sends production to an existing source separate tank battery surface site.

(j) The collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station, as defined in § 60.5430a, is an affected facility. For purposes of § 60.5397a, a "modification" to a compressor station occurs when:

(1) An additional compressor is installed at a compressor station; or

(2) One or more compressors at a compressor station is replaced by one or more compressors of greater total horsepower than the compressor(s) being replaced. When one or more compressors is replaced by one or more compressors of an equal or smaller total horsepower than the compressor(s) being replaced, installation of the replacement compressor(s) does not trigger a modification of the compressor station for purposes of § 60.5397a.
