
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOOa - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5393a What VOC standards apply to pneumatic pump affected facilities?

For each pneumatic pump affected facility you must comply with the VOC standards, based on natural gas as a surrogate for VOC, in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable, on or after November 30, 2016.

(a) Each pneumatic pump affected facility at a natural gas processing plant must have a natural gas emission rate of zero.

(b) For each pneumatic pump affected facility at a well site you must reduce natural gas emissions by 95.0 percent, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3), (4), and (5) of this section.

(1)-(2) [Reserved]

(3) You are not required to install a control device solely for the purpose of complying with the 95.0 percent reduction requirement of paragraph (b) of this section. If you do not have a control device installed on site by the compliance date and you do not have the ability to route to a process, then you must comply instead with the provisions of paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. For the purposes of this section, boilers and process heaters are not considered control devices. In addition, routing emissions from pneumatic pump discharges to boilers and process heaters is not considered routing to a process.

(i) Submit a certification in accordance with § 60.5420a(b)(8)(i)(A) in your next annual report, certifying that there is no available control device or process on site and maintain the records in § 60.5420a(c)(16)(i) and (ii).

(ii) If you subsequently install a control device or have the ability to route to a process, you are no longer required to comply with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section and must submit the information in § 60.5420a(b)(8)(ii) in your next annual report and maintain the records in § 60.5420a(c)(16)(i), (ii), and (iii). You must be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section within 30 days of startup of the control device or within 30 days of the ability to route to a process.

(4) If the control device available on site is unable to achieve a 95-percent reduction and there is no ability to route the emissions to a process, you must still route the pneumatic pump affected facility's emissions to that control device. If you route the pneumatic pump affected facility to a control device installed on site that is designed to achieve less than a 95-percent reduction, you must submit the information specified in § 60.5420a(b)(8)(i)(C) in your next annual report and maintain the records in § 60.5420a(c)(16)(iii).

(5) If an owner or operator determines, through an engineering assessment, that routing a pneumatic pump to a control device or a process is technically infeasible, the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section must be met.

(i) The owner or operator shall conduct the assessment of technical infeasibility in accordance with the criteria in paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section and have it certified by either a qualified professional engineer or an in-house engineer with expertise on the design and operation of the pneumatic pump in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section.

(ii) The following certification, signed and dated by the qualified professional engineer or in-house engineer, shall state: "I certify that the assessment of technical infeasibility was prepared under my direction or supervision. I further certify that the assessment was conducted and this report was prepared pursuant to the requirements of § 60.5393a(b)(5)(iii). Based on my professional knowledge and experience, and inquiry of personnel involved in the assessment, the certification submitted herein is true, accurate, and complete."

(iii) The assessment of technical infeasibility to route emissions from the pneumatic pump to an existing control device onsite or to a process shall include, but is not limited to, safety considerations, distance from the control device or process, pressure losses and differentials in the closed vent system, and the ability of the control device or process to handle the pneumatic pump emissions which are routed to them. The assessment of technical infeasibility shall be prepared under the direction or supervision of the qualified professional engineer or in-house engineer who signs the certification in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section.

(iv) The owner or operator shall maintain the records specified in § 60.5420a(c)(16)(iv).

(6) If the pneumatic pump is routed to a control device or a process and the control device or process is subsequently removed from the location or is no longer available, you are no longer required to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, and instead must comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section and report the change in the next annual report in accordance with § 60.5420a(b)(8)(ii).

(c) If you use a control device or route to a process to reduce emissions, you must connect the pneumatic pump affected facility through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of §§ 60.5411a(d) and (e), 60.5415a(b)(3), and 60.5416a(d).

(d) You must demonstrate initial compliance with standards that apply to pneumatic pump affected facilities as required by § 60.5410a(e).

(e) You must perform the reporting as required by § 60.5420a(b)(1) and (8) and the recordkeeping as required by § 60.5420a(c)(6) through (10), (16), and (17), as applicable.
