
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOOa - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5397a What fugitive emissions VOC standards apply to the affected facility which is the collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site and the affected facility which is the collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station?
####### Well site production decline.

(ii)For the collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site, where, at any time, the total production of the well site is at or below 15 boe per day based on a rolling 12-month average, you must comply with the provisions of either paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section. To convert gas production to equivalent barrels of oil, divide the cubic feet of gas produced by 6,000.

(2) You must maintain the total production for the well site at or below 15 boe per day based on a rolling 12-month average, according to §§ 60.5410a(k) and 60.5415a(i), comply with the reporting requirements in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(i)(C), and the recordkeeping requirements in § 60.5420a(c)(15)(ii), until such time that you perform any of the actions in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section. If any of the actions listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section occur, you must comply with paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(i) A new well is drilled at the well site;

(ii) A well at the well site is hydraulically fractured;

(iii) A well at the well site is hydraulically refractured;

(iv) A well at the well site is stimulated in any manner for the purpose of increasing production, including well workovers; or

(v) A well at the well site is shut-in for the purpose of increasing production from the well.

(3) You must determine the total production for the well site for the first 30 days after any of the actions listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section is completed, according to § 60.5415a(j), comply with paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, the reporting requirements in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(i)(C), and the recordkeeping requirements in § 60.5420a(c)(15)(iii).

(i) If the total production for the well site is at or below 15 boe per day for the first 30 days after the action is completed, according to § 60.5415a(j), you must either continue to comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section or comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(ii) If the total production for the well site is greater than 15 boe per day for the first 30 days after the action is completed, according to § 60.5415a(j), you must comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section and conduct an initial monitoring survey for the collection of fugitive emissions components at the well site in accordance with the same schedule as for modified well sites as specified in § 60.5397a(f)(1).

(b) You must develop an emissions monitoring plan that covers the collection of fugitive emissions components at well sites and compressor stations within each company-defined area in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(c) Fugitive emissions monitoring plans must include the elements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section, at a minimum.

(1) Frequency for conducting surveys. Surveys must be conducted at least as frequently as required by paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.
