
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOOa - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5395a What VOC standards apply to storage vessel affected facilities?
####### Control requirements.

(b)(1) Except as required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if you use a control device to reduce VOC emissions from your storage vessel affected facility, you must equip the storage vessel with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411a(b) and is connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411a(c) and (d), and you must route emissions to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412a(c) or (d). As an alternative to routing the closed vent system to a control device, you may route the closed vent system to a process.

(2) If you use a floating roof to reduce emissions, you must meet the requirements of § 60.112b(a)(1) or (2) and the relevant monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb.

(c) Requirements for storage vessel affected facilities that are removed from service or returned to service. If you remove a storage vessel affected facility from service, you must comply with paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. A storage vessel is not an affected facility under this subpart for the period that it is removed from service.

(1) For a storage vessel affected facility to be removed from service, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must completely empty and degas the storage vessel, such that the storage vessel no longer contains crude oil, condensate, produced water or intermediate hydrocarbon liquids. A storage vessel where liquid is left on walls, as bottom clingage or in pools due to floor irregularity is considered to be completely empty.

(ii) You must submit a notification as required in § 60.5420a(b)(6)(v) in your next annual report, identifying each storage vessel affected facility removed from service during the reporting period and the date of its removal from service.

(2) If a storage vessel identified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section is returned to service, you must determine its affected facility status as provided in § 60.5365a(e).

(3) For each storage vessel affected facility returned to service during the reporting period, you must submit a notification in your next annual report as required in § 60.5420a(b)(6)(vi), identifying each storage vessel affected facility and the date of its return to service.

(d) Compliance, notification, recordkeeping, and reporting. You must comply with paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You must demonstrate initial compliance with standards as required by § 60.5410a(h) and (i).

(2) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with standards as required by § 60.5415a(e)(3).

(3) You must perform the required reporting as required by § 60.5420a(b)(1) and (6) and the recordkeeping as required by § 60.5420a(c)(5) through (8), (12) through (14), and (17), as applicable.
