
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOOa - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5398a What are the alternative means of emission limitations for VOC from well completions, reciprocating compressors, the collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site and the collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station?

(a) If, in the Administrator's judgment, an alternative means of emission limitation will achieve a reduction in VOC emissions at least equivalent to the reduction in VOC emissions achieved under § 60.5375a, § 60.5385a, or § 60.5397a, the Administrator will publish, in thea notice permitting the use of that alternative means for the purpose of compliance with § 60.5375a, § 60.5385a, or § 60.5397a. The authority to approve an alternative means of emission limitation is retained by the Administrator and shall not be delegated to States under section 111(c) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).

(b) Any notice under paragraph (a) of this section must be published only after notice and an opportunity for a public hearing.

(c) Determination of equivalence to the design, equipment, work practice, or operational requirements of this section will be evaluated by the following guidelines:

(1) The applicant must provide information that is sufficient for demonstrating the alternative means of emission limitation achieves emission reductions that are at least equivalent to the emission reductions that would be achieved by complying with the relevant standards. At a minimum, the application must include the following information:

(i) Details of the specific equipment or components that would be included in the alternative.

(ii) A description of the alternative work practice, including, as appropriate, the monitoring method, monitoring instrument or measurement technology, and the data quality indicators for precision and bias.

(iii) The method detection limit of the technology, technique, or process and a description of the procedures used to determine the method detection limit. At a minimum, the applicant must collect, verify, and submit field data encompassing seasonal variations to support the determination of the method detection limit. The field data may be supplemented with modeling analyses, controlled test site data, or other documentation.

(iv) Any initial and ongoing quality assurance/quality control measures necessary for maintaining the technology, technique, or process, and the timeframes for conducting such measures.

(v) Frequency of measurements. For continuous monitoring techniques, the minimum data availability.

(vi) Any restrictions for using the technology, technique, or process.

(vii) Initial and continuous compliance procedures, including recordkeeping and reporting, if the compliance procedures are different than those specified in this subpart.

(2) For each technology, technique, or process for which a determination of equivalency is requested, the application must provide a demonstration that the emission reduction achieved by the alternative means of emission limitation is at least equivalent to the emission reduction that would be achieved by complying with the relevant standards in this subpart.

(d) Any alternative means of emission limitations approved under this section shall constitute a required work practice, equipment, design, or operational standard within the meaning of section 111(h)(1) of the CAA.
