
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOOa - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5410a How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the standards for my well, centrifugal compressor, reciprocating compressor, pneumatic controller, pneumatic pump, storage vessel, collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site, collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station, and equipment leaks at onshore natural gas processing plants and sweetening unit affected facilities?

You must determine initial compliance with the standards for each affected facility using the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the initial compliance period begins on August 2, 2016, or upon initial startup, whichever is later, and ends no later than 1 year after the initial startup date for your affected facility or no later than 1 year after August 2, 2016. The initial compliance period may be less than 1 full year.

(a) To achieve initial compliance with the VOC standards for each well completion operation conducted at your well affected facility you must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must submit the notification required in § 60.5420a(a)(2).

(2) You must submit the initial annual report for your well affected facility as required in § 60.5420a(b)(1) and (2).

(3) You must maintain a log of records as specified in § 60.5420a(c)(1)(i) through (iv), as applicable, for each well completion operation conducted during the initial compliance period. If you meet the exemption for wells with a GOR less than 300 scf per stock barrel of oil produced, you do not have to maintain the records in § 60.5420a(c)(1)(i) through (iv) and must maintain the record in § 60.5420a(c)(1)(vi).

(4) For each well affected facility subject to both § 60.5375a(a)(1) and (3), as an alternative to retaining the records specified in § 60.5420a(c)(1)(i) through (iv), you may maintain records in accordance with § 60.5420a(c)(1)(v) of one or more digital photographs with the date the photograph was taken and the latitude and longitude of the well site imbedded within or stored with the digital file showing the equipment for storing or re-injecting recovered liquid, equipment for routing recovered gas to the gas flow line and the completion combustion device (if applicable) connected to and operating at each well completion operation that occurred during the initial compliance period. As an alternative to imbedded latitude and longitude within the digital photograph, the digital photograph may consist of a photograph of the equipment connected and operating at each well completion operation with a photograph of a separately operating GPS device within the same digital picture, provided the latitude and longitude output of the GPS unit can be clearly read in the digital photograph.

(b)(1) To achieve initial compliance with standards for your centrifugal compressor affected facility you must reduce VOC emissions from each centrifugal compressor wet seal fluid degassing system by 95.0 percent or greater as required by § 60.5380a(a) and as demonstrated by the requirements of § 60.5413a.

(2) If you use a control device to reduce emissions, you must equip the wet seal fluid degassing system with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411a(b) that is connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411a(a) and (d) and is routed to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412a(a), (b) and (c). As an alternative to routing the closed vent system to a control device, you may route the closed vent system to a process.

(3) You must conduct an initial performance test as required in § 60.5413a within 180 days after initial startup or by August 2, 2016, whichever is later, and you must comply with the continuous compliance requirements in § 60.5415a(b).

(4) You must conduct the initial inspections required in § 60.5416a(a) and (b).

(5) You must install and operate the continuous parameter monitoring systems in accordance with § 60.5417a(a) through (g), as applicable.

(6) [Reserved]

(7) You must submit the initial annual report for your centrifugal compressor affected facility as required in § 60.5420a(b)(1) and (3).

(8) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420a(c)(2), (6) through (11), and (17), as applicable.

(c) To achieve initial compliance with the standards for each reciprocating compressor affected facility you must comply with paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) If complying with § 60.5385a(a)(1) or (2), during the initial compliance period, you must continuously monitor the number of hours of operation or track the number of months since initial startup, since August 2, 2016, or since the last rod packing replacement, whichever is latest.

(2) If complying with § 60.5385a(a)(3), you must operate the rod packing emissions collection system under negative pressure and route emissions to a process through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411a(a) and (d).

(3) You must submit the initial annual report for your reciprocating compressor as required in § 60.5420a(b)(1) and (4).

(4) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420a(c)(3) for each reciprocating compressor affected facility.

(d) To achieve initial compliance with VOC emission standards for your pneumatic controller affected facility you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section, as applicable.

(1) You must demonstrate initial compliance by maintaining records as specified in § 60.5420a(c)(4)(ii) of your determination that the use of a pneumatic controller affected facility with a bleed rate greater than the applicable standard is required as specified in § 60.5390a(b)(1) or (c)(1).

(2) If you own or operate a pneumatic controller affected facility located at a natural gas processing plant, your pneumatic controller must be driven by a gas other than natural gas, resulting in zero natural gas emissions.

(3) If you own or operate a pneumatic controller affected facility located other than at a natural gas processing plant, the controller manufacturer's design specifications for the controller must indicate that the controller emits less than or equal to 6 standard cubic feet of gas per hour.

(4) You must tag each new pneumatic controller affected facility according to the requirements of § 60.5390a(b)(2) or (c)(2).

(5) You must include the information in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and a listing of the pneumatic controller affected facilities specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section in the initial annual report submitted for your pneumatic controller affected facilities constructed, modified or reconstructed during the period covered by the annual report according to the requirements of § 60.5420a(b)(1) and (5).

(6) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420a(c)(4) for each pneumatic controller affected facility.

(e) To achieve initial compliance with emission standards for your pneumatic pump affected facility you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section, as applicable.

(1) If you own or operate a pneumatic pump affected facility located at a natural gas processing plant, your pneumatic pump must be driven by a gas other than natural gas, resulting in zero natural gas emissions.

(2) If you own or operate a pneumatic pump affected facility located at a well site, you must reduce emissions in accordance with § 60.5393a(b)(1) or (2), and you must collect the pneumatic pump emissions through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411a(d) and (e).

(3) If you own or operate a pneumatic pump affected facility located at a well site and there is no control device or process available on site, you must submit the certification in § 60.5420a(b)(8)(i)(A).

(4) If you own or operate a pneumatic pump affected facility located at a well site, and you are unable to route to an existing control device or to a process due to technical infeasibility, you must submit the certification in § 60.5420a(b)(8)(i)(B).

(5) If you own or operate a pneumatic pump affected facility located at a well site and you reduce emissions in accordance with § 60.5393a(b)(4), you must collect the pneumatic pump emissions through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411a(d) and (e).

(6) You must submit the initial annual report for your pneumatic pump affected facility required in § 60.5420a(b)(1) and (8).

(7) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420a(c)(6), (8) through (10), (16), and (17), as applicable, for each pneumatic pump affected facility.

(f) For affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants, initial compliance with the VOC standards is demonstrated if you are in compliance with the requirements of § 60.5400a.

(g) For sweetening unit affected facilities, initial compliance is demonstrated according to paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) To determine compliance with the standards for SOspecified in § 60.5405a(a), during the initial performance test as required by § 60.8, the minimum required sulfur dioxide emission reduction efficiency (Z) is compared to the emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by the sulfur recovery technology as specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) If R ≥ Z, your affected facility is in compliance.

(ii) If R < Z, your affected facility is not in compliance.

(2) The emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by the sulfur reduction technology must be determined using the procedures in § 60.5406a(c)(1).

(3) You must submit the results of paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section in the initial annual report submitted for your sweetening unit affected facilities.

(h) For each storage vessel affected facility you must comply with paragraphs (h)(1) through (6) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (h), you must demonstrate initial compliance by August 2, 2016, or within 60 days after startup, whichever is later.

(1) You must determine the potential VOC emission rate as specified in § 60.5365a(e).

(2) You must reduce VOC emissions in accordance with § 60.5395a(a).

(3) If you use a control device to reduce emissions, you must equip the storage vessel with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411a(b) and is connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411a(c) and (d) to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412a(d) within 60 days after startup for storage vessels constructed, modified, or reconstructed at well sites with no other wells in production, or upon startup for storage vessels constructed, modified, or reconstructed at well sites with one or more wells already in production.

(4) You must conduct an initial performance test as required in § 60.5413a within 180 days after initial startup or within 180 days of August 2, 2016, whichever is later, and you must comply with the continuous compliance requirements in § 60.5415a(e).

(5) You must submit the information required for your storage vessel affected facility in your initial annual report as specified in § 60.5420a(b)(1) and (6).

(6) You must maintain the records required for your storage vessel affected facility, as specified in § 60.5420a(c)(5) through (8), (12) through (14), and (17), as applicable, for each storage vessel affected facility.

(i) For each storage vessel affected facility that complies by using a floating roof, you must submit a statement that you are complying with § 60.112(b)(a)(1) or (2) in accordance with § 60.5395a(b)(2) with the initial annual report specified in § 60.5420a(b).

(j) To achieve initial compliance with the fugitive emission standards for each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site and each collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station you must comply with paragraphs (j)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) You must develop a fugitive emissions monitoring plan as required in § 60.5397a(b), (c), and (d).

(2) You must conduct an initial monitoring survey as required in § 60.5397a(f).

(3) You must maintain the records specified in § 60.5420a(c)(15).

(4) You must repair each identified source of fugitive emissions for each affected facility as required in § 60.5397a(h).

(5) You must submit the initial annual report for each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site and each collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station compressor station as required in § 60.5420a(b)(1) and (7).

(k) To demonstrate initial compliance with the requirement to maintain the total well site production at or below 15 boe per day based on a rolling 12-month average, as specified in § 60.5397a(a)(2), you must comply with paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You must demonstrate that the total daily combined oil and natural gas production for all wells at the well site is at or below 15 boe per day, based on a 12-month average from the previous 12 months of operation, according to paragraphs (k)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section within 45 days of the end of each month. The rolling 12-month average of the total well site production determined according to paragraph (k)(1)(iii) of this section must be at or below 15 boe per day.

(i) Determine the daily combined oil and natural gas production for each individual well at the well site for the month. To convert gas production to equivalent barrels of oil, divide the cubic feet of gas produced by 6,000.

(ii) Sum the daily production for each individual well at the well site to determine the total well site production and divide by the number of days in the month. This is the average daily total well site production for the month.

(iii) Use the result determined in paragraph (k)(1)(ii) of this section and average with the daily total well site production values determined for each of the preceding 11 months to calculate the rolling 12-month average of the total well site production.

(2) You must maintain records as specified in § 60.5420a(c)(15)(ii).

(3) You must submit compliance information in the initial and subsequent annual reports as specified in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(i)(C) and (b)(7)(iv).
