
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOOa - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After September 18, 2015
###### ยง 60.5413a What are the performance testing procedures for control devices used to demonstrate compliance at my centrifugal compressor and storage vessel affected facilities?
####### i.e.,

(B) Flow rate must be measured using Method 1 of appendix A-1 of this part for determining flow measurement traverse point location, and Method 2 of appendix A-1 of this part for measuring duct velocity. If low flow conditions are encountered (velocity pressure differentials less than 0.05 inches of water) during the performance test, a more sensitive manometer must be used to obtain an accurate flow profile.

(ii) Molecular weight and excess air must be determined as specified in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.

(iii) Carbon monoxide must be determined as specified in paragraph (d)(8) of this section.

(iv) THC must be determined as specified in paragraph (d)(9) of this section.

(v) Visible emissions must be determined as specified in paragraph (d)(10) of this section.

(7) Molecular weight and excess air determination must be performed as specified in paragraphs (d)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) An integrated bag sample must be collected during the moisture test required by Method 4 of appendix A-3 of this part following the procedure specified in (d)(7)(i)(A) and (B) of this section. Analyze the bag sample using a gas chromatograph-thermal conductivity detector (GC-TCD) analysis meeting the criteria in paragraphs (d)(7)(i)(C) and (D) of this section.

(A) Collect the integrated sample throughout the entire test, and collect representative volumes from each traverse location.

(B) Purge the sampling line with stack gas before opening the valve and beginning to fill the bag. Clearly label each bag and record sample information on a chain of custody form.

(C) The bag contents must be vigorously mixed prior to the gas chromatograph analysis.

(D) The GC-TCD calibration procedure in Method 3C of appendix A-2 of this part must be modified by using EPA Alt-045 as follows: For the initial calibration, triplicate injections of any single concentration must agree within 5 percent of their mean to be valid. The calibration response factor for a single concentration re-check must be within 10 percent of the original calibration response factor for that concentration. If this criterion is not met, repeat the initial calibration using at least three concentration levels.

(ii) Calculate and report the molecular weight of oxygen, carbon dioxide, methane and nitrogen in the integrated bag sample and include in the test report specified in paragraph (d)(12) of this section. Moisture must be determined using Method 4 of appendix A-3 of this part. Traverse both ports with the sampling train required by Method 4 of appendix A-3 of this part during each test run. Ambient air must not be introduced into the integrated bag sample required by Method 3C of appendix A-2 of this part during the port change.

(iii) Excess air must be determined using resultant data from the EPA Method 3C tests and EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 of this part, equation 3B-1, or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Part 10 (manual portion only) (incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 60.17).

(8) Carbon monoxide must be determined using Method 10 of appendix A-4 of this part. Run the test simultaneously with Method 25A of appendix A-7 of this part using the same sampling points. An instrument range of 0-10 parts per million by volume-dry (ppmvd) is recommended.

(9) Total hydrocarbon determination must be performed as specified by in paragraphs (d)(9)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) Conduct THC sampling using Method 25A of appendix A-7 of this part, except that the option for locating the probe in the center 10 percent of the stack is not allowed. The THC probe must be traversed to 16.7 percent, 50 percent, and 83.3 percent of the stack diameter during each test run.

(ii) A valid test must consist of three Method 25A tests, each no less than 60 minutes in duration.

(iii) A 0-10 parts per million by volume-wet (ppmvw) (as propane) measurement range is preferred; as an alternative a 0-30 ppmvw (as propane) measurement range may be used.

(iv) Calibration gases must be propane in air and be certified through EPA Protocol 1-"EPA Traceability Protocol for Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards," (incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 60.17).

(v) THC measurements must be reported in terms of ppmvw as propane.

(vi) THC results must be corrected to 3 percent CO, as measured by Method 3C of appendix A-2 of this part. You must use the following equation for this diluent concentration correction:

(vii) Subtraction of methane or ethane from the THC data is not allowed in determining results.

(10) Visible emissions must be determined using Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part. The test must be performed continuously during each test run. A digital color photograph of the exhaust point, taken from the position of the observer and annotated with date and time, must be taken once per test run and the 12 photos included in the test report specified in paragraph (d)(12) of this section.
