
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOOa - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5415a How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards for my well, centrifugal compressor, reciprocating compressor, pneumatic controller, pneumatic pump, storage vessel, collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site, and collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station affected facilities, equipment leaks at onshore natural gas processing plants and sweetening unit affected facilities?
####### 2

() After 120 days and no more than 364 days of operation after the compliance date specified in § 60.5370a(a), you must calculate the average TOC emission reduction as the TOC emission reduction averaged over the number of days between the current day and the applicable compliance date. You have demonstrated compliance with the overall 95.0 percent reduction requirement if the average TOC emission reduction is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent.

(E) If you have data for 365 days or more of operation, you have demonstrated compliance with the TOC emission reduction if the rolling 365-day average TOC emission reduction calculated in paragraph (b)(2)(viii)(D) of this section is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent.

(3) You must submit the annual reports required by § 60.5420a(b)(1), (3), and (8) and maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420a(c)(2), (6) through (11), (16), and (17), as applicable.

(c) For each reciprocating compressor affected facility complying with § 60.5385a(a)(1) or (2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. For each reciprocating compressor affected facility complying with § 60.5385a(a)(3), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(1) You must continuously monitor the number of hours of operation for each reciprocating compressor affected facility or track the number of months since initial startup, since August 2, 2016, or since the date of the most recent reciprocating compressor rod packing replacement, whichever is latest.

(2) You must submit the annual reports as required in § 60.5420a(b)(1) and (4) and maintain records as required in § 60.5420a(c)(3).

(3) You must replace the reciprocating compressor rod packing on or before the total number of hours of operation reaches 26,000 hours or the number of months since the most recent rod packing replacement reaches 36 months.

(4) You must operate the rod packing emissions collection system under negative pressure and continuously comply with the cover and closed vent requirements in § 60.5416a(a) and (b).

(d) For each pneumatic controller affected facility, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You must continuously operate the pneumatic controllers as required in § 60.5390a(a), (b), or (c).

(2) You must submit the annual reports as required in § 60.5420a(b)(1) and (5).

(3) You must maintain records as required in § 60.5420a(c)(4).

(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section for each storage vessel affected facility, for which you are using a control device or routing emissions to a process to meet the requirement of § 60.5395a(a)(2).

(1)-(2) [Reserved]

(3) For each storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must reduce VOC emissions as specified in § 60.5395a(a)(2).

(ii) For each control device installed to meet the requirements of § 60.5395a(a)(2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the performance requirements of § 60.5412a(d) for each storage vessel affected facility using the procedure specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A) and either (e)(3)(ii)(B) or (e)(3)(ii)(C) of this section.

(A) You must comply with § 60.5416a(c) for each cover and closed vent system.

(B) You must comply with § 60.5417a(h) for each control device.

(C) Each closed vent system that routes emissions to a process must be operated as specified in § 60.5411a(c)(2) and (3).

(f) For affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants, continuous compliance with VOC requirements is demonstrated if you are in compliance with the requirements of § 60.5400a.

(g) For each sweetening unit affected facility, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards for SOspecified in § 60.5405a(b) according to paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The minimum required SOemission reduction efficiency (Z) is compared to the emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by the sulfur recovery technology.

(i) If R ≥ Z, your affected facility is in compliance.

(ii) If R < Z, your affected facility is not in compliance.

(2) The emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by the sulfur reduction technology must be determined using the procedures in § 60.5406a(c)(1).

(h) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site and each collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the fugitive emission standards specified in § 60.5397a(a)(1) according to paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must conduct periodic monitoring surveys as required in § 60.5397a(g).

(2) You must repair each identified source of fugitive emissions as required in § 60.5397a(h).

(3) You must maintain records as specified in § 60.5420a(c)(15).

(4) You must submit annual reports for collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site and each collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station as required in § 60.5420a(b)(1) and (7).

(i) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site complying with § 60.5397a(a)(2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section. You must perform the calculations shown in paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section within 45 days of the end of each month. The rolling 12-month average of the total well site production determined according to paragraph (i)(4) of this section must be at or below 15 boe per day.

(1) Begin with the most recent 12-month average.

(2) Determine the daily combined oil and natural gas production of each individual well at the well site for the month. To convert gas production to equivalent barrels of oil, divide the cubic feet of gas produced by 6,000.

(3) Sum the daily production for each individual well at the well site and divide by the number of days in the month. This is the average daily total well site production for the month.

(4) Use the result determined in paragraph (i)(3) of this section and average with the daily total well site production values determined for each of the preceding 11 months to calculate the rolling 12-month average of the total well site production.

(j) To demonstrate that the well site produced at or below 15 boe per day for the first 30 days after startup of production as specified in § 60.5397a(3), you must calculate the daily production for each individual well at the well site during the first 30 days of production after completing any action listed in § 60.5397a(a)(2)(i) through (v) and sum the individual well production values to obtain the total well site production. The calculation must be performed within 45 days of the end of the first 30 days of production after completing any action listed in § 60.5397a(a)(2)(i) through (v). To convert gas production to equivalent barrels of oil, divide cubic feet of gas produced by 6,000.
