
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOOa - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5420a What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
####### i.e.,

(i)(A) Designation of the type of site (well site or compressor station) at which the collection of fugitive emissions components is located.

(B) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site that became an affected facility during the reporting period, you must include the date of the startup of production or the date of the first day of production after modification. For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station that became an affected facility during the reporting period, you must include the date of startup or the date of modification.

(C) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site that meets the conditions specified in either § 60.5397a(a)(1)(i) or (ii), you must specify the well site is a low production well site and submit the total production for the well site.

(D) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site where during the reporting period you complete the removal of all major production and processing equipment such that the well site contains only one or more wellheads, you must include the date of the change to status as a wellhead only well site.

(E) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site where you previously reported under paragraph (b)(7)(i)(C) of this section the removal of all major production and processing equipment and during the reporting period major production and processing equipment is added back to the well site, the date that the first piece of major production and processing equipment is added back to the well site.

(ii) For each fugitive emissions monitoring survey performed during the annual reporting period, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(ii)(A) through (G) of this section.

(A) Date of the survey.

(B) Monitoring instrument used.

(C) Any deviations from the monitoring plan elements under § 60.5397a(c)(1), (2), and (7) and (c)(8)(i) or a statement that there were no deviations from these elements of the monitoring plan.

(D) Number and type of components for which fugitive emissions were detected.

(E) Number and type of fugitive emissions components that were not repaired as required in § 60.5397a(h).

(F) Number and type of fugitive emission components (including designation as difficult-to-monitor or unsafe-to-monitor, if applicable) on delay of repair and explanation for each delay of repair.

(G) Date of planned shutdown(s) that occurred during the reporting period if there are any components that have been placed on delay of repair.

(iii) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site or collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station complying with an alternative fugitive emissions standard under § 60.5399a, in lieu of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section, you must provide the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The alternative standard with which you are complying.

(B) The site-specific reports specified by the specific alternative fugitive emissions standard, submitted in the format in which they were submitted to the state, local, or tribal authority. If the report is in hard copy, you must scan the document and submit it as an electronic attachment to the annual report required in paragraph (b) of this section.

(C) If the report specified by the specific alternative fugitive emissions standard is not site-specific, you must submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section for each individual site complying with the alternative standard.

(8) For each pneumatic pump affected facility, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) For each pneumatic pump that is constructed, modified or reconstructed during the reporting period, you must provide certification that the pneumatic pump meets one of the conditions described in paragraph (b)(8)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.

(A) No control device or process is available on site.

(B) A control device or process is available on site and the owner or operator has determined in accordance with § 60.5393a(b)(5) that it is technically infeasible to capture and route the emissions to the control device or process.

(C) Emissions from the pneumatic pump are routed to a control device or process. If the control device is designed to achieve less than 95 percent emissions reduction, specify the percent emissions reductions the control device is designed to achieve.

(ii) For any pneumatic pump affected facility which has been previously reported as required under paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section and for which a change in the reported condition has occurred during the reporting period, provide the identification of the pneumatic pump affected facility and the date it was previously reported and a certification that the pneumatic pump meets one of the conditions described in paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section.

(A) A control device has been added to the location and the pneumatic pump now reports according to paragraph (b)(8)(i)(C) of this section.

(B) A control device has been added to the location and the pneumatic pump affected facility now reports according to paragraph (b)(8)(i)(B) of this section.

(C) A control device or process has been removed from the location or otherwise is no longer available and the pneumatic pump affected facility now report according to paragraph (b)(8)(i)(A) of this section.

(D) A control device or process has been removed from the location or is otherwise no longer available and the owner or operator has determined in accordance with § 60.5393a(b)(5) through an engineering evaluation that it is technically infeasible to capture and route the emissions to another control device or process.

(iii) For each deviation that occurred during the reporting period and recorded as specified in paragraph (c)(16)(ii) of this section, the date and time the deviation began, duration of the deviation, and a description of the deviation.

(iv) If required to comply with § 60.5393a(b), the information in paragraphs (b)(8)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Dates of each inspection required under § 60.5416a(d);

(B) Each defect or leak identified during each inspection, and date of repair or date of anticipated repair if repair is delayed; and

(C) Date and time of each bypass alarm or each instance the key is checked out if you are subject to the bypass requirements of § 60.5416a(c)(3).

(9) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (see § 60.8) required by this subpart, except testing conducted by the manufacturer as specified in § 60.5413a(d), you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedure specified in either paragraph (b)(9)(i) or (ii) of this section.
