
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOOa - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After September 18, 2015
###### ยง 60.5416a What are the initial and continuous cover and closed vent system inspection and monitoring requirements for my centrifugal compressor, reciprocating compressor, pneumatic pump, and storage vessel affected facilities?
####### Closed vent system inspections for pneumatic pump affected facilities.

(d)If you install a control device or route emissions to a process, you must comply with the inspection and recordkeeping requirements for each closed vent system as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. You must also comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3) through (7) of this section.

(1) For each closed vent system, you must conduct an inspection as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii), paragraph (d)(1)(iv), or paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section.

(i) You must maintain records of the inspection results as specified in ยง 60.5420a(c)(6).

(ii) Conduct olfactory, visual, and auditory inspections at least once every calendar month for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in piping; loose connections; liquid leaks; or broken or missing caps or other closure devices.

(iii) Monthly inspections must be separated by at least 14 calendar days.

(iv) Conduct optical gas imaging inspections for any visible emissions at the same frequency as the frequency for the collection of fugitive components located at the same type of site, as specified in ยง 60.5397a(g)(1).

(v) Conduct inspections as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(2) [Reserved]
