
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart OOOOa - Standards of Performance for Crude Oil and Natural Gas Facilities for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After September 18, 2015
###### § 60.5420a What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
####### 8

() Date of planned shutdowns that occur while there are any components that have been placed on delay of repair.

(viii) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site or collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station complying with an alternative means of emissions limitation under § 60.5399a, you must maintain the records specified by the specific alternative fugitive emissions standard for a period of at least 5 years.

(16) For each pneumatic pump affected facility, you must maintain the records identified in paragraphs (c)(16)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Records of the date, location, and manufacturer specifications for each pneumatic pump constructed, modified, or reconstructed.

(ii) Records of deviations in cases where the pneumatic pump was not operated in compliance with the requirements specified in § 60.5393a, including the date and time the deviation began, duration of the deviation, and a description of the deviation.

(iii) Records on the control device used for control of emissions from a pneumatic pump including the installation date, and manufacturer's specifications. If the control device is designed to achieve less than 95-percent emission reduction, maintain records of the design evaluation or manufacturer's specifications which indicate the percentage reduction the control device is designed to achieve.

(iv) Records substantiating a claim according to § 60.5393a(b)(5) that it is technically infeasible to capture and route emissions from a pneumatic pump to a control device or process; including the certification according to § 60.5393a(b)(5)(ii) and the records of the engineering assessment of technical infeasibility performed according to § 60.5393a(b)(5)(iii).

(v) You must retain copies of all certifications, engineering assessments, and related records for a period of five years and make them available if directed by the implementing agency.

(17) For each closed vent system routing to a control device or process, the records of the assessment conducted according to § 60.5411a(d):

(i) A copy of the assessment conducted according to § 60.5411a(d)(1);

(ii) A copy of the certification according to § 60.5411a(d)(1)(i); and

(iii) The owner or operator shall retain copies of all certifications, assessments, and any related records for a period of 5 years, and make them available if directed by the delegated authority.

(18) A copy of each performance test submitted under paragraph (b)(9) of this section.
