
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQQ - Standards of Performance for New Residential Hydronic Heaters and Forced-Air Furnaces
###### § 60.5472 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you manufacture, sell, offer for sale, import for sale, distribute, offer to distribute, introduce or deliver for introduction into commerce in the United States, or install or operate a residential hydronic heater, forced-air furnace or other central heater manufactured on or after May 15, 2015, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) Each residential hydronic heater, forced-air furnace or other central heater must comply with the provisions of this subpart unless exempted under paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section. These exemptions are determined by rule applicability and do not require additional EPA notification or public notice.

(1) Affected residential hydronic heaters, forced-air furnaces or other central heaters manufactured in the United States for export are exempt from the applicable emission limits of § 60.5474 and the requirements of § 60.5475.

(2) Affected residential hydronic heaters, forced-air furnaces or other central heaters used for research and development purposes that are never offered for sale or sold and that are not used to provide heat are exempt from the applicable emission limits of § 60.5474 and the requirements of § 60.5475. No more than 12 affected residential central heaters manufactured per model line may be exempted for this purpose.

(3) Appliances that do not burn wood or wood pellets or wood chips (such as coal-only central heaters that meet the definition in § 60.5473 or corn-only central heaters) are exempt from the applicable emission limits of § 60.5474 and the requirements of § 60.5475 provided that all advertising and warranties clearly denote that wood burning is prohibited in these appliances.

(c) The following are not affected central heaters and are not subject to this subpart:

(1) Residential wood heaters subject to subpart AAA of this part.

(2) Residential masonry heaters as defined in § 60.5473.
