
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQQ - Standards of Performance for New Residential Hydronic Heaters and Forced-Air Furnaces
###### § 60.5474 What standards and requirements must I meet and by when?
####### Standards.

(a)Unless exempted under § 60.5472, no person is permitted to:

(1) On or after May 15, 2015, manufacture, import into the United States or sell at retail a residential hydronic heater unless it has been certified to meet the 2015 particulate matter emission limits in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that a residential hydronic heater that was manufactured on or before May 15, 2015 may be imported into the United States and/or sold at retail on or before December 31, 2015.

(2) On or after May 15, 2020 manufacture or sell at retail a residential hydronic heater unless it has been certified to meet the 2020 particulate matter emission limit in paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section.

(3) On or after May 15, 2015, manufacture or sell at retail a residential forced-air furnace unless it complies with the work practice and operating standards in paragraphs (d), (e), (f) and (g) of this section and the owner's manual requirements in appendix I.

(4) On or after May 16, 2016, manufacture or sell at retail a small residential forced-air furnace unless it has been certified to meet the 2016 particulate matter emission limits in paragraph (b)(4) of this section

(5) On or after May 15, 2017 manufacture or sell at retail a large forced-air furnace unless it has been certified to meet the 2017 particulate matter emission limits in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(6) On or after May 15, 2020 manufacture or sell at retail a small or large residential forced-air furnace unless it has been certified to meet the 2020 particulate matter emission limit in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.

(b)(1) 2015 residential hydronic heater particulate matter emission limit: A weighted average of 0.32 lb/mmBtu (0.137 g/MJ) heat output and a maximum per individual burn rate of 18.0 g/hr (0.041 lb/hr) as determined by the test methods and procedures in § 60.5476 or an alternative crib wood or cord wood test method approved by the Administrator.

(2) 2020 residential hydronic heater particulate matter emission limit: 0.10 lb/mmBtu (0.026 g/MJ) heat output per individual burn rate as determined by the crib wood test methods and procedures in § 60.5476 or an alternative crib wood test method approved by the Administrator .

(3) 2020 residential hydronic heater cord wood alternative compliance option for particulate matter emission limit: 0.15 lb/mmBtu (0.026 g/MJ) heat output per individual burn rate as determined by the cord wood test methods and procedures in § 60.5476 or an alternative cord wood test method approved by the Administrator.

(4) 2016 small forced-air furnace particulate matter emission limit: A weighted average of 0.93 lb/mmBtu (0.40 g/MJ) heat output as determined by the test methods and procedures in § 60.5476.

(5) 2017 large forced-air furnace particulate matter emission limit: A weighted average of 0.93 lb/mmBtu (0.40 g/MJ) heat output as determined by the test methods and procedures in § 60.5476.

(6) 2020 forced-air furnace particulate matter emission limit: 0.15 lb/mmBtu (0.026 g/MJ) heat output per individual burn rate as determined by the cord wood test methods and procedures in § 60.5476 or cord wood test methods approved by the Administrator.

(c) [Reserved]
