
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQQ - Standards of Performance for New Residential Hydronic Heaters and Forced-Air Furnaces
###### ยง 60.5475 What compliance and certification requirements must I meet and by when?
####### Third-party certifier-based application process.

(f)(1) Any manufacturer of an affected central heater must apply to the Administrator for a certificate of compliance for each model line. The manufacturer must meet the following requirements:

(i) The manufacturer must contract with a third-party certifier for certification services. The contract must include regular (at least annual) unannounced audits under ISO-IEC Standard 17065 to ensure that the manufacturer's quality assurance plan is being implemented. The contract must also include a report for each audit under ISO-IEC Standard 17065 that fully documents the results of the audit. The contract must include authorization and requirement for the third-party certifier to submit all such reports to the Administrator and the manufacturer within 30 days of the audit. The audit report must identify deviations from the manufacturer's quality assurance plan and specify the corrective actions that need to be taken to address each identified deficiency.

(ii) The manufacturer must submit the materials specified in paragraph (b) of this section and a quality assurance plan that meets the requirements of paragraph (m) of this section to the third-party certifier. The quality assurance plan must ensure that units within a model line will be similar in all material respects that would affect emissions to the wood heater submitted for certification testing, and it must include design drawings for the model line.

(iii) The manufacturer must apply to the third-party certifier for a certification of conformity with the applicable requirements of this subpart for the model line.

(A) After testing by an approved test laboratory is complete, certification of conformity with the emission standards in ยง 60.5474 must be performed by the manufacturer's contracted third-party certifier.

(B) The third-party certifier may certify conformity if the emission tests have been conducted per the appropriate guidelines: The test report is complete and accurate; the instrumentation used for the test was properly calibrated; the test report shows that the representative affected central heater meets the applicable emission limits specified in ยง 60.5474; and the quality assurance plan is adequate to ensure that units within the model line will be similar in all material respects that would affect emissions to the central heater submitted for certification testing, and that the affected heaters would meet all applicable requirements of this subpart.

(iv) The manufacturer must then submit to the Administrator an application for a certificate of compliance that includes the certification of conformity, quality assurance plan, test report and all supporting documentation specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(v) The submission also must include a statement signed by a responsible official of the manufacturer or authorized representative that the manufacturer has complied with and will continue to comply with all requirements of this subpart for certificate of compliance and that the manufacturer remains responsible for compliance regardless of any error by the test laboratory or third-party certifier.

(2) The Administrator will issue to the manufacturer a certificate of compliance for a model line if it is determined, based on all of the information submitted in the application for certification and any other relevant information, that:

(i) A valid certification of conformity has demonstrated that the representative affected central heater complies with the applicable emission standards in ยง 60.5474;

(ii) Any tolerances or materials for components listed in paragraph (k)(2) or (3) of this section that are different from those specified in those paragraphs may not be reasonably anticipated to cause central heaters in the model line to exceed the applicable emission limits;

(iii) The requirements of paragraphs (b) of this section have been met; and

(iv) A valid certificate of conformity for the model line has been prepared and submitted.

(3) The Administrator will deny certification if the Administrator determines that the criteria in paragraph (f)(2) of this section have not been satisfied. Upon denying certification under this paragraph, the Administrator will give written notice to the manufacturer setting forth the basis for the determination.
