
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQQ - Standards of Performance for New Residential Hydronic Heaters and Forced-Air Furnaces
###### § 60.5475 What compliance and certification requirements must I meet and by when?
####### Certification requirement.,e.g.,

(a)(1) Each affected residential hydronic heater, forced-air furnace and other central heater must be certified to be in compliance with the applicable emission standards and other requirements of this subpart. For each model line manufactured or sold by a single entity,company or manufacturer, compliance with applicable emission standards of § 60.5474 must be determined based on testing of representative affected central heaters within the model line. If one entity licenses a model line to another entity, each entity's model line must be certified. If an entity intends to change the name of the entity or the name of the model, the manufacturer must apply for a new certification 60 days before making the change.

(2) The manufacturer of each model line must submit the information required in paragraph (b) of this section and follow either the certification process in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section (for forced-air furnaces) or the certification procedure specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(3) Models qualified as meeting the Phase 2 emission levels under the 2011 EPA hydronic heater partnership agreement are automatically deemed to have a certificate of compliance for the 2015 particulate matter emission standards and be valid until the effective date for the 2020 particulate matter emission standards.

(4) Models certified by the New York State Department of Environment and Conservation to meet the emission levels in § 60.5474(b) are automatically deemed to have a certificate of compliance for the 2015 particulate matter emission standards and be valid until the effective date for the 2020 particulate matter emission standards.

(5) Models approved by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority under the Renewable Heat New York (RHNY) Biomass Boiler Program are automatically deemed to have a certificate of compliance for the 2015 particulate matter emission standards and be valid until the effective date for the 2020 particulate matter emission standards provided that they comply with the thermal storage requirements in the RHNY program.

(6) Small forced-air furnace models that are certified under CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), by an EPA approved third-party certifier, to meet the 2016 particulate matter emission level will be automatically deemed to have a certificate of compliance for the 2016 particulate matter emission standards and be valid until the effective date for the 2020 particulate matter emission standards.

(7) Large forced-air furnace models that are certified under CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), by an EPA approved third-party certifier, to meet the 2017 particulate matter emission level will be automatically deemed to have a certificate of compliance for the 2017 particulate matter emission standards and be valid until the effective date of the 2020 particulate matter emission standards.
