
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQQ - Standards of Performance for New Residential Hydronic Heaters and Forced-Air Furnaces
###### ยง 60.5475 What compliance and certification requirements must I meet and by when?
####### Renewal of certification.

(i)(1) The manufacturer must renew a model line's certificate of compliance or recertify the model line every 5 years, or the manufacturer may choose to no longer manufacture or sell that model line after the expiration date. If the manufacturer chooses to no longer manufacture that model line, then the manufacturer must submit a statement to the Administrator to that effect.

(2) A manufacturer of an affected residential hydronic heater or forced-air furnace or other central heater may apply to the Administrator for potential renewal of its certificate of compliance by submitting the material specified in paragraph (b) and following the procedures specified in paragraph (f) of this section, or by affirming in writing that the central heaters in the model line continue to be similar in all material respects that would affect emissions to the representative central heater submitted for testing on which the original certificate of compliance was based and requesting a potential waiver from certification testing. The application must include a copy of the review of the draft application and approval by the third-party certifier.

(3) If the Administrator grants a renewal of certification, the Administrator will give written notice to the manufacturer setting forth the basis for the determination and issue a certification renewal.

(4) If the Administrator denies the request for a renewal of certification, the Administrator will give written notice to the manufacturer setting forth the basis for the determination.

(5) If the Administrator denies the request for a renewal of certification, the manufacturer and retailer must not manufacture or sell the previously-certified central heaters after the expiration date of the certificate of compliance.

(j) [Reserved]
