
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQQ - Standards of Performance for New Residential Hydronic Heaters and Forced-Air Furnaces
###### ยง 60.5475 What compliance and certification requirements must I meet and by when?
####### EPA compliance audit testing.

(n)(1)(i) The Administrator may select by written notice central heaters or model lines for compliance audit testing to determine compliance with the emission standards in ยง 60.5474.

(ii) The Administrator will transmit a written notification of the selected central heaters or model line(s) to the manufacturer, which will include the name and address of the laboratory selected to perform the audit test and the model name and serial number of the central heater(s) or central heater model line(s) selected to undergo audit testing.

(2)(i) The Administrator may test, or direct the manufacturer to have tested, the central heater(s) from the model line(s) selected under paragraph (n)(1)(i) of this section in a laboratory approved under ยง 60.5477. The Administrator may select any approved test laboratory or federal laboratory for this audit testing.

(ii) The expense of the compliance audit test is the responsibility of the central heater manufacturer.

(iii) The test must be conducted using the same test method used to obtain certification. If the certification test consisted of more than one particulate matter sampling test method, the Administrator may direct the manufacturer and test laboratory as to which of these methods to use for the purpose of audit testing. The Administrator will notify the manufacturer at least 30 days prior to any test under this paragraph, and allow the manufacturer and/or his authorized representatives to observe the test.
