
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQQ - Standards of Performance for New Residential Hydronic Heaters and Forced-Air Furnaces
###### § 60.5477 What procedures must I use for EPA approval of a test laboratory or EPA approval of a third-party certifier?
####### Test laboratory approval.

(a)(1) A laboratory must apply to the Administrator for approval to test under this rule by submitting documentation that the laboratory is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting entity under ISO-IEC Standard 17025 to perform testing using the test methods specified under § 60.5476. Laboratories accredited by EPA prior to May 15, 2015 may have until May 15, 2018 to submit documentation that they have accreditation under ISO-IEC Standard 17025 to perform testing using the test methods specified under § 60.5476. ISO accreditation is required for all other laboratories performing hydronic heater testing beginning on May 15, 2015, and performing forced-air furnace testing beginning on November 16, 2015.

(2) As part of the application, the test laboratory must:

(i) Agree to participate biennially in an independently operated proficiency testing program with no direct ties to the laboratories participating;

(ii) Agree to allow the Administrator, regulatory agencies and certifying bodies access to observe certification testing;

(iii) Agree to comply with calibration, reporting and recordkeeping requirements that affect testing laboratories; and

(iv) Agree to perform a compliance audit test at the manufacturer's expense at the testing cost normally charged to such manufacturer if the laboratory is selected by the Administrator to conduct the compliance audit test of the manufacturer's model line. The test laboratory must provide a preliminary audit test report to the Administrator within 14 days of the completion of testing, if a central heater exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 60.5474. The test laboratory must provide the Administrator and the manufacturer, within 30 days of the completion of audit testing, all documentation pertaining to the test, including the complete test report and raw data sheets, laboratory technician notes, and test results for all test runs.

(v) Have no conflict of interest and receive no financial benefit from the outcome of certification testing conducted pursuant to § 60.5475.

(vi) Agree to not perform initial certification tests on any models manufactured by a manufacturer for which the laboratory has conducted research and development design services within the last 5 years.

(vii) Agree to seal any wood heater on which it performed certification tests, immediately upon completion or suspension of certification testing, by using a laboratory-specific seal.

(viii) Agree to immediately notify the Administrator of any suspended tests through email and in writing, giving the date suspended, the reason(s) why, and the projected date for restarting. The laboratory must submit the operation and test data obtained, even if the test is not completed.

(3) If the EPA approves the laboratory, the Administrator will provide the test laboratory with a certificate of approval for testing under this rule. If the EPA does not approve the laboratory, the Administrator will give written notice to the laboratory setting forth the basis for the determination.
