
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQQ - Standards of Performance for New Residential Hydronic Heaters and Forced-Air Furnaces
###### ยง 60.5477 What procedures must I use for EPA approval of a test laboratory or EPA approval of a third-party certifier?
####### Third-party certifier approval.

(d)(1) A Third-party certifier may apply to the Administrator for approval to be an EPA-approved third-party certifier by submitting credentials demonstrating that it has been accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting entity to perform certifications and inspections under ISO-IEC Standard 17025, ISO-IEC Standard 17065 and ISO-IEC Standard 17020.

(2) As part of the application, the third-party certifier must:

(i) Agree to offer to contract with central heater manufacturers to perform third-party certification activities according to the requirements set out in this subpart.

(ii) Agree to periodically conduct audits as described in ยง 60.5475(m) and the manufacturer's quality assurance program;

(iii) Agree to comply with reporting and recordkeeping requirements that affect approved central heater testing laboratories and third-party certifiers;

(iv) Have no conflict of interest and receive no financial benefit from the outcome of certification testing conducted pursuant to ยง 60.5475;

(v) Agree to make available to the Administrator supporting documentation for each central heater certification and audit; and

(vi) Agree to not perform initial certification reviews on any models manufactured by a manufacturer for which the third-party certifier has conducted research and development design services within the last 5 years.

(3) If approved, the Administrator will provide the third-party certifier with a certificate of approval. The approval will expire 5 years after being issued unless renewed by the third-party certifier. If the EPA denies the approval, the Administrator will give written notice to the third-party certifier for the basis for the determination.
