
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQQ - Standards of Performance for New Residential Hydronic Heaters and Forced-Air Furnaces
###### ยง 60.5478 What requirements must I meet for permanent labels, temporary labels (hangtags), and owner's manuals?
####### Owner's manual requirements.

(f)(1) Each affected central heater offered for sale by a commercial owner must be accompanied by an owner's manual that must contain the information listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this section (pertaining to installation), and paragraph (f)(3) of this section (pertaining to operation and maintenance). Such information must be adequate to enable consumers to achieve optimal emissions performance. Such information must be consistent with the operating instructions provided by the manufacturer to the approved test laboratory for operating the central heater during certification testing, except for details of the certification test that would not be relevant to the ultimate user. The commercial owner must also make current and historical owner's manuals available on the company Web site and upon request to the EPA.

(2) Guidance on proper installation information, including stack height, heater location and achieving proper draft.

(3) Proper operation and maintenance information, including minimizing visible emissions.

(i) Fuel loading and re-loading procedures, recommendations on fuel selection and warnings on what fuels not to use, such as unseasoned wood, treated wood, colored paper, cardboard, solvents, trash and garbage;

(ii) Fire starting procedures;

(iii) Proper use of air controls, including how to establish good combustion and how to ensure good combustion at the lowest burn rate for which the heater is warranted;

(iv) Ash removal procedures;

(v) Instructions for replacement of gaskets and other parts that are critical to the emissions performance of the unit and other maintenance and repair instructions;

(vi) For catalytic models, information on the following pertaining to the catalytic combustor: Procedures for achieving and maintaining catalyst activity, maintenance procedures, procedures for determining deterioration or failure, procedures for replacement and information on how to exercise warranty rights;

(vii) For catalytic models, the following statement-

(viii) For noncatalytic models, the following statement-

(4) Any manufacturer using the EPA-recommended language contained in appendix I of this part to satisfy any requirement of this paragraph (f) will be considered to be in compliance with that requirement, provided that the particular model language is printed in full, with only such changes as are necessary to ensure accuracy for the particular model line.

(g) Central heaters that are affected by this subpart, but that have been owned and operated by a noncommercial owner, are not subject to paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section when offered for resale.
