
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart QQQQ - Standards of Performance for New Residential Hydronic Heaters and Forced-Air Furnaces
###### § 60.5480 What activities are prohibited under this subpart?

(a) No person is permitted to advertise for sale, offer for sale, sell or operate an affected residential hydronic heater or forced-air furnace or other central heater that does not have affixed to it a permanent label pursuant to § 60.5478(b) through (d), as applicable.

(b) No person is permitted to advertise for sale, offer for sale, or sell an affected central heater labeled under § 60.5478(d)(1) except for export. No person is permitted to operate an affected central heater in the United States if it is labeled under § 60.5478(d)(1).

(c)(1) No commercial owner is permitted to advertise for sale, offer for sale, or sell an affected central heater permanently labeled under § 60.5478(b) unless:

(i) The affected appliance has been certified to comply with the particulate emission standards pursuant to § 60.5474 as applicable; and

(ii) The commercial owner provides any purchaser or transferee with an owner's manual that meets the requirements of § 60.5478(f), a copy of the warranty and a moisture meter.

(2) A commercial owner other than a manufacturer complies with the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section if the commercial owner:

(i) Receives the required documentation from the manufacturer or a previous commercial owner; and

(ii) Provides that documentation unaltered to any person to whom the central heater that it covers is sold or transferred.

(d)(1) In any case in which the Administrator revokes a certificate of compliance either for the knowing submission of false or inaccurate information or other fraudulent acts, or based on a finding under § 60.5475(l)(1)(ii) that the certification test was not valid, the Administrator may give notice of that revocation and the grounds for it to all commercial owners.

(2) On and after the date of receipt of the notice given under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, no commercial owner is permitted to sell any central heater covered by the revoked certificate (other than to the manufacturer) unless the model line has been recertified in accordance with this subpart.

(e) No person is permitted to install or operate an affected central heater except in a manner consistent with the instructions on its permanent label and in the owner's manual pursuant to § 60.5478(f), including only using fuels for which the unit is certified.

(f) No person is permitted to operate, sell or offer for sale an affected central heater that was originally equipped with a catalytic combustor if the catalytic element is deactivated or removed.

(g) No person is permitted to operate, sell or offer for sale an affected central heater that has been physically altered to exceed the tolerance limits of its certificate of compliance, pursuant to § 60.5475(k).

(h) No person is permitted to alter, deface, or remove any permanent label required to be affixed pursuant to § 60.5478(a) through (d), as applicable.

(i) If a temporary label is affixed to the central heater, retailers may not sell or offer for sale that central heater unless the temporary label affixed is in accordance with § 60.5478(e), as applicable.
