
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTTT - Standards of Performance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Electric Generating Units
###### Applicability
####### ยง 60.5509 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, the GHG standards included in this subpart apply to any steam generating unit, IGCC, or stationary combustion turbine that commenced construction after January 8, 2014 or commenced reconstruction after June 18, 2014 that meets the relevant applicability conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. The GHG standards included in this subpart also apply to any steam generating unit or IGCC that commenced modification after June 18, 2014 that meets the relevant applicability conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Has a base load rating greater than 260 GJ/h (250 MMBtu/h) of fossil fuel (either alone or in combination with any other fuel); and

(2) Serves a generator or generators capable of selling greater than 25 MW of electricity to a utility power distribution system.

(b) You are not subject to the requirements of this subpart if your affected EGU meets any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section.

(1) Your EGU is a steam generating unit or IGCC that is currently and always has been subject to a federally enforceable permit condition limiting annual net-electric sales to no more than one-third of its potential electric output or 219,000 MWh, whichever is greater.

(2) Your EGU is capable of combusting 50 percent or more non-fossil fuel and is also subject to a federally enforceable permit condition limiting the annual capacity factor for all fossil fuels combined of 10 percent (0.10) or less.

(3) Your EGU is a combined heat and power unit that is subject to a federally enforceable permit condition limiting annual net-electric sales to no more than either 219,000 MWh or the product of the design efficiency and the potential electric output, whichever is greater.

(4) Your EGU serves a generator along with other steam generating unit(s), IGCC, or stationary combustion turbine(s) where the effective generation capacity (determined based on a prorated output of the base load rating of each steam generating unit, IGCC, or stationary combustion turbine) is 25 MW or less.

(5) Your EGU is a municipal waste combustor that is subject to subpart Eb of this part.

(6) Your EGU is a commercial or industrial solid waste incineration unit that is subject to subpart CCCC of this part.

(7) Your EGU is a steam generating unit or IGCC that undergoes a modification resulting in an hourly increase in COemissions (mass per hour) of 10 percent or less (2 significant figures). Modified units that are not subject to the requirements of this subpart pursuant to this subsection continue to be existing units under section 111 with respect to COemissions standards.
