
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTTT - Standards of Performance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Electric Generating Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 60.5525 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

Combustion turbines qualifying under ยง 60.5520(d)(1) are not subject to any requirements in this section other than the requirement to maintain fuel purchase records for permitted fuel(s). For all other affected sources, compliance with the applicable COemission standard of this subpart shall be determined on a 12-operating-month rolling average basis. See table 1 or 2 of this subpart for the applicable COemission standards.

(a) You must be in compliance with the emission standards in this subpart that apply to your affected EGU at all times. However, you must determine compliance with the emission standards only at the end of the applicable operating month, as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(1) For each affected EGU subject to a COemissions standard based on a 12-operating-month rolling average, you must determine compliance monthly by calculating the average COemissions rate for the affected EGU at the end of the initial and each subsequent 12-operating-month period.

(2) Consistent with ยง 60.5520(d)(2), if your affected stationary combustion turbine is subject to an input-based COemissions standard, you must determine the total heat input in million Btus (MMBtu) from natural gas (HTIP) and the total heat input from all other fuels combined (HTIP) using one of the methods under ยง 60.5535(d)(2). You must then use the following equation to determine the applicable emissions standard during the compliance period:

(b) At all times you must operate and maintain each affected EGU, including associated equipment and monitors, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practice. The Administrator will determine if you are using consistent operation and maintenance procedures based on information available to the Administrator that may include, but is not limited to, fuel use records, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures and records, review of reports required by this subpart, and inspection of the EGU.
