
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTTT - Standards of Performance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Electric Generating Units
###### Emission Standards
####### ยง 60.5515 Which pollutants are regulated by this subpart?
######## PSD and title V thresholds for greenhouse gases.
############### ยง 60.5520 What COemissions standard must I meet?

(a) For each affected EGU subject to this subpart, you must not discharge from the affected EGU any gases that contain COin excess of the applicable COemission standard specified in table 1 or 2 of this subpart, consistent with paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, as applicable.

(b) Except as specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, you must comply with the applicable gross energy output standard, and your operating permit must include monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting methodologies based on the applicable gross energy output standard. For the remainder of this subpart (for sources that do not qualify under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section), where the term "gross or net energy output" is used, the term that applies to you is "gross energy output."

(c) As an alternate to meeting the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, an owner or operator of a stationary combustion turbine may petition the Administrator in writing to comply with the alternate applicable net energy output standard. If the Administrator grants the petition, beginning on the date the Administrator grants the petition, the affected EGU must comply with the applicable net energy output-based standard included in this subpart. Your operating permit must include monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting methodologies based on the applicable net energy output standard. For the remainder of this subpart, where the term "gross or net energy output" is used, the term that applies to you is "net energy output." Owners or operators complying with the net output-based standard must petition the Administrator to switch back to complying with the gross energy output-based standard.

(d) Stationary combustion turbines subject to a heat input-based standard in table 2 of this subpart that are only permitted to burn one or more uniform fuels, as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, are only subject to the monitoring requirements in paragraph (d)(1). All other stationary combustion turbines subject to a heat input based standard in table 2 are subject to the requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
