
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTTT - Standards of Performance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Electric Generating Units
###### Monitoring and Compliance Determination Procedures
####### § 60.5535 How do I monitor and collect data to demonstrate compliance?
######## e.g.,

(1) For an affected coal-fired EGU or for an IGCC unit you must, and for all other affected EGUs you may, install, certify, operate, maintain, and calibrate a COcontinuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) to directly measure and record hourly average COconcentrations in the affected EGU exhaust gases emitted to the atmosphere, and a flow monitoring system to measure hourly average stack gas flow rates, according to § 75.10(a)(3)(i) of this chapter. As an alternative to direct measurement of COconcentration, provided that your EGU does not use carbon separation (carbon capture and storage), you may use data from a certified oxygen (O) monitor to calculate hourly average COconcentrations, in accordance with § 75.10(a)(3)(iii) of this chapter. If you measure COconcentration on a dry basis, you must also install, certify, operate, maintain, and calibrate a continuous moisture monitoring system, according to § 75.11(b) of this chapter. Alternatively, you may either use an appropriate fuel-specific default moisture value from § 75.11(b) or submit a petition to the Administrator under § 75.66 of this chapter for a site-specific default moisture value.

(2) For each continuous monitoring system that you use to determine the COmass emissions, you must meet the applicable certification and quality assurance procedures in § 75.20 of this chapter and appendices A and B to part 75 of this chapter.

(3) You must use only unadjusted exhaust gas volumetric flow rates to determine the hourly COmass emissions rate from the affected EGU; you must not apply the bias adjustment factors described in Section 7.6.5 of appendix A to part 75 of this chapter to the exhaust gas flow rate data.

(4) You must select an appropriate reference method to setup (characterize) the flow monitor and to perform the on-going RATAs, in accordance with part 75 of this chapter. If you use a Type-S pitot tube or a pitot tube assembly for the flow RATAs, you must calibrate the pitot tube or pitot tube assembly; you may not use the 0.84 default Type-S pitot tube coefficient specified in Method 2.

(5) Calculate the hourly COmass emissions (kg) as described in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section. Perform this calculation only for "valid operating hours", as defined in § 60.5540(a)(1).

(i) Begin with the hourly COmass emission rate (tons/h), obtained either from Equation F-11 in appendix F to part 75 of this chapter (if COconcentration is measured on a wet basis), or by following the procedure in section 4.2 of appendix F to part 75 of this chapter (if COconcentration is measured on a dry basis).

(ii) Next, multiply each hourly COmass emission rate by the EGU or stack operating time in hours (as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter), to convert it to tons of CO

(iii) Finally, multiply the result from paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section by 909.1 to convert it from tons of COto kg. Round off to the nearest kg.

(iv) The hourly COtons/h values and EGU (or stack) operating times used to calculate COmass emissions are required to be recorded under § 75.57(e) of this chapter and must be reported electronically under § 75.64(a)(6) of this chapter. You must use these data to calculate the hourly COmass emissions.

(c) If your affected EGU exclusively combusts liquid fuel and/or gaseous fuel, as an alternative to complying with paragraph (b) of this section, you may determine the hourly COmass emissions according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. If you use non-uniform fuels as specified in § 60.5520(d)(2), you may determine COmass emissions during the compliance period according to paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(1) If you are subject to an output-based standard and you do not install CEMS in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, you must implement the applicable procedures in appendix D to part 75 of this chapter to determine hourly EGU heat input rates (MMBtu/h), based on hourly measurements of fuel flow rate and periodic determinations of the gross calorific value (GCV) of each fuel combusted.

(2) For each measured hourly heat input rate, use Equation G-4 in appendix G to part 75 of this chapter to calculate the hourly COmass emission rate (tons/h). You may determine site-specific carbon-based F-factors (F) using Equation F-7b in section 3.3.6 of appendix F to part 75 of this chapter, and you may use these Fvalues in the emissions calculations instead of using the default Fvalues in the Equation G-4 nomenclature.

(3) For each "valid operating hour" (as defined in § 60.5540(a)(1), multiply the hourly tons/h COmass emission rate from paragraph (c)(2) of this section by the EGU or stack operating time in hours (as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter), to convert it to tons of CO. Then, multiply the result by 909.1 to convert from tons of COto kg. Round off to the nearest two significant figures.

(4) The hourly COtons/h values and EGU (or stack) operating times used to calculate COmass emissions are required to be recorded under § 75.57(e) of this chapter and must be reported electronically under § 75.64(a)(6) of this chapter. You must use these data to calculate the hourly COmass emissions.

(5) If you operate a combustion turbine firing non-uniform fuels, as an alternative to following paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, you may determine COemissions during the compliance period using one of the following methods:

(i) Units firing fuel gas may determine the heat input during the compliance period following the procedure under § 60.107a(d) and convert this heat input to COemissions using Equation G-4 in appendix G to part 75 of this chapter.

(ii) You may use the procedure for determining COemissions during the compliance period based on the use of the Tier 3 methodology under § 98.33(a)(3) of this chapter.

(d) Consistent with § 60.5520, you must determine the basis of the emissions standard that applies to your affected source in accordance with either paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable:
