
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTTT - Standards of Performance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Electric Generating Units
###### Monitoring and Compliance Determination Procedures
####### § 60.5535 How do I monitor and collect data to demonstrate compliance?

(a) Combustion turbines qualifying under § 60.5520(d)(1) are not subject to any requirements in this section other than the requirement to maintain fuel purchase records for permitted fuel(s). If your combustion turbine uses non-uniform fuels as specified under § 60.5520(d)(2), you must monitor heat input in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and you must monitor COemissions in accordance with either paragraph (b), (c)(2), or (c)(5) of this section. For all other affected sources, you must prepare a monitoring plan to quantify the hourly COmass emission rate (tons/h), in accordance with the applicable provisions in § 75.53(g) and (h) of this chapter. The electronic portion of the monitoring plan must be submitted using the ECMPS Client Tool and must be in place prior to reporting emissions data and/or the results of monitoring system certification tests under this subpart. The monitoring plan must be updated as necessary. Monitoring plan submittals must be made by the Designated Representative (DR), the Alternate DR, or a delegated agent of the DR (see § 60.5555(c)).

(b) You must determine the hourly COmass emissions in kilograms (kg) from your affected EGU(s) according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section, or, if applicable, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
