
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTTT - Standards of Performance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Electric Generating Units
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 60.5555 What reports must I submit and when?
######## i.e.,

(3)(i) For all newly-constructed affected EGUs under this subpart that are also subject to the Acid Rain Program, you must begin submitting the quarterly electronic emissions reports described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in accordance with § 75.64(a) of this chapter,beginning with data recorded on and after the earlier of:

(A) The date of provisional certification, as defined in § 75.20(a)(3) of this chapter; or

(B) 180 days after the date on which the EGU commences commercial operation (as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter).

(ii) For newly-constructed affected EGUs under this subpart that are not subject to the Acid Rain Program, you must begin submitting the quarterly electronic reports described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, beginning with data recorded on and after:

(A) The date on which reporting is required to begin under § 75.64(a) of this chapter, if that date occurs on or after October 23, 2015; or

(B) October 23, 2015, if the date on which reporting would ordinarily be required to begin under § 75.64(a) of this chapter has passed prior to October 23, 2015.

(iii) For reconstructed or modified units, reporting of emissions data shall begin at the date on which the EGU becomes an affected unit under this subpart, provided that the ECMPS Client Tool is able to receive and process net energy output data on that date. Otherwise, emissions data reporting shall be on a gross energy output basis until the date that the Client Tool is first able to receive and process net energy output data.

(4) If any required monitoring system has not been provisionally certified by the applicable date on which emissions data reporting is required to begin under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the maximum (or in some cases, minimum) potential value for the parameter measured by the monitoring system shall be reported until the required certification testing is successfully completed, in accordance with § 75.4(j) of this chapter, § 75.37(b) of this chapter, or section 2.4 of appendix D to part 75 of this chapter (as applicable). Operating hours in which COmass emission rates are calculated using maximum potential values are not "valid operating hours" (as defined in § 60.5540(a)(1)), and shall not be used in the compliance determinations under § 60.5540.

(d) For affected EGUs subject to the Acid Rain Program, the reports required under paragraphs (a) and (c)(1) of this section shall be submitted by:

(1) The person appointed as the Designated Representative (DR) under § 72.20 of this chapter; or

(2) The person appointed as the Alternate Designated Representative (ADR) under § 72.22 of this chapter; or

(3) A person (or persons) authorized by the DR or ADR under § 72.26 of this chapter to make the required submissions.

(e) For affected EGUs that are not subject to the Acid Rain Program, the owner or operator shall appoint a DR and (optionally) an ADR to submit the reports required under paragraphs (a) and (c)(2) of this section. The DR and ADR must register with the Clean Air Markets Division (CAMD) Business System. The DR may delegate the authority to make the required submissions to one or more persons.

(f) If your affected EGU captures COto meet the applicable emission limit, you must report in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 98, subpart PP and either:

(1) Report in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 98, subpart RR, if injection occurs on-site, or

(2) Transfer the captured COto an EGU or facility that reports in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 98, subpart RR, if injection occurs off-site.

(3) Transfer the captured COto a facility that has received an innovative technology waiver from EPA pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section.

(g) Any person may request the Administrator to issue a waiver of the requirement that captured COfrom an affected EGU be transferred to a facility reporting under 40 CFR part 98, subpart RR. To receive a waiver, the applicant must demonstrate to the Administrator that its technology will store captured COas effectively as geologic sequestration, and that the proposed technology will not cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety. In making this determination, the Administrator shall consider (among other factors) operating history of the technology, whether the technology will increase emissions or other releases of any pollutant other than CO, and permanence of the COstorage. The Administrator may test the system itself, or require the applicant to perform any tests considered by the Administrator to be necessary to show the technology's effectiveness, safety, and ability to store captured COwithout release. The Administrator may grant conditional approval of a technology, with the approval conditioned on monitoring and reporting of operations. The Administrator may also withdraw approval of the waiver on evidence of releases of COor other pollutants. The Administrator will provide notice to the public of any application under this provision and provide public notice of any proposed action on a petition before the Administrator takes final action.
