
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTTT - Standards of Performance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Electric Generating Units
###### Monitoring and Compliance Determination Procedures
####### § 60.5535 How do I monitor and collect data to demonstrate compliance?
######## e.g.,
######### Calculation of annual basis for standard.,i.e.,

(6)Sources complying with energy output-based standards must calculate the basis (denominator) of their actual annual emission rate in accordance with paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section. Sources complying with heat input based standards must calculate the basis of their actual annual emission rate in accordance with paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section.

(i) In accordance with § 60.5520 if you are subject to an output-based standard, you must calculate the total gross or net energy output for the affected EGU's compliance period by summing the hourly gross or net energy output values for the affected EGU that you determined under paragraph (a)(5) of this section for all of the valid operating hours in the applicable compliance period.

(ii) If you are subject to a heat input-based standard, you must calculate the total heat input for each fuel fired during the compliance period. The calculation of total heat input for each individual fuel must include all valid operating hours and must also be consistent with any fuel-specific procedures specified within your selected monitoring option under § 60.5535(d)(2).

(7) If you are subject to an output-based standard, you must calculate the COmass emissions rate for the affected EGU(s) (kg/MWh) by dividing the total COmass emissions value calculated according to the procedures in paragraph (a)(4) of this section by the total gross or net energy output value calculated according to the procedures in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section. Round off the result to two significant figures if the calculated value is less than 1,000; round the result to three significant figures if the calculated value is greater than 1,000. If you are subject to a heat input-based standard, you must calculate the COmass emissions rate for the affected EGU(s) (lb/MMBtu) by dividing the total COmass emissions value calculated according to the procedures in paragraph (a)(4) of this section by the total heat input calculated according to the procedures in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section. Round off the result to two significant figures.

(b) In accordance with § 60.5520, to demonstrate compliance with the applicable COemission standard, for the initial and each subsequent 12-operating-month compliance period, the COmass emissions rate for your affected EGU must be determined according to the procedures specified in paragraph (a)(1) through (7) of this section and must be less than or equal to the applicable COemissions standard in table 1 or 2 of this part, or the emissions standard calculated in accordance with § 60.5525(a)(2).
