
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTTT - Standards of Performance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Electric Generating Units
###### Monitoring and Compliance Determination Procedures
####### ยง 60.5535 How do I monitor and collect data to demonstrate compliance?
######## e.g.,
######### Sources subject to output based standards.,i.e.,

(5)For each valid operating hour of the compliance period that was used in paragraph (a)(4) of this section to calculate the total COmass emissions, you must determine P(the corresponding hourly gross or net energy output in MWh) according to the procedures in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, as appropriate for the type of affected EGU(s). For an operating hour in which a valid COmass emissions value is determined according to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, if there is no gross or net electrical output, but there is mechanical or useful thermal output, you must still determine the gross or net energy output for that hour. In addition, for an operating hour in which a valid COmass emissions value is determined according to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, but there is no (zero) gross electrical, mechanical, or useful thermal output, you must use that hour in the compliance determination. For hours or partial hours where the gross electric output is equal to or less than the auxiliary loads, net electric output shall be counted as zero for this calculation.

(i) Calculate Pfor your affected EGU using the following equation. All terms in the equation must be expressed in units of megawatt-hours (MWh). To convert each hourly gross or net energy output (consistent with ยง 60.5520) value reported under part 75 of this chapter to MWh, multiply by the corresponding EGU or stack operating time.

(ii) If applicable to your affected EGU (for example, for combined heat and power), you must calculate (Pt)using the following equation:
