
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTTT - Standards of Performance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Electric Generating Units
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 60.5560 What records must I maintain?

(a) You must maintain records of the information you used to demonstrate compliance with this subpart as specified in § 60.7(b) and (f).

(b)(1) For affected EGUs subject to the Acid Rain Program, you must follow the applicable recordkeeping requirements and maintain records as required under subpart F of part 75 of this chapter.

(2) For affected EGUs that are not subject to the Acid Rain Program, you must also follow the recordkeeping requirements and maintain records as required under subpart F of part 75 of this chapter, to the extent that those records provide applicable data for the compliance determinations required under this subpart. Regardless of the prior sentence, at a minimum, the following records must be kept, as applicable to the types of continuous monitoring systems used to demonstrate compliance under this subpart:

(i) Monitoring plan records under § 75.53(g) and (h) of this chapter;

(ii) Operating parameter records under § 75.57(b)(1) through (4) of this chapter;

(iii) The records under § 75.57(c)(2) of this chapter, for stack gas volumetric flow rate;

(iv) The records under § 75.57(c)(3) of this chapter for continuous moisture monitoring systems;

(v) The records under § 75.57(e)(1) of this chapter, except for paragraph (e)(1)(x), for COconcentration monitoring systems or Omonitors used to calculate COconcentration;

(vi) The records under § 75.58(c)(1) of this chapter, specifically paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii), and (viii) through (xiv), for oil flow meters;

(vii) The records under § 75.58(c)(4) of this chapter, specifically paragraphs (c)(4)(i), (ii), (iv), (v), and (vii) through (xi), for gas flow meters;

(viii) The quality-assurance records under § 75.59(a) of this chapter, specifically paragraphs (a)(1) through (12) and (15), for CEMS;

(ix) The quality-assurance records under § 75.59(a) of this chapter, specifically paragraphs (b)(1) through (4), for fuel flow meters; and

(x) Records of data acquisition and handling system (DAHS) verification under § 75.59(e) of this chapter.

(c) You must keep records of the calculations you performed to determine the hourly and total COmass emissions (tons) for:

(1) Each operating month (for all affected EGUs); and

(2) Each compliance period, including, each 12-operating-month compliance period.

(d) Consistent with § 60.5520, you must keep records of the applicable data recorded and calculations performed that you used to determine your affected EGU's gross or net energy output for each operating month.

(e) You must keep records of the calculations you performed to determine the percentage of valid COmass emission rates in each compliance period.

(f) You must keep records of the calculations you performed to assess compliance with each applicable COmass emissions standard in Table 1 or 2 of this subpart.

(g) You must keep records of the calculations you performed to determine any site-specific carbon-based F-factors you used in the emissions calculations (if applicable).
