
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart TTTT - Standards of Performance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Electric Generating Units
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 60.5555 What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must prepare and submit reports according to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, as applicable.

(1) For affected EGUs that are required by ยง 60.5525 to conduct initial and on-going compliance determinations on a 12-operating-month rolling average basis, you must submit electronic quarterly reports as follows. After you have accumulated the first 12-operating months for the affected EGU, you must submit a report for the calendar quarter that includes the twelfth operating month no later than 30 days after the end of that quarter. Thereafter, you must submit a report for each subsequent calendar quarter, no later than 30 days after the end of the quarter.

(2) In each quarterly report you must include the following information, as applicable:

(i) Each rolling average COmass emissions rate for which the last (twelfth) operating month in a 12-operating-month compliance period falls within the calendar quarter. You must calculate each average COmass emissions rate for the compliance period according to the procedures in ยง 60.5540. You must report the dates (month and year) of the first and twelfth operating months in each compliance period for which you performed a COmass emissions rate calculation. If there are no compliance periods that end in the quarter, you must include a statement to that effect;

(ii) If one or more compliance periods end in the quarter, you must identify each operating month in the calendar quarter where your EGU violated the applicable COemission standard;

(iii) If one or more compliance periods end in the quarter and there are no violations for the affected EGU, you must include a statement indicating this in the report;
