
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart I - Grants for Construction of Treatment Works
###### Appendix A to Subpart I of Part 35 - Determination of Allowable Costs
####### Applicability.

(b)This cost information applies to grant assistance awarded on or after the effective date of this regulation. Project cost determinations under this subpart are not limited to the items listed in this appendix. Additional cost determinations based on applicable law and regulations must of course be made on a project-by-project basis. Those cost items not previously included in program requirements are not mandatory for decisions under grants awarded before the effective date. They are only to be used as guidance in those cases.

1. Allowable costs related to sub- agreements include:

a. The costs of subagreements for building the project.

b. The costs of complying with the procurement standards in 2 CFR 200.317 through 200.327 and 2 CFR 1500.10 and 1500.11.

c. The cost of legal and engineering services incurred by grantees in deciding procurement protests and defending their decisions in protest appeals in 2 CFR 200.318.

d. The costs for establishing or using minority and women's business liaison services.

e. The costs of services incurred during the building of a project to ensure that it is built in conformance with the design drawings and specifications.

f. The costs (including legal, technical, and administrative costs) of assessing the merits of or negotiating the settlement of a claim by or against a grantee under a subagreement provided:

(1) The claim arises from work within the scope of the grant;

(2) A formal grant amendment is executed specifically covering the costs before they are incurred;

(3) The costs are not incurred to prepare documentation that should be prepared by the contractor to support a claim against the grantee; and

(4) The Regional Administrator determines that there is a significant Federal interest in the issues involved in the claim.

g. Change orders and the costs of meritorious contractor claims for increased costs under subagreements as follows:

(1) Change orders and the costs of meritorious contractor claims provided the costs are:

(i) Within the scope of the project;

(ii) Not caused by the grantee's mismanagement; and

(iii) Not caused by the grantee's vicarious liability for the improper actions of others.

(2) Provided the requirements of paragraph g(1) are met, the following are examples of allowable change orders and contractor claim costs:

(i) Building costs resulting from defects in the plans, design drawings and specifications, or other subagreement documents only to the extent that the costs would have been incurred if the subagreement documents on which the bids were based had been free of the defects, and excluding the costs of any rework, delay, acceleration, or disruption caused by such defects;

(ii) Costs of equitable adjustments under Clause 4, Differing Site Conditions, of the model subagreement clauses required under ยง 33.1030 of this subchapter.

(3) Settlements, arbitration awards, and court judgments which resolve contractor claims shall be reviewed by the grant award official and shall be allowable only to the extent that they meet the requirements of paragraph g(1), are reasonable, and do not attempt to pass on to EPA the cost of events that were the responsibility of the grantee, the contractor, or others.

h. The costs of the services of the prime engineer required by ยง 35.2218 during the first year following initiation of operation of the project.

i. The cost of development of a plan of operation including an operation and maintenance manual required by ยง 35.2106.

j. Start-up services for onsite training of operating personnel in operation and control of specific treatment processes, laboratory procedures, and maintenance and records management.

k. The specific and unique costs of field testing an innovative or alternative process or technique, which may include equipment leasing costs, personnel costs, and utility costs necessary for constructing, conducting, and reporting the results of the field test.

2. Unallowable costs related to sub- agreements include:

a. The costs of architectural or engineering services incurred in preparing a facilities plan and the design drawings and specifications for a project. This provision does not apply to planning and design costs incurred in the modification or replacement of an innovative or alternative project funded under ยง 35.2032(c).

b. Except as provided in 1.g. above, architectural or engineering services or other services necessary to correct defects in a facilities plan, design drawings and specifications, or other subagreement documents.

c. The costs (including legal, technical and administrative) of defending against a contractor claim for increased costs under a subagreement or of prosecuting a claim to enforce any subagreement unless:

(1) The claim arises from work within the scope of the grant;

(2) A formal grant amendment is executed specifically covering the costs before they are incurred;

(3) The claim cannot be settled without arbitration or litigation;

(4) The claim does not result from the grantee's mismanagement;

(5) The Regional Administrator determines that there is a significant Federal interest in the issues involved in the claim; and

(6) In the case of defending against a contractor claim, the claim does not result from the grantee's responsibility for the improper action of others.

d. Bonus payments, not legally required, for completion of building before a contractual completion date.

e. All incremental costs due to the award of any subagreements for building significant elements of the project more than 12 months after the Step 3 grant award or final Step 2 + 3 approvals unless specified in the project schedule approved by the Regional Administrator at the time of grant award.

1. Allowable costs include:

a. Costs necessary to mitigate only direct, adverse, physical impacts resulting from building of the treatment works.

b. The costs of site screening necessary to comply with NEPA related studies and facilities plans, or necessary to screen adjacent properties.

c. The cost of groundwater monitoring facilities necessary to determine the possibility of groundwater deterioration, depletion or modification resulting from building the project.

2. Unallowable costs include:

a. The costs of solutions to aesthetic problems, including design details which require expensive building techniques and architectural features and hardware, that are unreasonable or substantially higher in cost than approvable alternatives and that neither enhance the function or appearance of the treatment works nor reflect regional architectural tradition.

b. The cost of land acquired for the mitigation of adverse environmental effects identified pursuant to an environmental review under NEPA.

1. Allowable costs for small and onsite systems serving residences and small commercial establishments inhabited on or before December 27, 1977, include a. through e. below. Alternatively, the two-thirds rule at 40 CFR 35.2116(b) may be used to determine allowable residential flows to be served by publicly owned small and alternative wastewater systems, including a. through e. below:

a. The cost of major rehabilitation, upgrading, enlarging and installing small and onsite systems, but in the case of privately owned systems, only for principal residences.

b. Conveyance pipes from property line to offsite treatment unit which serves a cluster of buildings.

c. Treatment and treatment residue disposal portions of toilets with composting tanks, oil flush mechanisms, or similar in-house devices.

d. Treatment or pumping units from the incoming flange when located on private property and conveyance pipes, if any, to the collector sewer.

e. The cost of restoring individual system building sites to their original condition.

2. Unallowable costs for small and onsite systems include:

a. Modification to physical structure of homes or commercial establishments.

b. Conveyance pipes from the house to the treatment unit located on user's property or from the house to the property line if the treatment unit is not located on that user's property.

c. Wastewater generating fixtures such as commodes, sinks, tubs, and drains.

1. Allowable costs for land and rights-of-way include:

a. The cost (including associated legal, administrative and engineering costs) of land acquired in fee simple or by lease or easement under grants awarded after October 17, 1972, that will be an integral part of the treatment process or that will be used for the ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment provided the Regional Administrator approves it in the grant agreement. These costs include:

(1) The cost of a reasonable amount of land, considering irregularities in application patterns, and the need for buffer areas, berms, and dikes;

(2) The cost of land acquired for a soil absorption system for a group of two or more homes;

(3) The cost of land acquired for composting or temporary storage of compost residues which result from wastewater treatment;

(4) The cost of land acquired for storage of treated wastewater in land treatment systems before land application. The total land area for construction of a pond for both treatment and storage of wastewater is allowable if the volume necessary for storage is greater then the volume necessary for treatment. Otherwise, the allowable cost will be determined by the ratio of the storage volume to the total volume of the pond.
