
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart UUUUa - Emission Guidelines for Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Existing Electric Utility Generating Units
###### Introduction
####### § 60.5705a Which pollutants are regulated by this subpart?

(a) The pollutants regulated by this subpart are greenhouse gases. The emission guidelines for greenhouse gases established in this subpart are heat rate improvements which target achieving lower carbon dioxide (CO) emission rates at designated facilities.

(b) PSD and Title V Thresholds for Greenhouse Gases.

(1) For the purposes of § 51.166(b)(49)(ii) of this chapter, with respect to GHG emissions from facilities, the "pollutant that is subject to the standard promulgated under section 111 of the Act" shall be considered to be the pollutant that otherwise is subject to regulation under the Act as defined in § 51.166(b)(48) of this chapter and in any State Implementation Plan (SIP) approved by the EPA that is interpreted to incorporate, or specifically incorporates, § 51.166(b)(48) of this chapter.

(2) For the purposes of § 52.21(b)(50)(ii) of this chapter, with respect to GHG emissions from facilities regulated in the plan, the "pollutant that is subject to the standard promulgated under section 111 of the Act" shall be considered to be the pollutant that otherwise is subject to regulation under the Act as defined in § 52.21(b)(49) of this chapter.

(3) For the purposes of § 70.2 of this chapter, with respect to greenhouse gas emissions from facilities regulated in the plan, the "pollutant that is subject to any standard promulgated under section 111 of the Act" shall be considered to be the pollutant that otherwise is "subject to regulation" as defined in § 70.2 of this chapter.

(4) For the purposes of § 71.2 of this chapter, with respect to greenhouse gas emissions from facilities regulated in the plan, the "pollutant that is subject to any standard promulgated under section 111 of the Act" shall be considered to be the pollutant that otherwise is "subject to regulation" as defined in § 71.2 of this chapter.
