
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart I - Grants for Construction of Treatment Works
###### Appendix A to Subpart I of Part 35 - Determination of Allowable Costs
####### not

(3) The primary purpose of the acquisition isthe reduction, elimination, or redistribution of public or private debt; and

(4) The acquisition does not circumvent the requirements of the Act, these regulations, or other Federal, State or local requirements.

2. Unallowable costs for land and rights-of-way include:

a. The costs of acquisition (including associated legal, administrative and engineering etc.) of sewer rights-of-way, waste treatment plant sites (including small system sites), sanitary landfill sites and sludge disposal areas except as provided in paragraphs 1. a. and b. of this section.

b. Any amount paid by the grantee for eligible land in excess of just compensation, based on the appraised value, the grantee's record of negotiation or any condemnation proceeding, as determined by the Regional Administrator.

c. Removal, relocation or replacement of utilities located on land by privilege, such as franchise.

1. Allowable costs of equipment, materials and supplies include:

a. The cost of a reasonable inventory of laboratory chemicals and supplies necessary to initiate plant operations and laboratory items necessary to conduct tests required for plant operation.

b. The costs for purchase and/or transportation of biological seeding materials required for expeditiously initiating the treatment process operation.

c. Cost of shop equipment installed at the treatment works necessary to the operation of the works.

d. The costs of necessary safety equipment, provided the equipment meets applicable Federal, State, local or industry safety requirements.

e. A portion of the costs of collection system maintenance equipment. The portion of allowable costs shall be the total equipment cost less the cost attributable to the equipment's anticipated use on existing collection sewers not funded on the grant. This calculation shall be based on: (1) The portion of the total collection system paid for by the grant, (2) a demonstrable frequency of need, and (3) the need for the equipment to preclude the discharge or bypassing of untreated wastewater.

f. The cost of mobile equipment necessary for the operation of the overall wastewater treatment facility, transmission of wastewater or sludge, or for the maintenance of equipment. These items include:

(1) Portable stand-by generators;

(2) Large portable emergency pumps to provide "pump-around" capability in the event of pump station failure or pipeline breaks; and

(3) Sludge or septage tankers, trailers, and other vehicles having as their sole purpose the transportation of liquid or dewatered wastes from the collector point (including individual or on-site systems) to the treatment facility or disposal site.

g. Replacement parts identified and approved in advance by the Regional Administrator as necessary to assure uninterrupted operation of the facility, provided they are critical parts or major systems components which are:

(1) Not immediately available and/or whose procurement involves an extended "lead-time;"

(2) Identified as critical by the equipment supplier(s); or

(3) Critical but not included in the inventory provided by the equipment supplier(s).

2. Unallowable costs of equipment, materials and supplies include:

a. The costs of equipment or material procured in violation of the procurement standards in 2 CFR 200.317 through 2 CFR 200.327 and 2 CFR 1500.10 and 1500.11.

b. The cost of furnishings including draperies, furniture and office equipment.

c. The cost of ordinary site and building maintenance equipment such as lawnmowers and snowblowers.

d. The cost of vehicles for the transportation of the grantees' employees.

e. Items of routine "programmed" maintenance such as ordinary piping, air filters, couplings, hose, bolts, etc.

1. Except as provided in paragraph F.2.a., allowable costs for treatment works serving industrial and Federal facilities include development of a municipal pretreatment program approvable under part 403 of this chapter, and purchase of monitoring equipment and construction of facilities to be used by the municipal treatment works in the pretreatment program.

2. Unallowable costs for treatment works serving industrial and Federal facilities include:

a. The cost of developing an approvable municipal pretreatment program when performed solely for the purpose of seeking an allowance for removal of pollutants under part 403 of this chapter.

b. The cost of monitoring equipment used by industry for sampling and analysis of industrial discharges to municipal treatment works.

c. All incremental costs for sludge management incurred as a result of the grantee providing removal credits to industrial users under 40 CFR 403.7 beyond those sludge management costs that would otherwise be incurred in the absence of such removal credits.

1. Allowable costs include:

a. The cost of treatment works capacity adequate to transport and treat nonexcessive infiltration/inflow under ยง 35.2120.

b. The costs of sewer system rehabilitation necessary to eliminate excessive infiltration/inflow as determined in a sewer system study under ยง 35.2120.

2. Unallowable costs include:

a. When the Regional Administrator determines that the flow rate is not significantly more than 120 gallons per capita per day under ยง 35.2120(c)(2)(ii), the incremental cost of treatment works capacity which is more than 120 gallons per capita per day.

1. Allowable costs include:

a. The costs of salaries, benefits and expendable materials the grantee incurs for the project.

b. Unless otherwise specified in this regulation, the costs of meeting specific Federal statutory procedures.

c. Costs for necessary travel directly related to accomplishment of project objectives. Travel not directly related to a specific project, such as travel to professional meetings, symposia, technology transfer seminars, lectures, etc., may be recovered only under an indirect cost agreement.

d. The costs of additions to a treatment works that was assisted under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1956 (Pub. L. 84-660), or its amendments, and that fails to meet its project performance standards provided:

(1) The project is identified on the State priority list as a project for additions to a treatment works that has received previous Federal funds;

(2) The grant application for the additions includes an analysis of why the treatment works cannot meet its project performance standards; and

(3) The additions could have been included in the original grant award and:

(a) Are the result of one of the following:

(i) A change in the project performance standards required by EPA or the State;

(ii) A written understanding between the Regional Administrator and grantee prior to or included in the original grant award;

(iii) A written direction by the Regional Administrator to delay building part of the treatment works; or

(iv) A major change in the treatment works' design criteria that the grantee cannot control; or

(b) Meet all the following conditions:

(i) If the original grant award was made after December 28, 1981, the treatment works has not completed its first full year of operation;

(ii) The additions are not caused by the grantee's mismanagement or the improper actions of others;

(iii) The costs of rework, delay, acceleration or disruption that are a result of building the additions are not included in the grant; and

(iv) The grant does not include an allowance for facilities planning or design of the additions.

(4) This provision applies to failures that occur either before or after the initiation of operation. This provision does not cover a treatment works that fails at the end of its design life.

e. Costs of royalties for the use of or rights in a patented process or product with the prior approval of the Regional Administrator.
