
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart UUUUa - Emission Guidelines for Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Existing Electric Utility Generating Units
###### State Plan Requirements
####### § 60.5740a What must I include in my plan submittal?

(a) In addition to the components of the plan listed in § 60.5735a, a state plan submittal to the EPA must include the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section. This information must be submitted to the EPA as part of your plan submittal but will not be codified as part of the federally enforceable plan upon approval by EPA.

(1) You must include a summary of how you determined each standard of performance for each designated facility according to § 60.5755a(a). You must include in the summary an evaluation of the applicability of each of the following heat rate improvements to each designated facility:

(i) Neural network/intelligent sootblowers;

(ii) Boiler feed pumps;

(iii) Air heater and duct leakage control;

(iv) Variable frequency drives;

(v) Blade path upgrades for steam turbines;

(vi) Redesign or replacement of economizer; and

(vii) Improved operating and maintenance practices.

(2)(i) As part of the summary under paragraph (a)(1) of this section regarding the applicability of each heat rate improvement to each designated facility, you must include an evaluation of the following degree of emission limitation achievable through application of the heat rate improvements:

(ii) In applying a standard of performance, if you consider remaining useful life and other factors for a designated facility as provided in § 60.24a(e), you must include a summary of the application of the relevant factors in deriving a standard of performance.

(3) You must include a demonstration that each designated facility's standard of performance is quantifiable, permanent, verifiable, and enforceable according to § 60.5755a.

(4) Your plan demonstration must include the information listed in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (v) of this section as applicable.

(i) A summary of each designated facility's anticipated future operation characteristics, including:

(A) Annual generation;

(B) COemissions;

(C) Fuel use, fuel prices, fuel carbon content;

(D) Fixed and variable operations and maintenance costs;

(E) Heat rates; and

(F) Electric generation capacity and capacity factors.

(ii) A timeline for implementation.

(iii) All wholesale electricity prices.

(iv) A time period of analysis, which must extend through at least 2035.

(v) A demonstration that each standard of performance included in your plan meets the requirements of § 60.5755a.

(5) Your plan submittal must include certification that a hearing required under § 60.23a(c)on the State plan was held, a list of witnesses and their organizational affiliations, if any, appearing at the hearing, and a brief written summary of each presentation or written submission, pursuant to the requirements of § 60.23a(g).

(6) Your plan submittal must include supporting material for your plan including:

(i) Materials demonstrating the State's legal authority to implement and enforce each component of its plan, including standards of performance, pursuant to the requirements of §§ 60.26a and 60.5740a(a)(6);

(ii) Materials supporting calculations for designated facility's standards of performance according to § 60.5755a; and

(iii) Any other materials necessary to support evaluation of the plan by the EPA.

(b) You must submit your final plan to the EPA according to § 60.5800a.
