
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart I - Grants for Construction of Treatment Works
###### Appendix A to Subpart I of Part 35 - Determination of Allowable Costs
####### CG

f. Costs allocable to the water pollution control purpose of multiple purpose projects as determined by applying the Alternative Justifiable Expenditure (AJE) method described in theseries. Multiple purpose projects that combine wastewater treatment with recreation do not need to use the AJE method, but can be funded at the level of the most cost-effective single-purpose alternative.

g. Costs of grantee employees attending training workshops/seminars that are necessary to provide instruction in administrative, fiscal or contracting procedures required to complete the construction of the treatment works, if approved in advance by the Regional Administrator.

2. Unallowable costs include:

a. Ordinary operating expenses of the grantee including salaries and expenses of elected and appointed officials and preparation of routine financial reports and studies.

b. Preparation of applications and permits required by Federal, State or local regulations or procedures.

c. Administrative, engineering and legal activities associated with the establishment of special departments, agencies, commissions, regions, districts or other units of government.

d. Approval, preparation, issuance and sale of bonds or other forms of indebtedness required to finance the project and the interest on them.

e. The costs of replacing, through reconstruction or substitution, a treatment works that was assisted under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1956 (Pub. L. 84-660), or its amendments, and that fails to meet its project performance standards. This provision applies to failures that occur either before or after the initiation of operation. This provision does not apply to an innovative and alternative treatment works eligible for funding under ยง 35.2032(c) or a treatment works that fails at the end of its design life or to a failed rotating biological contactor eligible for funding under ยง 35.2035.

f. Personal injury compensation or damages arising out of the project.

g. Fines and penalties due to violations of, or failure to comply with, Federal, State or local laws, regulations or procedures.

h. Costs outside the scope of the approved project.

i. Costs for which grant payment has been or will be received from another Federal agency.

j. Costs of treatment works for control of pollutant discharges from a separate storm sewer system.

k. The cost of treatment works that would provide capacity for new habitation or other establishments to be located on environmentally sensitive land such as wetlands or floodplains.

l. The costs of preparing a corrective action report required by ยง 35.2218(c).

1. Allowable costs include:

a. The costs of supplementing the facilities plan to prepare the pre-bid package including the cost of preliminary boring and site plans, concept and layout drawings, schematic, general material and major equipment lists and specifications, instructions to builders, general and special conditions, project performance standards and permit limits, applicable State or other design standards, any requirements to go into bid analyses, and other contract documents, schedules, forms and certificates.

b. The costs for building the project, including:

(1) Project costs based on the lowest responsive, responsible competitive design/build project bid.

(2) Construction management services including detailed plans and specifications review and approval, change order review and approval, resident inspection, shop drawing approval and preparation of an O & M manual and of user charge and sewer use ordinance systems.

(3) Any adjustments to reflect the actual reasonable and necessary costs for preparing the pre-bid package.

(4) Post-construction activities required by project performance certification requirements.

(5) Contract and project administration activities including the review of contractor vouchers and payment requests, preparation of monitoring reports, grant administration and accounting services, routine legal costs, cost of eligible real property.

(6) Contingencies.

2. Unallowable costs include:

a. All costs in excess of the maximum agreed Federal share.

b. Costs of facilities planning where the grantee has received a Step 1 grant.
