
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Subpart UUUUa - Emission Guidelines for Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Existing Electric Utility Generating Units
###### State Plan Requirements
####### ยง 60.5755a What standards of performance must I include in my plan?
######## e.g.

(1) The standard of performance must be an emission performance rate relating mass of COemitted per unit of energy (pounds of COemitted per MWh).

(2) In establishing any standard of performance, you must consider the applicability of each of the heat rate improvements and associated degree of emission limitation achievable included in ยง 60.5740a(a)(1) and (2) to the designated facility. You must include a demonstration in your plan submission for how you considered each heat rate improvement and associated degree of emission limitation achievable in calculating each standard of performance.

(i) In applying a standard of performance to any designated facility, you may consider the source-specific factors included in ยง 60.24a(e).

(ii) If you consider source-specific factors to apply a standard of performance, you must include a demonstration in your plan submission for how you considered such factors.

(b) Standards of performance for designated facilities included under your plan must be demonstrated to be quantifiable, verifiable, permanent, and enforceable with respect to each designated facility. The plan submittal must include the methods by which each standard of performance meets each of the requirements in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section.

(c) A designated facility's standard of performance is quantifiable if it can be reliably measured in a manner that can be replicated.

(d) A designated facility's standard of performance is verifiable if adequate monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements are in place to enable the State and the Administrator to independently evaluate, measure, and verify compliance with the standard of performance.

(e) A designated facility's standard of performance is permanent if the standard of performance must be met for each compliance period, unless it is replaced by another standard of performance in an approved plan revision.

(f) A designated facility's standard of performance is enforceable if:

(1) A technically accurate limitation or requirement and the time period for the limitation or requirement are specified;

(2) Compliance requirements are clearly defined;

(3) The designated facility responsible for compliance and liable for violations can be identified;

(4) Each compliance activity or measure is enforceable as a practical matter; and

(5) The Administrator, the State, and third parties maintain the ability to enforce against violations (including if a designated facility does not meet its standard of performance based on its emissions) and secure appropriate corrective actions, in the case of the Administrator pursuant to CAA sections 113(a) through (h), in the case of a State, pursuant to its plan, State law or CAA section 304, as applicable, and in the case of third parties, pursuant to CAA section 304.
