
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart I - Grants for Construction of Treatment Works
###### Appendix B to Subpart I of Part 35 - Allowance for Facilities Planning and Design

1. This appendix provides the method EPA will use to determine both the estimated and the final allowance under ยง 35.2025 for facilities planning and design. The Step 2 + 3, Step 3 and Step 7 grant agreements will include an estimate of the allowance.

2. The Federal share of the allowance is determined by applying the applicable grant percentage in ยง 35.2152 to the allowance.

3. The allowance is not intended to reimburse the grantee for costs actually incurred for facilities planning or design. Rather, the allowance is intended to assist in defraying those costs. Under this procedure, questions of equity (i.e., reimbursement on a dollar-for-dollar basis) will not be appropriate.

4. The estimated and final allowance will be determined in accordance with this appendix and tables 1, 2 and 3. Table 2 is to be used in the event the grantee received a grant for facilities planning. Table 3 is to be used to determine the facilities planning allowance for a Step 7 grant if the grantee did not receive a Step 1 grant. The amount of the allowance is computed by applying the resulting allowance percentage to the initial allowable building cost.

5. The initial allowable building cost is the initial allowable cost of erecting, altering, remodeling, improving, or extending a treatment works, whether accomplished through subagreement or force account. Specifically, the initial allowable building cost is the allowable cost of the following:

a. The initial award amount of all prime subagreements for building the project.

b. The initial amounts approved for force account work performed in lieu of awarding a subagreement for building the project.

c. The purchase price of eligible real property.

6. The estimated allowance is to be based on the estimate of the initial allowable building cost.

7. The final allowance will be determined one time only for each project, based on the initial allowable building cost, and will not be adjusted for subsequent cost increases or decreases.

8. For a Step 3 or Step 7 project, the grantee may request payment of 50 percent of the Federal share of the estimated allowance immediately after grant award. Final payment of the Federal share of the allowance may be requested in the first payment after the grantee has awarded all prime subagreements for building the project, received the Regional Administrator's approval for force account work, and completed the acquisition of all eligible real property.

9. For a Step 2 + 3 project, if the grantee has not received a grant for facilities planning, the grantee may request payment of 30 percent of the Federal share of the estimated allowance immediately after the grant award. Half of the remaining estimated allowance may be requested when design of the project is 50 percent complete. If the grantee has received a grant for facilities planning, the grantee may request half of the Federal share of the estimated allowance when design of the project is 50 percent complete. Final payment of the Federal share of the allowance may be requested in the first payment after the grantee has awarded all prime subagreements for building the project, received the Regional Administrator's approval for force account work, and completed the acquisition of all eligible real property.

10. The allowance does not include architect or engineering services provided during the building of the project, e.g., reviewing bids, checking shop drawings, reviewing change orders, making periodic visits to job sites, etc. Architect or engineering services during the building of the project are allowable costs subject to this regulation and 40 CFR part 33.

11. The State will determine the amount and conditions of any advance under ยง 35.2025(b), not to exceed the Federal share of the estimated allowance.

12. EPA will reduce the Federal share of the allowance by the amount of any advances the grantee received under ยง 35.2025(b).
