
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-1 to Part 60 - Test Methods 1 through 2F
###### e.g.,

11.3.1.2 For particulate traverses, one of the diameters must coincide with the plane containing the greatest expected concentration variation (after bends); one diameter shall be congruent to the direction of the bend. This requirement becomes less critical as the distance from the disturbance increases; therefore, other diameter locations may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

11.3.1.3 In addition, for elliptical stacks having unequal perpendicular diameters, separate traverse points shall be calculated and located along each diameter. To determine the cross-sectional area of the elliptical stack, use the following equation:

11.3.1.4 In addition, for stacks having diameters greater than 0.61 m (24 in.), no traverse points shall be within 2.5 centimeters (1.00 in.) of the stack walls; and for stack diameters equal to or less than 0.61 m (24 in.), no traverse points shall be located within 1.3 cm (0.50 in.) of the stack walls. To meet these criteria, observe the procedures given below.

11.3.2 Stacks With Diameters Greater Than 0.61 m (24 in.).

11.3.2.1 When any of the traverse points as located in section 11.3.1 fall within 2.5 cm (1.0 in.) of the stack walls, relocate them away from the stack walls to: (1) a distance of 2.5 cm (1.0 in.); or (2) a distance equal to the nozzle inside diameter, whichever is larger. These relocated traverse points (on each end of a diameter) shall be the "adjusted" traverse points.

11.3.2.2 Whenever two successive traverse points are combined to form a single adjusted traverse point, treat the adjusted point as two separate traverse points, both in the sampling and/or velocity measurement procedure, and in recording of the data.

11.3.3 Stacks With Diameters Equal To or Less Than 0.61 m (24 in.). Follow the procedure in section 11.3.1.1, noting only that any "adjusted" points should be relocated away from the stack walls to: (1) a distance of 1.3 cm (0.50 in.); or (2) a distance equal to the nozzle inside diameter, whichever is larger.

11.3.4 Rectangular Stacks.

11.3.4.1 Determine the number of traverse points as explained in sections 11.1 and 11.2 of this method. From Table 1-1, determine the grid configuration. Divide the stack cross-section into as many equal rectangular elemental areas as traverse points, and then locate a traverse point at the centroid of each equal area according to the example in Figure 1-4.

11.3.4.2 To use more than the minimum number of traverse points, expand the "minimum number of traverse points" matrix (see Table 1-1) by adding the extra traverse points along one or the other or both legs of the matrix; the final matrix need not be balanced. For example, if a 4 x 3 "minimum number of points" matrix were expanded to 36 points, the final matrix could be 9 x 4 or 12 x 3, and would not necessarily have to be 6 x 6. After constructing the final matrix, divide the stack cross-section into as many equal rectangular, elemental areas as traverse points, and locate a traverse point at the centroid of each equal area.

11.3.4.3 The situation of traverse points being too close to the stack walls is not expected to arise with rectangular stacks. If this problem should ever arise, the Administrator must be contacted for resolution of the matter.

11.4 Verification of Absence of Cyclonic Flow.

11.4.1 In most stationary sources, the direction of stack gas flow is essentially parallel to the stack walls. However, cyclonic flow may exist (1) after such devices as cyclones and inertial demisters following venturi scrubbers, or (2) in stacks having tangential inlets or other duct configurations which tend to induce swirling; in these instances, the presence or absence of cyclonic flow at the sampling location must be determined. The following techniques are acceptable for this determination.

11.4.2 Level and zero the manometer. Connect a Type S pitot tube to the manometer and leak-check system. Position the Type S pitot tube at each traverse point, in succession, so that the planes of the face openings of the pitot tube are perpendicular to the stack cross-sectional plane; when the Type S pitot tube is in this position, it is at "0&#xB0; reference." Note the differential pressure (Δp) reading at each traverse point. If a null (zero) pitot reading is obtained at 0&#xB0; reference at a given traverse point, an acceptable flow condition exists at that point. If the pitot reading is not zero at 0&#xB0; reference, rotate the pitot tube (up to +/-90&#xB0; yaw angle), until a null reading is obtained. Carefully determine and record the value of the rotation angle (&#x3B1;) to the nearest degree. After the null technique has been applied at each traverse point, calculate the average of the absolute values of &#x3B1;; assign &#x3B1; values of 0&#xB0; to those points for which no rotation was required, and include these in the overall average. If the average value of &#x3B1; is greater than 20&#xB0;, the overall flow condition in the stack is unacceptable, and alternative methodology, subject to the approval of the Administrator, must be used to perform accurate sample and velocity traverses.

11.5 The alternative site selection procedure may be used to determine the rotation angles in lieu of the procedure outlined in section 11.4.

11.5.1 Alternative Measurement Site Selection Procedure. This alternative applies to sources where measurement locations are less than 2 equivalent or duct diameters downstream or less than one-half duct diameter upstream from a flow disturbance. The alternative should be limited to ducts larger than 24 in. in diameter where blockage and wall effects are minimal. A directional flow-sensing probe is used to measure pitch and yaw angles of the gas flow at 40 or more traverse points; the resultant angle is calculated and compared with acceptable criteria for mean and standard deviation.

11.5.2 Traverse Points. Use a minimum of 40 traverse points for circular ducts and 42 points for rectangular ducts for the gas flow angle determinations. Follow the procedure outlined in section 11.3 and Table 1-1 or 1-2 for the location and layout of the traverse points. If the measurement location is determined to be acceptable according to the criteria in this alternative procedure, use the same traverse point number and locations for sampling and velocity measurements.

11.5.3 Measurement Procedure.

11.5.3.1 Prepare the directional probe and differential pressure gauges as recommended by the manufacturer. Capillary tubing or surge tanks may be used to dampen pressure fluctuations. It is recommended, but not required, that a pretest leak check be conducted. To perform a leak check, pressurize or use suction on the impact opening until a reading of at least 7.6 cm (3 in.) HO registers on the differential pressure gauge, then plug the impact opening. The pressure of a leak-free system will remain stable for at least 15 seconds.

11.5.3.2 Level and zero the manometers. Since the manometer level and zero may drift because of vibrations and temperature changes, periodically check the level and zero during the traverse.

11.5.3.3 Position the probe at the appropriate locations in the gas stream, and rotate until zero deflection is indicated for the yaw angle pressure gauge. Determine and record the yaw angle. Record the pressure gauge readings for the pitch angle, and determine the pitch angle from the calibration curve. Repeat this procedure for each traverse point. Complete a "back-purge" of the pressure lines and the impact openings prior to measurements of each traverse point.

11.5.3.4 A post-test check as described in section 11.5.3.1 is required. If the criteria for a leak-free system are not met, repair the equipment, and repeat the flow angle measurements.

11.5.4 Calibration. Use a flow system as described in sections 10.1.2.1 and 10.1.2.2 of Method 2. In addition, the flow system shall have the capacity to generate two test-section velocities: one between 365 and 730 m/min (1,200 and 2,400 ft/min) and one between 730 and 1,100 m/min (2,400 and 3,600 ft/min).

11.5.4.1 Cut two entry ports in the test section. The axes through the entry ports shall be perpendicular to each other and intersect in the centroid of the test section. The ports should be elongated slots parallel to the axis of the test section and of sufficient length to allow measurement of pitch angles while maintaining the pitot head position at the test-section centroid. To facilitate alignment of the directional probe during calibration, the test section should be constructed of plexiglass or some other transparent material. All calibration measurements should be made at the same point in the test section, preferably at the centroid of the test section.

11.5.4.2 To ensure that the gas flow is parallel to the central axis of the test section, follow the procedure outlined in section 11.4 for cyclonic flow determination to measure the gas flow angles at the centroid of the test section from two test ports located 90&#xB0; apart. The gas flow angle measured in each port must be +/-2&#xB0; of 0&#xB0;. Straightening vanes should be installed, if necessary, to meet this criterion.

11.5.4.3 Pitch Angle Calibration. Perform a calibration traverse according to the manufacturer's recommended protocol in 5&#xB0; increments for angles from -60&#xB0; to + 60&#xB0; at one velocity in each of the two ranges specified above. Average the pressure ratio values obtained for each angle in the two flow ranges, and plot a calibration curve with the average values of the pressure ratio (or other suitable measurement factor as recommended by the manufacturer) versus the pitch angle. Draw a smooth line through the data points. Plot also the data values for each traverse point. Determine the differences between the measured data values and the angle from the calibration curve at the same pressure ratio. The difference at each comparison must be within 2&#xB0; for angles between 0&#xB0; and 40&#xB0; and within 3&#xB0; for angles between 40&#xB0; and 60&#xB0;.

11.5.4.4 Yaw Angle Calibration. Mark the three-dimensional probe to allow the determination of the yaw position of the probe. This is usually a line extending the length of the probe and aligned with the impact opening. To determine the accuracy of measurements of the yaw angle, only the zero or null position need be calibrated as follows: Place the directional probe in the test section, and rotate the probe until the zero position is found. With a protractor or other angle measuring device, measure the angle indicated by the yaw angle indicator on the three-dimensional probe. This should be within 2&#xB0; of 0&#xB0;. Repeat this measurement for any other points along the length of the pitot where yaw angle measurements could be read in order to account for variations in the pitot markings used to indicate pitot head positions.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 For a rectangular cross section, an equivalent diameter (D) shall be calculated using the following equation, to determine the upstream and downstream distances:

12.3 If use of the alternative site selection procedure (Section 11.5 of this method) is required, perform the following calculations using the equations below: the resultant angle at each traverse point, the average resultant angle, and the standard deviation. Complete the calculations retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round the values after the final calculations.

12.3.1 Calculate the resultant angle at each traverse point:

12.3.2 Calculate the average resultant for the measurements:

12.3.3 Calculate the standard deviations:

12.3.4 Acceptability Criteria. The measurement location is acceptable if R&#x2264;20&#xB0; and S&#x2264;10&#xB0;.

1. Determining Dust Concentration in a Gas Stream, ASME Performance Test Code No. 27. New York. 1957.

2. DeVorkin, Howard, et al. Air Pollution Source Testing Manual. Air Pollution Control District. Los Angeles, CA. November 1963.

3. Methods for Determining of Velocity, Volume, Dust and Mist Content of Gases. Western Precipitation Division of Joy Manufacturing Co. Los Angeles, CA. Bulletin WP-50. 1968.

4. Standard Method for Sampling Stacks for Particulate Matter. In: 1971 Book of ASTM Standards, Part 23. ASTM Designation D 2928-71. Philadelphia, PA. 1971.

5. Hanson, H.A., et al. Particulate Sampling Strategies for Large Power Plants Including Nonuniform Flow. USEPA, ORD, ESRL, Research Triangle Park, NC. EPA-600/2-76-170. June 1976.

6. Entropy Environmentalists, Inc. Determination of the Optimum Number of Sampling Points: An Analysis of Method 1 Criteria. Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, NC. EPA Contract No. 68-01-3172, Task 7.

7. Hanson, H.A., R.J. Davini, J.K. Morgan, and A.A. Iversen. Particulate Sampling Strategies for Large Power Plants Including Nonuniform Flow. USEPA, Research Triangle Park, NC. Publication No. EPA-600/2-76-170. June 1976. 350 pp.

8. Brooks, E.F., and R.L. Williams. Flow and Gas Sampling Manual. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, NC. Publication No. EPA-600/2-76-203. July 1976. 93 pp.

9. Entropy Environmentalists, Inc. Traverse Point Study. EPA Contract No. 68-02-3172. June 1977. 19 pp.

10. Brown, J. and K. Yu. Test Report: Particulate Sampling Strategy in Circular Ducts. Emission Measurement Branch. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. July 31, 1980. 12 pp.

11. Hawksley, P.G.W., S. Badzioch, and J.H. Blackett. Measurement of Solids in Flue Gases. Leatherhead, England, The British Coal Utilisation Research Association. 1961. pp. 129-133.

12. Knapp, K.T. The Number of Sampling Points Needed for Representative Source Sampling. In: Proceedings of the Fourth National Conference on Energy and Environment. Theodore, L. et al. (ed). Dayton, Dayton section of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers. October 3-7, 1976. pp. 563-568.

13. Smith, W.S. and D.J. Grove. A Proposed Extension of EPA Method 1 Criteria. Pollution Engineering. XV (8):36-37. August 1983.

14. Gerhart, P.M. and M.J. Dorsey. Investigation of Field Test Procedures for Large Fans. University of Akron. Akron, OH. (EPRI Contract CS-1651). Final Report (RP-1649-5). December 1980.

15. Smith, W.S. and D.J. Grove. A New Look at Isokinetic Sampling-Theory and Applications. Source Evaluation Society Newsletter. VIII (3):19-24. August 1983.

1.1 Measured Parameters. The purpose of the method is to provide guidance for the selection of sampling ports and traverse points at which sampling for air pollutants will be performed pursuant to regulations set forth in this part.

1.2 Applicability. The applicability and principle of this method are identical to Method 1, except its applicability is limited to stacks or ducts. This method is applicable to flowing gas streams in ducts, stacks, and flues of less than about 0.30 meter (12 in.) in diameter, or 0.071 m(113 in.) in cross-sectional area, but equal to or greater than about 0.10 meter (4 in.) in diameter, or 0.0081 m(12.57 in.) in cross-sectional area. This method cannot be used when the flow is cyclonic or swirling.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 The method is designed to aid in the representative measurement of pollutant emissions and/or total volumetric flow rate from a stationary source. A measurement site or a pair of measurement sites where the effluent stream is flowing in a known direction is (are) selected. The cross-section of the stack is divided into a number of equal areas. Traverse points are then located within each of these equal areas.

2.2 In these small diameter stacks or ducts, the conventional Method 5 stack assembly (consisting of a Type S pitot tube attached to a sampling probe, equipped with a nozzle and thermocouple) blocks a significant portion of the cross-section of the duct and causes inaccurate measurements. Therefore, for particulate matter (PM) sampling in small stacks or ducts, the gas velocity is measured using a standard pitot tube downstream of the actual emission sampling site. The straight run of duct between the PM sampling and velocity measurement sites allows the flow profile, temporarily disturbed by the presence of the sampling probe, to redevelop and stabilize.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

11.1 Selection of Measurement Site.

11.1.1 Particulate Measurements-Steady or Unsteady Flow. Select a particulate measurement site located preferably at least eight equivalent stack or duct diameters downstream and 10 equivalent diameters upstream from any flow disturbances such as bends, expansions, or contractions in the stack, or from a visible flame. Next, locate the velocity measurement site eight equivalent diameters downstream of the particulate measurement site (see Figure 1A-1). If such locations are not available, select an alternative particulate measurement location at least two equivalent stack or duct diameters downstream and two and one-half diameters upstream from any flow disturbance. Then, locate the velocity measurement site two equivalent diameters downstream from the particulate measurement site. (See section 12.2 of Method 1 for calculating equivalent diameters for a rectangular cross-section.)

11.1.2 PM Sampling (Steady Flow) or Velocity (Steady or Unsteady Flow) Measurements. For PM sampling when the volumetric flow rate in a duct is constant with respect to time, section 11.1.1 of Method 1 may be followed, with the PM sampling and velocity measurement performed at one location. To demonstrate that the flow rate is constant (within 10 percent) when PM measurements are made, perform complete velocity traverses before and after the PM sampling run, and calculate the deviation of the flow rate derived after the PM sampling run from the one derived before the PM sampling run. The PM sampling run is acceptable if the deviation does not exceed 10 percent.

11.2 Determining the Number of Traverse Points.

11.2.1 Particulate Measurements (Steady or Unsteady Flow). Use Figure 1-1 of Method 1 to determine the number of traverse points to use at both the velocity measurement and PM sampling locations. Before referring to the figure, however, determine the distances between both the velocity measurement and PM sampling sites to the nearest upstream and downstream disturbances. Then divide each distance by the stack diameter or equivalent diameter to express the distances in terms of the number of duct diameters. Then, determine the number of traverse points from Figure 1-1 of Method 1 corresponding to each of these four distances. Choose the highest of the four numbers of traverse points (or a greater number) so that, for circular ducts the number is a multiple of four; and for rectangular ducts, the number is one of those shown in Table 1-1 of Method 1. When the optimum duct diameter location criteria can be satisfied, the minimum number of traverse points required is eight for circular ducts and nine for rectangular ducts.

11.2.2 PM Sampling (Steady Flow) or only Velocity (Non-Particulate) Measurements. Use Figure 1-2 of Method 1 to determine number of traverse points, following the same procedure used for PM sampling as described in section 11.2.1 of Method 1. When the optimum duct diameter location criteria can be satisfied, the minimum number of traverse points required is eight for circular ducts and nine for rectangular ducts.

11.3 Cross-sectional Layout, Location of Traverse Points, and Verification of the Absence of Cyclonic Flow. Same as Method 1, sections 11.3 and 11.4, respectively.

Same as Method 1, section 16.0, References 1 through 6, with the addition of the following:

1. Vollaro, Robert F. Recommended Procedure for Sample Traverses in Ducts Smaller Than 12 Inches in Diameter. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Measurement Branch, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. January 1977.

1.1 This method is applicable for the determination of the average velocity and the volumetric flow rate of a gas stream.

1.2 This method is not applicable at measurement sites that fail to meet the criteria of Method 1, section 11.1. Also, the method cannot be used for direct measurement in cyclonic or swirling gas streams; section 11.4 of Method 1 shows how to determine cyclonic or swirling flow conditions. When unacceptable conditions exist, alternative procedures, subject to the approval of the Administrator, must be employed to produce accurate flow rate determinations. Examples of such alternative procedures are: (1) to install straightening vanes; (2) to calculate the total volumetric flow rate stoichiometrically, or (3) to move to another measurement site at which the flow is acceptable.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 The average gas velocity in a stack is determined from the gas density and from measurement of the average velocity head with a Type S (Stausscheibe or reverse type) pitot tube.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

Specifications for the apparatus are given below. Any other apparatus that has been demonstrated (subject to approval of the Administrator) to be capable of meeting the specifications will be considered acceptable.

6.1 Type S Pitot Tube.
