
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-1 to Part 60 - Test Methods 1 through 2F
###### i.e.,

10.1.4.1.1 When an isolated Type S pitot tube is calibrated, select a calibration point at or near the center of the duct, and follow the procedures outlined in section 10.1.3. The Type S pitot coefficients measured or calculated, (Cand C) will be valid, so long as either: (1) the isolated pitot tube is used; or (2) the pitot tube is used with other components (nozzle, thermocouple, sample probe) in an arrangement that is free from aerodynamic interference effects (see Figures 2-4, 2-7, and 2-8).

10.1.4.1.2 For Type S pitot tube-thermocouple combinations (without probe assembly), select a calibration point at or near the center of the duct, and follow the procedures outlined in section 10.1.3. The coefficients so obtained will be valid so long as the pitot tube-thermocouple combination is used by itself or with other components in an interference-free arrangement (Figures 2-4, 2-7, and 2-8).

10.1.4.1.3 For Type S pitot tube combinations with complete probe assemblies, the calibration point should be located at or near the center of the duct; however, insertion of a probe sheath into a small duct may cause significant cross-sectional area interference and blockage and yield incorrect coefficient values (Reference 9 in section 17.0). Therefore, to minimize the blockage effect, the calibration point may be a few inches off-center if necessary, but no closer to the outer wall of the wind tunnel than 4 inches. The maximum allowable blockage, as determined by a projected-area model of the probe sheath, is 2 percent or less of the duct cross-sectional area (Figure 2-10a). If the pitot and/or probe assembly blocks more than 2 percent of the cross-sectional area at an insertion point only 4 inches inside the wind tunnel, the diameter of the wind tunnel must be increased.

10.1.4.2 For those probe assemblies in which pitot tube-nozzle interference is a factor (i.e., those in which the pitot-nozzle separation distance fails to meet the specifications illustrated in Figure 2-7A), the value of Cdepends upon the amount of free space between the tube and nozzle and, therefore, is a function of nozzle size. In these instances, separate calibrations shall be performed with each of the commonly used nozzle sizes in place. Note that the single-velocity calibration technique is acceptable for this purpose, even though the larger nozzle sizes (>0.635 cm orin.) are not ordinarily used for isokinetic sampling at velocities around 910 m/min (3,000 ft/min), which is the calibration velocity. Note also that it is not necessary to draw an isokinetic sample during calibration (see Reference 19 in section 17.0).

10.1.4.3 For a probe assembly constructed such that its pitot tube is always used in the same orientation, only one side of the pitot tube needs to be calibrated (the side which will face the flow). The pitot tube must still meet the alignment specifications of Figure 2-2 or 2-3, however, and must have an average deviation (&#x3C3;) value of 0.01 or less (see section 12.4.4).

10.1.5 Field Use and Recalibration.

10.1.5.1 Field Use.

10.1.5.1.1 When a Type S pitot tube (isolated or in an assembly) is used in the field, the appropriate coefficient value (whether assigned or obtained by calibration) shall be used to perform velocity calculations. For calibrated Type S pitot tubes, the A side coefficient shall be used when the A side of the tube faces the flow, and the B side coefficient shall be used when the B side faces the flow. Alternatively, the arithmetic average of the A and B side coefficient values may be used, irrespective of which side faces the flow.

10.1.5.1.2 When a probe assembly is used to sample a small duct, 30.5 to 91.4 cm (12 to 36 in.) in diameter, the probe sheath sometimes blocks a significant part of the duct cross-section, causing a reduction in the effective value of C. Consult Reference 9 (see section 17.0) for details. Conventional pitot-sampling probe assemblies are not recommended for use in ducts having inside diameters smaller than 30.5 cm (12 in.) (see Reference 16 in section 17.0).

10.1.5.2 Recalibration.

10.1.5.2.1 Isolated Pitot Tubes. After each field use, the pitot tube shall be carefully reexamined in top, side, and end views. If the pitot face openings are still aligned within the specifications illustrated in Figure 2-2 and Figure 2-3, it can be assumed that the baseline coefficient of the pitot tube has not changed. If, however, the tube has been damaged to the extent that it no longer meets the specifications of Figure 2-2 and Figure 2-3, the damage shall either be repaired to restore proper alignment of the face openings, or the tube shall be discarded.

10.1.5.2.2 Pitot Tube Assemblies. After each field use, check the face opening alignment of the pitot tube, as in section 10.1.5.2.1. Also, remeasure the intercomponent spacings of the assembly. If the intercomponent spacings have not changed and the face opening alignment is acceptable, it can be assumed that the coefficient of the assembly has not changed. If the face opening alignment is no longer within the specifications of Figure 2-2 and Figure 2-3, either repair the damage or replace the pitot tube (calibrating the new assembly, if necessary). If the intercomponent spacings have changed, restore the original spacings, or recalibrate the assembly.

10.2 Standard Pitot Tube (if applicable). If a standard pitot tube is used for the velocity traverse, the tube shall be constructed according to the criteria of section 6.7 and shall be assigned a baseline coefficient value of 0.99. If the standard pitot tube is used as part of an assembly, the tube shall be in an interference-free arrangement (subject to the approval of the Administrator).

10.3 Temperature Sensors.
