
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-1 to Part 60 - Test Methods 1 through 2F
###### i.e.,

10.1.3 Set up the test meter in a configuration similar to that used in the field installation (in relation to the flow moving device). Connect the temperature sensor and pressure gauge as they are to be used in the field. Connect the reference meter at the inlet of the flow line, if appropriate for the meter, and begin gas flow through the system to condition the meters. During this conditioning operation, check the system for leaks.

10.1.4 The calibration shall be performed during at least three different flow rates. The calibration flow rates shall be about 0.3, 0.6, and 0.9 times the rated maximum flow rate of the test meter.

10.1.5 For each calibration run, the data to be collected include: reference meter initial and final volume readings, the test meter initial and final volume reading, meter average temperature and pressure, barometric pressure, and run time. Repeat the runs at each flow rate at least three times.

10.1.6 Calculate the test meter calibration coefficient as indicated in section 12.2.

10.1.7 Compare the three Yvalues at each of the flow rates tested and determine the maximum and minimum values. The difference between the maximum and minimum values at each flow rate should be no greater than 0.030. Extra runs may be required to complete this requirement. If this specification cannot be met in six successive runs, the test meter is not suitable for use. In addition, the meter coefficients should be between 0.95 and 1.05. If these specifications are met at all the flow rates, average all the Yvalues from runs meeting the specifications to obtain an average meter calibration coefficient, Y.

10.1.8 The procedure above shall be performed at least once for each volume meter. Thereafter, an abbreviated calibration check shall be completed following each field test. The calibration of the volume meter shall be checked with the meter pressure set at the average value encountered during the field test. Three calibration checks (runs) shall be performed using this average flow rate value. Calculate the average value of the calibration factor. If the calibration has changed by more than 5 percent, recalibrate the meter over the full range of flow as described above.

10.2 Temperature Sensor. After each test series, check the temperature sensor at ambient temperature. Use an American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) mercury-in-glass reference thermometer, or equivalent, as a reference. If the sensor being checked agrees within 2 percent (absolute temperature) of the reference, the temperature data collected in the field shall be considered valid. Otherwise, the test data shall be considered invalid or adjustments of the results shall be made, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

10.3 Barometer. Calibrate the barometer used against a mercury barometer or NIST-traceable barometer prior to the field test.

Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this method (see section 8.0).

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra decimal figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after final calculation.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Test Meter Calibration Coefficient.

12.3 Volume.

12.4 Gas Flow Rate.

1. Rom, Jerome J. Maintenance, Calibration, and Operation of Isokinetic Source Sampling Equipment. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. Publication No. APTD-0576. March 1972.

2. Wortman, Martin, R. Vollaro, and P.R. Westlin. Dry Gas Volume Meter Calibrations. Source Evaluation Society Newsletter. Vol. 2, No. 2. May 1977.

3. Westlin, P.R., and R.T. Shigehara. Procedure for Calibrating and Using Dry Gas Volume Meters as Calibration Standards. Source Evaluation Society Newsletter. Vol. 3, No. 1. February 1978.

1.1 This method is applicable for the determination of exhaust volume flow rate from incinerators that process gasoline vapors consisting primarily of alkanes, alkenes, and/or arenes (aromatic hydrocarbons). It is assumed that the amount of auxiliary fuel is negligible.

1.2 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 Organic carbon concentration and volume flow rate are measured at the incinerator inlet using either Method 25A or Method 25B and Method 2A, respectively. Organic carbon, carbon dioxide (CO), and carbon monoxide (CO) concentrations are measured at the outlet using either Method 25A or Method 25B and Method 10, respectively. The ratio of total carbon at the incinerator inlet and outlet is multiplied by the inlet volume to determine the exhaust volume flow rate.

Same as section 3.0 of Method 10 and Method 25A.

Same as section 4.0 of Method 10.

5.1 This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

Same as section 6.0 of Method 2A, Method 10, and Method 25A and/or Method 25B as applicable, with the addition of the following:

6.1 This analyzer must meet the specifications set forth in section 6.1.2 of Method 10, except that the span shall be 15 percent COby volume.

Same as section 7.0 of Method 10 and Method 25A, with the following addition and exceptions:

7.1 Carbon Dioxide Analyzer Calibration. COgases meeting the specifications set forth in section 7 of Method 6C are required.

7.2 Hydrocarbon Analyzer Calibration. Methane shall not be used as a calibration gas when performing this method.

7.3 Fuel Gas. If Method 25B is used to measure the organic carbon concentrations at both the inlet and exhaust, no fuel gas is required.
