
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-1 to Part 60 - Test Methods 1 through 2F
###### e.g.,

10.3.1 After each field use, calibrate dial thermometers, liquid-filled bulb thermometers, thermocouple-potentiometer systems, and other sensors at a temperature within 10 percent of the average absolute stack temperature. For temperatures up to 405 &#xB0;C (761 &#xB0;F), use an ASTM mercury-in-glass reference thermometer, or equivalent, as a reference. Alternatively, either a reference thermocouple and potentiometer (calibrated against NIST standards) or thermometric fixed points (ice bath and boiling water, corrected for barometric pressure) may be used. For temperatures above 405 &#xB0;C (761 &#xB0;F), use a reference thermocouple-potentiometer system calibrated against NIST standards or an alternative reference, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

10.3.2 The temperature data recorded in the field shall be considered valid. If, during calibration, the absolute temperature measured with the sensor being calibrated and the reference sensor agree within 1.5 percent, the temperature data taken in the field shall be considered valid. Otherwise, the pollutant emission test shall either be considered invalid or adjustments (if appropriate) of the test results shall be made, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

10.4 Barometer. Calibrate the barometer used against a mercury barometer or NIST-traceable barometer prior to each field test.

Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this method (see section 8.0).

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after final calculation.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Calculate T as follows:

12.3 Calculate Das follows:

12.4 Calibration of Type S Pitot Tube.

12.4.1 For each of the six pairs of Δp readings (i.e., three from side A and three from side B) obtained in section 10.1.3, calculate the value of the Type S pitot tube coefficient according to Equation 2-3:

12.4.2 Calculate C, the mean A-side coefficient, and C, the mean B-side coefficient. Calculate the difference between these two average values.

12.4.3 Calculate the deviation of each of the three A-side values of Cfrom C, and the deviation of each of the three B-side values of Cfrom C, using Equation 2-4:

12.4.4 Calculate &#x3C3; the average deviation from the mean, for both the A and B sides of the pitot tube. Use Equation 2-5:

12.5 Molecular Weight of Stack Gas.

12.6 Average Stack Gas Velocity.

12.7 Average Stack Gas Dry Volumetric Flow Rate.

1. Mark, L.S. Mechanical Engineers' Handbook. New York. McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc. 1951.

2. Perry, J.H., ed. Chemical Engineers' Handbook. New York. McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc. 1960.

3. Shigehara, R.T., W.F. Todd, and W.S. Smith. Significance of Errors in Stack Sampling Measurements. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, N.C. (Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Air Pollution Control Association, St. Louis, MO., June 14-19, 1970).

4. Standard Method for Sampling Stacks for Particulate Matter. In: 1971 Book of ASTM Standards, Part 23. Philadelphia, PA. 1971. ASTM Designation D 2928-71.

5. Vennard, J.K. Elementary Fluid Mechanics. New York. John Wiley and Sons, Inc. 1947.

6. Fluid Meters-Their Theory and Application. American Society of Mechanical Engineers, New York, N.Y. 1959.

7. ASHRAE Handbook of Fundamentals. 1972. p. 208.

8. Annual Book of ASTM Standards, Part 26. 1974. p. 648.

9. Vollaro, R.F. Guidelines for Type S Pitot Tube Calibration. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, N.C. (Presented at 1st Annual Meeting, Source Evaluation Society, Dayton, OH, September 18, 1975.)

10. Vollaro, R.F. A Type S Pitot Tube Calibration Study. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Measurement Branch, Research Triangle Park, N.C. July 1974.

11. Vollaro, R.F. The Effects of Impact Opening Misalignment on the Value of the Type S Pitot Tube Coefficient. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Measurement Branch, Research Triangle Park, NC. October 1976.

12. Vollaro, R.F. Establishment of a Baseline Coefficient Value for Properly Constructed Type S Pitot Tubes. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Measurement Branch, Research Triangle Park, NC. November 1976.

13. Vollaro, R.F. An Evaluation of Single-Velocity Calibration Technique as a Means of Determining Type S Pitot Tube Coefficients. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Measurement Branch, Research Triangle Park, NC. August 1975.

14. Vollaro, R.F. The Use of Type S Pitot Tubes for the Measurement of Low Velocities. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Measurement Branch, Research Triangle Park, NC. November 1976.

15. Smith, Marvin L. Velocity Calibration of EPA Type Source Sampling Probe. United Technologies Corporation, Pratt and Whitney Aircraft Division, East Hartford, CT. 1975.

16. Vollaro, R.F. Recommended Procedure for Sample Traverses in Ducts Smaller than 12 Inches in Diameter. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Measurement Branch, Research Triangle Park, NC. November 1976.

17. Ower, E. and R.C. Pankhurst. The Measurement of Air Flow, 4th Ed. London, Pergamon Press. 1966.

18. Vollaro, R.F. A Survey of Commercially Available Instrumentation for the Measurement of Low-Range Gas Velocities. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Measurement Branch, Research Triangle Park, NC. November 1976. (Unpublished Paper).

19. Gnyp, A.W., et al. An Experimental Investigation of the Effect of Pitot Tube-Sampling Probe Configurations on the Magnitude of the S Type Pitot Tube Coefficient for Commercially Available Source Sampling Probes. Prepared by the University of Windsor for the Ministry of the Environment, Toronto, Canada. February 1975.

*Must be less than or equal to 0.01

1.1 This method is applicable for the determination of gas flow rates in pipes and small ducts, either in-line or at exhaust positions, within the temperature range of 0 to 50 &#xB0;C (32 to 122 &#xB0;F).

1.2 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A gas volume meter is used to measure gas volume directly. Temperature and pressure measurements are made to allow correction of the volume to standard conditions.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

Specifications for the apparatus are given below. Any other apparatus that has been demonstrated (subject to approval of the Administrator) to be capable of meeting the specifications will be considered acceptable.

6.1 Gas Volume Meter. A positive displacement meter, turbine meter, or other direct measuring device capable of measuring volume to within 2 percent. The meter shall be equipped with a temperature sensor (accurate to within +/-2 percent of the minimum absolute temperature) and a pressure gauge (accurate to within +/-2.5 mm Hg). The manufacturer's recommended capacity of the meter shall be sufficient for the expected maximum and minimum flow rates for the sampling conditions. Temperature, pressure, corrosive characteristics, and pipe size are factors necessary to consider in selecting a suitable gas meter.

6.2 Barometer. A mercury, aneroid, or other barometer capable of measuring atmospheric pressure to within +/-2.5 mm Hg.

6.3 Stopwatch. Capable of measurement to within 1 second.

8.1 Installation. As there are numerous types of pipes and small ducts that may be subject to volume measurement, it would be difficult to describe all possible installation schemes. In general, flange fittings should be used for all connections wherever possible. Gaskets or other seal materials should be used to assure leak-tight connections. The volume meter should be located so as to avoid severe vibrations and other factors that may affect the meter calibration.

8.2 Leak Test.

8.2.1 A volume meter installed at a location under positive pressure may be leak-checked at the meter connections by using a liquid leak detector solution containing a surfactant. Apply a small amount of the solution to the connections. If a leak exists, bubbles will form, and the leak must be corrected.

8.2.2 A volume meter installed at a location under negative pressure is very difficult to test for leaks without blocking flow at the inlet of the line and watching for meter movement. If this procedure is not possible, visually check all connections to assure leak-tight seals.

8.3 Volume Measurement.

8.3.1 For sources with continuous, steady emission flow rates, record the initial meter volume reading, meter temperature(s), meter pressure, and start the stopwatch. Throughout the test period, record the meter temperatures and pressures so that average values can be determined. At the end of the test, stop the timer, and record the elapsed time, the final volume reading, meter temperature, and pressure. Record the barometric pressure at the beginning and end of the test run. Record the data on a table similar to that shown in Figure 2A-1.

8.3.2 For sources with noncontinuous, non-steady emission flow rates, use the procedure in section 8.3.1 with the addition of the following: Record all the meter parameters and the start and stop times corresponding to each process cyclical or noncontinuous event.

10.1 Volume Meter.

10.1.1 The volume meter is calibrated against a standard reference meter prior to its initial use in the field. The reference meter is a spirometer or liquid displacement meter with a capacity consistent with that of the test meter.

10.1.2 Alternatively, a calibrated, standard pitot may be used as the reference meter in conjunction with a wind tunnel assembly. Attach the test meter to the wind tunnel so that the total flow passes through the test meter. For each calibration run, conduct a 4-point traverse along one stack diameter at a position at least eight diameters of straight tunnel downstream and two diameters upstream of any bend, inlet, or air mover. Determine the traverse point locations as specified in Method 1. Calculate the reference volume using the velocity values following the procedure in Method 2, the wind tunnel cross-sectional area, and the run time.
