
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-1 to Part 60 - Test Methods 1 through 2F
###### e.g.,

6.1.2 Differential Pressure Gauges. Inclined manometers, U-tube manometers, or other differential pressure gauges (magnehelic gauges) that meet the specifications described in Method 2, section 6.2.

11.1 Selection of Measurement Site.

11.1.1 Sampling and/or velocity measurements are performed at a site located at least eight stack or duct diameters downstream and two diameters upstream from any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, or contraction in the stack, or from a visible flame. If necessary, an alternative location may be selected, at a position at least two stack or duct diameters downstream and a half diameter upstream from any flow disturbance.

11.1.2 An alternative procedure is available for determining the acceptability of a measurement location not meeting the criteria above. This procedure described in section 11.5 allows for the determination of gas flow angles at the sampling points and comparison of the measured results with acceptability criteria.

11.2 Determining the Number of Traverse Points.

11.2.1 Particulate Traverses.

11.2.1.1 When the eight- and two-diameter criterion can be met, the minimum number of traverse points shall be: (1) twelve, for circular or rectangular stacks with diameters (or equivalent diameters) greater than 0.61 meter (24 in.); (2) eight, for circular stacks with diameters between 0.30 and 0.61 meter (12 and 24 in.); and (3) nine, for rectangular stacks with equivalent diameters between 0.30 and 0.61 meter (12 and 24 in.).

11.2.1.2 When the eight- and two-diameter criterion cannot be met, the minimum number of traverse points is determined from Figure 1-1. Before referring to the figure, however, determine the distances from the measurement site to the nearest upstream and downstream disturbances, and divide each distance by the stack diameter or equivalent diameter, to determine the distance in terms of the number of duct diameters. Then, determine from Figure 1-1 the minimum number of traverse points that corresponds:

(1) To the number of duct diameters upstream; and

(2) To the number of diameters downstream. Select the higher of the two minimum numbers of traverse points, or a greater value, so that for circular stacks, the number is a multiple of 4, and for rectangular stacks, the number is one of those shown in Table 1-1.

11.2.2 Velocity (Non-Particulate) Traverses. When velocity or volumetric flow rate is to be determined (but not particulate matter), the same procedure as that used for particulate traverses (Section 11.2.1) is followed, except that Figure 1-2 may be used instead of Figure 1-1.

11.3 Cross-Sectional Layout and Location of Traverse Points.

11.3.1 Circular Stacks.

11.3.1.1 Locate the traverse points on two perpendicular diameters according to Table 1-2 and the example shown in Figure 1-3. Any equation (see examples in References 2 and 3 in section 16.0) that gives the same values as those in Table 1-2 may be used in lieu of Table 1-2.
