
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-1 to Part 60 - Test Methods 1 through 2F
###### e.g.

6.1.1 Pitot tube made of metal tubing (, stainless steel) as shown in Figure 2-1. It is recommended that the external tubing diameter (dimension D, Figure 2-2b) be between 0.48 and 0.95 cm (andinch). There shall be an equal distance from the base of each leg of the pitot tube to its face-opening plane (dimensions Pand P, Figure 2-2b); it is recommended that this distance be between 1.05 and 1.50 times the external tubing diameter. The face openings of the pitot tube shall, preferably, be aligned as shown in Figure 2-2; however, slight misalignments of the openings are permissible (see Figure 2-3).

6.1.2 The Type S pitot tube shall have a known coefficient, determined as outlined in section 10.0. An identification number shall be assigned to the pitot tube; this number shall be permanently marked or engraved on the body of the tube. A standard pitot tube may be used instead of a Type S, provided that it meets the specifications of sections 6.7 and 10.2. Note, however, that the static and impact pressure holes of standard pitot tubes are susceptible to plugging in particulate-laden gas streams. Therefore, whenever a standard pitot tube is used to perform a traverse, adequate proof must be furnished that the openings of the pitot tube have not plugged up during the traverse period. This can be accomplished by comparing the velocity head (Δp) measurement recorded at a selected traverse point (readable Δp value) with a second Δp measurement recorded after "back purging" with pressurized air to clean the impact and static holes of the standard pitot tube. If the before and after Δp measurements are within 5 percent, then the traverse data are acceptable. Otherwise, the data should be rejected and the traverse measurements redone. Note that the selected traverse point should be one that demonstrates a readable Δp value. If "back purging" at regular intervals is part of a routine procedure, then comparative Δp measurements shall be conducted as above for the last two traverse points that exhibit suitable Δp measurements.

6.2 Differential Pressure Gauge. An inclined manometer or equivalent device. Most sampling trains are equipped with a 10 in. (water column) inclined-vertical manometer, having 0.01 in. H0 divisions on the 0 to 1 in. inclined scale, and 0.1 in. H0 divisions on the 1 to 10 in. vertical scale. This type of manometer (or other gauge of equivalent sensitivity) is satisfactory for the measurement of Δp values as low as 1.27 mm (0.05 in.) H0. However, a differential pressure gauge of greater sensitivity shall be used (subject to the approval of the Administrator), if any of the following is found to be true: (1) the arithmetic average of all Δp readings at the traverse points in the stack is less than 1.27 mm (0.05 in.) H0; (2) for traverses of 12 or more points, more than 10 percent of the individual Δp readings are below 1.27 mm (0.05 in.) H0; or (3) for traverses of fewer than 12 points, more than one Δp reading is below 1.27 mm (0.05 in.) H0. Reference 18 (see section 17.0) describes commercially available instrumentation for the measurement of low-range gas velocities.

6.2.1 As an alternative to criteria (1) through (3) above, Equation 2-1 (Section 12.2) may be used to determine the necessity of using a more sensitive differential pressure gauge. If T is greater than 1.05, the velocity head data are unacceptable and a more sensitive differential pressure gauge must be used.

6.3 Temperature Sensor. A thermocouple, liquid-filled bulb thermometer, bimetallic thermometer, mercury-in-glass thermometer, or other gauge capable of measuring temperatures to within 1.5 percent of the minimum absolute stack temperature. The temperature sensor shall be attached to the pitot tube such that the sensor tip does not touch any metal; the gauge shall be in an interference-free arrangement with respect to the pitot tube face openings (see Figure 2-1 and Figure 2-4). Alternative positions may be used if the pitot tube-temperature gauge system is calibrated according to the procedure of section 10.0. Provided that a difference of not more than 1 percent in the average velocity measurement is introduced, the temperature gauge need not be attached to the pitot tube. This alternative is subject to the approval of the Administrator.

6.4 Pressure Probe and Gauge. A piezometer tube and mercury- or water-filled U-tube manometer capable of measuring stack pressure to within 2.5 mm (0.1 in.) Hg. The static tap of a standard type pitot tube or one leg of a Type S pitot tube with the face opening planes positioned parallel to the gas flow may also be used as the pressure probe.

6.5 Barometer. A mercury, aneroid, or other barometer capable of measuring atmospheric pressure to within 2.54 mm (0.1 in.) Hg.

6.6 Gas Density Determination Equipment. Method 3 equipment, if needed (see section 8.6), to determine the stack gas dry molecular weight, and Method 4 (reference method) or Method 5 equipment for moisture content determination. Other methods may be used subject to approval of the Administrator.

6.7 Calibration Pitot Tube. Calibration of the Type S pitot tube requires a standard pitot tube for a reference. When calibration of the Type S pitot tube is necessary (see Section 10.1), a standard pitot tube shall be used for a reference. The standard pitot tube shall, preferably, have a known coefficient, obtained directly from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Gaithersburg, MD 20899, (301) 975-2002; or by calibration against another standard pitot tube with a NIST-traceable coefficient. Alternatively, a standard pitot tube designed according to the criteria given in sections 6.7.1 through 6.7.5 below and illustrated in Figure 2-5 (see also References 7, 8, and 17 in section 17.0) may be used. Pitot tubes designed according to these specifications will have baseline coefficients of 0.99 +/-0.01.

6.7.1 Standard Pitot Design.

6.7.1.1 Hemispherical (shown in Figure 2-5), ellipsoidal, or conical tip.

6.7.1.2 A minimum of six diameters straight run (based upon D, the external diameter of the tube) between the tip and the static pressure holes.

6.7.1.3 A minimum of eight diameters straight run between the static pressure holes and the centerline of the external tube, following the 90&#xB0; bend.

6.7.1.4 Static pressure holes of equal size (approximately 0.1 D), equally spaced in a piezometer ring configuration.

6.7.1.5 90&#xB0; bend, with curved or mitered junction.

6.8 Differential Pressure Gauge for Type S Pitot Tube Calibration. An inclined manometer or equivalent. If the single-velocity calibration technique is employed (see section 10.1.2.3), the calibration differential pressure gauge shall be readable to the nearest 0.127 mm (0.005 in.) H0. For multivelocity calibrations, the gauge shall be readable to the nearest 0.127 mm (0.005 in.) H0 for Δp values between 1.27 and 25.4 mm (0.05 and 1.00 in.) H0, and to the nearest 1.27 mm (0.05 in.) H0 for Δp values above 25.4 mm (1.00 in.) H0. A special, more sensitive gauge will be required to read Δp values below 1.27 mm (0.05 in.) H0 (see Reference 18 in section 16.0).

8.1 Set up the apparatus as shown in Figure 2-1. Capillary tubing or surge tanks installed between the manometer and pitot tube may be used to dampen ΔP fluctuations. It is recommended, but not required, that a pretest leak-check be conducted as follows: (1) blow through the pitot impact opening until at least 7.6 cm (3.0 in.) HO velocity head registers on the manometer; then, close off the impact opening. The pressure shall remain stable (+/-2.5 mm HO, +/-0.10 in. HO) for at least 15 seconds; (2) do the same for the static pressure side, except using suction to obtain the minimum of 7.6 cm (3.0 in.) HO. Other leak-check procedures, subject to the approval of the Administrator, may be used.

8.2 Level and zero the manometer. Because the manometer level and zero may drift due to vibrations and temperature changes, make periodic checks during the traverse (at least once per hour). Record all necessary data on a form similar to that shown in Figure 2-6.

8.3 Measure the velocity head and temperature at the traverse points specified by Method 1. Ensure that the proper differential pressure gauge is being used for the range of Δp values encountered (see section 6.2). If it is necessary to change to a more sensitive gauge, do so, and remeasure the Δp and temperature readings at each traverse point. Conduct a post-test leak-check (mandatory), as described in section 8.1 above, to validate the traverse run.

8.4 Measure the static pressure in the stack. One reading is usually adequate.

8.5 Determine the atmospheric pressure.

8.6 Determine the stack gas dry molecular weight. For combustion processes or processes that emit essentially CO, O, CO, and N, use Method 3. For processes emitting essentially air, an analysis need not be conducted; use a dry molecular weight of 29.0. For other processes, other methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, must be used.

8.7 Obtain the moisture content from Method 4 (reference method, or equivalent) or from Method 5.

8.8 Determine the cross-sectional area of the stack or duct at the sampling location. Whenever possible, physically measure the stack dimensions rather than using blueprints. Do not assume that stack diameters are equal. Measure each diameter distance to verify its dimensions.

10.1 Type S Pitot Tube. Before its initial use, carefully examine the Type S pitot tube top, side, and end views to verify that the face openings of the tube are aligned within the specifications illustrated in Figures 2-2 and 2-3. The pitot tube shall not be used if it fails to meet these alignment specifications. After verifying the face opening alignment, measure and record the following dimensions of the pitot tube: (a) the external tubing diameter (dimension D, Figure 2-2b); and (b) the base-to-opening plane distances (dimensions Pand P, Figure 2-2b). If Dis between 0.48 and 0.95 cmandin.), and if Pand Pare equal and between 1.05 and 1.50 D, there are two possible options: (1) the pitot tube may be calibrated according to the procedure outlined in sections 10.1.2 through 10.1.5, or (2) a baseline (isolated tube) coefficient value of 0.84 may be assigned to the pitot tube. Note, however, that if the pitot tube is part of an assembly, calibration may still be required, despite knowledge of the baseline coefficient value (see section 10.1.1). If D, P, and Pare outside the specified limits, the pitot tube must be calibrated as outlined in sections 10.1.2 through 10.1.5.

10.1.1 Type S Pitot Tube Assemblies. During sample and velocity traverses, the isolated Type S pitot tube is not always used; in many instances, the pitot tube is used in combination with other source-sampling components (e.g., thermocouple, sampling probe, nozzle) as part of an "assembly." The presence of other sampling components can sometimes affect the baseline value of the Type S pitot tube coefficient (Reference 9 in section 17.0); therefore, an assigned (or otherwise known) baseline coefficient value may or may not be valid for a given assembly. The baseline and assembly coefficient values will be identical only when the relative placement of the components in the assembly is such that aerodynamic interference effects are eliminated. Figures 2-4, 2-7, and 2-8 illustrate interference-free component arrangements for Type S pitot tubes having external tubing diameters between 0.48 and 0.95 cm (andin.). Type S pitot tube assemblies that fail to meet any or all of the specifications of Figures 2-4, 2-7, and 2-8 shall be calibrated according to the procedure outlined in sections 10.1.2 through 10.1.5, and prior to calibration, the values of the intercomponent spacings (pitot-nozzle, pitot-thermocouple, pitot-probe sheath) shall be measured and recorded.

10.1.2 Calibration Setup. If the Type S pitot tube is to be calibrated, one leg of the tube shall be permanently marked A, and the other, B. Calibration shall be performed in a flow system having the following essential design features:

10.1.2.1 The flowing gas stream must be confined to a duct of definite cross-sectional area, either circular or rectangular. For circular cross sections, the minimum duct diameter shall be 30.48 cm (12 in.); for rectangular cross sections, the width (shorter side) shall be at least 25.4 cm (10 in.).

10.1.2.2 The cross-sectional area of the calibration duct must be constant over a distance of 10 or more duct diameters. For a rectangular cross section, use an equivalent diameter, calculated according to Equation 2-2 (see section 12.3), to determine the number of duct diameters. To ensure the presence of stable, fully developed flow patterns at the calibration site, or "test section," the site must be located at least eight diameters downstream and two diameters upstream from the nearest disturbances.

10.1.2.3 The flow system shall have the capacity to generate a test-section velocity around 910 m/min (3,000 ft/min). This velocity must be constant with time to guarantee constant and steady flow during the entire period of calibration. A centrifugal fan is recommended for this purpose, as no flow rate adjustment for back pressure of the fan is allowed during the calibration process. Note that Type S pitot tube coefficients obtained by single-velocity calibration at 910 m/min (3,000 ft/min) will generally be valid to +/-3 percent for the measurement of velocities above 300 m/min (1,000 ft/min) and to +/-6 percent for the measurement of velocities between 180 and 300 m/min (600 and 1,000 ft/min). If a more precise correlation between the pitot tube coefficient (Cp) and velocity is desired, the flow system should have the capacity to generate at least four distinct, time-invariant test-section velocities covering the velocity range from 180 to 1,500 m/min (600 to 5,000 ft/min), and calibration data shall be taken at regular velocity intervals over this range (see References 9 and 14 in section 17.0 for details).

10.1.2.4 Two entry ports, one for each of the standard and Type S pitot tubes, shall be cut in the test section. The standard pitot entry port shall be located slightly downstream of the Type S port, so that the standard and Type S impact openings will lie in the same cross-sectional plane during calibration. To facilitate alignment of the pitot tubes during calibration, it is advisable that the test section be constructed of Plexiglasor some other transparent material.

10.1.3 Calibration Procedure. Note that this procedure is a general one and must not be used without first referring to the special considerations presented in section 10.1.5. Note also that this procedure applies only to single-velocity calibration. To obtain calibration data for the A and B sides of the Type S pitot tube, proceed as follows:

10.1.3.1 Make sure that the manometer is properly filled and that the oil is free from contamination and is of the proper density. Inspect and leak-check all pitot lines; repair or replace if necessary.

10.1.3.2 Level and zero the manometer. Switch on the fan, and allow the flow to stabilize. Seal the Type S pitot tube entry port.

10.1.3.3 Ensure that the manometer is level and zeroed. Position the standard pitot tube at the calibration point (determined as outlined in section 10.1.5.1), and align the tube so that its tip is pointed directly into the flow. Particular care should be taken in aligning the tube to avoid yaw and pitch angles. Make sure that the entry port surrounding the tube is properly sealed.

10.1.3.4 Read Δp, and record its value in a data table similar to the one shown in Figure 2-9. Remove the standard pitot tube from the duct, and disconnect it from the manometer. Seal the standard entry port. Make no adjustment to the fan speed or other wind tunnel volumetric flow control device between this reading and the corresponding Type S pitot reading.

10.1.3.5 Connect the Type S pitot tube to the manometer and leak-check. Open the Type S tube entry port. Check the manometer level and zero. Insert and align the Type S pitot tube so that its A side impact opening is at the same point as was the standard pitot tube and is pointed directly into the flow. Make sure that the entry port surrounding the tube is properly sealed.

10.1.3.6 Read Δp, and enter its value in the data table. Remove the Type S pitot tube from the duct, and disconnect it from the manometer.

10.1.3.7 Repeat Steps 10.1.3.3 through 10.1.3.6 until three pairs of Δp readings have been obtained for the A side of the Type S pitot tube, with all the paired observations conducted at a constant fan speed (no changes to fan velocity between observed readings).

10.1.3.8 Repeat Steps 10.1.3.3 through 10.1.3.7 for the B side of the Type S pitot tube.

10.1.3.9 Perform calculations as described in section 12.4. Use the Type S pitot tube only if the values of &#x3C3;and &#x3C3;are less than or equal to 0.01 and if the absolute value of the difference between Cand Cis 0.01 or less.

10.1.4 Special Considerations.

10.1.4.1 Selection of Calibration Point.
