
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-1 to Part 60 - Test Methods 1 through 2F
###### e.g.,

8.3 Post-test Procedures. Perform all post-test procedures (drift tests, leak checks), as outlined in Method 2A, Method 10, and Method 25A and/or Method 25B as applicable.

Same as section 9.0 of Method 2A, Method 10, and Method 25A.

Same as section 10.0 of Method 2A, Method 10, and Method 25A.

10.1 If an analyzer output does not meet the specifications of the method, invalidate the test data for the period. Alternatively, calculate the exhaust volume results using initial calibration data and using final calibration data and report both resulting volumes. Then, for emissions calculations, use the volume measurement resulting in the greatest emission rate or concentration.

Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this method (see section 8.0).

Carry out the calculations, retaining at least one extra decimal figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after the final calculation.

12.1 Nomenclature.

&#x3B8; = Sample run time, min.

S = Standard conditions: 20 &#xB0;C, 760 mm Hg.

12.2 Concentrations. Determine mean concentrations of inlet organics, outlet CO, outlet CO, and outlet organics according to the procedures in the respective methods and the analyzers' calibration curves, and for the time intervals specified in the applicable regulations.

12.3 Exhaust Gas Volume. Calculate the exhaust gas volume as follows:

12.4 Exhaust Gas Volume Flow Rate. Calculate the exhaust gas volume flow rate as follows:

Same as section 16.0 of Method 2A, Method 10, and Method 25A.

1.1 This method is applicable for the determination of average velocity and volumetric flow rate of gas streams in small stacks or ducts. Limits on the applicability of this method are identical to those set forth in Method 2, section 1.0, except that this method is limited to stationary source stacks or ducts less than about 0.30 meter (12 in.) in diameter, or 0.071 m(113 in.) in cross-sectional area, but equal to or greater than about 0.10 meter (4 in.) in diameter, or 0.0081 m(12.57 in.) in cross-sectional area.

1.2 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 The average gas velocity in a stack or duct is determined from the gas density and from measurement of velocity heads with a standard pitot tube.

5.1 This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

Same as Method 2, section 6.0, with the exception of the following:

6.1 Standard Pitot Tube (instead of Type S). A standard pitot tube which meets the specifications of section 6.7 of Method 2. Use a coefficient of 0.99 unless it is calibrated against another standard pitot tube with a NIST-traceable coefficient (see section 10.2 of Method 2).

6.2 Alternative Pitot Tube. A modified hemispherical-nosed pitot tube (see Figure 2C-1), which features a shortened stem and enlarged impact and static pressure holes. Use a coefficient of 0.99 unless it is calibrated as mentioned in section 6.1 above. This pitot tube is useful in particulate liquid droplet-laden gas streams when a "back purge" is ineffective.

8.1 Follow the general procedures in section 8.0 of Method 2, except conduct the measurements at the traverse points specified in Method 1A. The static and impact pressure holes of standard pitot tubes are susceptible to plugging in particulate-laden gas streams. Therefore, adequate proof that the openings of the pitot tube have not plugged during the traverse period must be furnished; this can be done by taking the velocity head (Δp) heading at the final traverse point, cleaning out the impact and static holes of the standard pitot tube by "back-purging" with pressurized air, and then taking another Δp reading. If the Δp readings made before and after the air purge are the same (within +/-5 percent) the traverse is acceptable. Otherwise, reject the run. Note that if the Δp at the final traverse point is unsuitably low, another point may be selected. If "back purging" at regular intervals is part of the procedure, then take comparative Δp readings, as above, for the last two back purges at which suitably high Δp readings are observed.

Same as Method 2, sections 10.2 through 10.4.

Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this method (see section 8.0).

Same as Method 2, section 12.0.

Same as Method 2, section 16.0.

1.1 This method is applicable for the determination of the volumetric flow rates of gas streams in small pipes and ducts. It can be applied to intermittent or variable gas flows only with particular caution.

1.2 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 All the gas flow in the pipe or duct is directed through a rotameter, orifice plate or similar device to measure flow rate or pressure drop. The device has been previously calibrated in a manner that insures its proper calibration for the gas being measured. Absolute temperature and pressure measurements are made to allow correction of volumetric flow rates to standard conditions.

5.1 This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

Specifications for the apparatus are given below. Any other apparatus that has been demonstrated (subject to approval of the Administrator) to be capable of meeting the specifications will be considered acceptable.

6.1 Gas Metering Rate or Flow Element Device. A rotameter, orifice plate, or other volume rate or pressure drop measuring device capable of measuring the stack flow rate to within +/-5 percent. The metering device shall be equipped with a temperature gauge accurate to within +/-2 percent of the minimum absolute stack temperature and a pressure gauge (accurate to within +/-5 mm Hg). The capacity of the metering device shall be sufficient for the expected maximum and minimum flow rates at the stack gas conditions. The magnitude and variability of stack gas flow rate, molecular weight, temperature, pressure, dewpoint, and corrosive characteristics, and pipe or duct size are factors to consider in choosing a suitable metering device.

6.2 Barometer. Same as Method 2, section 6.5.

6.3 Stopwatch. Capable of measurement to within 1 second.

8.1 Installation and Leak Check. Same as Method 2A, sections 8.1 and 8.2, respectively.

8.2 Volume Rate Measurement.

8.2.1 Continuous, Steady Flow. At least once an hour, record the metering device flow rate or pressure drop reading, and the metering device temperature and pressure. Make a minimum of 12 equally spaced readings of each parameter during the test period. Record the barometric pressure at the beginning and end of the test period. Record the data on a table similar to that shown in Figure 2D-1.

8.2.2 Noncontinuous and Nonsteady Flow. Use volume rate devices with particular caution. Calibration will be affected by variation in stack gas temperature, pressure and molecular weight. Use the procedure in section 8.2.1 with the addition of the following: Record all the metering device parameters on a time interval frequency sufficient to adequately profile each process cyclical or noncontinuous event. A multichannel continuous recorder may be used.

Same as Method 2A, section 10.0, with the following exception:

10.1 Gas Metering Device. Same as Method 2A, section 10.1, except calibrate the metering device with the principle stack gas to be measured (examples: air, nitrogen) against a standard reference meter. A calibrated dry gas meter is an acceptable reference meter. Ideally, calibrate the metering device in the field with the actual gas to be metered. For metering devices that have a volume rate readout, calculate the test metering device calibration coefficient, Y, for each run shown in Equation 2D-2 section 12.3.

10.2 For metering devices that do not have a volume rate readout, refer to the manufacturer's instructions to calculate the Vcorresponding to each V.

10.3 Temperature Gauge. Use the procedure and specifications in Method 2A, section 10.2. Perform the calibration at a temperature that approximates field test conditions.

10.4 Barometer. Calibrate the barometer used against a mercury barometer or NIST-traceable barometer prior to the field test.

Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this method (see section 8.0).

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Gas Flow Rate.

12.3 Test Meter Device Calibration Coefficient. Calculation for testing metering device calibration coefficient, Y.

1. Spink, L.K. Principles and Practice of Flowmeter Engineering. The Foxboro Company. Foxboro, MA. 1967.

2. Benedict, R.P. Fundamentals of Temperature, Pressure, and Flow Measurements. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. New York, NY. 1969.

3. Orifice Metering of Natural Gas. American Gas Association. Arlington, VA. Report No. 3. March 1978. 88 pp.

1.1 Applicability. This method applies to the measurement of landfill gas (LFG) production flow rate from municipal solid waste landfills and is used to calculate the flow rate of nonmethane organic compounds (NMOC) from landfills.

1.2 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 Extraction wells are installed either in a cluster of three or at five dispersed locations in the landfill. A blower is used to extract LFG from the landfill. LFG composition, landfill pressures, and orifice pressure differentials from the wells are measured and the landfill gas production flow rate is calculated.

5.1 Since this method is complex, only experienced personnel should perform the test. Landfill gas contains methane, therefore explosive mixtures may exist at or near the landfill. It is advisable to take appropriate safety precautions when testing landfills, such as refraining from smoking and installing explosion-proof equipment.

6.1 Well Drilling Rig. Capable of boring a 0.61 m (24 in.) diameter hole into the landfill to a minimum of 75 percent of the landfill depth. The depth of the well shall not extend to the bottom of the landfill or the liquid level.

6.2 Gravel. No fines. Gravel diameter should be appreciably larger than perforations stated in sections 6.10 and 8.2.

6.3 Bentonite.

6.4 Backfill Material. Clay, soil, and sandy loam have been found to be acceptable.

6.5 Extraction Well Pipe. Minimum diameter of 3 in., constructed of polyvinyl chloride (PVC), high density polyethylene (HDPE), fiberglass, stainless steel, or other suitable nonporous material capable of transporting landfill gas.

6.6 Above Ground Well Assembly. Valve capable of adjusting gas flow, such as a gate, ball, or butterfly valve; sampling ports at the well head and outlet; and a flow measuring device, such as an in-line orifice meter or pitot tube. A schematic of the aboveground well head assembly is shown in Figure 2E-1.

6.7 Cap. Constructed of PVC or HDPE.

6.8 Header Piping. Constructed of PVC or HDPE.

6.9 Auger. Capable of boring a 0.15-to 0.23-m (6-to 9-in.) diameter hole to a depth equal to the top of the perforated section of the extraction well, for pressure probe installation.

6.10 Pressure Probe. Constructed of PVC or stainless steel (316), 0.025-m (1-in.). Schedule 40 pipe. Perforate the bottom two-thirds. A minimum requirement for perforations is slots or holes with an open area equivalent to four 0.006-m (-in.) diameter holes spaced 90&#xB0; apart every 0.15 m (6 in.).

6.11 Blower and Flare Assembly. Explosion-proof blower, capable of extracting LFG at a flow rate of 8.5 m/min (300 ft/min), a water knockout, and flare or incinerator.

6.12 Standard Pitot Tube and Differential Pressure Gauge for Flow Rate Calibration with Standard Pitot. Same as Method 2, sections 6.7 and 6.8.

6.13 Orifice Meter. Orifice plate, pressure tabs, and pressure measuring device to measure the LFG flow rate.

6.14 Barometer. Same as Method 4, section 6.1.5.

6.15 Differential Pressure Gauge. Water-filled U-tube manometer or equivalent, capable of measuring within 0.02 mm Hg (0.01 in. HO), for measuring the pressure of the pressure probes.

8.1 Placement of Extraction Wells. The landfill owner or operator may install a single cluster of three extraction wells in a test area or space five equal-volume wells over the landfill. The cluster wells are recommended but may be used only if the composition, age of the refuse, and the landfill depth of the test area can be determined.

8.1.1 Cluster Wells. Consult landfill site records for the age of the refuse, depth, and composition of various sections of the landfill. Select an area near the perimeter of the landfill with a depth equal to or greater than the average depth of the landfill and with the average age of the refuse between 2 and 10 years old. Avoid areas known to contain nondecomposable materials, such as concrete and asbestos. Locate the cluster wells as shown in Figure 2E-2.

8.1.1.1 The age of the refuse in a test area will not be uniform, so calculate a weighted average age of the refuse as shown in section 12.2.

8.1.2 Equal Volume Wells. Divide the sections of the landfill that are at least 2 years old into five areas representing equal volumes. Locate an extraction well near the center of each area.

8.2 Installation of Extraction Wells. Use a well drilling rig to dig a 0.6 m (24 in.) diameter hole in the landfill to a minimum of 75 percent of the landfill depth, not to extend to the bottom of the landfill or the liquid level. Perforate the bottom two thirds of the extraction well pipe. A minimum requirement for perforations is holes or slots with an open area equivalent to 0.01-m (0.5-in.) diameter holes spaced 90&#xB0; apart every 0.1 to 0.2 m (4 to 8 in.). Place the extraction well in the center of the hole and backfill with gravel to a level 0.30 m (1 ft) above the perforated section. Add a layer of backfill material 1.2 m (4 ft) thick. Add a layer of bentonite 0.9 m (3 ft) thick, and backfill the remainder of the hole with cover material or material equal in permeability to the existing cover material. The specifications for extraction well installation are shown in Figure 2E-3.

8.3 Pressure Probes. Shallow pressure probes are used in the check for infiltration of air into the landfill, and deep pressure probes are use to determine the radius of influence. Locate pressure probes along three radial arms approximately 120&#xB0; apart at distances of 3, 15, 30, and 45 m (10, 50, 100, and 150 ft) from the extraction well. The tester has the option of locating additional pressure probes at distances every 15 m (50 feet) beyond 45 m (150 ft). Example placements of probes are shown in Figure 2E-4. The 15-, 30-, and 45-m, (50-, 100-, and 150-ft) probes from each well, and any additional probes located along the three radial arms (deep probes), shall extend to a depth equal to the top of the perforated section of the extraction wells. All other probes (shallow probes) shall extend to a depth equal to half the depth of the deep probes.

8.3.1 Use an auger to dig a hole, 0.15- to 0.23-m (6-to 9-in.) in diameter, for each pressure probe. Perforate the bottom two thirds of the pressure probe. A minimum requirement for perforations is holes or slots with an open area equivalent to four 0.006-m (0.25-in.) diameter holes spaced 90&#xB0; apart every 0.15 m (6 in.). Place the pressure probe in the center of the hole and backfill with gravel to a level 0.30 m (1 ft) above the perforated section. Add a layer of backfill material at least 1.2 m (4 ft) thick. Add a layer of bentonite at least 0.3 m (1 ft) thick, and backfill the remainder of the hole with cover material or material equal in permeability to the existing cover material. The specifications for pressure probe installation are shown in Figure 2E-5.

8.4 LFG Flow Rate Measurement. Place the flow measurement device, such as an orifice meter, as shown in Figure 2E-1. Attach the wells to the blower and flare assembly. The individual wells may be ducted to a common header so that a single blower, flare assembly, and flow meter may be used. Use the procedures in section 10.1 to calibrate the flow meter.

8.5 Leak-Check. A leak-check of the above ground system is required for accurate flow rate measurements and for safety. Sample LFG at the well head sample port and at the outlet sample port. Use Method 3C to determine nitrogen (N) concentrations. Determine the difference between the well head and outlet Nconcentrations using the formula in section 12.3. The system passes the leak-check if the difference is less than 10,000 ppmv.

8.6 Static Testing. Close the control valves on the well heads during static testing. Measure the gauge pressure (P) at each deep pressure probe and the barometric pressure (P) every 8 hours (hr) for 3 days. Convert the gauge pressure of each deep pressure probe to absolute pressure using the equation in section 12.4. Record as P(initial absolute pressure).

8.6.1 For each probe, average all of the 8-hr deep pressure probe readings (P) and record as P(average absolute pressure). Pis used in section 8.7.5 to determine the maximum radius of influence.

8.6.2 Measure the static flow rate of each well once during static testing.

8.7 Short-Term Testing. The purpose of short-term testing is to determine the maximum vacuum that can be applied to the wells without infiltration of ambient air into the landfill. The short-term testing is performed on one well at a time. Burn all LFG with a flare or incinerator.

8.7.1 Use the blower to extract LFG from a single well at a rate at least twice the static flow rate of the respective well measured in section 8.6.2. If using a single blower and flare assembly and a common header system, close the control valve on the wells not being measured. Allow 24 hr for the system to stabilize at this flow rate.

8.7.2 Test for infiltration of air into the landfill by measuring the gauge pressures of the shallow pressure probes and using Method 3C to determine the LFG Nconcentration. If the LFG Nconcentration is less than 5 percent and all of the shallow probes have a positive gauge pressure, increase the blower vacuum by 3.7 mm Hg (2 in. HO), wait 24 hr, and repeat the tests for infiltration. Continue the above steps of increasing blower vacuum by 3.7 mm Hg (2 in. HO), waiting 24 hr, and testing for infiltration until the concentration of Nexceeds 5 percent or any of the shallow probes have a negative gauge pressure. When this occurs,reduce the blower vacuum to the maximum setting at which the Nconcentration was less than 5 percent and the gauge pressures of the shallow probes are positive.

8.7.3 At this blower vacuum, measure atmospheric pressure (P) every 8 hr for 24 hr, and record the LFG flow rate (Q) and the probe gauge pressures (P) for all of the probes. Convert the gauge pressures of the deep probes to absolute pressures for each 8-hr reading at Qas shown in section 12.4.

8.7.4 For each probe, average the 8-hr deep pressure probe absolute pressure readings and record as P(the final average absolute pressure).

8.7.5 For each probe, compare the initial average pressure (P) from section 8.6.1 to the final average pressure (P). Determine the furthermost point from the well head along each radial arm where P&#x2264;P. This distance is the maximum radius of influence (R), which is the distance from the well affected by the vacuum. Average these values to determine the average maximum radius of influence (R).

8.7.6 Calculate the depth (D) affected by the extraction well during the short term test as shown in section 12.6. If the computed value of Dexceeds the depth of the landfill, set Dequal to the landfill depth.

8.7.7 Calculate the void volume (V) for the extraction well as shown in section 12.7.

8.7.8 Repeat the procedures in section 8.7 for each well.

8.8 Calculate the total void volume of the test wells (V) by summing the void volumes (V) of each well.

8.9 Long-Term Testing. The purpose of long-term testing is to extract two void volumes of LFG from the extraction wells. Use the blower to extract LFG from the wells. If a single Blower and flare assembly and common header system are used, open all control valves and set the blower vacuum equal to the highest stabilized blower vacuum demonstrated by any individual well in section 8.7. Every 8 hr, sample the LFG from the well head sample port, measure the gauge pressures of the shallow pressure probes, the blower vacuum, the LFG flow rate, and use the criteria for infiltration in section 8.7.2 and Method 3C to test for infiltration. If infiltration is detected, do not reduce the blower vacuum, instead reduce the LFG flow rate from the well by adjusting the control valve on the well head. Adjust each affected well individually. Continue until the equivalent of two total void volumes (V) have been extracted, or until V= 2V.

8.9.1 Calculate V, the total volume of LFG extracted from the wells, as shown in section 12.8.

8.9.2 Record the final stabilized flow rate as Qand the gauge pressure for each deep probe. If, during the long term testing, the flow rate does not stabilize, calculate Qby averaging the last 10 recorded flow rates.

8.9.3 For each deep probe, convert each gauge pressure to absolute pressure as in section 12.4. Average these values and record as P. For each probe, compare Pto P. Determine the furthermost point from the well head along each radial arm where P&#x2264;P. This distance is the stabilized radius of influence. Average these values to determine the average stabilized radius of influence (R).

8.10 Determine the NMOC mass emission rate using the procedures in section 12.9 through 12.15.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

10.1 LFG Flow Rate Meter (Orifice) Calibration Procedure. Locate a standard pitot tube in line with an orifice meter. Use the procedures in section 8, 12.5, 12.6, and 12.7 of Method 2 to determine the average dry gas volumetric flow rate for at least five flow rates that bracket the expected LFG flow rates, except in section 8.1, use a standard pitot tube rather than a Type S pitot tube. Method 3C may be used to determine the dry molecular weight. It may be necessary to calibrate more than one orifice meter in order to bracket the LFG flow rates. Construct a calibration curve by plotting the pressure drops across the orifice meter for each flow rate versus the average dry gas volumetric flow rate in m/min of the gas.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Use the following equation to calculate a weighted average age of landfill refuse.

12.3 Use the following equation to determine the difference in Nconcentrations (ppmv) at the well head and outlet location.

12.4 Use the following equation to convert the gauge pressure (P) of each initial deep pressure probe to absolute pressure (P).

12.5 Use the following equation to convert the gauge pressures of the deep probes to absolute pressures for each 8-hr reading at Q.

12.6 Use the following equation to calculate the depth (D) affected by the extraction well during the short-term test.

12.7 Use the following equation to calculate the void volume for the extraction well (V).

12.8 Use the following equation to calculate V, the total volume of LFG extracted from the wells.

12.9 Use the following equation to calculate the depth affected by the test well. If using cluster wells, use the average depth of the wells for WD. If the value of D is greater than the depth of the landfill, set D equal to the landfill depth.

12.10 Use the following equation to calculate the volume of refuse affected by the test well.

12.11 Use the following equation to calculate the mass affected by the test well.

12.12 Modify Lto account for the nondecomposable refuse in the landfill.

12.13 In the following equation, solve for k (landfill gas generation constant) by iteration. A suggested procedure is to select a value for k, calculate the left side of the equation, and if not equal to zero, select another value for k. Continue this process until the left hand side of the equation equals zero, +/-0.001.

12.14 Use the following equation to determine landfill NMOC mass emission rate if the yearly acceptance rate of refuse has been consistent (10 percent) over the life of the landfill.

12.15 Use the following equation to determine landfill NMOC mass emission rate if the acceptance rate has not been consistent over the life of the landfill.

1. Same as Method 2, Appendix A, 40 CFR Part 60.

2. Emcon Associates, Methane Generation and Recovery from Landfills. Ann Arbor Science, 1982.

3. The Johns Hopkins University, Brown Station Road Landfill Gas Resource Assessment, Volume 1: Field Testing and Gas Recovery Projections. Laurel, Maryland: October 1982.

4. Mandeville and Associates, Procedure Manual for Landfill Gases Emission Testing.

5. Letter and attachments from Briggum, S., Waste Management of North America, to Thorneloe, S., EPA. Response to July 28, 1988 request for additional information. August 18, 1988.

6. Letter and attachments from Briggum, S., Waste Management of North America, to Wyatt, S., EPA. Response to December 7, 1988 request for additional information. January 16, 1989.

2.1 A 3-D probe is used to determine the velocity pressure and the yaw and pitch angles of the flow velocity vector in a stack or duct. The method determines the yaw angle directly by rotating the probe to null the pressure across a pair of symmetrically placed ports on the probe head. The pitch angle is calculated using probe-specific calibration curves. From these values and a determination of the stack gas density, the average axial velocity of the stack gas is calculated. The average gas volumetric flow rate in the stack or duct is then determined from the average axial velocity.
