
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Headquarters
###### ยง 1.33 Office of Administration and Resources Management.
####### Office of Information Resources Management.

(e)The Office of Information Resources Management (OIRM), under the supervision of a Director, provides for an information resource management program (IRM) consistent with the provisions of Public Law 96-511. The Office establishes policy, goals and objectives for implementation of IRM; develops annual and long-range plans and budgets for IRM functions and activities; and promotes IRM concepts throughout the Agency. The Office coordinates IRM activities; plans, develops and operates information systems and services in support of the Agency's management and administrative functions, and other Agency programs and functions as required. The Office oversees the performance of these activities when carried out by other Agency components. The Office performs liaison for interagency sharing of information and coordinates IRM activities with OMB and GSA. The Office ensures compliance with requirements of Public Law 96-511 and other Federal laws, regulations, and guidelines relative to IRM; and chairs the Agency's IRM Steering Committee. The Office develops Agency policies and standards; and administers or oversees Agency programs for library systems and services, internal records management, and the automated collection, processing, storage, retrieval and transmission of data by or for Agency components and programs. The Office provides national program policy and technical guidance for: The acquisition of all information technology, systems and services by or for Agency components and programs, inculding those systems and services acquired by grantees and contractors using Agency funds; the operation of all Agency computers and telecommunications hardware and facilities; and the establishment and/or application of telecommunications and Federal information processing standards. The Office reviews and evaluates information systems and services, including office automation, which are operated by other Agency components; and sets standards for and approves the selection of Agency personnel who are responsible for the technical management of these activities. The Office coordinates its performance of these functions and activities with the Agency's information collection policies and budgets managed by the Office of Policy, Planning and Evaluation.
