
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### Yaw Nulling.

3.24A procedure in which a Type-S pitot tube or a 3-D probe is rotated about its axis in a stack or duct until a zero differential pressure reading ("yaw null") is obtained. When a Type S probe is yaw-nulled, the rotational position of its impact port is 90&#xB0; from the direction of flow in the stack or duct and the ΔP reading is zero. When a 3-D probe is yaw-nulled, its impact pressure port (P) faces directly into the direction of flow in the stack or duct and the differential pressure between pressure ports Pand Pis zero.

5.1 This test method may involve hazardous operations and the use of hazardous materials or equipment. This method does not purport to address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish and implement appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations before using this test method.

6.1 Two-dimensional Probes. Probes that provide both the velocity pressure and the yaw angle of the flow vector in a stack or duct, as listed in sections 6.1.1 and 6.1.2, qualify for use based on comprehensive wind tunnel and field studies involving both inter-and intra-probe comparisons by multiple test teams. Each 2-D probe shall have a unique identification number or code permanently marked on the main probe sheath. Each probe shall be calibrated prior to use according to the procedures in section 10. Manufacturer-supplied calibration data shall be used as example information only, except when the manufacturer calibrates the probe as specified in section 10 and provides complete documentation.
