
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### w,z

6.1.1 Type S (Stausscheibe or reverse type) pitot tube. This is the same as specified in Method 2, section 2.1, except for the following additional specifications that enable the pitot tube to accurately determine the yaw component of flow. For the purposes of this method, the external diameter of the tubing used to construct the Type S pitot tube (dimension Din Figure 2-2 of Method 2) shall be no less than 9.5 mm (3/8 in.). The pitot tube shall also meet the following alignment specifications. The angles &#x3B1;, &#x3B1;, &#x3B2;, and &#x3B2;, as shown in Method 2, Figure 2-3, shall not exceed +/-2&#xB0;. The dimensionsand, shown in Method 2, Figure 2-3 shall not exceed 0.5 mm (0.02 in.).

6.1.1.1 Manual Type S probe. This refers to a Type S probe that is positioned at individual traverse points and yaw nulled manually by an operator.

6.1.1.2 Automated Type S probe. This refers to a system that uses a computer-controlled motorized mechanism to position the Type S pitot head at individual traverse points and perform yaw angle determinations.

6.1.2 Three-dimensional probes used in 2-D mode. A 3-D probe, as specified in sections 6.1.1 through 6.1.3 of Method 2F, may, for the purposes of this method, be used in a two-dimensional mode (i.e., measuring yaw angle, but not pitch angle). When the 3-D probe is used as a 2-D probe, only the velocity pressure and yaw-null pressure are obtained using the pressure taps referred to as P, P, and P. The differential pressure P-Pis a function of total velocity and corresponds to the ΔP obtained using the Type S probe. The differential pressure P-Pis used to yaw null the probe and determine the yaw angle. The differential pressure P-P, which is a function of pitch angle, is not measured when the 3-D probe is used in 2-D mode.

6.1.3 Other probes. [Reserved]

6.1.4 Probe sheath. The probe shaft shall include an outer sheath to: (1) provide a surface for inscribing a permanent reference scribe line, (2) accommodate attachment of an angle-measuring device to the probe shaft, and (3) facilitate precise rotational movement of the probe for determining yaw angles. The sheath shall be rigidly attached to the probe assembly and shall enclose all pressure lines from the probe head to the farthest position away from the probe head where an angle-measuring device may be attached during use in the field. The sheath of the fully assembled probe shall be sufficiently rigid and straight at all rotational positions such that, when one end of the probe shaft is held in a horizontal position, the fully extended probe meets the horizontal straightness specifications indicated in section 8.2 below.

6.1.5 Scribe lines.

6.1.5.1 Reference scribe line. A permanent line, no greater than 1.6 mm (1/16 in.) in width, shall be inscribed on each manual probe that will be used to determine yaw angles of flow. This line shall be placed on the main probe sheath in accordance with the procedures described in section 10.4 and is used as a reference position for installation of the yaw angle-measuring device on the probe. At the discretion of the tester, the scribe line may be a single line segment placed at a particular position on the probe sheath (e.g., near the probe head), multiple line segments placed at various locations along the length of the probe sheath (e.g., at every position where a yaw angle-measuring device may be mounted), or a single continuous line extending along the full length of the probe sheath.

6.1.5.2 Scribe line on probe extensions. A permanent line may also be inscribed on any probe extension that will be attached to the main probe in performing field testing. This allows a yaw angle-measuring device mounted on the extension to be readily aligned with the reference scribe line on the main probe sheath.

6.1.5.3 Alignment specifications. This specification shall be met separately, using the procedures in section 10.4.1, on the main probe and on each probe extension. The rotational position of the scribe line or scribe line segments on the main probe or any probe extension must not vary by more than 2&#xB0;. That is, the difference between the minimum and maximum of all of the rotational angles that are measured along the full length of the main probe or the probe extension must not exceed 2&#xB0;.

6.1.6 Probe and system characteristics to ensure horizontal stability.

6.1.6.1 For manual probes, it is recommended that the effective length of the probe (coupled with a probe extension, if necessary) be at least 0.9 m (3 ft.) longer than the farthest traverse point mark on the probe shaft away from the probe head. The operator should maintain the probe's horizontal stability when it is fully inserted into the stack or duct. If a shorter probe is used, the probe should be inserted through a bushing sleeve, similar to the one shown in Figure 2G-3, that is installed on the test port; such a bushing shall fit snugly around the probe and be secured to the stack or duct entry port in such a manner as to maintain the probe's horizontal stability when fully inserted into the stack or duct.

6.1.6.2 An automated system that includes an external probe casing with a transport system shall have a mechanism for maintaining horizontal stability comparable to that obtained by manual probes following the provisions of this method. The automated probe assembly shall also be constructed to maintain the alignment and position of the pressure ports during sampling at each traverse point. The design of the probe casing and transport system shall allow the probe to be removed from the stack or duct and checked through direct physical measurement for angular position and insertion depth.

6.1.7 The tubing that is used to connect the probe and the pressure-measuring device should have an inside diameter of at least 3.2 mm (in.), to reduce the time required for pressure equilibration, and should be as short as practicable.

6.1.8 If a detachable probe head without a sheath [e.g., a pitot tube, typically 15.2 to 30.5 cm (6 to 12 in.) in length] is coupled with a probe sheath and calibrated in a wind tunnel in accordance with the yaw angle calibration procedure in section 10.5, the probe head shall remain attached to the probe sheath during field testing in the same configuration and orientation as calibrated. Once the detachable probe head is uncoupled or re-oriented, the yaw angle calibration of the probe is no longer valid and must be repeated before using the probe in subsequent field tests.

6.2 Yaw Angle-measuring Device. One of the following devices shall be used for measurement of the yaw angle of flow.

6.2.1 Digital inclinometer. This refers to a digital device capable of measuring and displaying the rotational position of the probe to within +/-1&#xB0;. The device shall be able to be locked into position on the probe sheath or probe extension, so that it indicates the probe's rotational position throughout the test. A rotational position collar block that can be attached to the probe sheath (similar to the collar shown in Figure 2G-4) may be required to lock the digital inclinometer into position on the probe sheath.

6.2.2 Protractor wheel and pointer assembly. This apparatus, similar to that shown in Figure 2G-5, consists of the following components.

6.2.2.1 A protractor wheel that can be attached to a port opening and set in a fixed rotational position to indicate the yaw angle position of the probe's scribe line relative to the longitudinal axis of the stack or duct. The protractor wheel must have a measurement ring on its face that is no less than 17.8 cm (7 in.) in diameter, shall be able to be rotated to any angle and then locked into position on the stack or duct test port, and shall indicate angles to a resolution of 1&#xB0;.

6.2.2.2 A pointer assembly that includes an indicator needle mounted on a collar that can slide over the probe sheath and be locked into a fixed rotational position on the probe sheath. The pointer needle shall be of sufficient length, rigidity, and sharpness to allow the tester to determine the probe's angular position to within 1&#xB0; from the markings on the protractor wheel. Corresponding to the position of the pointer, the collar must have a scribe line to be used in aligning the pointer with the scribe line on the probe sheath.

6.2.3 Other yaw angle-measuring devices. Other angle-measuring devices with a manufacturer's specified precision of 1&#xB0; or better may be used, if approved by the Administrator.

6.3 Probe Supports and Stabilization Devices. When probes are used for determining flow angles, the probe head should be kept in a stable horizontal position. For probes longer than 3.0 m (10 ft.), the section of the probe that extends outside the test port shall be secured. Three alternative devices are suggested for maintaining the horizontal position and stability of the probe shaft during flow angle determinations and velocity pressure measurements: (1) monorails installed above each port, (2) probe stands on which the probe shaft may be rested, or (3) bushing sleeves of sufficient length secured to the test ports to maintain probes in a horizontal position. Comparable provisions shall be made to ensure that automated systems maintain the horizontal position of the probe in the stack or duct. The physical characteristics of each test platform may dictate the most suitable type of stabilization device. Thus, the choice of a specific stabilization device is left to the judgement of the testers.

6.4 Differential Pressure Gauges. The velocity pressure (ΔP) measuring devices used during wind tunnel calibrations and field testing shall be either electronic manometers (e.g., pressure transducers), fluid manometers, or mechanical pressure gauges (e.g., Magnehelicgauges). Use of electronic manometers is recommended. Under low velocity conditions, use of electronic manometers may be necessary to obtain acceptable measurements.

6.4.1 Differential pressure-measuring device. This refers to a device capable of measuring pressure differentials and having a readability of +/-1 percent of full scale. The device shall be capable of accurately measuring the maximum expected pressure differential. Such devices are used to determine the following pressure measurements: velocity pressure, static pressure, and yaw-null pressure. For an inclined-vertical manometer, the readability specification of +/-1 percent shall be met separately using the respective full-scale upper limits of the inclined anvertical portions of the scales. To the extent practicable, the device shall be selected such that most of the pressure readings are between 10 and 90 percent of the device's full-scale measurement range (as defined in section 3.4). In addition, pressure-measuring devices should be selected such that the zero does not drift by more than 5 percent of the average expected pressure readings to be encountered during the field test. This is particularly important under low pressure conditions.

6.4.2 Gauge used for yaw nulling. The differential pressure-measuring device chosen for yaw nulling the probe during the wind tunnel calibrations and field testing shall be bi-directional, i.e., capable of reading both positive and negative differential pressures. If a mechanical, bi-directional pressure gauge is chosen, it shall have a full-scale range no greater than 2.6 cm (i.e., -1.3 to + 1.3 cm) [1 in. HO (i.e., -0.5 in. to + 0.5 in.)].

6.4.3 Devices for calibrating differential pressure-measuring devices. A precision manometer (e.g., a U-tube, inclined, or inclined-vertical manometer, or micromanometer) or NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) traceable pressure source shall be used for calibrating differential pressure-measuring devices. The device shall be maintained under laboratory conditions or in a similar protected environment (e.g., a climate-controlled trailer). It shall not be used in field tests. The precision manometer shall have a scale gradation of 0.3 mm HO (0.01 in. HO), or less, in the range of 0 to 5.1 cm HO (0 to 2 in. HO) and 2.5 mm HO (0.1 in. HO), or less, in the range of 5.1 to 25.4 cm HO (2 to 10 in. HO). The manometer shall have manufacturer's documentation that it meets an accuracy specification of at least 0.5 percent of full scale. The NIST-traceable pressure source shall be recertified annually.

6.4.4 Devices used for post-test calibration check. A precision manometer meeting the specifications in section 6.4.3, a pressure-measuring device or pressure source with a documented calibration traceable to NIST, or an equivalent device approved by the Administrator shall be used for the post-test calibration check. The pressure-measuring device shall have a readability equivalent to or greater than the tested device. The pressure source shall be capable of generating pressures between 50 and 90 percent of the range of the tested device and known to within +/-1 percent of the full scale of the tested device. The pressure source shall be recertified annually.

6.5 Data Display and Capture Devices. Electronic manometers (if used) shall be coupled with a data display device (such as a digital panel meter, personal computer display, or strip chart) that allows the tester to observe and validate the pressure measurements taken during testing. They shall also be connected to a data recorder (such as a data logger or a personal computer with data capture software) that has the ability to compute and retain the appropriate average value at each traverse point, identified by collection time and traverse point.

6.6 Temperature Gauges. For field tests, a thermocouple or resistance temperature detector (RTD) capable of measuring temperature to within +/-3 &#xB0;C (+/-5 &#xB0;F) of the stack or duct temperature shall be used. The thermocouple shall be attached to the probe such that the sensor tip does not touch any metal. The position of the thermocouple relative to the pressure port face openings shall be in the same configuration as used for the probe calibrations in the wind tunnel. Temperature gauges used for wind tunnel calibrations shall be capable of measuring temperature to within +/-0.6 &#xB0;C (+/-1 &#xB0;F) of the temperature of the flowing gas stream in the wind tunnel.

6.7 Stack or Duct Static Pressure Measurement. The pressure-measuring device used with the probe shall be as specified in section 6.4 of this method. The static tap of a standard (Prandtl type) pitot tube or one leg of a Type S pitot tube with the face opening planes positioned parallel to the gas flow may be used for this measurement. Also acceptable is the pressure differential reading of P-Pfrom a five-hole prism-shaped 3-D probe, as specified in section 6.1.1 of Method 2F (such as the Type DA or DAT probe), with the Ppressure port face opening positioned parallel to the gas flow in the same manner as the Type S probe. However, the 3-D spherical probe, as specified in section 6.1.2 of Method 2F, is unable to provide this measurement and shall not be used to take static pressure measurements. Static pressure measurement is further described in section 8.11.

6.8 Barometer. Same as Method 2, section 2.5.

6.9 Gas Density Determination Equipment. Method 3 or 3A shall be used to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack or duct gas. Method 4 shall be used for moisture content determination and computation of stack or duct gas wet molecular weight. Other methods may be used, if approved by the Administrator.

6.10 Calibration Pitot Tube. Same as Method 2, section 2.7.

6.11 Wind Tunnel for Probe Calibration. Wind tunnels used to calibrate velocity probes must meet the following design specifications.

6.11.1 Test section cross-sectional area. The flowing gas stream shall be confined within a circular, rectangular, or elliptical duct. The cross-sectional area of the tunnel must be large enough to ensure fully developed flow in the presence of both the calibration pitot tube and the tested probe. The calibration site, or "test section," of the wind tunnel shall have a minimum diameter of 30.5 cm (12 in.) for circular or elliptical duct cross-sections or a minimum width of 30.5 cm (12 in.) on the shorter side for rectangular cross-sections. Wind tunnels shall meet the probe blockage provisions of this section and the qualification requirements prescribed in section 10.1. The projected area of the portion of the probe head, shaft, and attached devices inside the wind tunnel during calibration shall represent no more than 2 percent of the cross-sectional area of the tunnel. If the pitot and/or probe assembly blocks more than 2 percent of the cross-sectional area at an insertion point only 4 inches inside the wind tunnel, the diameter of the wind tunnel must be increased.

6.11.2 Velocity range and stability. The wind tunnel should be capable of achieving and maintaining a constant and steady velocity between 6.1 m/sec and 30.5 m/sec (20 ft/sec and 100 ft/sec) for the entire calibration period for each selected calibration velocity. The wind tunnel shall produce fully developed flow patterns that are stable and parallel to the axis of the duct in the test section.

6.11.3 Flow profile at the calibration location. The wind tunnel shall provide axial flow within the test section calibration location (as defined in section 3.21). Yaw and pitch angles in the calibration location shall be within +/-3&#xB0; of 0&#xB0;. The procedure for determining that this requirement has been met is described in section 10.1.2.

6.11.4 Entry ports in the wind tunnel test section.

6.11.4.1 Port for tested probe. A port shall be constructed for the tested probe. This port shall be located to allow the head of the tested probe to be positioned within the wind tunnel calibration location (as defined in section 3.21). The tested probe shall be able to be locked into the 0&#xB0; pitch angle position. To facilitate alignment of the probe during calibration, the test section should include a window constructed of a transparent material to allow the tested probe to be viewed.

6.11.4.2 Port for verification of axial flow. Depending on the equipment selected to conduct the axial flow verification prescribed in section 10.1.2, a second port, located 90&#xB0; from the entry port for the tested probe, may be needed to allow verification that the gas flow is parallel to the central axis of the test section. This port should be located and constructed so as to allow one of the probes described in section 10.1.2.2 to access the same test point(s) that are accessible from the port described in section 6.11.4.1.

6.11.4.3 Port for calibration pitot tube. The calibration pitot tube shall be used in the port for the tested probe or in a separate entry port. In either case, all measurements with the calibration pitot tube shall be made at the same point within the wind tunnel over the course of a probe calibration. The measurement point for the calibration pitot tube shall meet the same specifications for distance from the wall and for axial flow as described in section 3.21 for the wind tunnel calibration location.

8.1 Equipment Inspection and Set Up

8.1.1 All 2-D and 3-D probes, differential pressure-measuring devices, yaw angle-measuring devices, thermocouples, and barometers shall have a current, valid calibration before being used in a field test. (See sections 10.3.3, 10.3.4, and 10.5 through 10.10 for the applicable calibration requirements.)

8.1.2 Before each field use of a Type S probe, perform a visual inspection to verify the physical condition of the pitot tube. Record the results of the inspection. If the face openings are noticeably misaligned or there is visible damage to the face openings, the probe shall not be used until repaired, the dimensional specifications verified (according to the procedures in section 10.2.1), and the probe recalibrated.

8.1.3 Before each field use of a 3-D probe, perform a visual inspection to verify the physical condition of the probe head according to the procedures in section 10.2 of Method 2F. Record the inspection results on a form similar to Table 2F-1 presented in Method 2F. If there is visible damage to the 3-D probe, the probe shall not be used until it is recalibrated.

8.1.4 After verifying that the physical condition of the probe head is acceptable, set up the apparatus using lengths of flexible tubing that are as short as practicable. Surge tanks installed between the probe and pressure-measuring device may be used to dampen pressure fluctuations provided that an adequate measurement system response time (see section 8.8) is maintained.

8.2 Horizontal Straightness Check. A horizontal straightness check shall be performed before the start of each field test, except as otherwise specified in this section. Secure the fully assembled probe (including the probe head and all probe shaft extensions) in a horizontal position using a stationary support at a point along the probe shaft approximating the location of the stack or duct entry port when the probe is sampling at the farthest traverse point from the stack or duct wall. The probe shall be rotated to detect bends. Use an angle-measuring device or trigonometry to determine the bend or sag between the probe head and the secured end. (See Figure 2G-6.) Probes that are bent or sag by more than 5&#xB0; shall not be used. Although this check does not apply when the probe is used for a vertical traverse, care should be taken to avoid the use of bent probes when conducting vertical traverses. If the probe is constructed of a rigid steel material and consists of a main probe without probe extensions, this check need only be performed before the initial field use of the probe, when the probe is recalibrated, when a change is made to the design or material of the probe assembly, and when the probe becomes bent. With such probes, a visual inspection shall be made of the fully assembled probe before each field test to determine if a bend is visible. The probe shall be rotated to detect bends. The inspection results shall be documented in the field test report. If a bend in the probe is visible, the horizontal straightness check shall be performed before the probe is used.

8.3 Rotational Position Check. Before each field test, and each time an extension is added to the probe during a field test, a rotational position check shall be performed on all manually operated probes (except as noted in section 8.3.5 below) to ensure that, throughout testing, the angle-measuring device is either: aligned to within +/-1&#xB0; of the rotational position of the reference scribe line; or is affixed to the probe such that the rotational offset of the device from the reference scribe line is known to within +/-1&#xB0;. This check shall consist of direct measurements of the rotational positions of the reference scribe line and angle-measuring device sufficient to verify that these specifications are met. Annex A in section 18 of this method gives recommended procedures for performing the rotational position check, and Table 2G-2 gives an example data form. Procedures other than those recommended in Annex A in section 18 may be used, provided they demonstrate whether the alignment specification is met and are explained in detail in the field test report.

8.3.1 Angle-measuring device rotational offset. The tester shall maintain a record of the angle-measuring device rotational offset, R, as defined in section 3.1. Note that Ris assigned a value of 0&#xB0; when the angle-measuring device is aligned to within +/-1&#xB0; of the rotational position of the reference scribe line. The Rshall be used to determine the yaw angle of flow in accordance with section 8.9.4.

8.3.2 Sign of angle-measuring device rotational offset. The sign of Ris positive when the angle-measuring device (as viewed from the "tail" end of the probe) is positioned in a clockwise direction from the reference scribe line and negative when the device is positioned in a counterclockwise direction from the reference scribe line.

8.3.3 Angle-measuring devices that can be independently adjusted (e.g., by means of a set screw), after being locked into position on the probe sheath, may be used. However, the Rmust also take into account this adjustment.

8.3.4 Post-test check. If probe extensions remain attached to the main probe throughout the field test, the rotational position check shall be repeated, at a minimum, at the completion of the field test to ensure that the angle-measuring device has remained within +/-2&#xB0; of its rotational position established prior to testing. At the discretion of the tester, additional checks may be conducted after completion of testing at any sample port or after any test run. If the +/-2&#xB0; specification is not met, all measurements made since the last successful rotational position check must be repeated. section 18.1.1.3 of Annex A provides an example procedure for performing the post-test check.

8.3.5 Exceptions.

8.3.5.1 A rotational position check need not be performed if, for measurements taken at all velocity traverse points, the yaw angle-measuring device is mounted and aligned directly on the reference scribe line specified in sections 6.1.5.1 and 6.1.5.3 and no independent adjustments, as described in section 8.3.3, are made to device's rotational position.

8.3.5.2 If extensions are detached and re-attached to the probe during a field test, a rotational position check need only be performed the first time an extension is added to the probe, rather than each time the extension is re-attached, if the probe extension is designed to be locked into a mechanically fixed rotational position (e.g., through the use of interlocking grooves), that can re-establish the initial rotational position to within +/-1&#xB0;.

8.4 Leak Checks. A pre-test leak check shall be conducted before each field test. A post-test check shall be performed at the end of the field test, but additional leak checks may be conducted after any test run or group of test runs. The post-test check may also serve as the pre-test check for the next group of test runs. If any leak check is failed, all runs since the last passed leak check are invalid. While performing the leak check procedures, also check each pressure device's responsiveness to changes in pressure.

8.4.1 To perform the leak check on a Type S pitot tube, pressurize the pitot impact opening until at least 7.6 cm HO (3 in. HO) velocity pressure, or a pressure corresponding to approximately 75 percent of the pressure device's measurement scale, whichever is less, registers on the pressure device; then, close off the impact opening. The pressure shall remain stable (+/-2.5 mm HO, +/-0.10 in. HO) for at least 15 seconds. Repeat this procedure for the static pressure side, except use suction to obtain the required pressure. Other leak-check procedures may be used, if approved by the Administrator.

8.4.2 To perform the leak check on a 3-D probe, pressurize the probe's impact (P) opening until at least 7.6 cm HO (3 in. HO) velocity pressure, or a pressure corresponding to approximately 75 percent of the pressure device's measurement scale, whichever is less, registers on the pressure device; then, close off the impact opening. The pressure shall remain stable (+/-2.5 mm HO, +/-0.10 in. HO) for at least 15 seconds. Check the Pand Ppressure ports in the same fashion. Other leak-check procedures may be used, if approved by the Administrator.

8.5 Zeroing the Differential Pressure-measuring Device. Zero each differential pressure-measuring device, including the device used for yaw nulling, before each field test. At a minimum, check the zero after each field test. A zero check may also be performed after any test run or group of test runs. For fluid manometers and mechanical pressure gauges (e.g., Magnehelicgauges), the zero reading shall not deviate from zero by more than +/-0.8 mm HO (+/-0.03 in. HO) or one minor scale division, whichever is greater, between checks. For electronic manometers, the zero reading shall not deviate from zero between checks by more than: +/-0.3 mm HO (+/-0.01 in. HO), for full scales less than or equal to 5.1 cm HO (2.0 in. HO); or +/-0.8 mm HO (+/-0.03 in. HO), for full scales greater than 5.1 cm HO (2.0 in. HO). (If negative zero drift is not directly readable, estimate the reading based on the position of the gauge oil in the manometer or of the needle on the pressure gauge.) In addition, for all pressure-measuring devices except those used exclusively for yaw nulling, the zero reading shall not deviate from zero by more than 5 percent of the average measured differential pressure at any distinct process condition or load level. If any zero check is failed at a specific process condition or load level, all runs conducted at that process condition or load level since the last passed zero check are invalid.

8.6 Traverse Point Verification. The number and location of the traverse points shall be selected based on Method 1 guidelines. The stack or duct diameter and port nipple lengths, including any extension of the port nipples into the stack or duct, shall be verified the first time the test is performed; retain and use this information for subsequent field tests, updating it as required. Physically measure the stack or duct dimensions or use a calibrated laser device; do not use engineering drawings of the stack or duct. The probe length necessary to reach each traverse point shall be recorded to within +/-6.4 mm (+/-in.) and, for manual probes, marked on the probe sheath. In determining these lengths, the tester shall take into account both the distance that the port flange projects outside of the stack and the depth that any port nipple extends into the gas stream. The resulting point positions shall reflect the true distances from the inside wall of the stack or duct, so that when the tester aligns any of the markings with the outside face of the stack port, the probe's impact port shall be located at the appropriate distance from the inside wall for the respective Method 1 traverse point. Before beginning testing at a particular location, an out-of-stack or duct verification shall be performed on each probe that will be used to ensure that these position markings are correct. The distances measured during the verification must agree with the previously calculated distances to within +/-in. For manual probes, the traverse point positions shall be verified by measuring the distance of each mark from the probe's impact pressure port (the Pport for a 3-D probe). A comparable out-of-stack test shall be performed on automated probe systems. The probe shall be extended to each of the prescribed traverse point positions. Then, the accuracy of the positioning for each traverse point shall be verified by measuring the distance between the port flange and the probe's impact pressure port.

8.7 Probe Installation. Insert the probe into the test port. A solid material shall be used to seal the port.

8.8 System Response Time. Determine the response time of the probe measurement system. Insert and position the "cold" probe (at ambient temperature and pressure) at any Method 1 traverse point. Read and record the probe differential pressure, temperature, and elapsed time at 15-second intervals until stable readings for both pressure and temperature are achieved. The response time is the longer of these two elapsed times. Record the response time.

8.9 Sampling.

8.9.1 Yaw angle measurement protocol. With manual probes, yaw angle measurements may be obtained in two alternative ways during the field test, either by using a yaw angle-measuring device (e.g., digital inclinometer) affixed to the probe, or using a protractor wheel and pointer assembly. For horizontal traversing, either approach may be used. For vertical traversing, i.e., when measuring from on top or into the bottom of a horizontal duct, only the protractor wheel and pointer assembly may be used. With automated probes, curve-fitting protocols may be used to obtain yaw-angle measurements.

8.9.1.1 If a yaw angle-measuring device affixed to the probe is to be used, lock the device on the probe sheath, aligning it either on the reference scribe line or in the rotational offset position established under section 8.3.1.

8.9.1.2 If a protractor wheel and pointer assembly is to be used, follow the procedures in Annex B of this method.

8.9.1.3 Curve-fitting procedures. Curve-fitting routines sweep through a range of yaw angles to create curves correlating pressure to yaw position. To find the zero yaw position and the yaw angle of flow, the curve found in the stack is computationally compared to a similar curve that was previously generated under controlled conditions in a wind tunnel. A probe system that uses a curve-fitting routine for determining the yaw-null position of the probe head may be used, provided that it is verified in a wind tunnel to be able to determine the yaw angle of flow to within +/-1&#xB0;.

8.9.1.4 Other yaw angle determination procedures. If approved by the Administrator, other procedures for determining yaw angle may be used, provided that they are verified in a wind tunnel to be able to perform the yaw angle calibration procedure as described in section 10.5.

8.9.2 Sampling strategy. At each traverse point, first yaw-null the probe, as described in section 8.9.3, below. Then, with the probe oriented into the direction of flow, measure and record the yaw angle, the differential pressure and the temperature at the traverse point, after stable readings are achieved, in accordance with sections 8.9.4 and 8.9.5. At the start of testing in each port (i.e., after a probe has been inserted into the flue gas stream), allow at least the response time to elapse before beginning to take measurements at the first traverse point accessed from that port. Provided that the probe is not removed from the flue gas stream, measurements may be taken at subsequent traverse points accessed from the same test port without waiting again for the response time to elapse.

8.9.3 Yaw-nulling procedure. In preparation for yaw angle determination, the probe must first be yaw nulled. After positioning the probe at the appropriate traverse point, perform the following procedures.

8.9.3.1 For Type S probes, rotate the probe until a null differential pressure reading is obtained. The direction of the probe rotation shall be such that the thermocouple is located downstream of the probe pressure ports at the yaw-null position. Rotate the probe 90&#xB0; back from the yaw-null position to orient the impact pressure port into the direction of flow. Read and record the angle displayed by the angle-measuring device.

8.9.3.2 For 3-D probes, rotate the probe until a null differential pressure reading (the difference in pressures across the Pand Ppressure ports is zero, i.e., P= P) is indicated by the yaw angle pressure gauge. Read and record the angle displayed by the angle-measuring device.

8.9.3.3 Sign of the measured angle. The angle displayed on the angle-measuring device is considered positive when the probe's impact pressure port (as viewed from the "tail" end of the probe) is oriented in a clockwise rotational position relative to the stack or duct axis and is considered negative when the probe's impact pressure port is oriented in a counterclockwise rotational position (see Figure 2G-7).

8.9.4 Yaw angle determination. After performing the applicable yaw-nulling procedure in section 8.9.3, determine the yaw angle of flow according to one of the following procedures. Special care must be observed to take into account the signs of the recorded angle reading and all offsets.

8.9.4.1 Direct-reading. If all rotational offsets are zero or if the angle-measuring device rotational offset (R) determined in section 8.3 exactly compensates for the scribe line rotational offset (R) determined in section 10.5, then the magnitude of the yaw angle is equal to the displayed angle-measuring device reading from section 8.9.3.1 or 8.9.3.2. The algebraic sign of the yaw angle is determined in accordance with section 8.9.3.3. [Under certain circumstances (e.g., testing of horizontal ducts) a 90&#xB0; adjustment to the angle-measuring device readings may be necessary to obtain the correct yaw angles.]

8.9.4.2 Compensation for rotational offsets during data reduction. When the angle-measuring device rotational offset does not compensate for reference scribe line rotational offset, the following procedure shall be used to determine the yaw angle:

(a) Enter the reading indicated by the angle-measuring device from section 8.9.3.1 or 8.9.3.2.

(b) Associate the proper algebraic sign from section 8.9.3.3 with the reading in step (a).

(c) Subtract the reference scribe line rotational offset, R, from the reading in step (b).

(d) Subtract the angle-measuring device rotational offset, R, if any, from the result obtained in step (c).

(e) The final result obtained in step (d) is the yaw angle of flow.

8.9.4.3 Record the yaw angle measurements on a form similar to Table 2G-3.

8.9.5 Impact velocity determination. Maintain the probe rotational position established during the yaw angle determination. Then, begin recording the pressure-measuring device readings. These pressure measurements shall be taken over a sampling period of sufficiently long duration to ensure representative readings at each traverse point. If the pressure measurements are determined from visual readings of the pressure device or display, allow sufficient time to observe the pulsation in the readings to obtain a sight-weighted average, which is then recorded manually. If an automated data acquisition system (e.g., data logger, computer-based data recorder, strip chart recorder) is used to record the pressure measurements, obtain an integrated average of all pressure readings at the traverse point. Stack or duct gas temperature measurements shall be recorded, at a minimum, once at each traverse point. Record all necessary data as shown in the example field data form (Table 2G-3).

8.9.6 Alignment check. For manually operated probes, after the required yaw angle and differential pressure and temperature measurements have been made at each traverse point, verify (e.g., by visual inspection) that the yaw angle-measuring device has remained in proper alignment with the reference scribe line or with the rotational offset position established in section 8.3. If, for a particular traverse point, the angle-measuring device is found to be in proper alignment, proceed to the next traverse point; otherwise, re-align the device and repeat the angle and differential pressure measurements at the traverse point. In the course of a traverse, if a mark used to properly align the angle-measuring device (e.g., as described in section 18.1.1.1) cannot be located, re-establish the alignment mark before proceeding with the traverse.

8.10 Probe Plugging. Periodically check for plugging of the pressure ports by observing the responses on the pressure differential readouts. Plugging causes erratic results or sluggish responses. Rotate the probe to determine whether the readouts respond in the expected direction. If plugging is detected, correct the problem and repeat the affected measurements.

8.11 Static Pressure. Measure the static pressure in the stack or duct using the equipment described in section 6.7.

8.11.1 If a Type S probe is used for this measurement, position the probe at or between any traverse point(s) and rotate the probe until a null differential pressure reading is obtained. Disconnect the tubing from one of the pressure ports; read and record the ΔP. For pressure devices with one-directional scales, if a deflection in the positive direction is noted with the negative side disconnected, then the static pressure is positive. Likewise, if a deflection in the positive direction is noted with the positive side disconnected, then the static pressure is negative.

8.11.2 If a 3-D probe is used for this measurement, position the probe at or between any traverse point(s) and rotate the probe until a null differential pressure reading is obtained at P-P. Rotate the probe 90&#xB0;. Disconnect the Ppressure side of the probe and read the pressure P-Pand record as the static pressure. (The spherical probe, specified in section 6.1.2 of Method 2F, is unable to provide this measurement and shall not be used to take static pressure measurements.)

8.12 Atmospheric Pressure. Determine the atmospheric pressure at the sampling elevation during each test run following the procedure described in section 2.5 of Method 2.

8.13 Molecular Weight. Determine the stack or duct gas dry molecular weight. For combustion processes or processes that emit essentially CO, O, CO, and N, use Method 3 or 3A. For processes emitting essentially air, an analysis need not be conducted; use a dry molecular weight of 29.0. Other methods may be used, if approved by the Administrator.

8.14 Moisture. Determine the moisture content of the stack gas using Method 4 or equivalent.

8.15 Data Recording and Calculations. Record all required data on a form similar to Table 2G-3.

8.15.1 2-D probe calibration coefficient. When a Type S pitot tube is used in the field, the appropriate calibration coefficient as determined in section 10.6 shall be used to perform velocity calculations. For calibrated Type S pitot tubes, the A-side coefficient shall be used when the A-side of the tube faces the flow, and the B-side coefficient shall be used when the B-side faces the flow.

8.15.2 3-D calibration coefficient. When a 3-D probe is used to collect data with this method, follow the provisions for the calibration of 3-D probes in section 10.6 of Method 2F to obtain the appropriate velocity calibration coefficient (Fas derived using Equation 2F-2 in Method 2F) corresponding to a pitch angle position of 0&#xB0;.

8.15.3 Calculations. Calculate the yaw-adjusted velocity at each traverse point using the equations presented in section 12.2. Calculate the test run average stack gas velocity by finding the arithmetic average of the point velocity results in accordance with sections 12.3 and 12.4, and calculate the stack gas volumetric flow rate in accordance with section 12.5 or 12.6, as applicable.

9.1 Quality Control Activities. In conjunction with the yaw angle determination and the pressure and temperature measurements specified in section 8.9, the following quality control checks should be performed.

9.1.1 Range of the differential pressure gauge. In accordance with the specifications in section 6.4, ensure that the proper differential pressure gauge is being used for the range of ΔP values encountered. If it is necessary to change to a more sensitive gauge, replace the gauge with a gauge calibrated according to section 10.3.3, perform the leak check described in section 8.4 and the zero check described in section 8.5, and repeat the differential pressure and temperature readings at each traverse point.

9.1.2 Horizontal stability check. For horizontal traverses of a stack or duct, visually check that the probe shaft is maintained in a horizontal position prior to taking a pressure reading. Periodically, during a test run, the probe's horizontal stability should be verified by placing a carpenter's level, a digital inclinometer, or other angle-measuring device on the portion of the probe sheath that extends outside of the test port. A comparable check should be performed by automated systems.

10.1 Wind Tunnel Qualification Checks. To qualify for use in calibrating probes, a wind tunnel shall have the design features specified in section 6.11 and satisfy the following qualification criteria. The velocity pressure cross-check in section 10.1.1 and axial flow verification in section 10.1.2 shall be performed before the initial use of the wind tunnel and repeated immediately after any alteration occurs in the wind tunnel's configuration, fans, interior surfaces, straightening vanes, controls, or other properties that could reasonably be expected to alter the flow pattern or velocity stability in the tunnel. The owner or operator of a wind tunnel used to calibrate probes according to this method shall maintain records documenting that the wind tunnel meets the requirements of sections 10.1.1 and 10.1.2 and shall provide these records to the Administrator upon request.

10.1.1 Velocity pressure cross-check. To verify that the wind tunnel produces the same velocity at the tested probe head as at the calibration pitot tube impact port, perform the following cross-check. Take three differential pressure measurements at the fixed calibration pitot tube location, using the calibration pitot tube specified in section 6.10, and take three measurements with the calibration pitot tube at the wind tunnel calibration location, as defined in section 3.21. Alternate the measurements between the two positions. Perform this procedure at the lowest and highest velocity settings at which the probes will be calibrated. Record the values on a form similar to Table 2G-4. At each velocity setting, the average velocity pressure obtained at the wind tunnel calibration location shall be within +/-2 percent or 2.5 mm HO (0.01 in. HO), whichever is less restrictive, of the average velocity pressure obtained at the fixed calibration pitot tube location. This comparative check shall be performed at 2.5-cm (1-in.), or smaller, intervals across the full length, width, and depth (if applicable) of the wind tunnel calibration location. If the criteria are not met at every tested point, the wind tunnel calibration location must be redefined, so that acceptable results are obtained at every point. Include the results of the velocity pressure cross-check in the calibration data section of the field test report. (See section 16.1.4.)

10.1.2 Axial flow verification. The following procedures shall be performed to demonstrate that there is fully developed axial flow within the wind tunnel calibration location and at the calibration pitot tube location. Two options are available to conduct this check.

10.1.2.1 Using a calibrated 3-D probe. A probe that has been previously calibrated in a wind tunnel with documented axial flow (as defined in section 3.22) may be used to conduct this check. Insert the calibrated 3-D probe into the wind tunnel test section using the tested probe port. Following the procedures in sections 8.9 and 12.2 of Method 2F, determine the yaw and pitch angles at all the point(s) in the test section where the velocity pressure cross-check, as specified in section 10.1.1, is performed. This includes all the points in the calibration location and the point where the calibration pitot tube will be located. Determine the yaw and pitch angles at each point. Repeat these measurements at the highest and lowest velocities at which the probes will be calibrated. Record the values on a form similar to Table 2G-5. Each measured yaw and pitch angle shall be within +/-3&#xB0; of 0&#xB0;. Exceeding the limits indicates unacceptable flow in the test section. Until the problem is corrected and acceptable flow is verified by repetition of this procedure, the wind tunnel shall not be used for calibration of probes. Include the results of the axial flow verification in the calibration data section of the field test report. (See section 16.1.4.)

10.1.2.2 Using alternative probes. Axial flow verification may be performed using an uncalibrated prism-shaped 3-D probe (e.g., DA or DAT probe) or an uncalibrated wedge probe. (Figure 2G-8 illustrates a typical wedge probe.) This approach requires use of two ports: the tested probe port and a second port located 90&#xB0; from the tested probe port. Each port shall provide access to all the points within the wind tunnel test section where the velocity pressure cross-check, as specified in section 10.1.1, is conducted. The probe setup shall include establishing a reference yaw-null position on the probe sheath to serve as the location for installing the angle-measuring device. Physical design features of the DA, DAT, and wedge probes are relied on to determine the reference position. For the DA or DAT probe, this reference position can be determined by setting a digital inclinometer on the flat facet where the Ppressure port is located and then identifying the rotational position on the probe sheath where a second angle-measuring device would give the same angle reading. The reference position on a wedge probe shaft can be determined either geometrically or by placing a digital inclinometer on each side of the wedge and rotating the probe until equivalent readings are obtained. With the latter approach, the reference position is the rotational position on the probe sheath where an angle-measuring device would give a reading of 0&#xB0;. After installation of the angle-measuring device in the reference yaw-null position on the probe sheath, determine the yaw angle from the tested port. Repeat this measurement using the 90&#xB0; offset port, which provides the pitch angle of flow. Determine the yaw and pitch angles at all the point(s) in the test section where the velocity pressure cross-check, as specified in section 10.1.1, is performed. This includes all the points in the wind tunnel calibration location and the point where the calibration pitot tube will be located. Perform this check at the highest and lowest velocities at which the probes will be calibrated. Record the values on a form similar to Table 2G-5. Each measured yaw and pitch angle shall be within +/-3&#xB0; of 0&#xB0;. Exceeding the limits indicates unacceptable flow in the test section. Until the problem is corrected and acceptable flow is verified by repetition of this procedure, the wind tunnel shall not be used for calibration of probes. Include the results in the probe calibration report.

10.1.3 Wind tunnel audits.

10.1.3.1 Procedure. Upon the request of the Administrator, the owner or operator of a wind tunnel shall calibrate a 2-D audit probe in accordance with the procedures described in sections 10.3 through 10.6. The calibration shall be performed at two velocities that encompass the velocities typically used for this method at the facility. The resulting calibration data shall be submitted to the Agency in an audit test report. These results shall be compared by the Agency to reference calibrations of the audit probe at the same velocity settings obtained at two different wind tunnels.

10.1.3.2 Acceptance criterion. The audited tunnel's calibration coefficient is acceptable if it is within +/-3 percent of the reference calibrations obtained at each velocity setting by one (or both) of the wind tunnels. If the acceptance criterion is not met at each calibration velocity setting, the audited wind tunnel shall not be used to calibrate probes for use under this method until the problems are resolved and acceptable results are obtained upon completion of a subsequent audit.

10.2 Probe Inspection.

10.2.1 Type S probe. Before each calibration of a Type S probe, verify that one leg of the tube is permanently marked A, and the other, B. Carefully examine the pitot tube from the top, side, and ends. Measure the angles (&#x3B1;, &#x3B1;, &#x3B2;, and &#x3B2;) and the dimensions (w and z) illustrated in Figures 2-2 and 2-3 in Method 2. Also measure the dimension A, as shown in the diagram in Table 2G-1, and the external tubing diameter (dimension D, Figure 2-2b in Method 2). For the purposes of this method, Dshall be no less than 9.5 mm (in.). The base-to-opening plane distances Pand Pin Figure 2-3 of Method 2 shall be equal, and the dimension A in Table 2G-1 should be between 2.10Dand 3.00D. Record the inspection findings and probe measurements on a form similar to Table CD2-1 of the "Quality Assurance Handbook for Air Pollution Measurement Systems: Volume III, Stationary Source-Specific Methods" (EPA/600/R-94/038c, September 1994). For reference, this form is reproduced herein as Table 2G-1. The pitot tube shall not be used under this method if it fails to meet the specifications in this section and the alignment specifications in section 6.1.1. All Type S probes used to collect data with this method shall be calibrated according to the procedures outlined in sections 10.3 through 10.6 below. During calibration, each Type S pitot tube shall be configured in the same manner as used, or planned to be used, during the field test, including all components in the probe assembly (e.g., thermocouple, probe sheath, sampling nozzle). Probe shaft extensions that do not affect flow around the probe head need not be attached during calibration.

10.2.2 3-D probe. If a 3-D probe is used to collect data with this method, perform the pre-calibration inspection according to procedures in Method 2F, section 10.2.

10.3 Pre-Calibration Procedures. Prior to calibration, a scribe line shall have been placed on the probe in accordance with section 10.4. The yaw angle and velocity calibration procedures shall not begin until the pre-test requirements in sections 10.3.1 through 10.3.4 have been met.

10.3.1 Perform the horizontal straightness check described in section 8.2 on the probe assembly that will be calibrated in the wind tunnel.

10.3.2 Perform a leak check in accordance with section 8.4.

10.3.3 Except as noted in section 10.3.3.3, calibrate all differential pressure-measuring devices to be used in the probe calibrations, using the following procedures. At a minimum, calibrate these devices on each day that probe calibrations are performed.

10.3.3.1 Procedure. Before each wind tunnel use, all differential pressure-measuring devices shall be calibrated against the reference device specified in section 6.4.3 using a common pressure source. Perform the calibration at three reference pressures representing 30, 60, and 90 percent of the full-scale range of the pressure-measuring device being calibrated. For an inclined-vertical manometer, perform separate calibrations on the inclined and vertical portions of the measurement scale, considering each portion of the scale to be a separate full-scale range. [For example, for a manometer with a 0-to 2.5-cm HO (0-to 1-in. HO) inclined scale and a 2.5-to 12.7-cm HO (1-to 5-in. HO) vertical scale, calibrate the inclined portion at 7.6, 15.2, and 22.9 mm HO (0.3, 0.6, and 0.9 in. HO), and calibrate the vertical portion at 3.8, 7.6, and 11.4 cm HO (1.5, 3.0, and 4.5 in. HO).] Alternatively, for the vertical portion of the scale, use three evenly spaced reference pressures, one of which is equal to or higher than the highest differential pressure expected in field applications.

10.3.3.2 Acceptance criteria. At each pressure setting, the two pressure readings made using the reference device and the pressure-measuring device being calibrated shall agree to within +/-2 percent of full scale of the device being calibrated or 0.5 mm HO (0.02 in. HO), whichever is less restrictive. For an inclined-vertical manometer, these requirements shall be met separately using the respective full-scale upper limits of the inclined and vertical portions of the scale. Differential pressure-measuring devices not meeting the +/-2 percent of full scale or 0.5 mm HO (0.02 in. HO) calibration requirement shall not be used.

10.3.3.3 Exceptions. Any precision manometer that meets the specifications for a reference device in section 6.4.3 and that is not used for field testing does not require calibration, but must be leveled and zeroed before each wind tunnel use. Any pressure device used exclusively for yaw nulling does not require calibration, but shall be checked for responsiveness to rotation of the probe prior to each wind tunnel use.

10.3.4 Calibrate digital inclinometers on each day of wind tunnel or field testing (prior to beginning testing) using the following procedures. Calibrate the inclinometer according to the manufacturer's calibration procedures. In addition, use a triangular block (illustrated in Figure 2G-9) with a known angle &#x3B8;, independently determined using a protractor or equivalent device, between two adjacent sides to verify the inclinometer readings. (If other angle-measuring devices meeting the provisions of section 6.2.3 are used in place of a digital inclinometer, comparable calibration procedures shall be performed on such devices.) Secure the triangular block in a fixed position. Place the inclinometer on one side of the block (side A) to measure the angle of inclination (R). Repeat this measurement on the adjacent side of the block (side B) using the inclinometer to obtain a second angle reading (R). The difference of the sum of the two readings from 180&#xB0; (i.e., 180&#xB0;-R-R) shall be within +/-2&#xB0; of the known angle, &#x3B8;.

10.4 Placement of Reference Scribe Line. Prior to the first calibration of a probe, a line shall be permanently inscribed on the main probe sheath to serve as a reference mark for determining yaw angles. Annex C in section 18 of this method gives a guideline for placement of the reference scribe line.

10.4.1 This reference scribe line shall meet the specifications in sections 6.1.5.1 and 6.1.5.3 of this method. To verify that the alignment specification in section 6.1.5.3 is met, secure the probe in a horizontal position and measure the rotational angle of each scribe line and scribe line segment using an angle-measuring device that meets the specifications in section 6.2.1 or 6.2.3. For any scribe line that is longer than 30.5 cm (12 in.), check the line's rotational position at 30.5-cm (12-in.) intervals. For each line segment that is 12 in. or less in length, check the rotational position at the two endpoints of the segment. To meet the alignment specification in section 6.1.5.3, the minimum and maximum of all of the rotational angles that are measured along the full length of main probe must not differ by more than 2&#xB0;. (A short reference scribe line segment [e.g., 15.2 cm (6 in.) or less in length] meeting the alignment specifications in section 6.1.5.3 is fully acceptable under this method. See section 18.1.1.1 of Annex A for an example of a probe marking procedure, suitable for use with a short reference scribe line.)

10.4.2 The scribe line should be placed on the probe first and then its offset from the yaw-null position established (as specified in section 10.5). The rotational position of the reference scribe line relative to the yaw-null position of the probe, as determined by the yaw angle calibration procedure in section 10.5, is the reference scribe line rotational offset, R. The reference scribe line rotational offset shall be recorded and retained as part of the probe's calibration record.

10.4.3 Scribe line for automated probes. A scribe line may not be necessary for an automated probe system if a reference rotational position of the probe is built into the probe system design. For such systems, a "flat" (or comparable, clearly identifiable physical characteristic) should be provided on the probe casing or flange plate to ensure that the reference position of the probe assembly remains in a vertical or horizontal position. The rotational offset of the flat (or comparable, clearly identifiable physical characteristic) needed to orient the reference position of the probe assembly shall be recorded and maintained as part of the automated probe system's specifications.

10.5 Yaw Angle Calibration Procedure. For each probe used to measure yaw angles with this method, a calibration procedure shall be performed in a wind tunnel meeting the specifications in section 10.1 to determine the rotational position of the reference scribe line relative to the probe's yaw-null position. This procedure shall be performed on the main probe with all devices that will be attached to the main probe in the field [such as thermocouples, resistance temperature detectors (RTDs), or sampling nozzles] that may affect the flow around the probe head. Probe shaft extensions that do not affect flow around the probe head need not be attached during calibration. At a minimum, this procedure shall include the following steps.

10.5.1 Align and lock the angle-measuring device on the reference scribe line. If a marking procedure (such as described in section 18.1.1.1) is used, align the angle-measuring device on a mark within +/-1&#xB0; of the rotational position of the reference scribe line. Lock the angle-measuring device onto the probe sheath at this position.

10.5.2 Zero the pressure-measuring device used for yaw nulling.

10.5.3 Insert the probe assembly into the wind tunnel through the entry port, positioning the probe's impact port at the calibration location. Check the responsiveness of the pressure-measurement device to probe rotation, taking corrective action if the response is unacceptable.

10.5.4 Ensure that the probe is in a horizontal position, using a carpenter's level.

10.5.5 Rotate the probe either clockwise or counterclockwise until a yaw null [zero ΔP for a Type S probe or zero (P-P) for a 3-D probe] is obtained. If using a Type S probe with an attached thermocouple, the direction of the probe rotation shall be such that the thermocouple is located downstream of the probe pressure ports at the yaw-null position.

10.5.6 Use the reading displayed by the angle-measuring device at the yaw-null position to determine the magnitude of the reference scribe line rotational offset, R, as defined in section 3.15. Annex D in section 18 of this method gives a recommended procedure for determining the magnitude of Rwith a digital inclinometer and a second procedure for determining the magnitude of Rwith a protractor wheel and pointer device. Table 2G-6 gives an example data form and Table 2G-7 is a look-up table with the recommended procedure. Procedures other than those recommended in Annex D in section 18 may be used, if they can determine Rto within 1&#xB0; and are explained in detail in the field test report. The algebraic sign of Rwill either be positive if the rotational position of the reference scribe line (as viewed from the "tail" end of the probe) is clockwise, or negative, if counterclockwise with respect to the probe's yaw-null position. (This is illustrated in Figure 2G-10.)

10.5.7 The steps in sections 10.5.3 through 10.5.6 shall be performed twice at each of the velocities at which the probe will be calibrated (in accordance with section 10.6). Record the values of R.

10.5.8 The average of all of the Rvalues shall be documented as the reference scribe line rotational offset for the probe.

10.5.9 Use of reference scribe line offset. The reference scribe line rotational offset shall be used to determine the yaw angle of flow in accordance with section 8.9.4.

10.6 Velocity Calibration Procedure. When a 3-D probe is used under this method, follow the provisions for the calibration of 3-D probes in section 10.6 of Method 2F to obtain the necessary velocity calibration coefficients (Fas derived using Equation 2F-2 in Method 2F) corresponding to a pitch angle position of 0&#xB0;. The following procedure applies to Type S probes. This procedure shall be performed on the main probe and all devices that will be attached to the main probe in the field (e.g., thermocouples, RTDs, sampling nozzles) that may affect the flow around the probe head. Probe shaft extensions that do not affect flow around the probe head need not be attached during calibration. (Note: If a sampling nozzle is part of the assembly, two additional requirements must be satisfied before proceeding. The distance between the nozzle and the pitot tube shall meet the minimum spacing requirement prescribed in Method 2, and a wind tunnel demonstration shall be performed that shows the probe's ability to yaw null is not impaired when the nozzle is drawing sample.) To obtain velocity calibration coefficient(s) for the tested probe, proceed as follows.

10.6.1 Calibration velocities. The tester may calibrate the probe at two nominal wind tunnel velocity settings of 18.3 m/sec and 27.4 m/sec (60 ft/sec and 90 ft/sec) and average the results of these calibrations, as described in sections 10.6.12 through 10.6.14, in order to generate the calibration coefficient, C. If this option is selected, this calibration coefficient may be used for all field applications where the velocities are 9.1 m/sec (30 ft/sec) or greater. Alternatively, the tester may customize the probe calibration for a particular field test application (or for a series of applications), based on the expected average velocity(ies) at the test site(s). If this option is selected, generate the calibration coefficients by calibrating the probe at two nominal wind tunnel velocity settings, one of which is less than or equal to and the other greater than or equal to the expected average velocity(ies) for the field application(s), and average the results as described in sections 10.6.12 through 10.6.14. Whichever calibration option is selected, the probe calibration coefficient(s) obtained at the two nominal calibration velocities shall meet the conditions specified in sections 10.6.12 through 10.6.14.

10.6.2 Connect the tested probe and calibration pitot tube to their respective pressure-measuring devices. Zero the pressure-measuring devices. Inspect and leak-check all pitot lines; repair or replace them, if necessary. Turn on the fan, and allow the wind tunnel air flow to stabilize at the first of the selected nominal velocity settings.

10.6.3 Position the calibration pitot tube at its measurement location (determined as outlined in section 6.11.4.3), and align the tube so that its tip is pointed directly into the flow. Ensure that the entry port surrounding the tube is properly sealed. The calibration pitot tube may either remain in the wind tunnel throughout the calibration, or be removed from the wind tunnel while measurements are taken with the probe being calibrated.

10.6.4 Check the zero setting of each pressure-measuring device.

10.6.5 Insert the tested probe into the wind tunnel and align it so that the designated pressure port (e.g., either the A-side or B-side of a Type S probe) is pointed directly into the flow and is positioned within the wind tunnel calibration location (as defined in section 3.21). Secure the probe at the 0&#xB0; pitch angle position. Ensure that the entry port surrounding the probe is properly sealed.

10.6.6 Read the differential pressure from the calibration pitot tube (ΔP), and record its value. Read the barometric pressure to within +/-2.5 mm Hg (+/-0.1 in. Hg) and the temperature in the wind tunnel to within 0.6 &#xB0;C (1 &#xB0;F). Record these values on a data form similar to Table 2G-8. Record the rotational speed of the fan or indicator of wind tunnel velocity control (damper setting, variac rheostat, etc.) and make no adjustment to fan speed or wind tunnel velocity control between this observation and the Type S probe reading.

10.6.7 After the tested probe's differential pressure gauges have had sufficient time to stabilize, yaw null the probe (and then rotate it back 90&#xB0; for Type S probes), then obtain the differential pressure reading (ΔP). Record the yaw angle and differential pressure readings.
