
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### i.e.,,i.e.,

10.6.8 Take paired differential pressure measurements with the calibration pitot tube and tested probe (according to sections 10.6.6 and 10.6.7). The paired measurements in each replicate can be made either simultaneously (with both probes in the wind tunnel) or by alternating the measurements of the two probes (with only one probe at a time in the wind tunnel). Adjustments made to the fan speed or other changes to the system designed to change the air flow velocity of the wind tunnel between observation of the calibration pitot tube (ΔP) and the Type S pitot tube invalidates the reading and the observation must be repeated.

10.6.9 Repeat the steps in sections 10.6.6 through 10.6.8 at the same nominal velocity setting until three pairs of ΔP readings have been obtained from the calibration pitot tube and the tested probe.

10.6.10 Repeat the steps in sections 10.6.6 through 10.6.9 above for the A-side and B-side of the Type S pitot tube. For a probe assembly constructed such that its pitot tube is always used in the same orientation, only one side of the pitot tube need be calibrated (the side that will face the flow). However, the pitot tube must still meet the alignment and dimension specifications in section 6.1.1 and must have an average deviation (&#x3C3;) value of 0.01 or less as provided in section 10.6.12.4.

10.6.11 Repeat the calibration procedures in sections 10.6.6 through 10.6.10 at the second selected nominal wind tunnel velocity setting.

10.6.12 Perform the following calculations separately on the A-side and B-side values.

10.6.12.1 Calculate a Cvalue for each of the three replicates performed at the lower velocity setting where the calibrations were performed using Equation 2-2 in section 4.1.4 of Method 2.

10.6.12.2 Calculate the arithmetic average, C, of the three Cvalues.

10.6.12.3 Calculate the deviation of each of the three individual values of Cfrom the A-side average Cvalue using Equation 2-3 in Method 2.

10.6.12.4 Calculate the average deviation (&#x3C3;) of the three individual Cvalues from Cusing Equation 2-4 in Method 2. Use the Type S pitot tube only if the values of &#x3C3; (side A) and &#x3C3; (side B) are less than or equal to 0.01. If both A-side and B-side calibration coefficients are calculated, the absolute value of the difference between C(side A) and C(side B) must not exceed 0.01.

10.6.13 Repeat the calculations in section 10.6.12 using the data obtained at the higher velocity setting to derive the arithmetic Cvalues at the higher velocity setting, C, and to determine whether the conditions in 10.6.12.4 are met by both the A-side and B-side calibrations at this velocity setting.

10.6.14 Use equation 2G-1 to calculate the percent difference of the averaged Cvalues at the two calibration velocities.

10.6.15 If the two nominal velocities used in the calibration were 18.3 and 27.4 m/sec (60 and 90 ft/sec), the average Cfrom section 10.6.14 is applicable to all velocities 9.1 m/sec (30 ft/sec) or greater. If two other nominal velocities were used in the calibration, the resulting average Cvalue shall be applicable only in situations where the velocity calculated using the calibration coefficient is neither less than the lower nominal velocity nor greater than the higher nominal velocity.

10.7 Recalibration. Recalibrate the probe using the procedures in section 10 either within 12 months of its first field use after its most recent calibration or after 10 field tests (as defined in section 3.3), whichever occurs later. In addition, whenever there is visible damage to the probe head, the probe shall be recalibrated before it is used again.

10.8 Calibration of pressure-measuring devices used in the field. Before its initial use in a field test, calibrate each pressure-measuring device (except those used exclusively for yaw nulling) using the three-point calibration procedure described in section 10.3.3. The device shall be recalibrated according to the procedure in section 10.3.3 no later than 90 days after its first field use following its most recent calibration. At the discretion of the tester, more frequent calibrations (e.g., after a field test) may be performed. No adjustments, other than adjustments to the zero setting, shall be made to the device between calibrations.

10.8.1 Post-test calibration check. A single-point calibration check shall be performed on each pressure-measuring device after completion of each field test. At the discretion of the tester, more frequent single-point calibration checks (e.g., after one or more field test runs) may be performed. It is recommended that the post-test check be performed before leaving the field test site. The check shall be performed at a pressure between 50 and 90 percent of full scale by taking a common pressure reading with the tested probe and a reference pressure-measuring device (as described in section 6.4.4) or by challenging the tested device with a reference pressure source (as described in section 6.4.4) or by performing an equivalent check using a reference device approved by the Administrator.

10.8.2 Acceptance criterion. At the selected pressure setting, the pressure readings made using the reference device and the tested device shall agree to within +/-3 percent of full scale of the tested device or 0.8 mm HO (0.03 in. HO), whichever is less restrictive. If this specification is met, the test data collected during the field test are valid. If the specification is not met, all test data collected since the last successful calibration or calibration check are invalid and shall be repeated using a pressure-measuring device with a current, valid calibration. Any device that fails the calibration check shall not be used in a field test until a successful recalibration is performed according to the procedures in section 10.3.3.

10.9 Temperature Gauges. Same as Method 2, section 4.3. The alternative thermocouple calibration procedures outlined in Emission Measurement Center (EMC) Approved Alternative Method (ALT-011) "Alternative Method 2 Thermocouple Calibration Procedure" may be performed. Temperature gauges shall be calibrated no more than 30 days prior to the start of a field test or series of field tests and recalibrated no more than 30 days after completion of a field test or series of field tests.

10.10 Barometer. Same as Method 2, section 4.4. The barometer shall be calibrated no more than 30 days prior to the start of a field test or series of field tests.

Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this method (see section 8.0).

These calculations use the measured yaw angle and the differential pressure and temperature measurements at individual traverse points to derive the near-axial flue gas velocity (v) at each of those points. The near-axial velocity values at all traverse points that comprise a full stack or duct traverse are then averaged to obtain the average near-axial stack or duct gas velocity (v).

12.2 Traverse Point Velocity Calculations. Perform the following calculations from the measurements obtained at each traverse point.

12.2.1 Selection of calibration coefficient. Select the calibration coefficient as described in section 10.6.1.

12.2.2 Near-axial traverse point velocity. When using a Type S probe, use the following equation to calculate the traverse point near-axial velocity (v) from the differential pressure (ΔP), yaw angle (&#x3B8;), absolute stack or duct standard temperature (T) measured at traverse point i, the absolute stack or duct pressure (P), and molecular weight (M).

12.2.3 Handling multiple measurements at a traverse point. For pressure or temperature devices that take multiple measurements at a traverse point, the multiple measurements (or where applicable, their square roots) may first be averaged and the resulting average values used in the equations above. Alternatively, the individual measurements may be used in the equations above and the resulting calculated values may then be averaged to obtain a single traverse point value. With either approach, all of the individual measurements recorded at a traverse point must be used in calculating the applicable traverse point value.

12.3 Average Near-Axial Velocity in Stack or Duct. Use the reported traverse point near-axial velocity in the following equation.

12.4 Acceptability of Results. The acceptability provisions in section 12.4 of Method 2F apply to 3-D probes used under Method 2G. The following provisions apply to Type S probes. For Type S probes, the test results are acceptable and the calculated value of vmay be reported as the average near-axial velocity for the test run if the conditions in either section 12.4.1 or 12.4.2 are met.

12.4.1 The average calibration coefficient Cused in Equation 2G-6 was generated at nominal velocities of 18.3 and 27.4 m/sec (60 and 90 ft/sec) and the value of vcalculated using Equation 2G-8 is greater than or equal to 9.1 m/sec (30 ft/sec).

12.4.2 The average calibration coefficient Cused in Equation 2G-6 was generated at nominal velocities other than 18.3 or 27.4 m/sec (60 or 90 ft/sec) and the value of vcalculated using Equation 2G-8 is greater than or equal to the lower nominal velocity and less than or equal to the higher nominal velocity used to derive the average C.

12.4.3 If the conditions in neither section 12.4.1 nor section 12.4.2 are met, the test results obtained from Equation 2G-8 are not acceptable, and the steps in sections 12.2 and 12.3 must be repeated using an average calibration coefficient Cthat satisfies the conditions in section 12.4.1 or 12.4.2.

12.5 Average Gas Volumetric Flow Rate in Stack or Duct (Wet Basis). Use the following equation to compute the average volumetric flow rate on a wet basis.

12.6 Average Gas Volumetric Flow Rate in Stack or Duct (Dry Basis). Use the following equation to compute the average volumetric flow rate on a dry basis.

16.1 Field Test Reports. Field test reports shall be submitted to the Agency according to applicable regulatory requirements. Field test reports should, at a minimum, include the following elements.

16.1.1 Description of the source. This should include the name and location of the test site, descriptions of the process tested, a description of the combustion source, an accurate diagram of stack or duct cross-sectional area at the test site showing the dimensions of the stack or duct, the location of the test ports, and traverse point locations and identification numbers or codes. It should also include a description and diagram of the stack or duct layout, showing the distance of the test location from the nearest upstream and downstream disturbances and all structural elements (including breachings, baffles, fans, straighteners, etc.) affecting the flow pattern. If the source and test location descriptions have been previously submitted to the Agency in a document (e.g., a monitoring plan or test plan), referencing the document in lieu of including this information in the field test report is acceptable.

16.1.2 Field test procedures. These should include a description of test equipment and test procedures. Testing conventions, such as traverse point numbering and measurement sequence (e.g., sampling from center to wall, or wall to center), should be clearly stated. Test port identification and directional reference for each test port should be included on the appropriate field test data sheets.

16.1.3 Field test data.

16.1.3.1 Summary of results. This summary should include the dates and times of testing, and the average near-axial gas velocity and the average flue gas volumetric flow results for each run and tested condition.

16.1.3.2 Test data. The following values for each traverse point should be recorded and reported:

(a) Differential pressure at traverse point i (ΔP)

(b) Stack or duct temperature at traverse point i (t)

(c) Absolute stack or duct temperature at traverse point i (T)

(d) Yaw angle at traverse point i (&#x3B8;)

(e) Stack gas near-axial velocity at traverse point i (v)

16.1.3.3 The following values should be reported once per run:

(a) Water vapor in the gas stream (from Method 4 or alternative), proportion by volume (B), measured at the frequency specified in the applicable regulation

(b) Molecular weight of stack or duct gas, dry basis (M)

(c) Molecular weight of stack or duct gas, wet basis (M)

(d) Stack or duct static pressure (P)

(e) Absolute stack or duct pressure (P)

(f) Carbon dioxide concentration in the flue gas, dry basis (%CO)

(g) Oxygen concentration in the flue gas, dry basis (%O)

(h) Average near-axial stack or duct gas velocity (v) across all traverse points

(i) Gas volumetric flow rate corrected to standard conditions, dry or wet basis as required by the applicable regulation (Qor Q)

16.1.3.4 The following should be reported once per complete set of test runs:

(a) Cross-sectional area of stack or duct at the test location (A)

(b) Pitot tube calibration coefficient (C)

(c) Measurement system response time (sec)

(d) Barometric pressure at measurement site (P)

16.1.4 Calibration data. The field test report should include calibration data for all probes and test equipment used in the field test. At a minimum, the probe calibration data reported to the Agency should include the following:

(a) Date of calibration

(b) Probe type

(c) Probe identification number(s) or code(s)

(d) Probe inspection sheets

(e) Pressure measurements and calculations used to obtain calibration coefficients in accordance with section 10.6 of this method

(f) Description and diagram of wind tunnel used for the calibration, including dimensions of cross-sectional area and position and size of the test section

(g) Documentation of wind tunnel qualification tests performed in accordance with section 10.1 of this method

16.1.5 Quality assurance. Specific quality assurance and quality control procedures used during the test should be described.

(1) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 1-Sample and velocity traverses for stationary sources.

(2) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 2-Determination of stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate (Type S pitot tube) .

(3) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 2F-Determination of stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate with three-dimensional probes.

(4) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 2H-Determination of stack gas velocity taking into account velocity decay near the stack wall.

(5) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 3-Gas analysis for carbon dioxide, oxygen, excess air, and dry molecular weight.

(6) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 3A-Determination of oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations in emissions from stationary sources (instrumental analyzer procedure).

(7) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 4-Determination of moisture content in stack gases.

(8) Emission Measurement Center (EMC) Approved Alternative Method (ALT-011) "Alternative Method 2 Thermocouple Calibration Procedure."

(9) Electric Power Research Institute, Interim Report EPRI TR-106698, "Flue Gas Flow Rate Measurement Errors," June 1996.

(10) Electric Power Research Institute, Final Report EPRI TR-108110, "Evaluation of Heat Rate Discrepancy from Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems," August 1997.

(11) Fossil Energy Research Corporation, Final Report, "Velocity Probe Tests in Non-axial Flow Fields," November 1998, Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

(12) Fossil Energy Research Corporation, "Additional Swirl Tunnel Tests: E-DAT and T-DAT Probes," February 24, 1999, Technical Memorandum Prepared for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, P.O. No. 7W-1193-NALX.

(13) Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Report WBWT-TR-1317, "Calibration of Eight Wind Speed Probes Over a Reynolds Number Range of 46,000 to 725,000 Per Foot, Text and Summary Plots," Plus appendices, October 15, 1998, Prepared for The Cadmus Group, Inc.

(14) National Institute of Standards and Technology, Special Publication 250, "NIST Calibration Services Users Guide 1991," Revised October 1991, U.S. Department of Commerce, p. 2.

(15) National Institute of Standards and Technology, 1998, "Report of Special Test of Air Speed Instrumentation, Four Prandtl Probes, Four S-Type Probes, Four French Probes, Four Modified Kiel Probes," Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under IAG #DW13938432-01-0.

(16) National Institute of Standards and Technology, 1998, "Report of Special Test of Air Speed In-strumentation, Five Autoprobes," Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under IAG #DW13938432-01-0.

(17) National Institute of Standards and Technology, 1998, "Report of Special Test of Air Speed Instrumentation, Eight Spherical Probes," Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under IAG #DW13938432-01-0.

(18) National Institute of Standards and Technology, 1998, "Report of Special Test of Air Speed Instrumentation, Four DAT Probes, " Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under IAG #DW13938432-01-0.

(19) Norfleet, S.K., "An Evaluation of Wall Effects on Stack Flow Velocities and Related Overestimation Bias in EPA's Stack Flow Reference Methods," EPRI CEMS User's Group Meeting, New Orleans, Louisiana, May 13-15, 1998.

(20) Page, J.J., E.A. Potts, and R.T. Shigehara, "3-D Pitot Tube Calibration Study," EPA Contract No. 68D10009, Work Assignment No. I-121, March 11, 1993.

(21) Shigehara, R.T., W.F. Todd, and W.S. Smith, "Significance of Errors in Stack Sampling Measurements," Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Air Pollution Control Association, St. Louis, Missouri, June 1419, 1970.

(22) The Cadmus Group, Inc., May 1999, "EPA Flow Reference Method Testing and Analysis: Findings Report," EPA/430-R-99-009.

(23) The Cadmus Group, Inc., 1998, "EPA Flow Reference Method Testing and Analysis: Data Report, Texas Utilities, DeCordova Steam Electric Station, Volume I: Test Description and Appendix A (Data Distribution Package)," EPA/430-R-98-015a.

(24) The Cadmus Group, Inc., 1998, "EPA Flow Reference Method Testing and Analysis: Data Report, Texas Utilities, Lake Hubbard Steam Electric Station, Volume I: Test Description and Appendix A (Data Distribution Package)," EPA/430-R-98-017a.

(25) The Cadmus Group, Inc., 1998, "EPA Flow Reference Method Testing and Analysis: Data Report, Pennsylvania Electric Co., G.P.U. Genco Homer City Station: Unit 1, Volume I: Test Description and Appendix A (Data Distribution Package)," EPA/430-R-98-018a.

(26) The Cadmus Group, Inc., 1997, "EPA Flow Reference Method Testing and Analysis: Wind Tunnel Experimental Results," EPA/430-R-97-013.

Annex A, C, and D describe recommended procedures for meeting certain provisions in sections 8.3, 10.4, and 10.5 of this method. Annex B describes procedures to be followed when using the protractor wheel and pointer assembly to measure yaw angles, as provided under section 8.9.1.

18.1 Annex A-Rotational Position Check. The following are recommended procedures that may be used to satisfy the rotational position check requirements of section 8.3 of this method and to determine the angle-measuring device rotational offset (R).

18.1.1 Rotational position check with probe outside stack. Where physical constraints at the sampling location allow full assembly of the probe outside the stack and insertion into the test port, the following procedures should be performed before the start of testing. Two angle-measuring devices that meet the specifications in section 6.2.1 or 6.2.3 are required for the rotational position check. An angle measuring device whose position can be independently adjusted (e.g., by means of a set screw) after being locked into position on the probe sheath shall not be used for this check unless the independent adjustment is set so that the device performs exactly like a device without the capability for independent adjustment. That is, when aligned on the probe such a device must give the same reading as a device that does not have the capability of being independently adjusted. With the fully assembled probe (including probe shaft extensions, if any) secured in a horizontal position, affix one yaw angle-measuring device to the probe sheath and lock it into position on the reference scribe line specified in section 6.1.5.1. Position the second angle-measuring device using the procedure in section 18.1.1.1 or 18.1.1.2.

18.1.1.1 Marking procedure. The procedures in this section should be performed at each location on the fully assembled probe where the yaw angle-measuring device will be mounted during the velocity traverse. Place the second yaw angle-measuring device on the main probe sheath (or extension) at the position where a yaw angle will be measured during the velocity traverse. Adjust the position of the second angle-measuring device until it indicates the same angle (+/-1&#xB0;) as the reference device, and affix the second device to the probe sheath (or extension). Record the angles indicated by the two angle-measuring devices on a form similar to table 2G-2. In this position, the second angle-measuring device is considered to be properly positioned for yaw angle measurement. Make a mark, no wider than 1.6 mm (in.), on the probe sheath (or extension), such that the yaw angle-measuring device can be re-affixed at this same properly aligned position during the velocity traverse.

18.1.1.2 Procedure for probe extensions with scribe lines. If, during a velocity traverse the angle-measuring device will be affixed to a probe extension having a scribe line as specified in section 6.1.5.2, the following procedure may be used to align the extension's scribe line with the reference scribe line instead of marking the extension as described in section 18.1.1.1. Attach the probe extension to the main probe. Align and lock the second angle-measuring device on the probe extension's scribe line. Then, rotate the extension until both measuring devices indicate the same angle (+/-1&#xB0;). Lock the extension at this rotational position. Record the angles indicated by the two angle-measuring devices on a form similar to table 2G-2. An angle-measuring device may be aligned at any position on this scribe line during the velocity traverse, if the scribe line meets the alignment specification in section 6.1.5.3.

18.1.1.3 Post-test rotational position check. If the fully assembled probe includes one or more extensions, the following check should be performed immediately after the completion of a velocity traverse. At the discretion of the tester, additional checks may be conducted after completion of testing at any sample port. Without altering the alignment of any of the components of the probe assembly used in the velocity traverse, secure the fully assembled probe in a horizontal position. Affix an angle-measuring device at the reference scribe line specified in section 6.1.5.1. Use the other angle-measuring device to check the angle at each location where the device was checked prior to testing. Record the readings from the two angle-measuring devices.

18.1.2 Rotational position check with probe in stack. This section applies only to probes that, due to physical constraints, cannot be inserted into the test port as fully assembled with all necessary extensions needed to reach the inner-most traverse point(s).

18.1.2.1 Perform the out-of-stack procedure in section 18.1.1 on the main probe and any attached extensions that will be initially inserted into the test port.

18.1.2.2 Use the following procedures to perform additional rotational position check(s) with the probe in the stack, each time a probe extension is added. Two angle-measuring devices are required. The first of these is the device that was used to measure yaw angles at the preceding traverse point, left in its properly aligned measurement position. The second angle-measuring device is positioned on the added probe extension. Use the applicable procedures in section 18.1.1.1 or 18.1.1.2 to align, adjust, lock, and mark (if necessary) the position of the second angle-measuring device to within +/-1&#xB0; of the first device. Record the readings of the two devices on a form similar to Table 2G-2.

18.1.2.3 The procedure in section 18.1.2.2 should be performed at the first port where measurements are taken. The procedure should be repeated each time a probe extension is re-attached at a subsequent port, unless the probe extensions are designed to be locked into a mechanically fixed rotational position (e.g., through use of interlocking grooves), which can be reproduced from port to port as specified in section 8.3.5.2.

18.2 Annex B-Angle Measurement Protocol for Protractor Wheel and Pointer Device. The following procedure shall be used when a protractor wheel and pointer assembly, such as the one described in section 6.2.2 and illustrated in Figure 2G-5 is used to measure the yaw angle of flow. With each move to a new traverse point, unlock, re-align, and re-lock the probe, angle-pointer collar, and protractor wheel to each other. At each such move, particular attention is required to ensure that the scribe line on the angle pointer collar is either aligned with the reference scribe line on the main probe sheath or is at the rotational offset position established under section 8.3.1. The procedure consists of the following steps:

18.2.1 Affix a protractor wheel to the entry port for the test probe in the stack or duct.

18.2.2 Orient the protractor wheel so that the 0&#xB0; mark corresponds to the longitudinal axis of the stack or duct. For stacks, vertical ducts, or ports on the side of horizontal ducts, use a digital inclinometer meeting the specifications in section 6.2.1 to locate the 0&#xB0; orientation. For ports on the top or bottom of horizontal ducts, identify the longitudinal axis at each test port and permanently mark the duct to indicate the 0&#xB0; orientation. Once the protractor wheel is properly aligned, lock it into position on the test port.

18.2.3 Move the pointer assembly along the probe sheath to the position needed to take measurements at the first traverse point. Align the scribe line on the pointer collar with the reference scribe line or at the rotational offset position established under section 8.3.1. Maintaining this rotational alignment, lock the pointer device onto the probe sheath. Insert the probe into the entry port to the depth needed to take measurements at the first traverse point.

18.2.4 Perform the yaw angle determination as specified in sections 8.9.3 and 8.9.4 and record the angle as shown by the pointer on the protractor wheel. Then, take velocity pressure and temperature measurements in accordance with the procedure in section 8.9.5. Perform the alignment check described in section 8.9.6.

18.2.5 After taking velocity pressure measurements at that traverse point, unlock the probe from the collar and slide the probe through the collar to the depth needed to reach the next traverse point.

18.2.6 Align the scribe line on the pointer collar with the reference scribe line on the main probe or at the rotational offset position established under section 8.3.1. Lock the collar onto the probe.

18.2.7 Repeat the steps in sections 18.2.4 through 18.2.6 at the remaining traverse points accessed from the current stack or duct entry port.

18.2.8 After completing the measurement at the last traverse point accessed from a port, verify that the orientation of the protractor wheel on the test port has not changed over the course of the traverse at that port. For stacks, vertical ducts, or ports on the side of horizontal ducts, use a digital inclinometer meeting the specifications in section 6.2.1 to check the rotational position of the 0&#xB0; mark on the protractor wheel. For ports on the top or bottom of horizontal ducts, observe the alignment of the angle wheel 0&#xB0; mark relative to the permanent 0&#xB0; mark on the duct at that test port. If these observed comparisons exceed +/-2&#xB0; of 0&#xB0;, all angle and pressure measurements taken at that port since the protractor wheel was last locked into position on the port shall be repeated.

18.2.9 Move to the next stack or duct entry port and repeat the steps in sections 18.2.1 through 18.2.8.

18.3 Annex C-Guideline for Reference Scribe Line Placement. Use of the following guideline is recommended to satisfy the requirements of section 10.4 of this method. The rotational position of the reference scribe line should be either 90&#xB0; or 180&#xB0; from the probe's impact pressure port. For Type-S probes, place separate scribe lines, on opposite sides of the probe sheath, if both the A and B sides of the pitot tube are to be used for yaw angle measurements.

18.4 Annex D-Determination of Reference Scribe Line Rotational Offset. The following procedures are recommended for determining the magnitude and sign of a probe's reference scribe line rotational offset, R. Separate procedures are provided for two types of angle-measuring devices: digital inclinometers and protractor wheel and pointer assemblies.

18.4.1 Perform the following procedures on the main probe with all devices that will be attached to the main probe in the field [such as thermocouples, resistance temperature detectors (RTDs), or sampling nozzles] that may affect the flow around the probe head. Probe shaft extensions that do not affect flow around the probe head need not be attached during calibration.

18.4.2 The procedures below assume that the wind tunnel duct used for probe calibration is horizontal and that the flow in the calibration wind tunnel is axial as determined by the axial flow verification check described in section 10.1.2. Angle-measuring devices are assumed to display angles in alternating 0&#xB0; to 90&#xB0; and 90&#xB0; to 0&#xB0; intervals. If angle-measuring devices with other readout conventions are used or if other calibration wind tunnel duct configurations are used, make the appropriate calculational corrections. For Type-S probes, calibrate the A-side and B-sides separately, using the appropriate scribe line (see section 18.3, above), if both the A and B sides of the pitot tube are to be used for yaw angle determinations.

18.4.2.1 Position the angle-measuring device in accordance with one of the following procedures.

18.4.2.1.1 If using a digital inclinometer, affix the calibrated digital inclinometer to the probe. If the digital inclinometer can be independently adjusted after being locked into position on the probe sheath (e.g., by means of a set screw), the independent adjustment must be set so that the device performs exactly like a device without the capability for independent adjustment. That is, when aligned on the probe the device must give the same readings as a device that does not have the capability of being independently adjusted. Either align it directly on the reference scribe line or on a mark aligned with the scribe line determined according to the procedures in section 18.1.1.1. Maintaining this rotational alignment, lock the digital inclinometer onto the probe sheath.

18.4.2.1.2 If using a protractor wheel and pointer device, orient the protractor wheel on the test port so that the 0&#xB0; mark is aligned with the longitudinal axis of the wind tunnel duct. Maintaining this alignment, lock the wheel into place on the wind tunnel test port. Align the scribe line on the pointer collar with the reference scribe line or with a mark aligned with the reference scribe line, as determined under section 18.1.1.1. Maintaining this rotational alignment, lock the pointer device onto the probe sheath.

18.4.2.2 Zero the pressure-measuring device used for yaw nulling.

18.4.2.3 Insert the probe assembly into the wind tunnel through the entry port, positioning the probe's impact port at the calibration location. Check the responsiveness of the pressure-measuring device to probe rotation, taking corrective action if the response is unacceptable.

18.4.2.4 Ensure that the probe is in a horizontal position using a carpenter's level.

18.4.2.5 Rotate the probe either clockwise or counterclockwise until a yaw null [zero ΔP for a Type S probe or zero (P-P) for a 3-D probe] is obtained. If using a Type S probe with an attached thermocouple, the direction of the probe rotation shall be such that the thermocouple is located downstream of the probe pressure ports at the yaw-null position.

18.4.2.6 Read and record the value of &#x3B8;, the angle indicated by the angle-measuring device at the yaw-null position. Record the angle reading on a form similar to Table 2G-6. Do not associate an algebraic sign with this reading.

18.4.2.7 Determine the magnitude and algebraic sign of the reference scribe line rotational offset, R. The magnitude of Rwill be equal to either &#x3B8;or (90&#xB0;-&#x3B8;), depending on the type of probe being calibrated and the type of angle-measuring device used. (See Table 2G-7 for a summary.) The algebraic sign of Rwill either be positive if the rotational position of the reference scribe line is clockwise or negative if counterclockwise with respect to the probe's yaw-null position. Figure 2G-10 illustrates how the magnitude and sign of Rare determined.

18.4.2.8 Perform the steps in sections 18.3.2.3 through 18.3.2.7 twice at each of the two calibration velocities selected for the probe under section 10.6. Record the values of Rin a form similar to Table 2G-6.

18.4.2.9 The average of all Rvalues is the reference scribe line rotational offset for the probe.

1.1 This method is applicable in conjunction with Methods 2, 2F, and 2G (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A) to account for velocity decay near the wall in circular stacks and ducts.

1.2 This method is not applicable for testing stacks and ducts less than 3.3 ft (1.0 m) in diameter.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A wall effects adjustment factor is determined. It is used to adjust the average stack gas velocity obtained under Method 2, 2F, or 2G of this appendix to take into account velocity decay near the stack or duct wall.

2.2 The method contains two possible procedures: a calculational approach which derives an adjustment factor from velocity measurements and a default procedure which assigns a generic adjustment factor based on the construction of the stack or duct.

2.2.1 The calculational procedure derives a wall effects adjustment factor from velocity measurements taken using Method 2, 2F, or 2G at 16 (or more) traverse points specified under Method 1 of this appendix and a total of eight (or more) wall effects traverse points specified under this method. The calculational procedure based on velocity measurements is not applicable for horizontal circular ducts where build-up of particulate matter or other material in the bottom of the duct is present.

2.2.2 A default wall effects adjustment factor of 0.9900 for brick and mortar stacks and 0.9950 for all other types of stacks and ducts may be used without taking wall effects measurements in a stack or duct.

2.3 When the calculational procedure is conducted as part of a relative accuracy test audit (RATA) or other multiple-run test procedure, the wall effects adjustment factor derived from a single traverse (i.e., single RATA run) may be applied to all runs of the same RATA without repeating the wall effects measurements. Alternatively, wall effects adjustment factors may be derived for several traverses and an average wall effects adjustment factor applied to all runs of the same RATA.
