
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### d,d,d,d,d,d,d,d,d

8.2.4.2and. If the distance betweenandis less than or equal toin. (12.7 mm), taking measurements atis allowed but not required or recommended; if measurements are not taken at, the measured velocity value atmust be used as the value for bothand.

8.3 Traverse Point Sampling Order and Probe Selection. Determine the sampling order of the Method 1 and wall effects traverse points and select the appropriate probe for the measurements, taking into account the following considerations.

8.3.1 Traverse points on any radius may be sampled in either direction (i.e., from the wall toward the center of the stack or duct, or vice versa).

8.3.2 To reduce the likelihood of velocity variations during the time of the traverse and the attendant potential impact on the wall effects-adjusted and unadjusted average velocities, the following provisions of this method shall be met.

8.3.2.1 Each complete set of Method 1 and wall effects traverse points accessed from the same port shall be sampled without interruption. Unless traverses are performed simultaneously in all ports using separate probes at each port, this provision disallows first sampling all Method 1 points at all ports and then sampling all the wall effects points.

8.3.2.2 The entire integrated Method 1 and wall effects traverse across all test ports shall be as short as practicable, consistent with the measurement system response time (see section 8.4.1.1) and sampling (see section 8.4.1.2) provisions of this method.
