
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### d,d

(a)must not be closer to the center of the stack or duct than the distance of the interior edge (boundary),, of the Method 1 equal-area sector closest to the wall (see Figure 2H-2 or 2H-3). That is,

(b) Each point must be located at a distance that is a whole number (e.g., 1, 2, 3) multiple of 1 in. (2.5 cm).

(c) Points do not have to be located at consecutive 1-in. intervals. That is, one or more 1-in. incremented points may be skipped. For example, it would be acceptable for points to be located at 1 in. (2.5 cm), 3 in. (7.6 cm), 5 in. (12.7 cm), d, and d; or at 1 in. (2.5 cm), 2 in. (5.1 cm), 4 in. (10.2 cm), 7 in. (17.8 cm), d, and d. Follow the instructions in section 8.7.1.2 of this method for recording results for wall effects traverse points that are skipped. It should be noted that the full extent of velocity decay may not be accounted for if measurements are not taken at all 1-in. incremented points close to the wall.

8.2.3 Complete wall effects traverse. For a complete wall effects traverse, measurements must be taken at the following points in all four Method 1 equal-area sectors closest to the wall.

(a) The 1-in. incremented wall effects traverse point closest to the wall where the probe can be positioned and velocity can be detected, but no farther than 4 in. (10.2 cm) from the wall.

(b) Every subsequent 1-in. incremented wall effects traverse point out to the interior edge of the Method 1 equal-area sector or to 12 in. (30.5 cm) from the wall, whichever comes first. Note: In stacks or ducts with diameters greater than 15.6 ft (4.8 m) the interior edge of the Method 1 equal-area sector is farther from the wall than 12 in. (30.5 cm).
