
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### Wall effects traverse point

3.17means a traverse point located in accordance with sections 8.2.2 or 8.2.3 of this method.

5.1 This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This method does not purport to address all of the health and safety considerations associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this method to establish appropriate health and safety practices and to determine the applicability of occupational health and safety regulatory requirements prior to performing this method.

6.1 The provisions pertaining to equipment and supplies in the method that is used to take the traverse point measurements (i.e., Method 2, 2F, or 2G) are applicable under this method.

8.1 Default Wall Effects Adjustment Factors. A default wall effects adjustment factor of 0.9900 for brick and mortar stacks and 0.9950 for all other types of stacks and ducts may be used without conducting the following procedures.

8.2 Traverse Point Locations. Determine the location of the Method 1 traverse points in accordance with section 8.2.1 and the location of the traverse points for either a partial wall effects traverse in accordance with section 8.2.2 or a complete wall effects traverse in accordance with section 8.2.3.

8.2.1 Method 1 equal-area traverse point locations. Determine the location of the Method 1 equal-area traverse points for a traverse consisting of 16 or more points using Table 1-2 (Location of Traverse Points in Circular Stacks) of Method 1.

8.2.2 Partial wall effects traverse. For a partial wall effects traverse, measurements must be taken at a minimum of the following two wall effects traverse point locations in all four Method 1 equal-area sectors closest to the wall: (1) 1 in. (2.5 cm) from the wall (except as provided in section 8.2.2.1) and (2) d, as determined using Equation 2H-1 or 2H-2 (see section 8.2.2.2).

8.2.2.1 If the probe cannot be positioned at 1 in. (2.5 cm) from the wall (e.g., because of insufficient room to withdraw the probe shaft) or if velocity pressure cannot be detected at 1 in. (2.5 cm) from the wall (for any reason other than build-up of particulate matter in the bottom of a duct), take measurements at the 1-in. incremented wall effects traverse point closest to the wall where the probe can be positioned and velocity pressure can be detected.

8.2.2.2 Calculate the distance of dfrom the wall to within +/-in. (6.4 mm) using Equation 2H-1 or Equation 2H-2 (for a 16-point traverse).

8.2.2.3 Measurements may be taken at any number of additional wall effects traverse points, with the following provisions.
