
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### d,d,d,d,d,d

8.3.3 It is recommended but not required that in each Method 1 equal-area sector closest to the wall, the Method 1 equal-area traverse point should be sampled in sequence between the adjacent wall effects traverse points. For example, for the traverse point configuration shown in Figure 2H-2, it is recommended that the Method 1 equal-area traverse point be sampled betweenand. In this example, if the traverse is conducted from the wall toward the center of the stack or duct, it is recommended that measurements be taken at points in the following order:,,, the Method 1 traverse point,, and then at the traverse points in the three Method 1 interior equal-area sectors.

8.3.4 The same type of probe must be used to take measurements at all Method 1 and wall effects traverse points. However, different copies of the same type of probe may be used at different ports (e.g., Type S probe 1 at port A, Type S probe 2 at port B) or at different traverse points accessed from a particular port (e.g., Type S probe 1 for Method 1 interior traverse points accessed from port A, Type S probe 2 for wall effects traverse points and the Method 1 exterior traverse point accessed from port A). The identification number of the probe used to obtain measurements at each traverse point must be recorded.

8.4 Measurements at Method 1 and Wall Effects Traverse Points. Conduct measurements at Method 1 and wall effects traverse points in accordance with Method 2, 2F, or 2G and in accordance with the provisions of the following subsections (some of which are included in Methods 2F and 2G but not in Method 2), which are particularly important for wall effects testing.

8.4.1 Probe residence time at wall effects traverse points. Due to the steep temperature and pressure gradients that can occur close to the wall, it is very important for the probe residence time (i.e., the total time spent at a traverse point) to be long enough to ensure collection of representative temperature and pressure measurements. The provisions of Methods 2F and 2G in the following subsections shall be observed.

8.4.1.1 System response time. Determine the response time of each probe measurement system by inserting and positioning the "cold" probe (at ambient temperature and pressure) at any Method 1 traverse point. Read and record the probe differential pressure, temperature, and elapsed time at 15-second intervals until stable readings for both pressure and temperature are achieved. The response time is the longer of these two elapsed times. Record the response time.

8.4.1.2 Sampling. At the start of testing in each port (i.e., after a probe has been inserted into the stack gas stream), allow at least the response time to elapse before beginning to take measurements at the first traverse point accessed from that port. Provided that the probe is not removed from the stack gas stream, measurements may be taken at subsequent traverse points accessed from the same test port without waiting again for the response time to elapse.

8.4.2 Temperature measurement for wall effects traverse points. Either (1) take temperature measurements at each wall effects traverse point in accordance with the applicable provisions of Method 2, 2F, or 2G; or (2) use the temperature measurement at the Method 1 traverse point closest to the wall as the temperature measurement for all the wall effects traverse points in the corresponding equal-area sector.

8.4.3 Non-detectable velocity pressure at wall effects traverse points. If the probe cannot be positioned at a wall effects traverse point or if no velocity pressure can be detected at a wall effects point, measurements shall be taken at the first subsequent wall effects traverse point farther from the wall where velocity can be detected. Follow the instructions in section 8.7.1.2 of this method for recording results for wall effects traverse points where velocity pressure cannot be detected. It should be noted that the full extent of velocity decay may not be accounted for if measurements are not taken at the 1-in. incremented wall effects traverse points closest to the wall.

8.5 Data Recording. For each wall effects and Method 1 traverse point where measurements are taken, record all pressure, temperature, and attendant measurements prescribed in section 3 of Method 2 or section 8.0 of Method 2F or 2G, as applicable.

8.6 Point Velocity Calculation. For each wall effects and Method 1 traverse point, calculate the point velocity value (v) in accordance with sections 12.1 and 12.2 of Method 2F for tests using Method 2F and in accordance with sections 12.1 and 12.2 of Method 2G for tests using Method 2 and Method 2G. (Note that the term (v) in this method corresponds to the term (v) in Methods 2F and 2G.) When the equations in the indicated sections of Method 2G are used in deriving point velocity values for Method 2 tests, set the value of the yaw angles appearing in the equations to 0&#xB0;.

8.7 Tabulating Calculated Point Velocity Values for Wall Effects Traverse Points. Enter the following values in a hardcopy or electronic form similar to Form 2H-1 (for 16-point Method 1 traverses) or Form 2H-2 (for Method 1 traverses consisting of more than 16 points). A separate form must be completed for each of the four Method 1 equal-area sectors that are closest to the wall.

(a) Port ID (e.g., A, B, C, or D)

(b) Probe type

(c) Probe ID

(d) Stack or duct diameter in ft (m) (determined in accordance with section 8.6 of Method 2F or Method 2G)

(e) Stack or duct radius in in. (cm)

(f) Distance from the wall of wall effects traverse points at 1-in. intervals, in ascending order starting with 1 in. (2.5 cm) (column A of Form 2H-1 or 2H-2)

(g) Point velocity values (v) for 1-in. incremented traverse points (see section 8.7.1), including d(see section 8.7.2)

(h) Point velocity value (v) at d(see section 8.7.3).

8.7.1 Point velocity values at wall effects traverse points other than d. For every 1-in. incremented wall effects traverse point other than d, enter in column B of Form 2H-1 or 2H-2 either the velocity measured at the point (see section 8.7.1.1) or the velocity measured at the first subsequent traverse point farther from the wall (see section 8.7.1.2). A velocity value must be entered in column B of Form 2H-1 or 2H-2 for every 1-in. incremented traverse point from d(representing the wall effects traverse point 1 in. [2.5 cm] from the wall) to d.

8.7.1.1 For wall effects traverse points where the probe can be positioned and velocity pressure can be detected, enter the value obtained in accordance with section 8.6.

8.7.1.2 For wall effects traverse points that were skipped [see section 8.2.2.3(c)] and for points where the probe cannot be positioned or where no velocity pressure can be detected, enter the value obtained at the first subsequent traverse point farther from the wall where velocity pressure was detected and measured and follow the entered value with a "flag," such as the notation "NM," to indicate that "no measurements" were actually taken at this point.
