
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### v,d,d,d,d,d,d

8.7.3 Point velocity value () at. Enter the point velocity value obtained atin column G of row 4a in Form 2H-1 or 2H-2. If the distance betweenandis less than or equal toin. (12.7 mm), the measured velocity value atmay be used as the value at(see section 8.2.4.2).

9.1 Particulate Matter Build-up in Horizontal Ducts. Wall effects testing of horizontal circular ducts should be conducted only if build-up of particulate matter or other material in the bottom of the duct is not present.

9.2 Verifying Traverse Point Distances. In taking measurements at wall effects traverse points, it is very important for the probe impact pressure port to be positioned as close as practicable to the traverse point locations in the gas stream. For this reason, before beginning wall effects testing, it is important to calculate and record the traverse point positions that will be marked on each probe for each port, taking into account the distance that each port nipple (or probe mounting flange for automated probes) extends out of the stack and any extension of the port nipple (or mounting flange) into the gas stream. To ensure that traverse point positions are properly identified, the following procedures should be performed on each probe used.

9.2.1 Manual probes. Mark the probe insertion distance of the wall effects and Method 1 traverse points on the probe sheath so that when a mark is aligned with the outside face of the stack port, the probe impact port is located at the calculated distance of the traverse point from the stack inside wall. The use of different colored marks is recommended for designating the wall effects and Method 1 traverse points. Before the first use of each probe, check to ensure that the distance of each mark from the center of the probe impact pressure port agrees with the previously calculated traverse point positions to within +/-in. (6.4 mm).

9.2.2 Automated probe systems. For automated probe systems that mechanically position the probe head at prescribed traverse point positions, activate the system with the probe assemblies removed from the test ports and sequentially extend the probes to the programmed location of each wall effects traverse point and the Method 1 traverse points. Measure the distance between the center of the probe impact pressure port and the inside of the probe assembly mounting flange for each traverse point. The measured distances must agree with the previously calculated traverse point positions to within +/-in. (6.4 mm).

9.3 Probe Installation. Properly sealing the port area is particularly important in taking measurements at wall effects traverse points. For testing involving manual probes, the area between the probe sheath and the port should be sealed with a tightly fitting flexible seal made of an appropriate material such as heavy cloth so that leakage is minimized. For automated probe systems, the probe assembly mounting flange area should be checked to verify that there is no leakage.

9.4 Velocity Stability. This method should be performed only when the average gas velocity in the stack or duct is relatively constant over the duration of the test. If the average gas velocity changes significantly during the course of a wall effects test, the test results should be discarded.

10.1 The calibration coefficient(s) or curves obtained under Method 2, 2F, or 2G and used to perform the Method 1 traverse are applicable under this method.

11.1 Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this method (see section 8).
