
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### W,[object Object],[object Object]

16.1.3.3 Data for a complete set of runs. The values specified in section 16.1.3.4 of Method 2F (when using Method 2F) or 2G (when using either Method 2 or 2G) should be included in the field test report once for each complete set of runs. In addition, the field test report should include the wall effects adjustment factor,AF, that is applied in accordance with section 12.7.1 or 12.7.2 to obtain the final wall effects-adjusted average stack gas velocityor.

16.1.4 Quality assurance and control. Quality assurance and control procedures, specifically tailored to wall effects testing, should be described.

16.2 Reporting a Default Wall Effects Adjustment Factor. When a default wall effects adjustment factor is used in accordance with section 8.1 of this method, its value and a description of the stack or duct's construction material should be reported in lieu of submitting a test report.

(1) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 1-Sample and velocity traverses for stationary sources.

(2) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 2-Determination of stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate (Type S pitot tube).

(3) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 2F-Determination of stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate with three-dimensional probes.

(4) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 2G-Determination of stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate with two-dimensional probes.

(5) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 3-Gas analysis for carbon dioxide, oxygen, excess air, and dry molecular weight.

(6) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 3A-Determination of oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations in emissions from stationary sources (instrumental analyzer procedure).

(7) 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, Method 4-Determination of moisture content in stack gases.

(8) Emission Measurement Center (EMC) Approved Alternative Method (ALT-011) "Alternative Method 2 Thermocouple Calibration Procedure."

(9) The Cadmus Group, Inc., 1998, "EPA Flow Reference Method Testing and Analysis: Data Report, Texas Utilities, DeCordova Steam Electric Station, Volume I: Test Description and Appendix A (Data Distribution Package)," EPA/430-R-98-015a.

(10) The Cadmus Group, Inc., 1998, "EPA Flow Reference Method Testing and Analysis: Data Report, Texas Utilities, Lake Hubbard Steam Electric Station, Volume I: Test Description and Appendix A (Data Distribution Package)," EPA/430-R-98-017a.

(11) The Cadmus Group, Inc., 1998, "EPA Flow Reference Method Testing and Analysis: Data Report, Pennsylvania Electric Co., G.P.U. Genco Homer City Station: Unit 1, Volume I: Test Description and Appendix A (Data Distribution Package)," EPA/430-R-98-018a.

(12) The Cadmus Group, Inc., May 1999, "EPA Flow Reference Method Testing and Analysis: Findings Report," EPA/430-R-99-009.

(13) The Cadmus Group, Inc., 1997, "EPA Flow Reference Method Testing and Analysis: Wind Tunnel Experimental Results," EPA/430-R-97-013.

(14) National Institute of Standards and Technology, 1998, "Report of Special Test of Air Speed Instrumentation, Four Prandtl Probes, Four S-Type Probes, Four French Probes, Four Modified Kiel Probes," Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under IAG No. DW13938432-01-0.

(15) National Institute of Standards and Technology, 1998, "Report of Special Test of Air Speed Instrumentation, Five Autoprobes," Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under IAG No. DW13938432-01-0.

(16) National Institute of Standards and Technology, 1998, "Report of Special Test of Air Speed Instrumentation, Eight Spherical Probes," Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under IAG No. DW13938432-01-0.

(17) National Institute of Standards and Technology, 1998, "Report of Special Test of Air Speed Instrumentation, Four DAT Probes," Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under IAG No. DW13938432-01-0.

(18) Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), 1998, "Calibration of Eight Wind Speed Probes Over a Reynolds Number Range of 46,000 to 725,000 per Foot, Text and Summary Plots," Plus Appendices, WBWT-TR-1317, Prepared for The Cadmus Group, Inc., under EPA Contract 68-W6-0050, Work Assignment 0007AA-3.

(19) Fossil Energy Research Corporation, Final Report, "Velocity Probe Tests in Non-axial Flow Fields," November 1998, Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

(20) Fossil Energy Research Corporation, "Additional Swirl Tunnel Tests: E-DAT and T-DAT Probes," February 24, 1999, Technical Memorandum Prepared for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, P.O. No. 7W-1193-NALX.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of COand Oconcentrations and dry molecular weight of a sample from an effluent gas stream of a fossil-fuel combustion process or other process.

1.3 Other methods, as well as modifications to the procedure described herein, are also applicable for all of the above determinations. Examples of specific methods and modifications include: (1) A multi-point grab sampling method using an Orsat analyzer to analyze the individual grab sample obtained at each point; (2) a method for measuring either COor Oand using stoichiometric calculations to determine dry molecular weight; and (3) assigning a value of 30.0 for dry molecular weight, in lieu of actual measurements, for processes burning natural gas, coal, or oil. These methods and modifications may be used, but are subject to the approval of the Administrator. The method may also be applicable to other processes where it has been determined that compounds other than CO, O, carbon monoxide (CO), and nitrogen (N) are not present in concentrations sufficient to affect the results.

1.4 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A gas sample is extracted from a stack by one of the following methods: (1) single-point, grab sampling; (2) single-point, integrated sampling; or (3) multi-point, integrated sampling. The gas sample is analyzed for percent COand percent O. For dry molecular weight determination, either an Orsat or a Fyrite analyzer may be used for the analysis.
