
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### [object Object]

12.8.2 For RATA and other multiple run test procedures, use the final wall effects-adjusted average stack gas velocity,, calculated according to Equation 2H-21.

16.1 Field Test Reports. Field test reports shall be submitted to the Agency according to the applicable regulatory requirements. When Method 2H is performed in conjunction with Method 2, 2F, or 2G to derive a wall effects adjustment factor, a single consolidated Method 2H/2F (or 2H/2G) field test report should be prepared. At a minimum, the consolidated field test report should contain (1) all of the general information, and data for Method 1 points, specified in section 16.0 of Method 2F (when Method 2H is used in conjunction with Method 2F) or section 16.0 of Method 2G (when Method 2H is used in conjunction with Method 2 or 2G) and (2) the additional general information, and data for Method 1 points and wall effects points, specified in this section (some of which are included in section 16.0 of Methods 2F and 2G and are repeated in this section to ensure complete reporting for wall effects testing).

16.1.1 Description of the source and site. The field test report should include the descriptive information specified in section 16.1.1 of Method 2F (when using Method 2F) or 2G (when using either Method 2 or 2G). It should also include a description of the stack or duct's construction material along with the diagram showing the dimensions of the stack or duct at the test port elevation prescribed in Methods 2F and 2G. The diagram should indicate the location of all wall effects traverse points where measurements were taken as well as the Method 1 traverse points. The diagram should provide a unique identification number for each wall effects and Method 1 traverse point, its distance from the wall, and its location relative to the probe entry ports.

16.1.2 Field test forms. The field test report should include a copy of Form 2H-1, 2H-2, or an equivalent for each Method 1 exterior equal-area sector.

16.1.3 Field test data. The field test report should include the following data for the Method 1 and wall effects traverse.

16.1.3.1 Data for each traverse point. The field test report should include the values specified in section 16.1.3.2 of Method 2F (when using Method 2F) or 2G (when using either Method 2 or 2G) for each Method 1 and wall effects traverse point. The provisions of section 8.4.2 of Method 2H apply to the temperature measurements reported for wall effects traverse points. For each wall effects and Method 1 traverse point, the following values should also be included in the field test report.

(a) Traverse point identification number for each Method 1 and wall effects traverse point.

(b) Probe type.

(c) Probe identification number.

(d) Probe velocity calibration coefficient (i.e., Cwhen Method 2 or 2G is used; Fwhen Method 2F is used).

For each Method 1 traverse point in an exterior equal-area sector, the following additional value should be included.
