
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### [object Object],ve,[object Object]

12.5 Calculate the wall effects-adjusted average velocity,, by replacing the four values ofshown in Equation 2H-5 with the four wall effects-adjusted replacement velocity values,e, calculated according to section 12.4.8, using Equation 2H-17.

12.6 Calculate the wall effects adjustment factor, WAF, using Equation 2H-19.

12.6.1 Partial wall effects traverse. If a partial wall effects traverse (see section 8.2.2) is conducted, the value obtained from Equation 2H-19 is acceptable and may be reported as the wall effects adjustment factor provided that the value is greater than or equal to 0.9800. If the value is less than 0.9800, it shall not be used and a wall effects adjustment factor of 0.9800 may be used instead.

12.6.2 Complete wall effects traverse. If a complete wall effects traverse (see section 8.2.3) is conducted, the value obtained from Equation 2H-19 is acceptable and may be reported as the wall effects adjustment factor provided that the value is greater than or equal to 0.9700. If the value is less than 0.9700, it shall not be used and a wall effects adjustment factor of 0.9700 may be used instead. If the wall effects adjustment factor for a particular stack or duct is less than 0.9700, the tester may (1) repeat the wall effects test, taking measurements at more Method 1 traverse points and (2) recalculate the wall effects adjustment factor from these measurements, in an attempt to obtain a wall effects adjustment factor that meets the 0.9700 specification and completely characterizes the wall effects.

12.7 Applying a Wall Effects Adjustment Factor. A default wall effects adjustment factor, as specified in section 8.1, or a calculated wall effects adjustment factor meeting the requirements of section 12.6.1 or 12.6.2 may be used to adjust the average stack gas velocity obtained using Methods 2, 2F, or 2G to take into account velocity decay near the wall of circular stacks or ducts. Default wall effects adjustment factors specified in section 8.1 and calculated wall effects adjustment factors that meet the requirements of section 12.6.1 and 12.6.2 are summarized in Table 2H-2.

12.7.1 Single-run tests. Calculate the final wall effects-adjusted average stack gas velocity for field tests consisting of a single traverse using Equation 2H-20.
