
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

6.2.6 Flexible Bag. Any leak-free plastic (Tedlar, Mylar, Teflon) or plastic-coated aluminum (aluminized Mylar) bag, or equivalent, having a capacity consistent with the selected flow rate and duration of the test run. A capacity in the range of 55 to 90 liters (1.9 to 3.2 ft) is suggested. To leak-check the bag, connect it to a water manometer, and pressurize the bag to 5 to 10 cm HO (2 to 4 in. HO). Allow to stand for 10 minutes. Any displacement in the water manometer indicates a leak. An alternative leak-check method is to pressurize the bag to 5 to 10 cm (2 to 4 in.) HO and allow to stand overnight. A deflated bag indicates a leak.

6.2.7 Pressure Gauge. A water-filled U-tube manometer, or equivalent, of about 30 cm (12 in.), for the flexible bag leak-check.

6.2.8 Vacuum Gauge. A mercury manometer, or equivalent, of at least 760 mm (30 in.) Hg, for the sampling train leak-check.

6.3 Analysis. An Orsat or Fyrite type combustion gas analyzer.

7.1 Reagents. As specified by the Orsat or Fyrite-type combustion analyzer manufacturer.

7.2 Standards. Two standard gas mixtures, traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards, to be used in auditing the accuracy of the analyzer and the analyzer operator technique:

7.2.1. Gas cylinder containing 2 to 4 percent Oand 14 to 18 percent CO.

7.2.2. Gas cylinder containing 2 to 4 percent COand about 15 percent O.

8.1 Single Point, Grab Sampling Procedure.

8.1.1 The sampling point in the duct shall either be at the centroid of the cross section or at a point no closer to the walls than 1.0 m (3.3 ft), unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.

8.1.2 Set up the equipment as shown in Figure 3-1, making sure all connections ahead of the analyzer are tight. If an Orsat analyzer is used, it is recommended that the analyzer be leak-checked by following the procedure in section 11.5; however, the leak-check is optional.

8.1.3 Place the probe in the stack, with the tip of the probe positioned at the sampling point. Purge the sampling line long enough to allow at least five exchanges. Draw a sample into the analyzer, and immediately analyze it for percent COand percent Oaccording to section 11.2.

8.2 Single-Point, Integrated Sampling Procedure.

8.2.1 The sampling point in the duct shall be located as specified in section 8.1.1.

8.2.2 Leak-check (optional) the flexible bag as in section 6.2.6. Set up the equipment as shown in Figure 3-2. Just before sampling, leak-check (optional) the train by placing a vacuum gauge at the condenser inlet, pulling a vacuum of at least 250 mm Hg (10 in. Hg), plugging the outlet at the quick disconnect, and then turning off the pump. The vacuum should remain stable for at least 0.5 minute. Evacuate the flexible bag. Connect the probe, and place it in the stack, with the tip of the probe positioned at the sampling point. Purge the sampling line. Next, connect the bag, and make sure that all connections are tight.

8.2.3 Sample Collection. Sample at a constant rate (+/-10 percent). The sampling run should be simultaneous with, and for the same total length of time as, the pollutant emission rate determination. Collection of at least 28 liters (1.0 ft) of sample gas is recommended; however, smaller volumes may be collected, if desired.

8.2.4 Obtain one integrated flue gas sample during each pollutant emission rate determination. Within 8 hours after the sample is taken, analyze it for percent COand percent Ousing either an Orsat analyzer or a Fyrite type combustion gas analyzer according to section 11.3.

8.3 Multi-Point, Integrated Sampling Procedure.

8.3.1 Unless otherwise specified in an applicable regulation, or by the Administrator, a minimum of eight traverse points shall be used for circular stacks having diameters less than 0.61 m (24 in.), a minimum of nine shall be used for rectangular stacks having equivalent diameters less than 0.61 m (24 in.), and a minimum of 12 traverse points shall be used for all other cases. The traverse points shall be located according to Method 1.

8.3.2 Follow the procedures outlined in sections 8.2.2 through 8.2.4, except for the following: Traverse all sampling points, and sample at each point for an equal length of time. Record sampling data as shown in Figure 3-3.

10.1 Analyzer. The analyzer and analyzer operator's technique should be audited periodically as follows: take a sample from a manifold containing a known mixture of COand O, and analyze according to the procedure in section 11.3. Repeat this procedure until the measured concentration of three consecutive samples agrees with the stated value +/-0.5 percent. If necessary, take corrective action, as specified in the analyzer users manual.

10.2 Rotameter. The rotameter need not be calibrated, but should be cleaned and maintained according to the manufacturer's instruction.

11.1 Maintenance. The Orsat or Fyrite-type analyzer should be maintained and operated according to the manufacturers specifications.

11.2 Grab Sample Analysis. Use either an Orsat analyzer or a Fyrite-type combustion gas analyzer to measure Oand COconcentration for dry molecular weight determination, using procedures as specified in the analyzer user's manual. If an Orsat analyzer is used, it is recommended that the Orsat leak-check, described in section 11.5, be performed before this determination; however, the check is optional. Calculate the dry molecular weight as indicated in section 12.0. Repeat the sampling, analysis, and calculation procedures until the dry molecular weights of any three grab samples differ from their mean by no more than 0.3 g/g-mole (0.3 lb/lb-mole). Average these three molecular weights, and report the results to the nearest 0.1 g/g-mole (0.1 lb/lb-mole).

11.3 Integrated Sample Analysis. Use either an Orsat analyzer or a Fyrite-type combustion gas analyzer to measure Oand COconcentration for dry molecular weight determination, using procedures as specified in the analyzer user's manual. If an Orsat analyzer is used, it is recommended that the Orsat leak-check, described in section 11.5, be performed before this determination; however, the check is optional. Calculate the dry molecular weight as indicated in section 12.0. Repeat the analysis and calculation procedures until the individual dry molecular weights for any three analyses differ from their mean by no more than 0.3 g/g-mole (0.3 lb/lb-mole). Average these three molecular weights, and report the results to the nearest 0.1 g/g-mole (0.1 lb/lb-mole).

11.4 Standardization. A periodic check of the reagents and of operator technique should be conducted at least once every three series of test runs as outlined in section 10.1.

11.5 Leak-Check Procedure for Orsat Analyzer. Moving an Orsat analyzer frequently causes it to leak. Therefore, an Orsat analyzer should be thoroughly leak-checked on site before the flue gas sample is introduced into it. The procedure for leak-checking an Orsat analyzer is as follows:

11.5.1 Bring the liquid level in each pipette up to the reference mark on the capillary tubing, and then close the pipette stopcock.

11.5.2 Raise the leveling bulb sufficiently to bring the confining liquid meniscus onto the graduated portion of the burette, and then close the manifold stopcock.

11.5.3 Record the meniscus position.

11.5.4 Observe the meniscus in the burette and the liquid level in the pipette for movement over the next 4 minutes.

11.5.5 For the Orsat analyzer to pass the leak-check, two conditions must be met:

11.5.5.1 The liquid level in each pipette must not fall below the bottom of the capillary tubing during this 4-minute interval.

11.5.5.2 The meniscus in the burette must not change by more than 0.2 ml during this 4-minute interval.

11.5.6 If the analyzer fails the leak-check procedure, check all rubber connections and stopcocks to determine whether they might be the cause of the leak. Disassemble, clean, and regrease any leaking stopcocks. Replace leaking rubber connections. After the analyzer is reassembled, repeat the leak-check procedure.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Nitrogen, Carbon Monoxide Concentration. Determine the percentage of the gas that is Nand CO by subtracting the sum of the percent COand percent Ofrom 100 percent.

12.3 Dry Molecular Weight. Use Equation 3-1 to calculate the dry molecular weight of the stack gas.
