
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

4.1 Several compounds can interfere, to varying degrees, with the results of Orsat or Fyrite analyses. Compounds that interfere with COconcentration measurement include acid gases (sulfur dioxide, hydrogen chloride); compounds that interfere with Oconcentration measurement include unsaturated hydrocarbons (acetone, acetylene), nitrous oxide, and ammonia. Ammonia reacts chemically with the Oabsorbing solution, and when present in the effluent gas stream must be removed before analysis.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents.

5.2.1 A typical Orsat analyzer requires four reagents: a gas-confining solution, COabsorbent, Oabsorbent, and CO absorbent. These reagents may contain potassium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, cuprous chloride, cuprous sulfate, alkaline pyrogallic acid, and/or chromous chloride. Follow manufacturer's operating instructions and observe all warning labels for reagent use.

5.2.2 A typical Fyrite analyzer contains zinc chloride, hydrochloric acid, and either potassium hydroxide or chromous chloride. Follow manufacturer's operating instructions and observe all warning labels for reagent use.

6.1 Grab Sampling (See Figure 3-1).

6.1.1 Probe. Stainless steel or borosilicate glass tubing equipped with an in-stack or out-of-stack filter to remove particulate matter (a plug of glass wool is satisfactory for this purpose). Any other materials, resistant to temperature at sampling conditions and inert to all components of the gas stream, may be used for the probe. Examples of such materials may include aluminum, copper, quartz glass, and Teflon.

6.1.2 Pump. A one-way squeeze bulb, or equivalent, to transport the gas sample to the analyzer.

6.2 Integrated Sampling (Figure 3-2).

6.2.1 Probe. Same as in section 6.1.1.

6.2.2 Condenser. An air-cooled or water-cooled condenser, or other condenser no greater than 250 ml that will not remove O, CO, CO, and N, to remove excess moisture which would interfere with the operation of the pump and flowmeter.

6.2.3 Valve. A needle valve, to adjust sample gas flow rate.

6.2.4 Pump. A leak-free, diaphragm-type pump, or equivalent, to transport sample gas to the flexible bag. Install a small surge tank between the pump and rate meter to eliminate the pulsation effect of the diaphragm pump on the rate meter.

6.2.5 Rate Meter. A rotameter, or equivalent, capable of measuring flow rate to +/-2 percent of the selected flow rate. A flow rate range of 500 to 1000 ml/min is suggested.
