
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### 8.5 Post-Run System Bias Check and Drift Assessment.

You must follow the procedures in section 8.5 of Method 7E.

Follow quality control procedures in section 9.0 of Method 7E.

Follow the procedures for calibration and standardization in section 10.0 of Method 7E.

Because sample collection and analysis are performed together (see section 8), additional discussion of the analytical procedure is not necessary.

You must follow the applicable procedures for calculations and data analysis in section 12.0 of Method 7E, substituting percent Oand percent COfor ppmv of NOas appropriate.

The specifications for the applicable performance checks are the same as in section 13.0 of Method 7E except for the alternative specifications for system bias, drift, and calibration error. In these alternative specifications, replace the term "0.5 ppmv" with the term "0.5 percent O" or "0.5 percent CO" (as applicable).

1. "EPA Traceability Protocol for Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards" September 1997 as amended, EPA-600/R-97/121.

Refer to section 18.0 of Method 7E.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of O, CO, and CO concentrations in the effluent from fossil-fuel combustion processes for use in excess air or emission rate correction factor calculations. Where compounds other than CO, O, CO, and nitrogen (N) are present in concentrations sufficient to affect the results, the calculation procedures presented in this method must be modified, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

1.3 Other methods, as well as modifications to the procedure described herein, are also applicable for all of the above determinations. Examples of specific methods and modifications include: (1) A multi-point sampling method using an Orsat analyzer to analyze individual grab samples obtained at each point, and (2) a method using COor Oand stoichiometric calculations to determine excess air. These methods and modifications may be used, but are subject to the approval of the Administrator.

1.4 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A gas sample is extracted from a stack by one of the following methods: (1) Single-point, grab sampling; (2) single-point, integrated sampling; or (3) multi-point, integrated sampling. The gas sample is analyzed for percent CO, percent O, and, if necessary, percent CO using an Orsat combustion gas analyzer.
