
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 60 - Test Methods 2G through 3C
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

4.1 Several compounds can interfere, to varying degrees, with the results of Orsat analyses. Compounds that interfere with CO2 concentration measurement include acid gases (sulfur dioxide, hydrogen chloride); compounds that interfere with Oconcentration measurement include unsaturated hydrocarbons (acetone, acetylene), nitrous oxide, and ammonia. Ammonia reacts chemically with the Oabsorbing solution, and when present in the effluent gas stream must be removed before analysis.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. A typical Orsat analyzer requires four reagents: a gas-confining solution, COabsorbent, Oabsorbent, and CO absorbent. These reagents may contain potassium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, cuprous chloride, cuprous sulfate, alkaline pyrogallic acid, and/or chromous chloride. Follow manufacturer's operating instructions and observe all warning labels for reagent use.

6.1 Grab Sampling and Integrated Sampling. Same as in sections 6.1 and 6.2, respectively for Method 3.

6.2 Analysis. An Orsat analyzer only. For low CO(less than 4.0 percent) or high O(greater than 15.0 percent) concentrations, the measuring burette of the Orsat must have at least 0.1 percent subdivisions. For Orsat maintenance and operation procedures, follow the instructions recommended by the manufacturer, unless otherwise specified herein.

7.1 Reagents. Same as in Method 3, section 7.1.

7.2 Standards. Same as in Method 3, section 7.2.

8.1 Single-Point, Grab Sampling and Analytical Procedure.

8.1.1 The sampling point in the duct shall either be at the centroid of the cross section or at a point no closer to the walls than 1.0 m (3.3 ft), unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.

8.1.2 Set up the equipment as shown in Figure 3-1 of Method 3, making sure all connections ahead of the analyzer are tight. Leak-check the Orsat analyzer according to the procedure described in section 11.5 of Method 3. This leak-check is mandatory.

8.1.3 Place the probe in the stack, with the tip of the probe positioned at the sampling point; purge the sampling line long enough to allow at least five exchanges. Draw a sample into the analyzer. For emission rate correction factor determinations, immediately analyze the sample for percent COor percent O, as outlined in section 11.2. For excess air determination, immediately analyze the sample for percent CO, O, and CO, as outlined in section 11.2, and calculate excess air as outlined in section 12.2.

8.1.4 After the analysis is completed, leak-check (mandatory) the Orsat analyzer once again, as described in section 11.5 of Method 3. For the results of the analysis to be valid, the Orsat analyzer must pass this leak-test before and after the analysis.

8.2 Single-Point, Integrated Sampling and Analytical Procedure.

8.2.1 The sampling point in the duct shall be located as specified in section 8.1.1.

8.2.2 Leak-check (mandatory) the flexible bag as in section 6.2.6 of Method 3. Set up the equipment as shown in Figure 3-2 of Method 3. Just before sampling, leak-check (mandatory) the train by placing a vacuum gauge at the condenser inlet, pulling a vacuum of at least 250 mm Hg (10 in. Hg), plugging the outlet at the quick disconnect, and then turning off the pump. The vacuum should remain stable for at least 0.5 minute. Evacuate the flexible bag. Connect the probe, and place it in the stack, with the tip of the probe positioned at the sampling point; purge the sampling line. Next, connect the bag, and make sure that all connections are tight.

8.2.3 Sample at a constant rate, or as specified by the Administrator. The sampling run must be simultaneous with, and for the same total length of time as, the pollutant emission rate determination. Collect at least 28 liters (1.0 ft) of sample gas. Smaller volumes may be collected, subject to approval of the Administrator.

8.2.4 Obtain one integrated flue gas sample during each pollutant emission rate determination. For emission rate correction factor determination, analyze the sample within 4 hours after it is taken for percent COor percent O(as outlined in section 11.2).

8.3 Multi-Point, Integrated Sampling and Analytical Procedure.

8.3.1 Unless otherwise specified in an applicable regulation, or by the Administrator, a minimum of eight traverse points shall be used for circular stacks having diameters less than 0.61 m (24 in.), a minimum of nine shall be used for rectangular stacks having equivalent diameters less than 0.61 m (24 in.), and a minimum of 12 traverse points shall be used for all other cases. The traverse points shall be located according to Method 1.

8.3.2 Follow the procedures outlined in sections 8.2.2 through 8.2.4, except for the following: Traverse all sampling points, and sample at each point for an equal length of time. Record sampling data as shown in Figure 3-3 of Method 3.

9.1 Data Validation Using Fuel Factor. Although in most instances, only COor Omeasurement is required, it is recommended that both COand Obe measured to provide a check on the quality of the data. The data validation procedure of section 12.3 is suggested.

10.1 Analyzer. The analyzer and analyzer operator technique should be audited periodically as follows: take a sample from a manifold containing a known mixture of COand O, and analyze according to the procedure in section 11.3. Repeat this procedure until the measured concentration of three consecutive samples agrees with the stated value +/-0.5 percent. If necessary, take corrective action, as specified in the analyzer users manual.

10.2 Rotameter. The rotameter need not be calibrated, but should be cleaned and maintained according to the manufacturer's instruction.

11.1 Maintenance. The Orsat analyzer should be maintained according to the manufacturers specifications.

11.2 Grab Sample Analysis. To ensure complete absorption of the CO, O, or if applicable, CO, make repeated passes through each absorbing solution until two consecutive readings are the same. Several passes (three or four) should be made between readings. (If constant readings cannot be obtained after three consecutive readings, replace the absorbing solution.) Although in most cases, only COor Oconcentration is required, it is recommended that both COand Obe measured, and that the procedure in section 12.3 be used to validate the analytical data.

11.3 Integrated Sample Analysis. The Orsat analyzer must be leak-checked (see section 11.5 of Method 3) before the analysis. If excess air is desired, proceed as follows: (1) within 4 hours after the sample is taken, analyze it (as in sections 11.3.1 through 11.3.3) for percent CO, O, and CO; (2) determine the percentage of the gas that is Nby subtracting the sum of the percent CO, percent O, and percent CO from 100 percent; and (3) calculate percent excess air, as outlined in section 12.2.

11.3.1 To ensure complete absorption of the CO, O, or if applicable, CO, follow the procedure described in section 11.2.

11.3.2 Repeat the analysis until the following criteria are met:

11.3.2.1 For percent CO, repeat the analytical procedure until the results of any three analyses differ by no more than (a) 0.3 percent by volume when COis greater than 4.0 percent or (b) 0.2 percent by volume when COis less than or equal to 4.0 percent. Average three acceptable values of percent CO, and report the results to the nearest 0.2 percent.

11.3.2.2 For percent O, repeat the analytical procedure until the results of any three analyses differ by no more than (a) 0.3 percent by volume when Ois less than 15.0 percent or (b) 0.2 percent by volume when Ois greater than or equal to 15.0 percent. Average the three acceptable values of percent O, and report the results to the nearest 0.1 percent.

11.3.2.3 For percent CO, repeat the analytical procedure until the results of any three analyses differ by no more than 0.3 percent. Average the three acceptable values of percent CO, and report the results to the nearest 0.1 percent.

11.3.3 After the analysis is completed, leak-check (mandatory) the Orsat analyzer once again, as described in section 11.5 of Method 3. For the results of the analysis to be valid, the Orsat analyzer must pass this leak-test before and after the analysis.

11.4 Standardization. A periodic check of the reagents and of operator technique should be conducted at least once every three series of test runs as indicated in section 10.1.

12.1 Nomenclature. Same as section 12.1 of Method 3 with the addition of the following:

12.2 Percent Excess Air. Determine the percentage of the gas that is Nby subtracting the sum of the percent CO, percent CO, and percent Ofrom 100 percent. Calculate the percent excess air (if applicable) by substituting the appropriate values of percent O, CO, and Ninto Equation 3B-1.

12.3 Data Validation When Both COand OAre Measured.

12.3.1 Fuel Factor, F. Calculate the fuel factor (if applicable) using Equation 3B-2:

If CO is present in quantities measurable by this method, adjust the Oand COvalues using Equations 3B-3 and 3B-4 before performing the calculation for F:

12.3.2 Compare the calculated Ffactor with the expected Fvalues. Table 3B-1 in section 17.0 may be used in establishing acceptable ranges for the expected Fif the fuel being burned is known. When fuels are burned in combinations, calculate the combined fuel Fand Ffactors (as defined in Method 19, section 12.2) according to the procedure in Method 19, sections 12.2 and 12.3. Then calculate the Ffactor according to Equation 3B-5.

12.3.3 Calculated Fvalues, beyond the acceptable ranges shown in this table, should be investigated before accepting the test results. For example, the strength of the solutions in the gas analyzer and the analyzing technique should be checked by sampling and analyzing a known concentration, such as air; the fuel factor should be reviewed and verified. An acceptability range of +/-12 percent is appropriate for the Ffactor of mixed fuels with variable fuel ratios. The level of the emission rate relative to the compliance level should be considered in determining if a retest is appropriate; i.e., if the measured emissions are much lower or much greater than the compliance limit, repetition of the test would not significantly change the compliance status of the source and would be unnecessarily time consuming and costly.

Same as Method 3, section 16.0.

1.1 Applicability. This method applies to the analysis of carbon dioxide (CO), methane (CH), nitrogen (N), and oxygen (O) in samples from municipal solid waste landfills and other sources when specified in an applicable subpart.

1.2 Principle. A portion of the sample is injected into a gas chromatograph (GC) and the CO, CH, N, and Oconcentrations are determined by using a thermal conductivity detector (TCD) and integrator.

2.1 Range. The range of this method depends upon the concentration of samples. The analytical range of TCD's is generally between approximately 10 ppmv and the upper percent range.

2.2 Sensitivity. The sensitivity limit for a compound is defined as the minimum detectable concentration of that compound, or the concentration that produces a signal-to-noise ratio of three to one. For CO, CH, N, and O, the sensitivity limit is in the low ppmv range.

Since the TCD exhibits universal response and detects all gas components except the carrier, interferences may occur. Choosing the appropriate GC or shifting the retention times by changing the column flow rate may help to eliminate resolution interferences.

To assure consistent detector response, helium is used to prepare calibration gases. Frequent exposure to samples or carrier gas containing oxygen may gradually destroy filaments.

4.1 Gas Chromatograph. GC having at least the following components:

4.1.1 Separation Column. Appropriate column(s) to resolve CO, CH, N, O, and other gas components that may be present in the sample.

4.1.2 Sample Loop. Teflon or stainless steel tubing of the appropriate diameter.

4.1.3 Conditioning System. To maintain the column and sample loop at constant temperature.

4.1.4 Thermal Conductivity Detector.

4.2 Recorder. Recorder with linear strip chart. Electronic integrator (optional) is recommended.

4.3 Teflon Tubing. Diameter and length determined by connection requirements of cylinder regulators and the GC.

4.4 Regulators. To control gas cylinder pressures and flow rates.

4.5 Adsorption Tubes. Applicable traps to remove any Ofrom the carrier gas.

5.1 Calibration and Linearity Gases. Standard cylinder gas mixtures for each compound of interest with at least three concentration levels spanning the range of suspected sample concentrations. The calibration gases shall be prepared in helium.

5.2 Carrier Gas. Helium, high-purity.

6.1 Sample Collection. Use the sample collection procedures described in Methods 3 or 25C to collect a sample of landfill gas (LFG).

6.2 Preparation of GC. Before putting the GC analyzer into routine operation, optimize the operational conditions according to the manufacturer's specifications to provide good resolution and minimum analysis time. Establish the appropriate carrier gas flow and set the detector sample and reference cell flow rates at exactly the same levels. Adjust the column and detector temperatures to the recommended levels. Allow sufficient time for temperature stabilization. This may typically require 1 hour for each change in temperature.

6.3 Analyzer Linearity Check and Calibration. Perform this test before sample analysis.

6.3.1 Using the gas mixtures in section 5.1, verify the detector linearity over the range of suspected sample concentrations with at least three concentrations per compound of interest. This initial check may also serve as the initial instrument calibration.

6.3.2 You may extend the use of the analyzer calibration by performing a single-point calibration verification. Calibration verifications shall be performed by triplicate injections of a single-point standard gas. The concentration of the single-point calibration must either be at the midpoint of the calibration curve or at approximately the source emission concentration measured during operation of the analyzer.

6.3.3 Triplicate injections must agree within 5 percent of their mean, and the average calibration verification point must agree within 10 percent of the initial calibration response factor. If these calibration verification criteria are not met, the initial calibration described in section 6.3.1, using at least three concentrations, must be repeated before analysis of samples can continue.

6.3.4 For each instrument calibration, record the carrier and detector flow rates, detector filament and block temperatures, attenuation factor, injection time, chart speed, sample loop volume, and component concentrations.

6.3.5 Plot a linear regression of the standard concentrations versus area values to obtain the response factor of each compound. Alternatively, response factors of uncorrected component concentrations (wet basis) may be generated using instrumental integration.

6.4 Sample Analysis. Purge the sample loop with sample, and allow to come to atmospheric pressure before each injection. Analyze each sample in duplicate, and calculate the average sample area (A). The results are acceptable when the peak areas for two consecutive injections agree within 5 percent of their average. If they do not agree, run additional samples until consistent area data are obtained. Determine the tank sample concentrations according to section 7.2.

Carry out calculations retaining at least one extra decimal figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off results only after the final calculation.

7.1 Nomenclature.

7.2 Concentration of Sample Components. Calculate C for each compound using Equations 3C-1 and 3C-2. Use the temperature and barometric pressure at the sampling site to calculate Bw. If the sample was diluted with helium using the procedures in Method 25C, use Equation 3C-3 to calculate the concentration.

7.3 Measured NConcentration Correction. Calculate the reported Ncorrection for Method 25-C using Eq. 3C-4. If oxygen is determined in place of N, substitute the oxygen concentration for the nitrogen concentration in the equation.

1. McNair, H.M., and E.J. Bonnelli. Basic Gas Chromatography. Consolidated Printers, Berkeley, CA. 1969.
