
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

6.1.1 Probe. Stainless steel or glass tubing, sufficiently heated to prevent water condensation, and equipped with a filter, either in-stack (a plug of glass wool inserted into the end of the probe) or heated out-of-stack (as described in Method 5), to remove particulate matter. When stack conditions permit, other metals or plastic tubing may be used for the probe, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

6.1.2 Condenser. Same as Method 5, section 6.1.1.8.

6.1.3 Cooling System. An ice bath container, crushed ice, and water (or equivalent), to aid in condensing moisture.

6.1.4 Metering System. Same as in Method 5, section 6.1.1.9, except do not use sampling systems designed for flow rates higher than 0.0283 m/min (1.0 cfm). Other metering systems, capable of maintaining a constant sampling rate to within 10 percent and determining sample gas volume to within 2 percent, may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

6.1.5 Barometer and Balance. Same as Method 5, sections 6.1.2 and 6.2.5, respectively.

6.2. Approximation Method. A schematic of the sampling train used in this approximation method is shown in Figure 4-2.

6.2.1 Probe. Same as section 6.1.1.

6.2.2 Condenser. Two midget impingers, each with 30-ml capacity, or equivalent.

6.2.3 Cooling System. Ice bath container, crushed ice, and water, to aid in condensing moisture in impingers.

6.2.4 Drying Tube. Tube packed with new or regenerated 6- to 16-mesh indicating-type silica gel (or equivalent desiccant), to dry the sample gas and to protect the meter and pump.

6.2.5 Valve. Needle valve, to regulate the sample gas flow rate.

6.2.6 Pump. Leak-free, diaphragm type, or equivalent, to pull the gas sample through the train.

6.2.7 Volume Meter. Dry gas meter, sufficiently accurate to measure the sample volume to within 2 percent, and calibrated over the range of flow rates and conditions actually encountered during sampling.

6.2.8 Rate Meter. Rotameter, or equivalent, to measure the flow range from 0 to 3 liters/min (0 to 0.11 cfm).

6.2.9 Graduated Cylinder. 25-ml.

6.2.10 Barometer. Same as Method 5, section 6.1.2.

6.2.11 Vacuum Gauge. At least 760-mm (30-in.) Hg gauge, to be used for the sampling leak check.

8.1 Reference Method. The following procedure is intended for a condenser system (such as the impinger system described in section 6.1.1.8 of Method 5) incorporating volumetric analysis to measure the condensed moisture, and silica gel and gravimetric analysis to measure the moisture leaving the condenser.

8.1.1 Preliminary Determinations.

8.1.1.1 Unless otherwise specified by the Administrator, a minimum of eight traverse points shall be used for circular stacks having diameters less than 0.61 m (24 in.), a minimum of nine points shall be used for rectangular stacks having equivalent diameters less than 0.61 m (24 in.), and a minimum of twelve traverse points shall be used in all other cases. The traverse points shall be located according to Method 1. The use of fewer points is subject to the approval of the Administrator. Select a suitable probe and probe length such that all traverse points can be sampled. Consider sampling from opposite sides of the stack (four total sampling ports) for large stacks, to permit use of shorter probe lengths. Mark the probe with heat resistant tape or by some other method to denote the proper distance into the stack or duct for each sampling point.

8.1.1.2 Select a total sampling time such that a minimum total gas volume of 0.60 scm (21 scf) will be collected, at a rate no greater than 0.021 m/min (0.75 cfm). When both moisture content and pollutant emission rate are to be determined, the moisture determination shall be simultaneous with, and for the same total length of time as, the pollutant emission rate run, unless otherwise specified in an applicable subpart of the standards.

8.1.2 Preparation of Sampling Train.

8.1.2.1 Transfer water into the first two impingers, leave the third impinger empty and add silica gel to the fourth impinger. Weigh the impingers before sampling and record the weight to the nearest 0.5g at a minimum.

8.1.2.2 Set up the sampling train as shown in Figure 4-1. Turn on the probe heater and (if applicable) the filter heating system to temperatures of approximately 120 &#xB0;C (248 &#xB0;F), to prevent water condensation ahead of the condenser. Allow time for the temperatures to stabilize. Place crushed ice and water in the ice bath container.

8.1.3 Leak-Check Procedures.

8.1.3.1 Leak Check of Metering System Shown in Figure 4-1. That portion of the sampling train from the pump to the orifice meter should be leak-checked prior to initial use and after each shipment. Leakage after the pump will result in less volume being recorded than is actually sampled. The following procedure is suggested (see Figure 5-2 of Method 5): Close the main valve on the meter box. Insert a one-hole rubber stopper with rubber tubing attached into the orifice exhaust pipe. Disconnect and vent the low side of the orifice manometer. Close off the low side orifice tap. Pressurize the system to 13 to 18 cm (5 to 7 in.) water column by blowing into the rubber tubing. Pinch off the tubing and observe the manometer for one minute. A loss of pressure on the manometer indicates a leak in the meter box; leaks, if present, must be corrected.

8.1.3.2 Pretest Leak Check. A pretest leak check of the sampling train is recommended, but not required. If the pretest leak check is conducted, the following procedure should be used.

8.1.3.2.1 After the sampling train has been assembled, turn on and set the filter and probe heating systems to the desired operating temperatures. Allow time for the temperatures to stabilize.

8.1.3.2.2 Leak-check the train by first plugging the inlet to the filter holder and pulling a 380 mm (15 in.) Hg vacuum. Then connect the probe to the train, and leak-check at approximately 25 mm (1 in.) Hg vacuum; alternatively, the probe may be leak-checked with the rest of the sampling train, in one step, at 380 mm (15 in.) Hg vacuum. Leakage rates in excess of 4 percent of the average sampling rate or 0.00057 m/min (0.020 cfm), whichever is less, are unacceptable.

8.1.3.2.3 Start the pump with the bypass valve fully open and the coarse adjust valve completely closed. Partially open the coarse adjust valve, and slowly close the bypass valve until the desired vacuum is reached. Do not reverse the direction of the bypass valve, as this will cause water to back up into the filter holder. If the desired vacuum is exceeded, either leak-check at this higher vacuum, or end the leak check and start over.

8.1.3.2.4 When the leak check is completed, first slowly remove the plug from the inlet to the probe, filter holder, and immediately turn off the vacuum pump. This prevents the water in the impingers from being forced backward into the filter holder and the silica gel from being entrained backward into the third impinger.
