
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

8.5.3 When the stack is under significant negative pressure (height of impinger stem), take care to close the coarse adjust valve before inserting the probe into the stack to prevent water from backing into the filter holder. If necessary, the pump may be turned on with the coarse adjust valve closed.

8.5.4 When the probe is in position, block off the openings around the probe and porthole to prevent unrepresentative dilution of the gas stream.

8.5.5 Traverse the stack cross-section, as required by Method 1 or as specified by the Administrator, being careful not to bump the probe nozzle into the stack walls when sampling near the walls or when removing or inserting the probe through the portholes; this minimizes the chance of extracting deposited material.

8.5.6 During the test run, make periodic adjustments to keep the temperature around the filter holder at the proper level to maintain the sample gas temperature exiting the filter; add more ice and, if necessary, salt to maintain a temperature of less than 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F) at the condenser/silica gel outlet. Also, periodically check the level and zero of the manometer.

8.5.7 If the pressure drop across the filter becomes too high, making isokinetic sampling difficult to maintain, the filter may be replaced in the midst of the sample run. It is recommended that another complete filter assembly be used rather than attempting to change the filter itself. Before a new filter assembly is installed, conduct a leak check (see section 8.4.3). The total PM weight shall include the summation of the filter assembly catches.

8.5.8 A single train shall be used for the entire sample run, except in cases where simultaneous sampling is required in two or more separate ducts or at two or more different locations within the same duct, or in cases where equipment failure necessitates a change of trains. In all other situations, the use of two or more trains will be subject to the approval of the Administrator.

8.5.9 At the end of the sample run, close the coarse adjust valve, remove the probe and nozzle from the stack, turn off the pump, record the final DGM meter reading, and conduct a post-test leak check, as outlined in section 8.4.4. Also, leak-check the pitot lines as described in Method 2, section 8.1. The lines must pass this leak check, in order to validate the velocity head data.

8.6 Calculation of Percent Isokinetic. Calculate percent isokinetic (see Calculations, section 12.11) to determine whether the run was valid or another test run should be made. If there was difficulty in maintaining isokinetic rates because of source conditions, consult with the Administrator for possible variance on the isokinetic rates.

8.7 Sample Recovery.

8.7.1 Proper cleanup procedure begins as soon as the probe is removed from the stack at the end of the sampling period. Allow the probe to cool.

8.7.2 When the probe can be safely handled, wipe off all external PM near the tip of the probe nozzle, and place a cap over it to prevent losing or gaining PM. Do not cap off the probe tip tightly while the sampling train is cooling down. This would create a vacuum in the filter holder, thereby drawing water from the impingers into the filter holder.

8.7.3 Before moving the sample train to the cleanup site, remove the probe from the sample train and cap the open outlet of the probe. Be careful not to lose any condensate that might be present. Cap the filter inlet where the probe was fastened. Remove the umbilical cord from the last impinger, and cap the impinger. If a flexible line is used between the first impinger or condenser and the filter holder, disconnect the line at the filter holder, and let any condensed water or liquid drain into the impingers or condenser. Cap off the filter holder outlet and impinger inlet. Either ground-glass stoppers, plastic caps, or serum caps may be used to close these openings.

8.7.4 Transfer the probe and filter-impinger assembly to the cleanup area. This area should be clean and protected from the wind so that the chances of contaminating or losing the sample will be minimized.

8.7.5 Save a portion of the acetone used for cleanup as a blank. From each storage container of acetone used for cleanup, save 200 ml and place in a glass sample container labeled "acetone blank." To minimize any particulate contamination, rinse the wash bottle prior to filling from the tested container.

8.7.6 Inspect the train prior to and during disassembly, and note any abnormal conditions. Treat the samples as follows:

8.7.6.1 Container No. 1. Carefully remove the filter from the filter holder, and place it in its identified petri dish container. Use a pair of tweezers and/or clean disposable surgical gloves to handle the filter. If it is necessary to fold the filter, do so such that the PM cake is inside the fold. Using a dry Nylon bristle brush and/or a sharp-edged blade, carefully transfer to the petri dish any PM and/or filter fibers that adhere to the filter holder gasket. Seal the container.

8.7.6.2 Container No. 2. Taking care to see that dust on the outside of the probe or other exterior surfaces does not get into the sample, quantitatively recover PM or any condensate from the probe nozzle, probe fitting, probe liner, and front half of the filter holder by washing these components with acetone and placing the wash in a glass container. Deionized distilled water may be used instead of acetone when approved by the Administrator and shall be used when specified by the Administrator. In these cases, save a water blank, and follow the Administrator's directions on analysis. Perform the acetone rinse as follows:

8.7.6.2.1 Carefully remove the probe nozzle. Clean the inside surface by rinsing with acetone from a wash bottle and brushing with a Nylon bristle brush. Brush until the acetone rinse shows no visible particles, after which make a final rinse of the inside surface with acetone.

8.7.6.2.2 Brush and rinse the inside parts of the fitting with acetone in a similar way until no visible particles remain.

8.7.6.2.3 Rinse the probe liner with acetone by tilting and rotating the probe while squirting acetone into its upper end so that all inside surfaces will be wetted with acetone. Let the acetone drain from the lower end into the sample container. A funnel (glass or polyethylene) may be used to aid in transferring liquid washes to the container. Follow the acetone rinse with a probe brush. Hold the probe in an inclined position, squirt acetone into the upper end as the probe brush is being pushed with a twisting action through the probe; hold a sample container underneath the lower end of the probe, and catch any acetone and particulate matter that is brushed from the probe. Run the brush through the probe three times or more until no visible PM is carried out with the acetone or until none remains in the probe liner on visual inspection. With stainless steel or other metal probes, run the brush through in the above prescribed manner at least six times since metal probes have small crevices in which particulate matter can be entrapped. Rinse the brush with acetone, and quantitatively collect these washings in the sample container. After the brushing, make a final acetone rinse of the probe.

8.7.6.2.4 It is recommended that two people clean the probe to minimize sample losses. Between sampling runs, keep brushes clean and protected from contamination.

8.7.6.2.5 Clean the inside of the front half of the filter holder by rubbing the surfaces with a Nylon bristle brush and rinsing with acetone. Rinse each surface three times or more if needed to remove visible particulate. Make a final rinse of the brush and filter holder. Carefully rinse out the glass cyclone, also (if applicable). After all acetone washings and particulate matter have been collected in the sample container, tighten the lid on the sample container so that acetone will not leak out when it is shipped to the laboratory. Mark the height of the fluid level to allow determination of whether leakage occurred during transport. Label the container to clearly identify its contents.

8.7.6.3 Container No. 3. Note the color of the indicating silica gel to determine whether it has been completely spent, and make a notation of its condition. Transfer the silica gel from the fourth impinger to its original container, and seal. A funnel may make it easier to pour the silica gel without spilling. A rubber policeman may be used as an aid in removing the silica gel from the impinger. It is not necessary to remove the small amount of dust particles that may adhere to the impinger wall and are difficult to remove. Since the gain in weight is to be used for moisture calculations, do not use any water or other liquids to transfer the silica gel. If a balance is available in the field, follow the procedure for Container No. 3 in section 11.2.3.
