
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,

2.2.1 The reference method is used for accurate determinations of moisture content (such as are needed to calculate emission data). The approximation method, provides estimates of percent moisture to aid in setting isokinetic sampling rates prior to a pollutant emission measurement run. The approximation method described herein is only a suggested approach; alternative means for approximating the moisture content (drying tubes, wet bulb-dry bulb techniques, condensation techniques, stoichiometric calculations, previous experience, etc.) are also acceptable.

2.2.2 The reference method is often conducted simultaneously with a pollutant emission measurement run. When it is, calculation of percent isokinetic, pollutant emission rate, etc., for the run shall be based upon the results of the reference method or its equivalent. These calculations shall not be based upon the results of the approximation method, unless the approximation method is shown, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, to be capable of yielding results within one percent HO of the reference method.

4.1 The moisture content of saturated gas streams or streams that contain water droplets, as measured by the reference method, may be positively biased. Therefore, when these conditions exist or are suspected, a second determination of the moisture content shall be made simultaneously with the reference method, as follows: Assume that the gas stream is saturated. Attach a temperature sensor [capable of measuring to +/-1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F)] to the reference method probe. Measure the stack gas temperature at each traverse point (see section 8.1.1.1) during the reference method traverse, and calculate the average stack gas temperature. Next, determine the moisture percentage, either by: (1) Using a psychrometric chart and making appropriate corrections if the stack pressure is different from that of the chart, or (2) using saturation vapor pressure tables. In cases where the psychrometric chart or the saturation vapor pressure tables are not applicable (based on evaluation of the process), alternative methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, shall be used.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

6.1 Reference Method. A schematic of the sampling train used in this reference method is shown in Figure 4-1.
