
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,

8.2.6 In some circumstances (batch cycles) it may be necessary to sample for shorter times at the traverse points and to obtain smaller gas sample volumes. In these cases, the Administrator's approval must first be obtained.

8.3 Preparation of Sampling Train.

8.3.1 During preparation and assembly of the sampling train, keep all openings where contamination can occur covered until just prior to assembly or until sampling is about to begin. Place 100 ml of water in each of the first two impingers, leave the third impinger empty, and transfer approximately 200 to 300 g of preweighed silica gel from its container to the fourth impinger. More silica gel may be used, but care should be taken to ensure that it is not entrained and carried out from the impinger during sampling. Place the container in a clean place for later use in the sample recovery. Alternatively, the weight of the silica gel plus impinger may be determined to the nearest 0.5 g and recorded.

8.3.2 Using a tweezer or clean disposable surgical gloves, place a labeled (identified) and weighed filter in the filter holder. Be sure that the filter is properly centered and the gasket properly placed so as to prevent the sample gas stream from circumventing the filter. Check the filter for tears after assembly is completed.

8.3.3 When glass probe liners are used, install the selected nozzle using a Viton A O-ring when stack temperatures are less than 260 &#xB0;C (500 &#xB0;F) or a heat-resistant string gasket when temperatures are higher. See APTD-0576 for details. Other connecting systems using either 316 stainless steel or Teflon ferrules may be used. When metal liners are used, install the nozzle as discussed above or by a leak-free direct mechanical connection. Mark the probe with heat resistant tape or by some other method to denote the proper distance into the stack or duct for each sampling point.

8.3.4 Set up the train as shown in Figure 5-1 ensuring that the connections are leak-tight. Subject to the approval of the Administrator, a glass cyclone may be used between the probe and filter holder when the total particulate catch is expected to exceed 100 mg or when water droplets are present in the stack gas.

8.3.5 Place crushed ice around the impingers.

8.4 Leak-Check Procedures.

8.4.1 Leak Check of Metering System Shown in Figure 5-1. That portion of the sampling train from the pump to the orifice meter should be leak-checked prior to initial use and after each shipment. Leakage after the pump will result in less volume being recorded than is actually sampled. The following procedure is suggested (see Figure 5-2): Close the main valve on the meter box. Insert a one-hole rubber stopper with rubber tubing attached into the orifice exhaust pipe. Disconnect and vent the low side of the orifice manometer. Close off the low side orifice tap. Pressurize the system to 13 to 18 cm (5 to 7 in.) water column by blowing into the rubber tubing. Pinch off the tubing, and observe the manometer for one minute. A loss of pressure on the manometer indicates a leak in the meter box; leaks, if present, must be corrected.

8.4.2 Pretest Leak Check. A pretest leak check of the sampling train is recommended, but not required. If the pretest leak check is conducted, the following procedure should be used.

8.4.2.1 After the sampling train has been assembled, turn on and set the filter and probe heating systems to the desired operating temperatures. Allow time for the temperatures to stabilize. If a Viton A O-ring or other leak-free connection is used in assembling the probe nozzle to the probe liner, leak-check the train at the sampling site by plugging the nozzle and pulling a 380 mm (15 in.) Hg vacuum.

8.4.2.2 If a heat-resistant string is used, do not connect the probe to the train during the leak check. Instead, leak-check the train by first plugging the inlet to the filter holder (cyclone, if applicable) and pulling a 380 mm (15 in.) Hg vacuum (see note in section 8.4.2.1). Then connect the probe to the train, and leak-check at approximately 25 mm (1 in.) Hg vacuum; alternatively, the probe may be leak-checked with the rest of the sampling train, in one step, at 380 mm (15 in.) Hg vacuum. Leakage rates in excess of 4 percent of the average sampling rate or 0.00057 m/min (0.020 cfm), whichever is less, are unacceptable.

8.4.2.3 The following leak-check instructions for the sampling train described in APTD-0576 and APTD-0581 may be helpful. Start the pump with the bypass valve fully open and the coarse adjust valve completely closed. Partially open the coarse adjust valve, and slowly close the bypass valve until the desired vacuum is reached. Do not reverse the direction of the bypass valve, as this will cause water to back up into the filter holder. If the desired vacuum is exceeded, either leak-check at this higher vacuum, or end the leak check and start over.

8.4.2.4 When the leak check is completed, first slowly remove the plug from the inlet to the probe, filter holder, or cyclone (if applicable), and immediately turn off the vacuum pump. This prevents the water in the impingers from being forced backward into the filter holder and the silica gel from being entrained backward into the third impinger.
