
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

8.1.3 Desiccate the filters at 20 +/-5.6 &#xB0;C (68 +/-10 &#xB0;F) and ambient pressure for at least 24 hours. Weigh each filter (or filter and shipping container) at intervals of at least 6 hours to a constant weight (&#x2264;0.5 mg change from previous weighing). Record results to the nearest 0.1 mg. During each weighing, the period for which the filter is exposed to the laboratory atmosphere shall be less than 2 minutes. Alternatively (unless otherwise specified by the Administrator), the filters may be oven dried at 105 &#xB0;C (220 &#xB0;F) for 2 to 3 hours, desiccated for 2 hours, and weighed. Procedures other than those described, which account for relative humidity effects, may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

8.2 Preliminary Determinations.

8.2.1 Select the sampling site and the minimum number of sampling points according to Method 1 or as specified by the Administrator. Determine the stack pressure, temperature, and the range of velocity heads using Method 2; it is recommended that a leak check of the pitot lines (see Method 2, section 8.1) be performed. Determine the moisture content using Approximation Method 4 or its alternatives for the purpose of making isokinetic sampling rate settings. Determine the stack gas dry molecular weight, as described in Method 2, section 8.6; if integrated Method 3 sampling is used for molecular weight determination, the integrated bag sample shall be taken simultaneously with, and for the same total length of time as, the particulate sample run.

8.2.2 Select a nozzle size based on the range of velocity heads, such that it is not necessary to change the nozzle size in order to maintain isokinetic sampling rates. During the run, do not change the nozzle size. Ensure that the proper differential pressure gauge is chosen for the range of velocity heads encountered (see section 8.3 of Method 2).

8.2.3 Select a suitable probe liner and probe length such that all traverse points can be sampled. For large stacks, consider sampling from opposite sides of the stack to reduce the required probe length.

8.2.4 Select a total sampling time greater than or equal to the minimum total sampling time specified in the test procedures for the specific industry such that (l) the sampling time per point is not less than 2 minutes (or some greater time interval as specified by the Administrator), and (2) the sample volume taken (corrected to standard conditions) will exceed the required minimum total gas sample volume. The latter is based on an approximate average sampling rate.

8.2.5 The sampling time at each point shall be the same. It is recommended that the number of minutes sampled at each point be an integer or an integer plus one-half minute, in order to avoid timekeeping errors.
