
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,

6.1.1.8 Condenser. The following system shall be used to determine the stack gas moisture content: Four impingers connected in series with leak-free ground glass fittings or any similar leak-free noncontaminating fittings. The first, third, and fourth impingers shall be of the Greenburg-Smith design, modified by replacing the tip with a 1.3 cm (in.) ID glass tube extending to about 1.3 cm (in.) from the bottom of the flask. The second impinger shall be of the Greenburg-Smith design with the standard tip. Modifications (using flexible connections between the impingers, using materials other than glass, or using flexible vacuum lines to connect the filter holder to the condenser) may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator. The first and second impingers shall contain known quantities of water (Section 8.3.1), the third shall be empty, and the fourth shall contain a known weight of silica gel, or equivalent desiccant. A temperature sensor, capable of measuring temperature to within 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F) shall be placed at the outlet of the fourth impinger for monitoring purposes. Alternatively, any system that cools the sample gas stream and allows measurement of the water condensed and moisture leaving the condenser, each to within 0.5 g may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator. An acceptable technique involves the measurement of condensed water either gravimetrically and the determination of the moisture leaving the condenser by: (1) Monitoring the temperature and pressure at the exit of the condenser and using Dalton's law of partial pressures; or (2) passing the sample gas stream through a tared silica gel (or equivalent desiccant) trap with exit gases kept below 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F) and determining the weight gain. If means other than silica gel are used to determine the amount of moisture leaving the condenser, it is recommended that silica gel (or equivalent) still be used between the condenser system and pump to prevent moisture condensation in the pump and metering devices and to avoid the need to make corrections for moisture in the metered volume.

6.1.1.9 Metering System. Vacuum gauge, leak-free pump, calibrated temperature sensors, dry gas meter (DGM) capable of measuring volume to within 2 percent, and related equipment, as shown in Figure 5-1. Other metering systems capable of maintaining sampling rates within 10 percent of isokinetic and of determining sample volumes to within 2 percent may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator. When the metering system is used in conjunction with a pitot tube, the system shall allow periodic checks of isokinetic rates. The average DGM temperature for use in the calculations of section 12.0 may be obtained by averaging the two temperature sensors located at the inlet and outlet of the DGM as shown in Figure 5-3 or alternatively from a single temperature sensor located at the immediate outlet of the DGM or the plenum of the DGM.

6.1.1.10 Sampling trains utilizing metering systems designed for higher flow rates than that described in APTD-0581 or APTD-0576 may be used provided that the specifications of this method are met.

6.1.2 Barometer. Mercury, aneroid, or other barometer capable of measuring atmospheric pressure to within 2.5 mm Hg (0.1 in.).

6.1.3 Gas Density Determination Equipment. Temperature sensor and pressure gauge, as described in sections 6.3 and 6.4 of Method 2, and gas analyzer, if necessary, as described in Method 3. The temperature sensor shall, preferably, be permanently attached to the pitot tube or sampling probe in a fixed configuration, such that the tip of the sensor extends beyond the leading edge of the probe sheath and does not touch any metal. Alternatively, the sensor may be attached just prior to use in the field. Note, however, that if the temperature sensor is attached in the field, the sensor must be placed in an interference-free arrangement with respect to the Type S pitot tube openings (see Method 2, Figure 2-4). As a second alternative, if a difference of not more than 1 percent in the average velocity measurement is to be introduced, the temperature sensor need not be attached to the probe or pitot tube. (This alternative is subject to the approval of the Administrator.)

6.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are required for sample recovery:

6.2.1 Probe-Liner and Probe-Nozzle Brushes. Nylon bristle brushes with stainless steel wire handles. The probe brush shall have extensions (at least as long as the probe) constructed of stainless steel, Nylon, Teflon, or similarly inert material. The brushes shall be properly sized and shaped to brush out the probe liner and nozzle.

6.2.2 Wash Bottles. Two Glass wash bottles are recommended. Alternatively, polyethylene wash bottles may be used. It is recommended that acetone not be stored in polyethylene bottles for longer than a month.

6.2.3 Glass Sample Storage Containers. Chemically resistant, borosilicate glass bottles, for acetone washes, 500 ml or 1000 ml. Screw cap liners shall either be rubber-backed Teflon or shall be constructed so as to be leak-free and resistant to chemical attack by acetone. (Narrow mouth glass bottles have been found to be less prone to leakage.) Alternatively, polyethylene bottles may be used.

6.2.4 Petri dishes. For filter samples; glass, polystyrene, or polyethylene, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.

6.2.5 Balance. To measure condensed water to within 0.5 g at a minimum.

6.2.6 Plastic Storage Containers. Air-tight containers to store silica gel.

6.2.7 Funnel and Rubber Policeman. To aid in transfer of silica gel to container; not necessary if silica gel is weighed in the field.

6.2.8 Funnel. Glass or polyethylene, to aid in sample recovery.

6.3 Sample Analysis. The following equipment is required for sample analysis:

6.3.1 Glass Weighing Dishes.

6.3.2 Desiccator.

6.3.3 Analytical Balance. To measure to within 0.1 mg.

6.3.4 Balance. To measure to within 0.5 g.

6.3.5 Beakers. 250 ml.

6.3.6 Hygrometer. To measure the relative humidity of the laboratory environment.

6.3.7 Temperature Sensor. To measure the temperature of the laboratory environment.

7.1 Sample Collection. The following reagents are required for sample collection:

7.1.1 Filters. Glass fiber filters, without organic binder, exhibiting at least 99.95 percent efficiency (<0.05 percent penetration) on 0.3 micron dioctyl phthalate smoke particles. The filter efficiency test shall be conducted in accordance with ASTM Method D 2986-71, 78, or 95a (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17). Test data from the supplier's quality control program are sufficient for this purpose. In sources containing SOor SO, the filter material must be of a type that is unreactive to SOor SO. Reference 10 in section 17.0 may be used to select the appropriate filter.

7.1.2 Silica Gel. Indicating type, 6 to 16 mesh. If previously used, dry at 175 &#xB0;C (350 &#xB0;F) for 2 hours. New silica gel may be used as received. Alternatively, other types of desiccants (equivalent or better) may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

7.1.3 Water. When analysis of the material caught in the impingers is required, deionized distilled water [to conform to ASTM D1193-77 or 91 Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17)] with at least <0.001 percent residue shall be used or as specified in the applicable method requiring analysis of the water. Run reagent blanks prior to field use to eliminate a high blank on test samples.

7.1.4 Crushed Ice.

7.2 Sample Recovery. Acetone, reagent grade, &#x2264;0.001 percent residue, in glass bottles, is required. Acetone from metal containers generally has a high residue blank and should not be used. Sometimes, suppliers transfer acetone to glass bottles from metal containers; thus, acetone blanks shall be run prior to field use and only acetone with low blank values (&#x2264;0.001 percent) shall be used. In no case shall a blank value of greater than 0.001 percent of the weight of acetone used be subtracted from the sample weight.

7.3 Sample Analysis. The following reagents are required for sample analysis:

7.3.1 Acetone. Same as in section 7.2.

7.3.2 Desiccant. Anhydrous calcium sulfate, indicating type. Alternatively, other types of desiccants may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

8.1 Pretest Preparation. It is suggested that sampling equipment be maintained according to the procedures described in APTD-0576. Alternative mercury-free thermometers may be used if the thermometers are at a minimum equivalent in terms of performance or suitably effective for the specific temperature measurement application.

8.1.1 Place 200 to 300 g of silica gel in each of several air-tight containers. Weigh each container, including silica gel, to the nearest 0.5 g, and record this weight. As an alternative, the silica gel need not be preweighed, but may be weighed directly in its impinger or sampling holder just prior to train assembly.

8.1.2 Check filters visually against light for irregularities, flaws, or pinhole leaks. Label filters of the proper diameter on the back side near the edge using numbering machine ink. As an alternative, label the shipping containers (glass, polystyrene or polyethylene petri dishes), and keep each filter in its identified container at all times except during sampling.
