
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### Note

8.7.6.4 Impinger Water. Treat the impingers as follows: Make a notation of any color or film in the liquid catch. Measure the liquid that is in the first three impingers by weighing it to within 0.5 g at a minimum by using a balance. Record the weight of liquid present. This information is required to calculate the moisture content of the effluent gas. Discard the liquid after measuring and recording the weight, unless analysis of the impinger catch is required (see, section 6.1.1.8). If a different type of condenser is used, measure the amount of moisture condensed gravimetrically.

8.8 Sample Transport. Whenever possible, containers should be shipped in such a way that they remain upright at all times.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. The following procedures are suggested to check the volume metering system calibration values at the field test site prior to sample collection. These procedures are optional.

9.2.1 Meter Orifice Check. Using the calibration data obtained during the calibration procedure described in section 10.3, determine the ΔH@ for the metering system orifice. The ΔH@ is the orifice pressure differential in units of in. HO that correlates to 0.75 cfm of air at 528 &#xB0;R and 29.92 in. Hg. The ΔH@ is calculated as follows:
