
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### Note:

Immediately after component changes, leak checks are optional. If such leak checks are done, the procedure outlined in section 8.1.3.2 should be used.

8.1.3.4 Post-Test Leak Check. A leak check of the sampling train is mandatory at the conclusion of each sampling run. The leak check shall be performed in accordance with the procedures outlined in section 8.1.3.2, except that it shall be conducted at a vacuum equal to or greater than the maximum value reached during the sampling run. If the leakage rate is found to be no greater than 0.00057 mmin (0.020 cfm) or 4 percent of the average sampling rate (whichever is less), the results are acceptable, and no correction need be applied to the total volume of dry gas metered. If, however, a higher leakage rate is obtained, either record the leakage rate and correct the sample volume as shown in section 12.3 of Method 5 or void the sampling run.

8.1.4 Sampling Train Operation. During the sampling run, maintain a sampling rate within 10 percent of constant rate, or as specified by the Administrator. For each run, record the data required on a data sheet similar to that shown in Figure 4-3. Be sure to record the dry gas meter reading at the beginning and end of each sampling time increment and whenever sampling is halted. Take other appropriate readings at each sample point at least once during each time increment.

8.1.4.1 To begin sampling, position the probe tip at the first traverse point. Immediately start the pump, and adjust the flow to the desired rate. Traverse the cross section, sampling at each traverse point for an equal length of time. Add more ice and, if necessary, salt to maintain a temperature of less than 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F) at the silica gel outlet.

8.1.4.2 At the end of the sample run, close the coarse adjust valve, remove the probe and nozzle from the stack, turn off the pump, record the final DGM meter reading, and conduct a post-test leak check, as outlined in section 8.1.3.4.

8.2 Approximation Method.

8.2.1 Place exactly 5 ml water in each impinger. Leak check the sampling train as follows: Temporarily insert a vacuum gauge at or near the probe inlet. Then, plug the probe inlet and pull a vacuum of at least 250 mm (10 in.) Hg. Note the time rate of change of the dry gas meter dial; alternatively, a rotameter (0 to 40 ml/min) may be temporarily attached to the dry gas meter outlet to determine the leakage rate. A leak rate not in excess of 2 percent of the average sampling rate is acceptable.

8.2.2 Connect the probe, insert it into the stack, and sample at a constant rate of 2 liters/min (0.071 cfm). Continue sampling until the dry gas meter registers about 30 liters (1.1 ft) or until visible liquid droplets are carried over from the first impinger to the second. Record temperature, pressure, and dry gas meter readings as indicated by Figure 4-4.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. Same as Method 5, section 9.2.

10.1 Reference Method. Calibrate the metering system, temperature sensors, and barometer according to Method 5, sections 10.3, 10.5, and 10.6, respectively.

10.2 Approximation Method. Calibrate the metering system and the barometer according to Method 6, section 10.1 and Method 5, section 10.6, respectively.

10.3 Field Balance Calibration Check. Check the calibration of the balance used to weigh impingers with a weight that is at least 500g or within 50g of a loaded impinger. The weight must be ASTM E617-13 "Standard Specification for Laboratory Weights and Precision Mass Standards" (incorporated by reference-see 40 CFR 60.17) Class 6 (or better). Daily, before use, the field balance must measure the weight within +/- 0.5g of the certified mass. If the daily balance calibration check fails, perform corrective measures and repeat the check before using balance.

11.1 Reference Method. Weigh the impingers after sampling and record the difference in weight to the nearest 0.5 g at a minimum. Determine the increase in weight of the silica gel (or silica gel plus impinger) to the nearest 0.5 g at a minimum. Record this information (see example data sheet, Figure 4-5), and calculate the moisture content, as described in section 12.0.

11.2 Approximation Method. Weigh the contents of the two impingers, and measure the weight to the nearest 0.5 g.

Carry out the following calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after final calculation.

12.1 Reference Method.

12.1.1 Nomenclature.

B= Proportion of water vapor, by volume, in the gas stream.

M= Molecular weight of water, 18.015 g/g-mole (18.015 lb/lb-mole).

P= Absolute pressure (for this method, same as barometric pressure) at the dry gas meter, mm Hg (in. Hg).

P= Standard absolute pressure, 760 mm Hg (29.92 in. Hg).

R = Ideal gas constant, 0.06236 (mm Hg)(m)/(g-mole)(&#xB0;K) for metric units and 21.85 (in. Hg)(ft)/(lb-mole) (&#xB0;R) for English units.

T= Absolute temperature at meter, &#xB0;K (&#xB0;R).

T= Standard absolute temperature, 293.15 &#xB0;K (527.67 &#xB0;R).

V= Final weight of condenser water plus impinger, g.

V= Initial weight, if any, of condenser water plus impinger, g.

V= Dry gas volume measured by dry gas meter, dcm (dcf).

V= Dry gas volume measured by the dry gas meter, corrected to standard conditions, dscm (dscf).

V= Volume of water vapor condensed, corrected to standard conditions, scm (scf).

V= Volume of water vapor collected in silica gel, corrected to standard conditions, scm (scf).

W= Final weight of silica gel or silica gel plus impinger, g.

W= Initial weight of silica gel or silica gel plus impinger, g.

Y = Dry gas meter calibration factor.

ΔV= Incremental dry gas volume measured by dry gas meter at each traverse point, dcm (dcf).

12.1.2 Volume of Water Vapor Condensed.

12.1.3 Volume of Water Collected in Silica Gel.

12.1.4 Sample Gas Volume.

12.1.5 Moisture Content.

12.1.6 Verification of Constant Sampling Rate. For each time increment, determine the ΔV. Calculate the average. If the value for any time increment differs from the average by more than 10 percent, reject the results, and repeat the run.

12.1.7 In saturated or moisture droplet-laden gas streams, two calculations of the moisture content of the stack gas shall be made, one using a value based upon the saturated conditions (see section 4.1), and another based upon the results of the impinger analysis. The lower of these two values of Bshall be considered correct.

12.2 Approximation Method. The approximation method presented is designed to estimate the moisture in the stack gas; therefore, other data, which are only necessary for accurate moisture determinations, are not collected. The following equations adequately estimate the moisture content for the purpose of determining isokinetic sampling rate settings.

12.2.1 Nomenclature.

B= Approximate proportion by volume of water vapor in the gas stream leaving the second impinger, 0.025.

B= Water vapor in the gas stream, proportion by volume.

M= Molecular weight of water, 18.015 g/g-mole (18.015 lb/lb-mole).

P= Absolute pressure (for this method, same as barometric pressure) at the dry gas meter, mm Hg (in. Hg).

P= Standard absolute pressure, 760 mm Hg (29.92 in. Hg).

R = Ideal gas constant, 0.06236 [(mm Hg)(m)]/[(g-mole)(K)] for metric units and 21.85 [(in. Hg)(ft)]/[(lb-mole)(&#xB0;R)] for English units.

T= Absolute temperature at meter, &#xB0;K (&#xB0;R).

T= Standard absolute temperature, 293.15 &#xB0;K (527.67 &#xB0;R).

V= Final weight of condenser water plus impinger, g.

V= Initial weight, if any, of condenser water plus impinger, g.

V= Dry gas volume measured by dry gas meter, dcm (dcf).

V= Dry gas volume measured by dry gas meter, corrected to standard conditions, dscm (dscf).

V= Volume of water vapor condensed, corrected to standard conditions, scm (scf).

Y = Dry gas meter calibration factor.

12.2.2 Volume of Water Vapor Collected.

K= 0.001335 m/g for metric units,

= 0.04716 ft/g for English units.

12.2.3 Sample Gas Volume.

12.2.4 Approximate Moisture Content.

12.2.5 Using F-factors to determine approximate moisture for estimating moisture content where no wet scrubber is being used, for the purpose of determining isokinetic sampling rate settings with no fuel sample, is acceptable using the average For Ffactor from Method 19 (see Method 19, section 12.3.1). If this option is selected, calculate the approximate moisture as follows:

Btu (scm/J). See Table 19-2 in Method 19.

scf/10Btu (scm/J). See Table 19-2 in Method 19.

16.1 The procedure described in Method 5 for determining moisture content is an acceptable alternative to Method 4.

16.2 The procedures in Method 6A for determining moisture is an acceptable alternative to Method 4.

16.3 Method 320 is an acceptable alternative to Method 4 for determining moisture.

16.4 Using F-factors to determine moisture is an acceptable alternative to Method 4 for a combustion stack not using a scrubber, and where a fuel sample is taken during the test run and analyzed for development of an Ffactor (see Method 19, section 12.3.2), and where stack Ocontent is measured by Method 3A or 3B during each test run. If this option is selected, calculate the moisture content as follows:

1. Air Pollution Engineering Manual (Second Edition). Danielson, J.A. (ed.). U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards. Research Triangle Park, NC. Publication No. AP-40. 1973.

2. Devorkin, Howard, et al. Air Pollution Source Testing Manual. Air Pollution Control District, Los Angeles, CA. November 1963.

3. Methods for Determination of Velocity, Volume, Dust and Mist Content of Gases. Western Precipitation Division of Joy Manufacturing Co. Los Angeles, CA. Bulletin WP-50. 1968.

1.1 Analyte. Particulate matter (PM). No CAS number assigned.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of PM emissions from stationary sources.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

Particulate matter is withdrawn isokinetically from the source and collected on a glass fiber filter maintained at a temperature of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F) or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or approved by the Administrator for a particular application. The PM mass, which includes any material that condenses at or above the filtration temperature, is determined gravimetrically after the removal of uncombined water.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

6.1 Sample Collection. The following items are required for sample collection:

6.1.1 Sampling Train. A schematic of the sampling train used in this method is shown in Figure 5-1 in section 18.0. Complete construction details are given in APTD-0581 (Reference 2 in section 17.0); commercial models of this train are also available. For changes from APTD-0581 and for allowable modifications of the train shown in Figure 5-1, see the following subsections.

6.1.1.1 Probe Nozzle. Stainless steel (316) or glass with a sharp, tapered leading edge. The angle of taper shall be &#x2264;30&#xB0;, and the taper shall be on the outside to preserve a constant internal diameter. The probe nozzle shall be of the button-hook or elbow design, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator. If made of stainless steel, the nozzle shall be constructed from seamless tubing. Other materials of construction may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator. A range of nozzle sizes suitable for isokinetic sampling should be available. Typical nozzle sizes range from 0.32 to 1.27 cm (toin) inside diameter (ID) in increments of 0.16 cm (in). Larger nozzles sizes are also available if higher volume sampling trains are used. Each nozzle shall be calibrated, according to the procedures outlined in section 10.1.

6.1.1.2 Probe Liner. Borosilicate or quartz glass tubing with a heating system capable of maintaining a probe gas temperature during sampling of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F), or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or as approved by the Administrator for a particular application. Since the actual temperature at the outlet of the probe is not usually monitored during sampling, probes constructed according to APTD-0581 and utilizing the calibration curves of APTD-0576 (or calibrated according to the procedure outlined in APTD-0576) will be considered acceptable. Either borosilicate or quartz glass probe liners may be used for stack temperatures up to about 480 &#xB0;C (900 &#xB0;F); quartz glass liners shall be used for temperatures between 480 and 900 &#xB0;C (900 and 1,650 &#xB0;F). Both types of liners may be used at higher temperatures than specified for short periods of time, subject to the approval of the Administrator. The softening temperature for borosilicate glass is 820 &#xB0;C (1500 &#xB0;F), and for quartz glass it is 1500 &#xB0;C (2700 &#xB0;F). Whenever practical, every effort should be made to use borosilicate or quartz glass probe liners. Alternatively, metal liners (e.g., 316 stainless steel, Incoloy 825 or other corrosion resistant metals) made of seamless tubing may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

6.1.1.3 Pitot Tube. Type S, as described in section 6.1 of Method 2, or other device approved by the Administrator. The pitot tube shall be attached to the probe (as shown in Figure 5-1) to allow constant monitoring of the stack gas velocity. The impact (high pressure) opening plane of the pitot tube shall be even with or above the nozzle entry plane (see Method 2, Figure 2-7) during sampling. The Type S pitot tube assembly shall have a known coefficient, determined as outlined in section 10.0 of Method 2.

6.1.1.4 Differential Pressure Gauge. Inclined manometer or equivalent device (two), as described in section 6.2 of Method 2. One manometer shall be used for velocity head (Δp) readings, and the other, for orifice differential pressure readings.

6.1.1.5 Filter Holder. Borosilicate glass, with a glass or Teflon frit filter support and a silicone rubber gasket. Other materials of construction (e.g., stainless steel or Viton) may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator. The holder design shall provide a positive seal against leakage from the outside or around the filter. The holder shall be attached immediately at the outlet of the probe (or cyclone, if used).

6.1.1.6 Filter Heating System. Any heating system capable of monitoring and maintaining temperature around the filter shall be used to ensure the sample gas temperature exiting the filter of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F) during sampling or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or approved by the Administrator for a particular application. The monitoring and regulation of the temperature around the filter may be done with the filter temperature sensor or another temperature sensor.

6.1.1.7 Filter Temperature Sensor. A temperature sensor capable of measuring temperature to within +/-3 &#xB0;C (5.4 &#xB0;F) shall be installed so that the sensing tip of the temperature sensor is in direct contact with the sample gas exiting the filter. The sensing tip of the sensor may be encased in glass, Teflon, or metal and must protrude at leastin. into the sample gas exiting the filter. The filter temperature sensor must be monitored and recorded during sampling to ensure a sample gas temperature exiting the filter of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F), or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or approved by the Administrator for a particular application.
