
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,

8.4.3 Leak Checks During Sample Run. If, during the sampling run, a component (filter assembly or impinger) change becomes necessary, a leak check shall be conducted immediately before the change is made. The leak check shall be done according to the procedure outlined in section 8.4.2 above, except that it shall be done at a vacuum equal to or greater than the maximum value recorded up to that point in the test. If the leakage rate is found to be no greater than 0.00057 m/min (0.020 cfm) or 4 percent of the average sampling rate (whichever is less), the results are acceptable, and no correction will need to be applied to the total volume of dry gas metered; if, however, a higher leakage rate is obtained, either record the leakage rate and plan to correct the sample volume as shown in section 12.3 of this method, or void the sample run.

8.4.4 Post-Test Leak Check. A leak check of the sampling train is mandatory at the conclusion of each sampling run. The leak check shall be performed in accordance with the procedures outlined in section 8.4.2, except that it shall be conducted at a vacuum equal to or greater than the maximum value reached during the sampling run. If the leakage rate is found to be no greater than 0.00057 mmin (0.020 cfm) or 4 percent of the average sampling rate (whichever is less), the results are acceptable, and no correction need be applied to the total volume of dry gas metered. If, however, a higher leakage rate is obtained, either record the leakage rate and correct the sample volume as shown in section 12.3 of this method, or void the sampling run.

8.5 Sampling Train Operation. During the sampling run, maintain an isokinetic sampling rate (within 10 percent of true isokinetic unless otherwise specified by the Administrator) and a sample gas temperature through the filter of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F) or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or approved by the Administrator.

8.5.1 For each run, record the data required on a data sheet such as the one shown in Figure 5-3. Be sure to record the initial DGM reading. Record the DGM readings at the beginning and end of each sampling time increment, when changes in flow rates are made, before and after each leak check, and when sampling is halted. Take other readings indicated by Figure 5-3 at least once at each sample point during each time increment and additional readings when significant changes (20 percent variation in velocity head readings) necessitate additional adjustments in flow rate. Level and zero the manometer. Because the manometer level and zero may drift due to vibrations and temperature changes, make periodic checks during the traverse.

8.5.2 Clean the portholes prior to the test run to minimize the chance of collecting deposited material. To begin sampling, verify that the filter and probe heating systems are up to temperature, remove the nozzle cap, verify that the pitot tube and probe are properly positioned. Position the nozzle at the first traverse point with the tip pointing directly into the gas stream. Immediately start the pump, and adjust the flow to isokinetic conditions. Nomographs are available which aid in the rapid adjustment of the isokinetic sampling rate without excessive computations. These nomographs are designed for use when the Type S pitot tube coefficient (C) is 0.85 +/-0.02, and the stack gas equivalent density [dry molecular weight (M)] is equal to 29 +/-4. APTD-0576 details the procedure for using the nomographs. If Cand Mare outside the above stated ranges, do not use the nomographs unless appropriate steps (see Reference 7 in section 17.0) are taken to compensate for the deviations.
