
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### 16

12. Lodge, J.P., Jr., J.B. Pate, B.E. Ammons, and G.A. Swanson. The Use of Hypodermic Needles as Critical Orifices in Air Sampling. J. Air Pollution Control Association.:197-200. 1966.

13. Shigehara, Roger T., P.G. Royals, and E.W. Steward. "Alternative Method 5 Post-Test Calibration." Entropy Incorporated, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709.

1.1 Analyte. Particulate matter (PM). No CAS number assigned.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of PM emissions from asphalt roofing industry process saturators, blowing stills, and other sources as specified in the regulations.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

Particulate matter is withdrawn isokinetically from the source and collected on a glass fiber filter maintained at a temperature of 42 +/-10 &#xB0;C (108 +/-18 &#xB0;F). The PM mass, which includes any material that condenses at or above the filtration temperature, is determined gravimetrically after the removal of uncombined water.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

6.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 5, section 6.1, with the following exceptions and additions:

6.1.1 Probe Liner. Same as Method 5, section 6.1.1.2, with the note that at high stack gas temperatures greater than 250 &#xB0;C (480 &#xB0;F), water-cooled probes may be required to control the probe exit temperature to 42 +/-10 &#xB0;C (108 +/-18 &#xB0;F).

6.1.2 Precollector Cyclone. Borosilicate glass following the construction details shown in Air Pollution Technical Document (APTD)-0581, "Construction Details of Isokinetic Source-Sampling Equipment" (Reference 2 in Method 5, section 17.0).

6.1.3 Filter Heating System. Any heating (or cooling) system capable of maintaining a sample gas temperature at the exit end of the filter holder during sampling at 42 +/-10 &#xB0;C (108 +/-18 &#xB0;F).

6.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are required for sample recovery:

6.2.1 Probe-Liner and Probe-Nozzle Brushes, Graduated Cylinder and/or Balance, Plastic Storage Containers, and Funnel and Rubber Policeman. Same as in Method 5, sections 6.2.1, 6.2.5, 6.2.6, and 6.2.7, respectively.

6.2.2 Wash Bottles. Glass.

6.2.3 Sample Storage Containers. Chemically resistant 500-ml or 1,000-ml borosilicate glass bottles, with rubber-backed Teflon screw cap liners or caps that are constructed so as to be leak-free, and resistant to chemical attack by 1,1,1-trichloroethane (TCE). (Narrow-mouth glass bottles have been found to be less prone to leakage.)

6.2.4 Petri Dishes. Glass, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.

6.2.5 Funnel. Glass.

6.3 Sample Analysis. Same as Method 5, section 6.3, with the following additions:

6.3.1 Beakers. Glass, 250-ml and 500-ml.

6.3.2 Separatory Funnel. 100-ml or greater.

7.1 Sample Collection. The following reagents are required for sample collection:

7.1.1 Filters, Silica Gel, Water, and Crushed Ice. Same as in Method 5, sections 7.1.1, 7.1.2, 7.1.3, and 7.1.4, respectively.

7.1.2 Stopcock Grease. TCE-insoluble, heat-stable grease (if needed). This is not necessary if screw-on connectors with Teflon sleeves, or similar, are used.

7.2 Sample Recovery. Reagent grade TCE, &#x2264;0.001 percent residue and stored in glass bottles. Run TCE blanks before field use, and use only TCE with low blank values (&#x2264;0.001 percent). In no case shall a blank value of greater than 0.001 percent of the weight of TCE used be subtracted from the sample weight.

7.3 Analysis. Two reagents are required for the analysis:

7.3.1 TCE. Same as in section 7.2.

7.3.2 Desiccant. Same as in Method 5, section 7.3.2.

8.1 Pretest Preparation. Unless otherwise specified, maintain and calibrate all components according to the procedure described in APTD-0576, "Maintenance, Calibration, and Operation of Isokinetic Source-Sampling Equipment" (Reference 3 in Method 5, Section 17.0). Alternative mercury-free thermometers may be used if the thermometers are, at a minimum, equivalent in terms of performance or suitably effective for the specific temperature measurement application.

8.1.1 Prepare probe liners and sampling nozzles as needed for use. Thoroughly clean each component with soap and water followed by a minimum of three TCE rinses. Use the probe and nozzle brushes during at least one of the TCE rinses (refer to section 8.7 for rinsing techniques). Cap or seal the open ends of the probe liners and nozzles to prevent contamination during shipping.

8.1.2 Prepare silica gel portions and glass filters as specified in Method 5, section 8.1.

8.2 Preliminary Determinations. Select the sampling site, probe nozzle, and probe length as specified in Method 5, section 8.2. Select a total sampling time greater than or equal to the minimum total sampling time specified in the "Test Methods and Procedures" section of the applicable subpart of the regulations. Follow the guidelines outlined in Method 5, section 8.2 for sampling time per point and total sample volume collected.
