
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### Note:,i.e.,

Equation 5-1 can be used as written unless the leakage rate observed during any of the mandatory leak checks (the post-test leak check or leak checks conducted prior to component changes) exceeds L. If Lor Lexceeds La, Equation 5-1 must be modified as follows:

(a) Case I. No component changes made during sampling run. In this case, replace Vin Equation 5-1 with the expression:

(b) Case II. One or more component changes made during the sampling run. In this case, replace Vm in Equation 5-1 by the expression:

12.4 Volume of Water Vapor Condensed

12.5 Moisture Content.

12.6 Acetone Blank Concentration.

12.7 Acetone Wash Blank.

12.8 Total Particulate Weight. Determine the total particulate matter catch from the sum of the weights obtained from Containers 1 and 2 less the acetone blank (see Figure 5-6).

12.9 Particulate Concentration.

12.10 Conversion Factors:

12.11 Isokinetic Variation.

12.11.1 Calculation from Raw Data.

12.11.2 Calculation from Intermediate Values.

12.11.3 Acceptable Results. If 90 percent &#x2264;I &#x2264;110 percent, the results are acceptable. If the PM results are low in comparison to the standard, and "I" is over 110 percent or less than 90 percent, the Administrator may opt to accept the results. Reference 4 in section 17.0 may be used to make acceptability judgments. If "I" is judged to be unacceptable, reject the results, and repeat the sampling run.

12.12 Stack Gas Velocity and Volumetric Flow Rate. Calculate the average stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate, if needed, using data obtained in this method and the equations in sections 12.3 and 12.4 of Method 2.

16.1 Dry Gas Meter as a Calibration Standard. A DGM may be used as a calibration standard for volume measurements in place of the wet test meter specified in section 10.3, provided that it is calibrated initially and recalibrated periodically as follows:

16.1.1 Standard Dry Gas Meter Calibration.
