
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,

16.1.1.1. The DGM to be calibrated and used as a secondary reference meter should be of high quality and have an appropriately sized capacity (3 liters/rev (0.1 ft/rev)). A spirometer (400 liters (14 ft) or more capacity), or equivalent, may be used for this calibration, although a wet test meter is usually more practical. The wet test meter should have a capacity of 30 liters/rev (1 ft/rev) and capable of measuring volume to within 1.0 percent. Wet test meters should be checked against a spirometer or a liquid displacement meter to ensure the accuracy of the wet test meter. Spirometers or wet test meters of other sizes may be used, provided that the specified accuracies of the procedure are maintained.

16.1.1.2 Set up the components as shown in Figure 5-7. A spirometer, or equivalent, may be used in place of the wet test meter in the system. Run the pump for at least 5 minutes at a flow rate of about 10 liters/min (0.35 cfm) to condition the interior surface of the wet test meter. The pressure drop indicated by the manometer at the inlet side of the DGM should be minimized (no greater than 100 mm HO (4 in. HO) at a flow rate of 30 liters/min (1 cfm)). This can be accomplished by using large diameter tubing connections and straight pipe fittings.

16.1.1.3 Collect the data as shown in the example data sheet (see Figure 5-8). Make triplicate runs at each of the flow rates and at no less than five different flow rates. The range of flow rates should be between 10 and 34 liters/min (0.35 and 1.2 cfm) or over the expected operating range.

16.1.1.4 Calculate flow rate, Q, for each run using the wet test meter volume, V, and the run time, &#x3B8;. Calculate the DGM coefficient, Y, for each run. These calculations are as follows:

16.1.1.5 Compare the three Yvalues at each of the flow rates and determine the maximum and minimum values. The difference between the maximum and minimum values at each flow rate should be no greater than 0.030. Extra sets of triplicate runs may be made in order to complete this requirement. In addition, the meter coefficients should be between 0.95 and 1.05. If these specifications cannot be met in three sets of successive triplicate runs, the meter is not suitable as a calibration standard and should not be used as such. If these specifications are met, average the three Yvalues at each flow rate resulting in no less than five average meter coefficients, Y.

16.1.1.6 Prepare a curve of meter coefficient, Y, versus flow rate, Q, for the DGM. This curve shall be used as a reference when the meter is used to calibrate other DGMs and to determine whether recalibration is required.

16.1.2 Standard Dry Gas Meter Recalibration.

16.1.2.1 Recalibrate the standard DGM against a wet test meter or spirometer annually or after every 200 hours of operation, whichever comes first. This requirement is valid provided the standard DGM is kept in a laboratory and, if transported, cared for as any other laboratory instrument. Abuse to the standard meter may cause a change in the calibration and will require more frequent recalibrations.

16.1.2.2 As an alternative to full recalibration, a two-point calibration check may be made. Follow the same procedure and equipment arrangement as for a full recalibration, but run the meter at only two flow rates [suggested rates are 14 and 30 liters/min (0.5 and 1.0 cfm)]. Calculate the meter coefficients for these two points, and compare the values with the meter calibration curve. If the two coefficients are within 1.5 percent of the calibration curve values at the same flow rates, the meter need not be recalibrated until the next date for a recalibration check.

16.2 Critical Orifices As Calibration Standards. Critical orifices may be used as calibration standards in place of the wet test meter specified in section 16.1, provided that they are selected, calibrated, and used as follows:

16.2.1 Selection of Critical Orifices.
