
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

9.2.1.1 Before beginning the field test (a set of three runs usually constitutes a field test), operate the metering system (pump, volume meter, and orifice) at the ΔH@ pressure differential for 10 minutes. Record the volume collected, the DGM temperature, and the barometric pressure. Calculate a DGM calibration check value, Y, as follows:

9.2.1.2 Compare the Yvalue with the dry gas meter calibration factor Y to determine that: 0.97Y <Y<1.03Y. If the Yvalue is not within this range, the volume metering system should be investigated before beginning the test.

9.2.2 Calibrated Critical Orifice. A critical orifice, calibrated against a wet test meter or spirometer and designed to be inserted at the inlet of the sampling meter box, may be used as a check by following the procedure of section 16.2.

10.1 Probe Nozzle. Probe nozzles shall be calibrated before their initial use in the field. Using a micrometer, measure the ID of the nozzle to the nearest 0.025 mm (0.001 in.). Make three separate measurements using different diameters each time, and obtain the average of the measurements. The difference between the high and low numbers shall not exceed 0.1 mm (0.004 in.). When nozzles become nicked, dented, or corroded, they shall be reshaped, sharpened, and recalibrated before use. Each nozzle shall be permanently and uniquely identified.

10.2 Pitot Tube Assembly. The Type S pitot tube assembly shall be calibrated according to the procedure outlined in section 10.1 of Method 2.

10.3 Metering System.

10.3.1 Calibration Prior to Use. Before its initial use in the field, the metering system shall be calibrated as follows: Connect the metering system inlet to the outlet of a wet test meter that is accurate to within 1 percent. Refer to Figure 5-4. The wet test meter should have a capacity of 30 liters/rev (1 ft/rev). A spirometer of 400 liters (14 ft) or more capacity, or equivalent, may be used for this calibration, although a wet test meter is usually more practical. The wet test meter should be periodically calibrated with a spirometer or a liquid displacement meter to ensure the accuracy of the wet test meter. Spirometers or wet test meters of other sizes may be used, provided that the specified accuracies of the procedure are maintained. Run the metering system pump for about 15 minutes with the orifice manometer indicating a median reading as expected in field use to allow the pump to warm up and to permit the interior surface of the wet test meter to be thoroughly wetted. Then, at each of a minimum of three orifice manometer settings, pass an exact quantity of gas through the wet test meter and note the gas volume indicated by the DGM. Also note the barometric pressure and the temperatures of the wet test meter, the inlet of the DGM, and the outlet of the DGM. Select the highest and lowest orifice settings to bracket the expected field operating range of the orifice. Use a minimum volume of 0.14 m(5 ft) at all orifice settings. Record all the data on a form similar to Figure 5-5 and calculate Y, the DGM calibration factor, and ΔH, the orifice calibration factor, at each orifice setting as shown on Figure 5-5. Allowable tolerances for individual Y and ΔHvalues are given in Figure 5-5. Use the average of the Y values in the calculations in section 12.0.

10.3.1.1 Before calibrating the metering system, it is suggested that a leak check be conducted. For metering systems having diaphragm pumps, the normal leak-check procedure will not detect leakages within the pump. For these cases the following leak-check procedure is suggested: make a 10-minute calibration run at 0.00057 m/min (0.020 cfm). At the end of the run, take the difference of the measured wet test meter and DGM volumes. Divide the difference by 10 to get the leak rate. The leak rate should not exceed 0.00057 m/min (0.020 cfm).

10.3.2 Calibration After Use. After each field use, the calibration of the metering system shall be checked by performing three calibration runs at a single, intermediate orifice setting (based on the previous field test), with the vacuum set at the maximum value reached during the test series. To adjust the vacuum, insert a valve between the wet test meter and the inlet of the metering system. Calculate the average value of the DGM calibration factor. If the value has changed by more than 5 percent, recalibrate the meter over the full range of orifice settings, as detailed in section 10.3.1.
