
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

16.2.1.1 The procedure that follows describes the use of hypodermic needles or stainless steel needle tubings which have been found suitable for use as critical orifices. Other materials and critical orifice designs may be used provided the orifices act as true critical orifices (a critical vacuum can be obtained, as described in section 16.2.2.2.3). Select five critical orifices that are appropriately sized to cover the range of flow rates between 10 and 34 liters/min (0.35 and 1.2 cfm) or the expected operating range. Two of the critical orifices should bracket the expected operating range. A minimum of three critical orifices will be needed to calibrate a Method 5 DGM; the other two critical orifices can serve as spares and provide better selection for bracketing the range of operating flow rates. The needle sizes and tubing lengths shown in Table 5-1 in section 18.0 give the approximate flow rates.

16.2.1.2 These needles can be adapted to a Method 5 type sampling train as follows: Insert a serum bottle stopper, 13 by 20 mm sleeve type, into a-inch Swagelok (or equivalent) quick connect. Insert the needle into the stopper as shown in Figure 5-9.

16.2.2 Critical Orifice Calibration. The procedure described in this section uses the Method 5 meter box configuration with a DGM as described in section 6.1.1.9 to calibrate the critical orifices. Other schemes may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.
