
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

16.2.2.1.1 Before calibrating the meter box, leak check the system as follows: Fully open the coarse adjust valve, and completely close the by-pass valve. Plug the inlet. Then turn on the pump, and determine whether there is any leakage. The leakage rate shall be zero (no detectable movement of the DGM dial shall be seen for 1 minute).

16.2.2.1.2 Check also for leakages in that portion of the sampling train between the pump and the orifice meter. See section 8.4.1 for the procedure; make any corrections, if necessary. If leakage is detected, check for cracked gaskets, loose fittings, worn O-rings, etc., and make the necessary repairs.

16.2.2.1.3 After determining that the meter box is leakless, calibrate the meter box according to the procedure given in section 10.3. Make sure that the wet test meter meets the requirements stated in section 16.1.1.1. Check the water level in the wet test meter. Record the DGM calibration factor, Y.

16.2.2.2 Calibration of Critical Orifices. Set up the apparatus as shown in Figure 5-10.

16.2.2.2.1 Allow a warm-up time of 15 minutes. This step is important to equilibrate the temperature conditions through the DGM.

16.2.2.2.2 Leak check the system as in section 16.2.2.1.1. The leakage rate shall be zero.

16.2.2.2.3 Before calibrating the critical orifice, determine its suitability and the appropriate operating vacuum as follows: Turn on the pump, fully open the coarse adjust valve, and adjust the by-pass valve to give a vacuum reading corresponding to about half of atmospheric pressure. Observe the meter box orifice manometer reading, ΔH. Slowly increase the vacuum reading until a stable reading is obtained on the meter box orifice manometer. Record the critical vacuum for each orifice. Orifices that do not reach a critical value shall not be used.

16.2.2.2.4 Obtain the barometric pressure using a barometer as described in section 6.1.2. Record the barometric pressure, P, in mm Hg (in. Hg).

16.2.2.2.5 Conduct duplicate runs at a vacuum of 25 to 50 mm Hg (1 to 2 in. Hg) above the critical vacuum. The runs shall be at least 5 minutes each. The DGM volume readings shall be in increments of complete revolutions of the DGM. As a guideline, the times should not differ by more than 3.0 seconds (this includes allowance for changes in the DGM temperatures) to achieve +/-0.5 percent in K&#x2032; (see Eq. 5-11). Record the information listed in Figure 5-11.

16.2.2.2.6 Calculate K&#x2032; using Equation 5-11.

Calculate the arithmetic mean of the K&#x2032; values. The individual K' values should not differ by more than +/-0.5 percent from the mean value.

16.2.3 Using the Critical Orifices as Calibration Standards.

16.2.3.1 Record the barometric pressure.

16.2.3.2 Calibrate the metering system according to the procedure outlined in section 16.2.2. Record the information listed in Figure 5-12.

16.2.3.3 Calculate the standard volumes of air passed through the DGM and the critical orifices, and calculate the DGM calibration factor, Y, using the equations below:

16.2.3.4 Average the DGM calibration values for each of the flow rates. The calibration factor, Y, at each of the flow rates should not differ by more than +/-2 percent from the average.

16.2.3.5 To determine the need for recalibrating the critical orifices, compare the DGM Y factors obtained from two adjacent orifices each time a DGM is calibrated; for example, when checking orifice 13/2.5, use orifices 12/10.2 and 13/5.1. If any critical orifice yields a DGM Y factor differing by more than 2 percent from the others, recalibrate the critical orifice according to section 16.2.2.

16.3 Alternative Post-Test Metering System Calibration. The following procedure may be used as an alternative to the post-test calibration described in Section 10.3.2. This alternative procedure does not detect leakages between the inlet of the metering system and the dry gas meter. Therefore, two steps must be included to make it an equivalent alternative:

(1) The metering system must pass the post-test leak-check from either the inlet of the sampling train or the inlet of the metering system. Therefore, if the train fails the former leak-check, another leak-check from the inlet of the metering system must be conducted;

(2) The metering system must pass the leak-check of that portion of the train from the pump to the orifice meter as described in Section 8.4.1.

16.3.1 After each test run, do the following:

16.3.1.1 Ensure that the metering system has passed the post-test leak-check. If not, conduct a leak-check of the metering system from its inlet.

16.3.1.2 Conduct the leak-check of that portion of the train from the pump to the orifice meter as described in Section 10.3.1.1.

16.3.1.3 Calculate Yfor each test run using the following equation:

16.3.2 After each test run series, do the following:

16.3.2.1 Average the three or more Y's obtained from the test run series and compare this average Ywith the dry gas meter calibration factor Y. The average Ymust be within 5 percent of Y.

16.3.2.2 If the average Ydoes not meet the 5 percent criterion, recalibrate the meter over the full range of orifice settings as detailed in Section 10.3.1. Then follow the procedure in Section 10.3.3.

1. Addendum to Specifications for Incinerator Testing at Federal Facilities. PHS, NCAPC. December 6, 1967.

2. Martin, Robert M. Construction Details of Isokinetic Source-Sampling Equipment. Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, NC. APTD-0581. April 1971.

3. Rom, Jerome J. Maintenance, Calibration, and Operation of Isokinetic Source Sampling Equipment. Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, NC. APTD-0576. March 1972.

4. Smith, W.S., R.T. Shigehara, and W.F. Todd. A Method of Interpreting Stack Sampling Data. Paper Presented at the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Air Pollution Control Association, St. Louis, MO. June 14-19, 1970.

5. Smith, W.S., et al. Stack Gas Sampling Improved and Simplified With New Equipment. APCA Paper No. 67-119. 1967.

6. Specifications for Incinerator Testing at Federal Facilities. PHS, NCAPC. 1967.

7. Shigehara, R.T. Adjustment in the EPA Nomograph for Different Pitot Tube Coefficients and Dry Molecular Weights. Stack Sampling News 2:4-11. October 1974.

8. Vollaro, R.F. A Survey of Commercially Available Instrumentation for the Measurement of Low-Range Gas Velocities. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Measurement Branch. Research Triangle Park, NC. November 1976 (unpublished paper).

9. Annual Book of ASTM Standards. Part 26. Gaseous Fuels; Coal and Coke; Atmospheric Analysis. American Society for Testing and Materials. Philadelphia, PA. 1974. pp. 617-622.

10. Felix, L.G., G.I. Clinard, G.E. Lacy, and J.D. McCain. Inertial Cascade Impactor Substrate Media for Flue Gas Sampling. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Publication No. EPA-600/7-77-060. June 1977. 83 pp.
