
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

8.3 Preparation of Sampling Train. Prepare the sampling train as specified in Method 5, section 8.3, with the addition of the precollector cyclone, if used, between the probe and filter holder. The temperature of the precollector cyclone, if used, should be maintained in the same range as that of the filter,42 +/-10 &#xB0;C (108 +/-18 &#xB0;F). Use no stopcock grease on ground glass joints unless grease is insoluble in TCE.

8.4 Leak-Check Procedures. Same as Method 5, section 8.4.

8.5 Sampling Train Operation. Operate the sampling train as described in Method 5, section 8.5, except maintain the temperature of the gas exiting the filter holder at 42 +/-10 &#xB0;C (108 +/-18 &#xB0;F).

8.6 Calculation of Percent Isokinetic. Same as Method 5, section 8.6.

8.7 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, section 8.7.1 through 8.7.6.1, with the addition of the following:

8.7.1 Container No. 2 (Probe to Filter Holder).

8.7.1.1 Taking care to see that material on the outside of the probe or other exterior surfaces does not get into the sample, quantitatively recover PM or any condensate from the probe nozzle, probe fitting, probe liner, precollector cyclone and collector flask (if used), and front half of the filter holder by washing these components with TCE and placing the wash in a glass container. Carefully measure the total amount of TCE used in the rinses. Perform the TCE rinses as described in Method 5, section 8.7.6.2, using TCE instead of acetone.

8.7.1.2 Brush and rinse the inside of the cyclone, cyclone collection flask, and the front half of the filter holder. Brush and rinse each surface three times or more, if necessary, to remove visible PM.

8.7.2 Container No. 3 (Silica Gel). Same as in Method 5, section 8.7.6.3.

8.7.3 Impinger Water. Same as Method 5, section 8.7.6.4.

8.8 Blank. Save a portion of the TCE used for cleanup as a blank. Take 200 ml of this TCE directly from the wash bottle being used, and place it in a glass sample container labeled "TCE Blank."

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

9.2 A quality control (QC) check of the volume metering system at the field site is suggested before collecting the sample. Use the procedure outlined in Method 5, section 9.2.

Same as Method 5, section 10.0.

11.1 Analysis. Record the data required on a sheet such as the one shown in Figure 5A-1. Handle each sample container as follows:

11.1.1 Container No. 1 (Filter). Transfer the filter from the sample container to a tared glass weighing dish, and desiccate for 24 hours in a desiccator containing anhydrous calcium sulfate. Rinse Container No. 1 with a measured amount of TCE, and analyze this rinse with the contents of Container No. 2. Weigh the filter to a constant weight. For the purpose of this analysis, the term "constant weight" means a difference of no more than 10 percent of the net filter weight or 2 mg (whichever is greater) between two consecutive weighings made 24 hours apart. Report the "final weight" to the nearest 0.1 mg as the average of these two values.

11.1.2 Container No. 2 (Probe to Filter Holder).

11.1.2.1 Before adding the rinse from Container No. 1 to Container No. 2, note the level of liquid in Container No. 2, and confirm on the analysis sheet whether leakage occurred during transport. If noticeable leakage occurred, either void the sample or take steps, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to correct the final results.

11.1.2.2 Add the rinse from Container No. 1 to Container No. 2 and measure the liquid in this container either volumetrically to +/-1 ml or gravimetrically to +/-0.5 g. Check to see whether there is any appreciable quantity of condensed water present in the TCE rinse (look for a boundary layer or phase separation). If the volume of condensed water appears larger than 5 ml, separate the oil-TCE fraction from the water fraction using a separatory funnel. Measure the volume of the water phase to the nearest ml; adjust the stack gas moisture content, if necessary (see sections 12.3 and 12.4). Next, extract the water phase with several 25-ml portions of TCE until, by visual observation, the TCE does not remove any additional organic material. Transfer the remaining water fraction to a tared beaker and evaporate to dryness at 93 &#xB0;C (200 &#xB0;F), desiccate for 24 hours, and weigh to the nearest 0.1 mg.

11.1.2.3 Treat the total TCE fraction (including TCE from the filter container rinse and water phase extractions) as follows: Transfer the TCE and oil to a tared beaker, and evaporate at ambient temperature and pressure. The evaporation of TCE from the solution may take several days. Do not desiccate the sample until the solution reaches an apparent constant volume or until the odor of TCE is not detected. When it appears that the TCE has evaporated, desiccate the sample, and weigh it at 24-hour intervals to obtain a "constant weight" (as defined for Container No. 1 above). The "total weight" for Container No. 2 is the sum of the evaporated PM weight of the TCE-oil and water phase fractions. Report the results to the nearest 0.1 mg.

11.1.3 Container No. 3 (Silica Gel). This step may be conducted in the field. Weigh the spent silica gel (or silica gel plus impinger) to the nearest 0.5 g using a balance.

11.1.4 "TCE Blank" Container. Measure TCE in this container either volumetrically or gravimetrically. Transfer the TCE to a tared 250-ml beaker, and evaporate to dryness at ambient temperature and pressure. Desiccate for 24 hours, and weigh to a constant weight. Report the results to the nearest 0.1 mg.

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after the final calculation. Other forms of the equations may be used as long as they give equivalent results.

12.1 Nomenclature. Same as Method 5, section 12.1, with the following additions:

12.2 Dry Gas Meter Temperature, Orifice Pressure Drop, and Dry Gas Volume. Same as Method 5, sections 12.2 and 12.3, except use data obtained in performing this test.

12.3 Volume of Water Vapor.

12.4 Moisture Content.

12.5 TCE Blank Concentration.

12.6 TCE Wash Blank.

12.7 Total PM Weight. Determine the total PM catch from the sum of the weights obtained from Containers 1 and 2, less the TCE blank.

12.8 PM Concentration.

12.9 Isokinetic Variation. Same as in Method 5, section 12.11.

Same as Method 5, section 17.0.

1.1 Analyte. Nonsulfuric acid particulate matter. No CAS number assigned.

1.2 Applicability. This method is determining applicable for the determination of nonsulfuric acid particulate matter from stationary sources, only where specified by an applicable subpart of the regulations or where approved by the Administrator for a particular application.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

Particulate matter is withdrawn isokinetically from the source and collected on a glass fiber filter maintained at a temperature of 160 +/-14 &#xB0;C (320 +/-25 &#xB0;F). The collected sample is then heated in an oven at 160 &#xB0;C (320 &#xB0;F) for 6 hours to volatilize any condensed sulfuric acid that may have been collected, and the nonsulfuric acid particulate mass is determined gravimetrically.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

Same as Method 5, section 6.0, with the following addition and exceptions:

6.1 Sample Collection. The probe liner heating system and filter heating system must be capable of maintaining a sample gas temperature of 160 +/-14 &#xB0;C (320 +/-25 &#xB0;F).

6.2 Sample Preparation. An oven is required for drying the sample.

Same as Method 5, section 7.0.

Same as Method 5, with the exception of the following:

8.1 Initial Filter Tare. Oven dry the filter at 160 +/-5 &#xB0;C (320 +/-10 &#xB0;F) for 2 to 3 hours, cool in a desiccator for 2 hours, and weigh. Desiccate to constant weight to obtain the initial tare weight. Use the applicable specifications and techniques of section 8.1.3 of Method 5 for this determination.

8.2 Probe and Filter Temperatures. Maintain the probe outlet and filter temperatures at 160 +/-14 &#xB0;C (320 +/-25 &#xB0;F).

Same as Method 5, section 9.0.

Same as Method 5, section 10.0.

11.1 Record and report the data required on a sheet such as the one shown in Figure 5B-1.

11.2 Handle each sample container as follows:

11.2.1 Container No. 1. Leave the contents in the shipping container or transfer the filter and any loose PM from the sample container to a tared non-reactive oven-proof container. Oven dry the filter sample at a temperature of 160 +/-5 &#xB0;C (320 +/-9 &#xB0;F) for 6 hours. Cool in a desiccator for 2 hours, and weigh to constant weight. Report the results to the nearest 0.1 mg. For the purposes of this section, the term "constant weight" means a difference of no more than 0.5 mg or 1 percent of total weight less tare weight, whichever is greater, between two consecutive weighings, with no less than 6 hours of desiccation time between weighings.

11.2.2 Container No. 2. Note the level of liquid in the container, and confirm on the analysis sheet whether leakage occurred during transport. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, either void the sample or use methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to correct the final results. Measure the liquid in this container either volumetrically to +/-1 ml or gravimetrically to +/-0.5 g. Transfer the contents to a tared 250 ml beaker, and evaporate to dryness at ambient temperature and pressure. Then oven dry the probe sample at a temperature of 160 +/-5 &#xB0;C (320 +/-9 &#xB0;F) for 6 hours. Cool in a desiccator for 2 hours, and weigh to constant weight. Report the results to the nearest 0.1 mg.

11.2.3 Container No. 3. Weigh the spent silica gel (or silica gel plus impinger) to the nearest 0.5 g using a balance. This step may be conducted in the field.

11.2.4 Acetone Blank Container. Measure the acetone in this container either volumetrically or gravimetrically. Transfer the acetone to a tared 250 ml beaker, and evaporate to dryness at ambient temperature and pressure. Desiccate for 24 hours, and weigh to a constant weight. Report the results to the nearest 0.1 mg.

The contents of Container No. 2 as well as the acetone blank container may be evaporated at temperatures higher than ambient. If evaporation is done at an elevated temperature, the temperature must be below the boiling point of the solvent; also, to prevent "bumping," the evaporation process must be closely supervised, and the contents of the beaker must be swirled occasionally to maintain an even temperature. Use extreme care, as acetone is highly flammable and has a low flash point.

Same as in Method 5, section 12.0.

Same as Method 5, section 17.0.

1.1 Analyte. Particulate matter (PM). No CAS number assigned.

1.2 Applicability.

1.2.1 This method is applicable for the determination of PM emissions from positive pressure fabric filters. Emissions are determined in terms of concentration (mg/mor gr/ft) and emission rate (kg/hr or lb/hr).

1.2.2 The General Provisions of 40 CFR part 60, ยง 60.8(e), require that the owner or operator of an affected facility shall provide performance testing facilities. Such performance testing facilities include sampling ports, safe sampling platforms, safe access to sampling sites, and utilities for testing. It is intended that affected facilities also provide sampling locations that meet the specification for adequate stack length and minimal flow disturbances as described in Method 1. Provisions for testing are often overlooked factors in designing fabric filters or are extremely costly. The purpose of this procedure is to identify appropriate alternative locations and procedures for sampling the emissions from positive pressure fabric filters. The requirements that the affected facility owner or operator provide adequate access to performance testing facilities remain in effect.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 Particulate matter is withdrawn isokinetically from the source and collected on a glass fiber filter maintained at a temperature at or above the exhaust gas temperature up to a nominal 120 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F). The particulate mass, which includes any material that condenses at or above the filtration temperature, is determined gravimetrically after the removal of uncombined water.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

Same as section 6.0 of either Method 5 or Method 17.

Same as section 7.0 of either Method 5 or Method 17.

Same section 8.0 of either Method 5 or Method 17, except replace section 8.2.1 of Method 5 with the following:

8.1 Determination of Measurement Site. The configuration of positive pressure fabric filter structures frequently are not amenable to emission testing according to the requirements of Method 1. Following are several alternatives for determining measurement sites for positive pressure fabric filters.

8.1.1 Stacks Meeting Method 1 Criteria. Use a measurement site as specified in Method 1, section 11.1.

8.1.2 Short Stacks Not Meeting Method 1 Criteria. Use stack extensions and the procedures in Method 1. Alternatively, use flow straightening vanes of the "egg-crate" type (see Figure 5D-1). Locate the measurement site downstream of the straightening vanes at a distance equal to or greater than two times the average equivalent diameter of the vane openings and at least one-half of the overall stack diameter upstream of the stack outlet.
