
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.

10.3.3 Acceptable Variation in Calibration Check. If the DGM coefficient values obtained before and after a test series differ by more than 5 percent, the test series shall either be voided, or calculations for the test series shall be performed using whichever meter coefficient value (, before or after) gives the lower value of total sample volume.

10.4 Probe Heater Calibration. Use a heat source to generate air heated to selected temperatures that approximate those expected to occur in the sources to be sampled. Pass this air through the probe at a typical sample flow rate while measuring the probe inlet and outlet temperatures at various probe heater settings. For each air temperature generated, construct a graph of probe heating system setting versus probe outlet temperature. The procedure outlined in APTD-0576 can also be used. Probes constructed according to APTD-0581 need not be calibrated if the calibration curves in APTD-0576 are used. Also, probes with outlet temperature monitoring capabilities do not require calibration.

10.5 Temperature Sensors. Use the procedure in Section 10.3 of Method 2 to calibrate in-stack temperature sensors. Dial thermometers, such as are used for the DGM and condenser outlet, shall be calibrated against mercury-in-glass thermometers. An alternative mercury-free NIST-traceable thermometer may be used if the thermometer is, at a minimum, equivalent in terms of performance or suitably effective for the specific temperature measurement application. As an alternative, the following single-point calibration procedure may be used. After each test run series, check the accuracy (and, hence, the calibration) of each thermocouple system at ambient temperature, or any other temperature, within the range specified by the manufacturer, using a reference thermometer (either ASTM reference thermometer or a thermometer that has been calibrated against an ASTM reference thermometer). The temperatures of the thermocouple and reference thermometers shall agree to within +/-2 &#xB0;F.

10.6 Barometer. Calibrate against a mercury barometer or NIST-traceable barometer prior to the field test. Alternatively, barometric pressure may be obtained from a weather report that has been adjusted for the test point (on the stack) elevation.

10.7 Field Balance Calibration Check. Check the calibration of the balance used to weigh impingers with a weight that is at least 500g or within 50g of a loaded impinger. The weight must be ASTM E617-13 "Standard Specification for Laboratory Weights and Precision Mass Standards" (incorporated by reference-see 40 CFR 60.17) Class 6 (or better). Daily before use, the field balance must measure the weight within +/-0.5g of the certified mass. If the daily balance calibration check fails, perform corrective measures and repeat the check before using balance.

10.8 Analytical Balance Calibration. Perform a multipoint calibration (at least five points spanning the operational range) of the analytical balance before the first use, and semiannually thereafter. The calibration of the analytical balance must be conducted using ASTM E617-13 "Standard Specification for Laboratory Weights and Precision Mass Standards" (incorporated by reference-see 40 CFR 60.17) Class 2 (or better) tolerance weights. Audit the balance each day it is used for gravimetric measurements by weighing at least one ASTM E617-13 Class 2 tolerance (or better) calibration weight that corresponds to 50 to 150 percent of the weight of one filter or between 1g and 5g. If the scale cannot reproduce the value of the calibration weight to within 0.5 mg of the certified mass, perform corrective measures, and conduct the multipoint calibration before use.

11.1 Record the data required on a sheet such as the one shown in Figure 5-6.

11.2 Handle each sample container as follows:

11.2.1 Container No. 1. Leave the contents in the shipping container or transfer the filter and any loose PM from the sample container to a tared weighing container. Desiccate for 24 hours in a desiccator containing anhydrous calcium sulfate. Weigh to a constant weight, and report the results to the nearest 0.1 mg. For the purposes of this section, the term "constant weight" means a difference of no more than 0.5 mg or 1 percent of total weight less tare weight, whichever is greater, between two consecutive weighings, with no less than 6 hours of desiccation time between weighings. Alternatively, the sample may be oven dried at 104 &#xB0;C (220 &#xB0;F) for 2 to 3 hours, cooled in the desiccator, and weighed to a constant weight, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator. The sample may be oven dried at 104 &#xB0;C (220 &#xB0;F) for 2 to 3 hours. Once the sample has cooled, weigh the sample, and use this weight as a final weight.

11.2.2 Container No. 2. Note the level of liquid in the container, and confirm on the analysis sheet whether leakage occurred during transport. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, either void the sample or use methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to correct the final results. Measure the liquid in this container either volumetrically to +/-1 ml or gravimetrically to +/-0.5 g. Transfer the contents to a tared 250 ml beaker, and evaporate to dryness at ambient temperature and pressure. Desiccate for 24 hours, and weigh to a constant weight. Report the results to the nearest 0.1 mg.

11.2.3 Container No. 3. Weigh the spent silica gel (or silica gel plus impinger) to the nearest 0.5 g using a balance. This step may be conducted in the field.

11.2.4 Acetone Blank Container. Measure the acetone in this container either volumetrically or gravimetrically. Transfer the acetone to a tared 250 ml beaker, and evaporate to dryness at ambient temperature and pressure. Desiccate for 24 hours, and weigh to a constant weight. Report the results to the nearest 0.1 mg.

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after the final calculation. Other forms of the equations may be used, provided that they give equivalent results.

12.1 Nomenclature.

A= Cross-sectional area of nozzle, m(ft).

B= Water vapor in the gas stream, proportion by volume.

C= Acetone blank residue concentration, mg/mg.

c= Concentration of particulate matter in stack gas, dry basis, corrected to standard conditions, g/dscm (gr/dscf).

I = Percent of isokinetic sampling.

L= Individual leakage rate observed during the leak-check conducted prior to the first component change, m/min (ft/min)

L= Maximum acceptable leakage rate for either a pretest leak-check or for a leak-check following a component change; equal to 0.00057 m/min (0.020 cfm) or 4 percent of the average sampling rate, whichever is less.

L= Individual leakage rate observed during the leak-check conducted prior to the "i" component change (i = 1, 2, 3 . . . n), m/min (cfm).

L= Leakage rate observed during the post-test leak-check, m/min (cfm).

m= Mass of residue of acetone after evaporation, mg.

m= Total amount of particulate matter collected, mg.

M= Molecular weight of water, 18.015 g/g-mole (18.015 lb/lb-mole).

P= Barometric pressure at the sampling site, mm Hg (in. Hg).

P= Absolute stack gas pressure, mm Hg (in. Hg).

P= Standard absolute pressure, 760 mm Hg (29.92 in. Hg).

R = Ideal gas constant, 0.06236 ((mm Hg)(m))/((K)(g-mole)) {21.85 ((in. Hg) (ft))/((&#xB0;R) (lb-mole))}.

T= Absolute average DGM temperature (see Figure 5-3), K (&#xB0;R).

T= Absolute average stack gas temperature (see Figure 5-3), K (&#xB0;R).

T= Standard absolute temperature, 293.15 K (527.67 &#xB0;R).

V= Volume of acetone blank, ml.

V= Volume of acetone used in wash, ml.

V= Total volume of liquid collected in impingers and silica gel (see Figure 5-6), g.

V= Volume of gas sample as measured by dry gas meter, dcm (dcf).

V= Volume of gas sample measured by the dry gas meter, corrected to standard conditions, dscm (dscf).

V= Volume of water vapor in the gas sample, corrected to standard conditions, scm (scf).

V= Stack gas velocity, calculated by Method 2, Equation 2-7, using data obtained from Method 5, m/sec (ft/sec).

W= Weight of residue in acetone wash, mg.

Y = Dry gas meter calibration factor.

ΔH = Average pressure differential across the orifice meter (see Figure 5-4), mm HO (in. HO).

ρ= Density of acetone, mg/ml (see label on bottle).

&#x3B8; = Total sampling time, min.

&#x3B8;= Sampling time interval, from the beginning of a run until the first component change, min.

&#x3B8;= Sampling time interval, between two successive component changes, beginning with the interval between the first and second changes, min.

&#x3B8;= Sampling time interval, from the final (n) component change until the end of the sampling run, min.

13.6 = Specific gravity of mercury.

60 = Sec/min.

100 = Conversion to percent.

12.2 Average Dry Gas Meter Temperature and Average Orifice Pressure Drop. See data sheet (Figure 5-3).

12.3 Dry Gas Volume. Correct the sample volume measured by the dry gas meter to standard conditions (20 &#xB0;C, 760mm Hg or 68 &#xB0;F, 29.92 in. Hg) by using Equation 5-1.
