
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### 47

4. Small, H., T.S. Stevens, and W.C. Bauman. Novel Ion Exchange Chromatographic Method Using Conductimetric Determination. Analytical Chemistry.(11):1801. 1975.

1.1 Analyte. Particulate matter (PM). No CAS number assigned.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of PM emissions from wood heaters.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 The exhaust from a wood heater is collected with a total collection hood, and is combined with ambient dilution air. Particulate matter is withdrawn proportionally from a single point in a sampling tunnel, and is collected on two glass fiber filters in series. The filters are maintained at a temperature of no greater than 32 &#xB0;C (90 &#xB0;F). The particulate mass is determined gravimetrically after the removal of uncombined water.

2.2 There are three sampling train approaches described in this method: (1) One dual-filter dry sampling train operated at about 0.015 m/min (0.5 cfm), (2) One dual-filter plus impingers sampling train operated at about 0.015 m/min (0.5 cfm), and (3) two dual-filter dry sampling trains operated simultaneously at any flow rate. Options (2) and (3) are referenced in section 16.0 of this method. The dual-filter dry sampling train equipment and operation, option (1), are described in detail in this method.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

6.1 Sample Collection. The following items are required for sample collection:

6.1.1 Sampling Train. The sampling train configuration is shown in Figure 5G-1 and consists of the following components:
