
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

8.2 Draft Determination. Prepare the wood heater as in Method 28, section 6.2.1. Locate the dilution tunnel hood centrally over the wood heater stack exhaust. Operate the dilution tunnel blower at the flow rate to be used during the test run. Measure the draft imposed on the wood heater by the dilution tunnel (the difference in draft measured with and without the dilution tunnel operating) as described in Method 28, section 6.2.3. Adjust the distance between the top of the wood heater stack exhaust and the dilution tunnel hood so that the dilution tunnel induced draft is less than 1.25 Pa (0.005 in. HO). Have no fire in the wood heater, close the wood heater doors, and open fully the air supply controls during this check and adjustment.

8.3 Pretest Ignition. Same as Method 28, section 8.7.

8.4 Smoke Capture. During the pretest ignition period, operate the dilution tunnel and visually monitor the wood heater stack exhaust. Operate the wood heater with the doors closed and determine that 100 percent of the exhaust gas is collected by the dilution tunnel hood. If less than 100 percent of the wood heater exhaust gas is collected, adjust the distance between the wood heater stack and the dilution tunnel hood until no visible exhaust gas is escaping. Stop the pretest ignition period, and repeat the draft determination procedure described in section 8.2.

8.5 Velocity Measurements. During the pretest ignition period, conduct a velocity traverse to identify the point of average velocity. This single point shall be used for measuring velocity during the test run.
