
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

8.3.2 Velocity determinations to determine and maintain isokinetic rates at measurement sites with gas velocities within the range measurable with the type S pitot tube (velocity head greater than 1.3 mm HO (0.05 in. HO)) shall be conducted according to the procedures outlined in Method 2.

8.4 Sampling. Follow the procedures specified in sections 8.1 through 8.6 of Method 5 or sections 8.1 through 8.25 in Method 17 with the exceptions as noted above.

8.5 Sample Recovery. Follow the procedures specified in section 8.7 of Method 5 or section 8.2 of Method 17.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. Same as Method 5, section 9.2.

Same as section 10.0 of either Method 5 or Method 17.

Same as section 11.0 of either Method 5 or Method 17.

Same as section 12.0 of either Method 5 or Method 17 with the following exceptions:

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Average Gas Velocity. When following section 8.3.1, calculate the average gas velocity at the measurement site as follows:

12.3 Volumetric Flow Rate. Total volumetric flow rate may be determined as follows:

12.4 Dilution Air Flow Rate.

12.5 Average PM Concentration. For multiple measurement sites, calculate the average PM concentration as follows:

Same as Method 5, section 17.0.

1.1 Analyte. Particulate matter (PM). No CAS number assigned.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of PM emissions from wool fiberglass insulation manufacturing sources.

Particulate matter is withdrawn isokinetically from the source and is collected either on a glass fiber filter maintained at a temperature in the range of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F) and in impingers in solutions of 0.1 N sodium hydroxide (NaOH). The filtered particulate mass, which includes any material that condenses at or above the filtration temperature, is determined gravimetrically after the removal of uncombined water. The condensed PM collected in the impinger solutions is determined as total organic carbon (TOC) using a nondispersive infrared type of analyzer. The sum of the filtered PM mass and the condensed PM is reported as the total PM mass.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burn as thermal burn.

5.2.1 Hydrochloric Acid (HCl). Highly toxic. Vapors are highly irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs, causing severe damage. May cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Exposure to concentrations of 0.13 to 0.2 percent in air can be lethal in minutes. Will react with metals, producing hydrogen.

5.2.2 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). Causes severe damage to eye tissues and to skin. Inhalation causes irritation to nose, throat, and lungs. Reacts exothermically with limited amounts of water.

6.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 5, section 6.1, with the exception of the following:

6.1.1 Probe Liner. Same as described in section 6.1.1.2 of Method 5 except use only borosilicate or quartz glass liners.

6.1.2 Filter Holder. Same as described in section 6.1.1.5 of Method 5 with the addition of a leak-tight connection in the rear half of the filter holder designed for insertion of a temperature sensor used for measuring the sample gas exit temperature.

6.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, section 6.2, except three wash bottles are needed instead of two and only glass storage bottles and funnels may be used.

6.3 Sample Analysis. Same as Method 5, section 6.3, with the additional equipment for TOC analysis as described below:

6.3.1 Sample Blender or Homogenizer. Waring type or ultrasonic.

6.3.2 Magnetic Stirrer.

6.3.3 Hypodermic Syringe. 0- to 100-µl capacity.

6.3.4 Total Organic Carbon Analyzer. Rosemount Model 2100A analyzer or equivalent and a recorder.

6.3.5 Beaker. 30-ml.

6.3.6 Water Bath. Temperature controlled.

6.3.7 Volumetric Flasks. 1000-ml and 500-ml.

Unless otherwise indicated, it is intended that all reagents conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available; otherwise, use the best available grade.

7.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 5, section 7.1, with the addition of 0.1 N NaOH (Dissolve 4 g of NaOH in water and dilute to 1 liter).

7.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, section 7.2, with the addition of the following:

7.2.1 Water. Deionized distilled to conform to ASTM Specification D 1193-77 or 91 Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17). The potassium permanganate (KMnO) test for oxidizable organic matter may be omitted when high concentrations of organic matter are not expected to be present.

7.2.2 Sodium Hydroxide. Same as described in section 7.1.

7.3 Sample Analysis. Same as Method 5, section 7.3, with the addition of the following:

7.3.1 Carbon Dioxide-Free Water. Distilled or deionized water that has been freshly boiled for 15 minutes and cooled to room temperature while preventing exposure to ambient air by using a cover vented with an Ascarite tube.

7.3.2 Hydrochloric Acid. HCl, concentrated, with a dropper.

7.3.3 Organic Carbon Stock Solution. Dissolve 2.1254 g of dried potassium biphthalate (HOOCCHCOOK) in CO-free water, and dilute to 1 liter in a volumetric flask. This solution contains 1000 mg/L organic carbon.

7.3.4 Inorganic Carbon Stock Solution. Dissolve 4.404 g anhydrous sodium carbonate (NaCO.) in about 500 ml of CO-free water in a 1-liter volumetric flask. Add 3.497 g anhydrous sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO) to the flask, and dilute to 1 liter with CO-free water. This solution contains 1000 mg/L inorganic carbon.

7.3.5 Oxygen Gas. CO-free.

8.1 Pretest Preparation and Preliminary Determinations. Same as Method 5, sections 8.1 and 8.2, respectively.

8.2 Preparation of Sampling Train. Same as Method 5, section 8.3, except that 0.1 N NaOH is used in place of water in the impingers. The volumes of the solutions are the same as in Method 5.

8.3 Leak-Check Procedures, Sampling Train Operation, Calculation of Percent Isokinetic. Same as Method 5, sections 8.4 through 8.6, respectively.

8.4 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, sections 8.7.1 through 8.7.4, with the addition of the following:

8.4.1 Save portions of the water, acetone, and 0.1 N NaOH used for cleanup as blanks. Take 200 ml of each liquid directly from the wash bottles being used, and place in glass sample containers labeled "water blank," "acetone blank," and "NaOH blank," respectively.

8.4.2 Inspect the train prior to and during disassembly, and note any abnormal conditions. Treat the samples as follows:

8.4.2.1 Container No. 1. Same as Method 5, section 8.7.6.1.

8.4.2.2 Container No. 2. Use water to rinse the sample nozzle, probe, and front half of the filter holder three times in the manner described in section 8.7.6.2 of Method 5 except that no brushing is done. Put all the water wash in one container, seal, and label.

8.4.2.3 Container No. 3. Rinse and brush the sample nozzle, probe, and front half of the filter holder with acetone as described for Container No. 2 in section 8.7.6.2 of Method 5.

8.4.2.4 Container No. 4. Place the contents of the silica gel impinger in its original container as described for Container No. 3 in section 8.7.6.3 of Method 5.

8.4.2.5 Container No. 5. Measure the liquid in the first three impingers and record the volume or weight as described for the Impinger Water in section 8.7.6.4 of Method 5. Do not discard this liquid, but place it in a sample container using a glass funnel to aid in the transfer from the impingers or graduated cylinder (if used) to the sample container. Rinse each impinger thoroughly with 0.1 N NaOH three times, as well as the graduated cylinder (if used) and the funnel, and put these rinsings in the same sample container. Seal the container and label to clearly identify its contents.

8.5 Sample Transport. Whenever possible, containers should be shipped in such a way that they remain upright at all times.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. Same as Method 5, section 9.2.

Same as Method 5, section 10.0, with the addition of the following procedures for calibrating the total organic carbon analyzer:

10.1 Preparation of Organic Carbon Standard Curve.

10.1.1 Add 10 ml, 20 ml, 30 ml, 40 ml, and 50 ml of the organic carbon stock solution to a series of five 1000-ml volumetric flasks. Add 30 ml, 40 ml, and 50 ml of the same solution to a series of three 500-ml volumetric flasks. Dilute the contents of each flask to the mark using CO-free water. These flasks contain 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 80, and 100 mg/L organic carbon, respectively.

10.1.2 Use a hypodermic syringe to withdraw a 20- to 50-µl aliquot from the 10 mg/L standard solution and inject it into the total carbon port of the analyzer. Measure the peak height. Repeat the injections until three consecutive peaks are obtained within 10 percent of their arithmetic mean. Repeat this procedure for the remaining organic carbon standard solutions.

10.1.3 Calculate the corrected peak height for each standard by deducting the blank correction (see section 11.2.5.3) as follows:

10.1.4 Prepare a linear regression plot of the arithmetic mean of the three consecutive peak heights obtained for each standard solution against the concentration of that solution. Calculate the calibration factor as the inverse of the slope of this curve. If the product of the arithmetic mean peak height for any standard solution and the calibration factor differs from the actual concentration by more than 5 percent, remake and reanalyze that standard.

10.2 Preparation of Inorganic Carbon Standard Curve. Repeat the procedures outlined in sections 10.1.1 through 10.1.4, substituting the inorganic carbon stock solution for the organic carbon stock solution, and the inorganic carbon port of the analyzer for the total carbon port.

11.1 Record the data required on a sheet such as the one shown in Figure 5-6 of Method 5.

11.2 Handle each sample container as follows:

11.2.1 Container No. 1. Same as Method 5, section 11.2.1, except that the filters must be dried at 20 +/-6 &#xB0;C (68 +/-10 &#xB0;F) and ambient pressure.

11.2.2 Containers No. 2 and No. 3. Same as Method 5, section 11.2.2, except that evaporation of the samples must be at 20 +/-6 &#xB0;C (68 +/-10 &#xB0;F) and ambient pressure.

11.2.3 Container No. 4. Same as Method 5, section 11.2.3.

11.2.4 "Water Blank" and "Acetone Blank" Containers. Determine the water and acetone blank values following the procedures for the "Acetone Blank" container in section 11.2.4 of Method 5. Evaporate the samples at ambient temperature (20 +/-6 &#xB0;C (68 +/-10 &#xB0;F)) and pressure.
