
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,

6.1.1.1 Probe. Stainless steel (316 or grade more corrosion resistant) or glass about 9.5 mm (in.) I.D., 0.6 m (24 in.) in length. If made of stainless steel, the probe shall be constructed from seamless tubing.

6.1.1.2 Pitot Tube. Type S, as described in section 6.1 of Method 2. The Type S pitot tube assembly shall have a known coefficient, determined as outlined in Method 2, section 10. Alternatively, a standard pitot may be used as described in Method 2, section 6.1.2.

6.1.1.3 Differential Pressure Gauge. Inclined manometer or equivalent device, as described in Method 2, section 6.2. One manometer shall be used for velocity head (Δp) readings and another (optional) for orifice differential pressure readings (ΔH).

6.1.1.4 Filter Holders. Two each made of borosilicate glass, stainless steel, or Teflon, with a glass frit or stainless steel filter support and a silicone rubber, Teflon, or Viton gasket. The holder design shall provide a positive seal against leakage from the outside or around the filters. The filter holders shall be placed in series with the backup filter holder located 25 to 100 mm (1 to 4 in.) downstream from the primary filter holder. The filter holder shall be capable of holding a filter with a 100 mm (4 in.) diameter, except as noted in section 16.

6.1.1.5 Filter Temperature Monitoring System. A temperature sensor capable of measuring temperature to within +/-3 &#xB0;C (+/-5 &#xB0;F). The sensor shall be installed at the exit side of the front filter holder so that the sensing tip of the temperature sensor is in direct contact with the sample gas or in a thermowell as shown in Figure 5G-1. The temperature sensor shall comply with the calibration specifications in Method 2, section 10.3. Alternatively, the sensing tip of the temperature sensor may be installed at the inlet side of the front filter holder.

6.1.1.6 Dryer. Any system capable of removing water from the sample gas to less than 1.5 percent moisture (volume percent) prior to the metering system. The system shall include a temperature sensor for demonstrating that sample gas temperature exiting the dryer is less than 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F).

6.1.1.7 Metering System. Same as Method 5, section 6.1.1.9.

6.1.2 Barometer. Same as Method 5, section 6.1.2.

6.1.3 Dilution Tunnel Gas Temperature Measurement. A temperature sensor capable of measuring temperature to within +/-3 &#xB0;C (+/-5 &#xB0;F).

6.1.4 Dilution Tunnel. The dilution tunnel apparatus is shown in Figure 5G-2 and consists of the following components:

6.1.4.1 Hood. Constructed of steel with a minimum diameter of 0.3 m (1 ft) on the large end and a standard 0.15 to 0.3 m (0.5 to 1 ft) coupling capable of connecting to standard 0.15 to 0.3 m (0.5 to 1 ft) stove pipe on the small end.

6.1.4.2 90&#xB0; Elbows. Steel 90&#xB0; elbows, 0.15 to 0.3 m (0.5 to 1 ft) in diameter for connecting mixing duct, straight duct and optional damper assembly. There shall be at least two 90&#xB0; elbows upstream of the sampling section (see Figure 5G-2).

6.1.4.3 Straight Duct. Steel, 0.15 to 0.3 m (0.5 to 1 ft) in diameter to provide the ducting for the dilution apparatus upstream of the sampling section. Steel duct, 0.15 m (0.5 ft) in diameter shall be used for the sampling section. In the sampling section, at least 1.2 m (4 ft) downstream of the elbow, shall be two holes (velocity traverse ports) at 90&#xB0; to each other of sufficient size to allow entry of the pitot for traverse measurements. At least 1.2 m (4 ft) downstream of the velocity traverse ports, shall be one hole (sampling port) of sufficient size to allow entry of the sampling probe. Ducts of larger diameter may be used for the sampling section, provided the specifications for minimum gas velocity and the dilution rate range shown in section 8 are maintained. The length of duct from the hood inlet to the sampling ports shall not exceed 9.1 m (30 ft).

6.1.4.4 Mixing Baffles. Steel semicircles (two) attached at 90&#xB0; to the duct axis on opposite sides of the duct midway between the two elbows upstream of sampling section. The space between the baffles shall be about 0.3 m (1 ft).

6.1.4.5 Blower. Squirrel cage or other fan capable of extracting gas from the dilution tunnel of sufficient flow to maintain the velocity and dilution rate specifications in section 8 and exhausting the gas to the atmosphere.

6.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are required for sample recovery: probe brushes, wash bottles, sample storage containers, petri dishes, and funnel. Same as Method 5, sections 6.2.1 through 6.2.4, and 6.2.8, respectively.

6.3 Sample Analysis. The following items are required for sample analysis: glass weighing dishes, desiccator, analytical balance, beakers (250-ml or smaller), hygrometer, and temperature sensor. Same as Method 5, sections 6.3.1 through 6.3.3 and 6.3.5 through 6.3.7, respectively.

7.1 Sample Collection. The following reagents are required for sample collection:

7.1.1 Filters. Glass fiber filters with a minimum diameter of 100 mm (4 in.), without organic binder, exhibiting at least 99.95 percent efficiency (<0.05 percent penetration) on 0.3-micron dioctyl phthalate smoke particles. Gelman A/E 61631 has been found acceptable for this purpose.

7.1.2 Stopcock Grease. Same as Method 5, section 7.1.5. 7.2 Sample Recovery. Acetone-reagent grade, same as Method 5, section 7.2.

7.3 Sample Analysis. Two reagents are required for the sample analysis:

7.3.1 Acetone. Same as in section 7.2.

7.3.2 Desiccant. Anhydrous calcium sulfate, calcium chloride, or silica gel, indicating type.

8.1 Dilution Tunnel Assembly and Cleaning. A schematic of a dilution tunnel is shown in Figure 5G-2. The dilution tunnel dimensions and other features are described in section 6.1.4. Assemble the dilution tunnel, sealing joints and seams to prevent air leakage. Clean the dilution tunnel with an appropriately sized wire chimney brush before each certification test.
