
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,

8.1.3 Roof Monitor or Monovent. (See Figure 5D-2). For a positive pressure fabric filter equipped with a peaked roof monitor, ridge vent, or other type of monovent, use a measurement site at the base of the monovent. Examples of such locations are shown in Figure 5D-2. The measurement site must be upstream of any exhaust point (louvered vent).

8.1.4 Compartment Housing. Sample immediately downstream of the filter bags directly above the tops of the bags as shown in the examples in Figure 5D-2. Depending on the housing design, use sampling ports in the housing walls or locate the sampling equipment within the compartment housing.

8.2 Determination of Number and Location of Traverse Points. Locate the traverse points according to Method 1, section 11.3. Because a performance test consists of at least three test runs and because of the varied configurations of positive pressure fabric filters, there are several schemes by which the number of traverse points can be determined and the three test runs can be conducted.

8.2.1 Single Stacks Meeting Method 1 Criteria. Select the number of traverse points according to Method 1. Sample all traverse points for each test run.

8.2.2 Other Single Measurement Sites. For a roof monitor or monovent, single compartment housing, or other stack not meeting Method 1 criteria, use at least 24 traverse points. For example, for a rectangular measurement site, such as a monovent, use a balanced 5 x 5 traverse point matrix. Sample all traverse points for each test run.

8.2.3 Multiple Measurement Sites. Sampling from two or more stacks or measurement sites may be combined for a test run, provided the following guidelines are met:

8.2.3.1 All measurement sites up to 12 must be sampled. For more than 12 measurement sites, conduct sampling on at least 12 sites or 50 percent of the sites, whichever is greater. The measurement sites sampled should be evenly, or nearly evenly, distributed among the available sites; if not, all sites are to be sampled.

8.2.3.2 The same number of measurement sites must be sampled for each test run.

8.2.3.3 The minimum number of traverse points per test run is 24. An exception to the 24-point minimum would be a test combining the sampling from two stacks meeting Method 1 criteria for acceptable stack length, and Method 1 specifies fewer than 12 points per site.

8.2.3.4 As long as the 24 traverse points per test run criterion is met, the number of traverse points per measurement site may be reduced to eight.

8.2.3.5 Alternatively, conduct a test run for each measurement site individually using the criteria in section 8.2.1 or 8.2.2 to determine the number of traverse points. Each test run shall count toward the total of three required for a performance test. If more than three measurement sites are sampled, the number of traverse points per measurement site may be reduced to eight as long as at least 72 traverse points are sampled for all the tests.

8.2.3.6 The following examples demonstrate the procedures for sampling multiple measurement sites.

8.2.3.6.1 Example 1: A source with nine circular measurement sites of equal areas may be tested as follows: For each test run, traverse three measurement sites using four points per diameter (eight points per measurement site). In this manner, test run number 1 will include sampling from sites 1,2, and 3; run 2 will include samples from sites 4, 5, and 6; and run 3 will include sites 7, 8, and 9. Each test area may consist of a separate test of each measurement site using eight points. Use the results from all nine tests in determining the emission average.

8.2.3.6.2 Example 2: A source with 30 rectangular measurement sites of equal areas may be tested as follows: For each of the three test runs, traverse five measurement sites using a 3 x 3 matrix of traverse points for each site. In order to distribute the sampling evenly over all the available measurement sites while sampling only 50 percent of the sites, number the sites consecutively from 1 to 30 and sample all the even numbered (or odd numbered) sites. Alternatively, conduct a separate test of each of 15 measurement sites using section 8.2.1 or 8.2.2 to determine the number and location of traverse points, as appropriate.

8.2.3.6.3 Example 3: A source with two measurement sites of equal areas may be tested as follows: For each test of three test runs, traverse both measurement sites, using section 8.2.3 in determining the number of traverse points. Alternatively, conduct two full emission test runs for each measurement site using the criteria in section 8.2.1 or 8.2.2 to determine the number of traverse points.

8.2.3.7 Other test schemes, such as random determination of traverse points for a large number of measurement sites, may be used with prior approval from the Administrator.

8.3 Velocity Determination.
