
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

11.2.5 Container No. 5. For the determination of total organic carbon, perform two analyses on successive identical samples,total carbon and inorganic carbon. The desired quantity is the difference between the two values obtained. Both analyses are based on conversion of sample carbon into carbon dioxide for measurement by a nondispersive infrared analyzer. Results of analyses register as peaks on a strip chart recorder.

11.2.5.1 The principal differences between the operating parameters for the two channels involve the combustion tube packing material and temperature. In the total carbon channel, a high temperature (950 &#xB0;C (1740 &#xB0;F)) furnace heats a Hastelloy combustion tube packed with cobalt oxide-impregnated asbestos fiber. The oxygen in the carrier gas, the elevated temperature, and the catalytic effect of the packing result in oxidation of both organic and inorganic carbonaceous material to CO, and steam. In the inorganic carbon channel, a low temperature (150 &#xB0;C (300 &#xB0;F)) furnace heats a glass tube containing quartz chips wetted with 85 percent phosphoric acid. The acid liberates COand steam from inorganic carbonates. The operating temperature is below that required to oxidize organic matter. Follow the manufacturer's instructions for assembly, testing, calibration, and operation of the analyzer.

11.2.5.2 As samples collected in 0.1 N NaOH often contain a high measure of inorganic carbon that inhibits repeatable determinations of TOC, sample pretreatment is necessary. Measure and record the liquid volume of each sample (or impinger contents). If the sample contains solids or immiscible liquid matter, homogenize the sample with a blender or ultrasonics until satisfactory repeatability is obtained. Transfer a representative portion of 10 to 15 ml to a 30-ml beaker, and acidify with about 2 drops of concentrated HCl to a pH of 2 or less. Warm the acidified sample at 50 &#xB0;C (120 &#xB0;F) in a water bath for 15 minutes.

11.2.5.3 While stirring the sample with a magnetic stirrer, use a hypodermic syringe to withdraw a 20-to 50-µ1 aliquot from the beaker. Analyze the sample for total carbon and calculate its corrected mean peak height according to the procedures outlined in sections 10.1.2 and 10.1.3. Similarly analyze an aliquot of the sample for inorganic carbon. Repeat the analyses for all the samples and for the 0.1 N NaOH blank.

11.2.5.4 Ascertain the total carbon and inorganic carbon concentrations (Cand C, respectively) of each sample and blank by comparing the corrected mean peak heights for each sample and blank to the appropriate standard curve.

Same as Method 5, section 12.0, with the addition of the following:

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Concentration of Condensed TOC in Liquid Sample.

12.3 Mass of Condensed TOC Collected.

12.4 Concentration of Condensed Particulate Material.

12.5 Total Particulate Concentration.

16.1 Total Organic Carbon Analyzer. Tekmar-Dohrmann analyzers using the single injection technique may be used as an alternative to Rosemount Model 2100A analyzers.

Same as section 17.0 of Method 5, with the addition of the following:

1. American Public Health Association, American Water Works Association, Water Pollution Control Federation. Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater. Fifteenth Edition. Washington, D.C. 1980.

1.1 Analyte. Nonsulfate particulate matter (PM). No CAS number assigned.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of nonsulfate PM emissions from stationary sources. Use of this method must be specified by an applicable subpart of the standards, or approved by the Administrator for a particular application.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

Particulate matter is withdrawn isokinetically from the source and collected on a filter maintained at a temperature in the range 160 +/-14 &#xB0;C (320 +/-25 &#xB0;F). The collected sample is extracted with water. A portion of the extract is analyzed for sulfate content by ion chromatography. The remainder is neutralized with ammonium hydroxide (NHOH), dried, and weighed. The weight of sulfate in the sample is calculated as ammonium sulfate ((NH)SO), and is subtracted from the total particulate weight; the result is reported as nonsulfate particulate matter.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

6.1 Sample Collection and Recovery. Same as Method 5, sections 6.1 and 6.2, respectively.

6.2 Sample Analysis. Same as Method 5, section 6.3, with the addition of the following:

6.2.1 Erlenmeyer Flasks. 125-ml, with ground glass joints.

6.2.2 Air Condenser. With ground glass joint compatible with the Erlenmeyer flasks.

6.2.3 Beakers. 600-ml.

6.2.4 Volumetric Flasks. 1-liter, 500-ml (one for each sample), 200-ml, and 50-ml (one for each sample and standard).

6.2.5 Pipet. 5-ml (one for each sample and standard).

6.2.6 Ion Chromatograph. The ion chromatograph should have at least the following components.

6.2.6.1 Columns. An anion separation column or other column capable of resolving the sulfate ion from other species present and a standard anion suppressor column. Suppressor columns are produced as proprietary items; however, one can be produced in the laboratory using the resin available from BioRad Company, 32nd and Griffin Streets, Richmond, California. Other systems which do not use suppressor columns may also be used.

6.2.6.2 Pump. Capable of maintaining a steady flow as required by the system.

6.2.6.3 Flow Gauges. Capable of measuring the specified system flow rate.

6.2.6.4 Conductivity Detector.

6.2.6.5 Recorder. Compatible with the output voltage range of the detector.

Unless otherwise indicated, it is intended that all reagents conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available; otherwise, use the best available grade.

7.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 5, section 7.1.

7.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, section 7.2, with the addition of the following:

7.2.1 Water. Deionized distilled, to conform to ASTM D 1193-77 or 91 Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17). The potassium permanganate (KMnO) test for oxidizable organic matter may be omitted when high concentrations of organic matter are not expected to be present.

7.3 Analysis. Same as Method 5, section 7.3, with the addition of the following:

7.3.1 Water. Same as in section 7.2.1.

7.3.2 Stock Standard Solution, 1 mg (NH)SO/ml. Dry an adequate amount of primary standard grade ammonium sulfate ((NH)SO) at 105 to 110 &#xB0;C (220 to 230 &#xB0;F) for a minimum of 2 hours before preparing the standard solution. Then dissolve exactly 1.000 g of dried (NH)SOin water in a 1-liter volumetric flask, and dilute to 1 liter. Mix well.

7.3.3 Working Standard Solution, 25 µg (NH)SO/ml. Pipet 5 ml of the stock standard solution into a 200-ml volumetric flask. Dilute to 200 ml with water.

7.3.4 Eluent Solution. Weigh 1.018 g of sodium carbonate (NaCO) and 1.008 g of sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO), and dissolve in 4 liters of water. This solution is 0.0024 M NaCO/0.003 M NaHCO. Other eluents appropriate to the column type and capable of resolving sulfate ion from other species present may be used.

7.3.5 Ammonium Hydroxide. Concentrated, 14.8 M.

7.3.6 Phenolphthalein Indicator. 3,3-Bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)-1-(3H)-isobenzo-furanone. Dissolve 0.05 g in 50 ml of ethanol and 50 ml of water.

Same as Method 5, section 8.0, with the exception of the following:

8.1 Sampling Train Operation. Same as Method 5, section 8.5, except that the probe outlet and filter temperatures shall be maintained at 160 +/-14 &#xB0;C (320 +/-25 &#xB0;F).

8.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, section 8.7, except that the recovery solvent shall be water instead of acetone, and a clean filter from the same lot as those used during testing shall be saved for analysis as a blank.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. Same as Method 5, section 9.2.

Same as Method 5, section 10.0, with the addition of the following:
