
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,

8.5.1 Velocity Traverse. Measure the diameter of the duct at the velocity traverse port location through both ports. Calculate the duct area using the average of the two diameters. A pretest leak-check of pitot lines as in Method 2, section 8.1, is recommended. Place the calibrated pitot tube at the centroid of the stack in either of the velocity traverse ports. Adjust the damper or similar device on the blower inlet until the velocity indicated by the pitot is approximately 220 m/min (720 ft/min). Continue to read the Δp and temperature until the velocity has remained constant (less than 5 percent change) for 1 minute. Once a constant velocity is obtained at the centroid of the duct, perform a velocity traverse as outlined in Method 2, section 8.3 using four points per traverse as outlined in Method 1. Measure the Δp and tunnel temperature at each traverse point and record the readings. Calculate the total gas flow rate using calculations contained in Method 2, section 12. Verify that the flow rate is 4 +/-0.40 dscm/min (140 +/-14 dscf/min); if not, readjust the damper, and repeat the velocity traverse. The moisture may be assumed to be 4 percent (100 percent relative humidity at 85 &#xB0;F). Direct moisture measurements (according to Method 4) are also permissible.

8.5.2 Testing Velocity Measurements. After obtaining velocity traverse results that meet the flow rate requirements, choose a point of average velocity and place the pitot and temperature sensor at that location in the duct. Alternatively, locate the pitot and the temperature sensor at the duct centroid and calculate a velocity correction factor for the centroidal position. Mount the pitot to ensure no movement during the test run and seal the port holes to prevent any air leakage. Align the pitot opening to be parallel with the duct axis at the measurement point. Check that this condition is maintained during the test run (about 30-minute intervals). Monitor the temperature and velocity during the pretest ignition period to ensure that the proper flow rate is maintained. Make adjustments to the dilution tunnel flow rate as necessary.

8.6 Pretest Preparation. Same as Method 5, section 8.1.

8.7 Preparation of Sampling Train. During preparation and assembly of the sampling train, keep all openings where contamination can occur covered until just prior to assembly or until sampling is about to begin.

Using a tweezer or clean disposable surgical gloves, place one labeled (identified) and weighed filter in each of the filter holders. Be sure that each filter is properly centered and that the gasket is properly placed so as to prevent the sample gas stream from circumventing the filter. Check each filter for tears after assembly is completed.

Mark the probe with heat resistant tape or by some other method to denote the proper distance into the stack or duct. Set up the train as shown in Figure 5G-1.

8.8 Leak-Check Procedures.
