
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

8.8.1 Leak-Check of Metering System Shown in Figure 5G-1. That portion of the sampling train from the pump to the orifice meter shall be leak-checked prior to initial use and after each certification or audit test. Leakage after the pump will result in less volume being recorded than is actually sampled. Use the procedure described in Method 5, section 8.4.1. Similar leak-checks shall be conducted for other types of metering systems (without orifice meters).

8.8.2 Pretest Leak-Check. A pretest leak-check of the sampling train is recommended, but not required. If the pretest leak check is conducted, the procedures outlined in Method 5, section 8.4.2 should be used. A vacuum of 130 mm Hg (5 in. Hg) may be used instead of 380 mm Hg (15 in. Hg).

8.8.3 Post-Test Leak-Check. A leak-check of the sampling train is mandatory at the conclusion of each test run. The leak-check shall be performed in accordance with the procedures outlined in Method 5, section 8.4.2. A vacuum of 130 mm Hg (5 in. Hg) or the highest vacuum measured during the test run, whichever is greater, may be used instead of 380 mm Hg (15 in. Hg).

8.9 Preliminary Determinations. Determine the pressure, temperature and the average velocity of the tunnel gases as in section 8.5. Moisture content of diluted tunnel gases is assumed to be 4 percent for making flow rate calculations; the moisture content may be measured directly as in Method 4.

8.10 Sampling Train Operation. Position the probe inlet at the stack centroid, and block off the openings around the probe and porthole to prevent unrepresentative dilution of the gas stream. Be careful not to bump the probe into the stack wall when removing or inserting the probe through the porthole; this minimizes the chance of extracting deposited material.

8.10.1 Begin sampling at the start of the test run as defined in Method 28, section 8.8.1. During the test run, maintain a sample flow rate proportional to the dilution tunnel flow rate (within 10 percent of the initial proportionality ratio) and a filter holder temperature of no greater than 32 &#xB0;C (90 &#xB0;F). The initial sample flow rate shall be approximately 0.015 m/min (0.5 cfm).

8.10.2 For each test run, record the data required on a data sheet such as the one shown in Figure 5G-3. Be sure to record the initial dry gas meter reading. Record the dry gas meter readings at the beginning and end of each sampling time increment and when sampling is halted. Take other readings as indicated on Figure 5G-3 at least once each 10 minutes during the test run. Since the manometer level and zero may drift because of vibrations and temperature changes, make periodic checks during the test run.

8.10.3 For the purposes of proportional sampling rate determinations, data from calibrated flow rate devices, such as glass rotameters, may be used in lieu of incremental dry gas meter readings. Proportional rate calculation procedures must be revised, but acceptability limits remain the same.

8.10.4 During the test run, make periodic adjustments to keep the temperature between (or upstream of) the filters at the proper level. Do not change sampling trains during the test run.

8.10.5 At the end of the test run (see Method 28, section 6.4.6), turn off the coarse adjust valve, remove the probe from the stack, turn off the pump, record the final dry gas meter reading, and conduct a post-test leak-check, as outlined in section 8.8.2. Also, leak-check the pitot lines as described in Method 2, section 8.1; the lines must pass this leak-check in order to validate the velocity head data.

8.11 Calculation of Proportional Sampling Rate. Calculate percent proportionality (see section 12.7) to determine whether the run was valid or another test run should be made.

8.12 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, section 8.7, with the exception of the following:

8.12.1 An acetone blank volume of about 50-ml or more may be used.

8.12.2 Treat the samples as follows:

8.12.2.1 Container Nos. 1 and 1A. Treat the two filters according to the procedures outlined in Method 5, section 8.7.6.1. The filters may be stored either in a single container or in separate containers. Use the sum of the filter tare weights to determine the sample mass collected.

8.12.2.3 Container No. 2.

8.12.2.3.1 Taking care to see that dust on the outside of the probe or other exterior surfaces does not get into the sample, quantitatively recover particulate matter or any condensate from the probe and filter holders by washing and brushing these components with acetone and placing the wash in a labeled glass container. At least three cycles of brushing and rinsing are required.

8.12.2.3.2 Between sampling runs, keep brushes clean and protected from contamination.

8.12.2.3.3 After all acetone washings and particulate matter have been collected in the sample containers, tighten the lids on the sample containers so that the acetone will not leak out when transferred to the laboratory weighing area. Mark the height of the fluid levels to determine whether leakage occurs during transport. Label the containers clearly to identify contents.

8.13 Sample Transport. Whenever possible, containers should be shipped in such a way that they remain upright at all times.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. Same as Method 5, section 9.2.

10.1 Pitot Tube. The Type S pitot tube assembly shall be calibrated according to the procedure outlined in Method 2, section 10.1, prior to the first certification test and checked semiannually, thereafter. A standard pitot need not be calibrated but shall be inspected and cleaned, if necessary, prior to each certification test.

10.2 Volume Metering System.

10.2.1 Initial and Periodic Calibration. Before its initial use and at least semiannually thereafter, calibrate the volume metering system as described in Method 5, section 10.3.1, except that the wet test meter with a capacity of 3.0 liters/rev (0.1 ft/rev) may be used. Other liquid displacement systems accurate to within +/-1 percent, may be used as calibration standards.

10.2.2 Calibration After Use. After each certification or audit test (four or more test runs conducted on a wood heater at the four burn rates specified in Method 28), check calibration of the metering system by performing three calibration runs at a single, intermediate flow rate as described in Method 5, section 10.3.2.
