
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,

8.8 Tracer Gas Procedure. Within 1 minute after closing the wood heater door at the start of the test run (as defined in Method 28, section 8.8.1), meter a known concentration of SOtracer gas at a constant flow rate into the wood heater stack. Monitor the SOconcentration in the stack, and record the SOconcentrations at 10-minute intervals or more often. Adjust the particulate sampling flow rate proportionally to the SOconcentration changes using Equation 5H-6 (the SOconcentration at the first 10-minute reading is measured to be 100 ppm; the next 10 minute SOconcentration is measured to be 75 ppm: the particulate sample flow rate is adjusted from the initial 0.15 cfm to 0.20 cfm). A check for proportional rate variation shall be made at the completion of the test run using Equation 5H-10.

8.9 Volumetric Flow Rate Procedure. Apply stoichiometric relationships to the wood combustion process in determining the exhaust gas flow rate as follows:

8.9.1 Test Fuel Charge Weight. Record the test fuel charge weight (wet) as specified in Method 28, section 8.8.2. The wood is assumed to have the following weight percent composition: 51 percent carbon, 7.3 percent hydrogen, 41 percent oxygen. Record the wood moisture for each fuel charge as described in Method 28, section 8.6.5. The ash is assumed to have negligible effect on associated C, H, and O concentrations after the test burn.
