
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

8.3.1 Sampling Location. The sampling location for the particulate sampling probe shall be 2.45 +/-0.15 m (8 +/-0.5 ft) above the platform upon which the wood heater is placed (the top of the scale).

8.3.2 Sampling Probe and Nozzle. Select a nozzle, if used, sized for the range of velocity heads, such that it is not necessary to change the nozzle size in order to maintain proportional sampling rates. During the run, do not change the nozzle size. Select a suitable probe liner and probe length to effect minimum blockage.

8.4 Preparation of Particulate Sampling Train. Same as Method 5, section 8.3, with the exception of the following:

8.4.1 The train should be assembled as shown in Figure 5H-1.

8.4.2 A glass cyclone may not be used between the probe and filter holder.

8.5 Leak-Check Procedures.

8.5.1 Leak-Check of Metering System Shown in Figure 5H-1. That portion of the sampling train from the pump to the orifice meter shall be leak-checked after each certification or audit test. Use the procedure described in Method 5, section 8.4.1.

8.5.2 Pretest Leak-Check. A pretest leak-check of the sampling train is recommended, but not required. If the pretest leak-check is conducted, the procedures outlined in Method 5, section 8.5.2 should be used. A vacuum of 130 mm Hg (5 in. Hg) may be used instead of 380 mm Hg (15 in. Hg).
