
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,

8.9.2 Measured Values. Record the CO and COconcentrations in the stack on a dry basis every 10 minutes during the test run or more often. Average these values for the test run. Use as a mole fraction (10 percent COis recorded as 0.10) in the calculations to express total flow (see Equation 5H-6).

8.10 Sampling Train Operation.

8.10.1 For each run, record the data required on a data sheet such as the one shown in Figure 5H-3. Be sure to record the initial dry gas meter reading. Record the dry gas meter readings at the beginning and end of each sampling time increment, when changes in flow rates are made, before and after each leak-check, and when sampling is halted. Take other readings as indicated on Figure 5H-3 at least once each 10 minutes during the test run.

8.10.2 Remove the nozzle cap, verify that the filter and probe heating systems are up to temperature, and that the probe is properly positioned. Position the nozzle, if used, facing into gas stream, or the probe tip in the 50 mm (2 in.) centroidal area of the stack.

8.10.3 Be careful not to bump the probe tip into the stack wall when removing or inserting the probe through the porthole; this minimizes the chance of extracting deposited material.

8.10.4 When the probe is in position, block off the openings around the probe and porthole to prevent unrepresentative dilution of the gas stream.

8.10.5 Begin sampling at the start of the test run as defined in Method 28, section 8.8.1, start the sample pump, and adjust the sample flow rate to between 0.003 and 0.014 m/min (0.1 and 0.5 cfm). Adjust the sample flow rate proportionally to the stack gas flow during the test run according to the procedures outlined in section 8. Maintain a proportional sampling rate (within 10 percent of the desired value) and a filter holder temperature no greater than 120 &#xB0;C (248 &#xB0;F).

8.10.6 During the test run, make periodic adjustments to keep the temperature around the filter holder at the proper level. Add more ice to the impinger box and, if necessary, salt to maintain a temperature of less than 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F) at the condenser/silica gel outlet.

8.10.7 If the pressure drop across the filter becomes too high, making proportional sampling difficult to maintain, either filter may be replaced during a sample run. It is recommended that another complete filter assembly be used rather than attempting to change the filter itself. Before a new filter assembly is installed, conduct a leak-check (see section 8.5.2). The total particulate weight shall include the summation of all filter assembly catches. The total time for changing sample train components shall not exceed 10 minutes. No more than one component change is allowed for any test run.

8.10.8 At the end of the test run, turn off the coarse adjust valve, remove the probe and nozzle from the stack, turn off the pump, record the final dry gas meter reading, and conduct a post-test leak-check, as outlined in section 8.5.3.

8.11 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, section 8.7, with the exception of the following:

8.11.1 Blanks. The volume of the acetone blank may be about 50-ml, rather than 200-ml; a 200-ml water blank shall also be saved for analysis.

8.11.2 Samples.

8.11.2.1 Container Nos. 1 and 1A. Treat the two filters according to the procedures outlined in Method 5, section 8.7.6.1. The filters may be stored either in a single container or in separate containers.

8.11.2.2 Container No. 2. Same as Method 5, section 8.7.6.2, except that the container should not be sealed until the impinger rinse solution is added (see section 8.10.2.4).

8.11.2.3 Container No. 3. Treat the impingers as follows: Measure the liquid which is in the first three impingers to within 1-ml by using a graduated cylinder or by weighing it to within 0.5 g by using a balance (if one is available). Record the volume or weight of liquid present. This information is required to calculate the moisture content of the effluent gas. Transfer the water from the first, second, and third impingers to a glass container. Tighten the lid on the sample container so that water will not leak out.

8.11.2.4 Rinse impingers and graduated cylinder, if used, with acetone three times or more. Avoid direct contact between the acetone and any stopcock grease or collection of any stopcock grease in the rinse solutions. Add these rinse solutions to sample Container No. 2.

8.11.2.5 Container No. 4. Same as Method 5, section 8.7.6.3

8.12 Sample Transport. Whenever possible, containers should be transferred in such a way that they remain upright at all times.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. Same as Method 5, section 9.2.

10.1 Volume Metering System, Temperature Sensors, Barometer, and Analytical Balance. Same as Method 5G, sections 10.2 through 10.5, respectively.

10.2 SOInjection Rotameter. Calibrate the SOinjection rotameter system with a soap film flowmeter or similar direct volume measuring device with an accuracy of 2 percent. Operate the rotameter at a single reading for at least three calibration runs for 10 minutes each. When three consecutive calibration flow rates agree within 5 percent, average the three flow rates, mark the rotameter at the calibrated setting, and use the calibration flow rate as the SOinjection flow rate during the test run. Repeat the rotameter calibration before the first certification test and semiannually thereafter.

10.3. Gas Analyzers. Same as Method 6C, section 10.0.

10.4 Field Balance Calibration Check. Check the calibration of the balance used to weigh impingers with a weight that is at least 500g or within 50g of a loaded impinger. The weight must be ASTM E617-13 "Standard Specification for Laboratory Weights and Precision Mass Standards" (incorporated by reference-see 40 CFR 60.17) Class 6 (or better). Daily before use, the field balance must measure the weight within +/- 0.5g of the certified mass. If the daily balance calibration check fails, perform corrective measures and repeat the check before using balance.

10.5 Analytical Balance Calibration. Perform a multipoint calibration (at least five points spanning the operational range) of the analytical balance before the first use, and semiannually thereafter. The calibration of the analytical balance must be conducted using ASTM E617-13 "Standard Specification for Laboratory Weights and Precision Mass Standards" (incorporated by reference-see 40 CFR 60.17) Class 2 (or better) tolerance weights. Audit the balance each day it is used for gravimetric measurements by weighing at least one ASTM E617-13 Class 2 tolerance (or better) calibration weight that corresponds to 50 to 150 percent of the weight of one filter or between 1g and 5g. If the scale cannot reproduce the value of the calibration weight to within 0.5 mg of the certified mass, perform corrective measures, and conduct the multipoint calibration before use.

11.1 Record the data required on a sheet such as the one shown in Figure 5H-4.

11.2 Handle each sample container as follows:

11.2.1 Container Nos. 1 and 1A. Treat the two filters according to the procedures outlined in Method 5, section 11.2.1.

11.2.2 Container No. 2. Same as Method 5, section 11.2.2, except that the beaker may be smaller than 250-ml.

11.2.3 Container No. 3. Note the level of liquid in the container and confirm on the analysis sheet whether leakage occurred during transport. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, either void the sample or use methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to correct the final results. Determination of sample leakage is not applicable if sample recovery and analysis occur in the same room. Measure the liquid in this container either volumetrically to within 1-ml or gravimetrically to within 0.5 g. Transfer the contents to a 500-ml or larger separatory funnel. Rinse the container with water, and add to the separatory funnel. Add 25-ml of dichloromethane to the separatory funnel, stopper and vigorously shake 1 minute, let separate and transfer the dichloromethane (lower layer) into a tared beaker or evaporating dish. Repeat twice more. It is necessary to rinse Container No. 3 with dichloromethane. This rinse is added to the impinger extract container. Transfer the remaining water from the separatory funnel to a tared beaker or evaporating dish and evaporate to dryness at 104 &#xB0;C (220 &#xB0;F). Desiccate and weigh to a constant weight. Evaporate the combined impinger water extracts at ambient temperature and pressure. Desiccate and weigh to a constant weight. Report both results to the nearest 0.1 mg.

11.2.4 Container No. 4. Weigh the spent silica gel (or silica gel plus impinger) to the nearest 0.5 g using a balance.

11.2.5 Acetone Blank Container. Same as Method 5, section 11.2.4, except that the beaker may be smaller than 250 ml.

11.2.6 Dichloromethane Blank Container. Treat the same as the acetone blank.

11.2.7 Water Blank Container. Transfer the water to a tared 250 ml beaker and evaporate to dryness at 104 &#xB0;C (220 &#xB0;F). Desiccate and weigh to a constant weight.

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after the final calculation. Other forms of the equations may be used as long as they give equivalent results.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Average Dry Gas Meter Temperature and Average Orifice Pressure Drop. See data sheet (Figure 5H-3).

12.3 Dry Gas Volume. Same as Method 5, section 12.3.

12.4 Volume of Water Vapor.

12.5 Moisture Content.

12.6 Solvent Wash Blank.

12.7 Total Particulate Weight. Determine the total particulate catch from the sum of the weights obtained from containers 1, 2, 3, and 4 less the appropriate solvent blanks (see Figure 5H-4).

12.8 Particulate Concentration.

12.9 Sample Flow Rate Adjustment.

12.10 Carbon Balance for Total Moles of Exhaust Gas (dry)/kg of Wood Burned in the Exhaust Gas.

12.11 Total Stack Gas Flow Rate.

12.12 Particulate Emission Rate.

12.13 Proportional Rate Variation. Calculate PR for each 10-minute interval, i, of the test run.

12.14 Acceptable Results. If no more than 15 percent of the PR values for all the intervals fall outside the range 90 percent &#x2264;PR &#x2264;110 percent, and if no PR value for any interval falls outside the range 75 &#x2264;PR &#x2264;125 percent, the results are acceptable. If the PR values for the test runs are judged to be unacceptable, report the test run emission results, but do not include the test run results in calculating the weighted average emission rate, and repeat the test.

12.15 Alternative Tracer Gas Flow Rate Determination.

16.1 Alternative Stack Gas Volumetric Flow Rate Determination (Tracer Gas).

16.1.1 Apparatus.

16.1.1.1 Tracer Gas Injector System. This is to inject a known concentration of tracer gas into the stack. This system consists of a cylinder of tracer gas, a gas cylinder regulator, a stainless steel needle valve or a flow controller, a nonreactive (stainless steel or glass) rotameter, and an injection loop to disperse the tracer gas evenly in the stack.

16.1.1.2 Tracer Gas Probe. A glass or stainless steel sampling probe.

16.1.1.3 Gas Conditioning System. A gas conditioning system is suitable for delivering a cleaned sample to the analyzer consisting of a filter to remove particulate and a condenser capable of lowering the dew point of the sample gas to less than 5 &#xB0;C (40 &#xB0;F). A desiccant such as anhydrous calcium sulfate may be used to dry the sample gas. Desiccants which react or absorb tracer gas or stack gas may not be used, e.g. silica gel absorbs CO.
