
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

6.1.3.3 Pump. An inert (Teflon or stainless steel heads) sampling pump capable of delivering more than the total amount of sample required in the manufacturer's instructions for the individual instruments. A means of controlling the analyzer flow rate and a device for determining proper sample flow rate (precision rotameter, pressure gauge downstream of all flow controls) shall be provided at the analyzer. The requirements for measuring and controlling the analyzer flow rate are not applicable if data are presented that demonstrate that the analyzer is insensitive to flow variations over the range encountered during the test.

6.1.3.4 Carbon Monoxide (CO) Analyzer. Any analyzer capable of providing a measure of CO in the range of 0 to 10 percent by volume at least once every 10 minutes.

6.1.3.5 Carbon Dioxide (CO) Analyzer. Any analyzer capable of providing a measure of COin the range of 0 to 25 percent by volume at least once every 10 minutes.

6.1.3.6 Manifold. A sampling tube capable of delivering the sample gas to two analyzers and handling an excess of the total amount used by the analyzers. The excess gas is exhausted through a separate port.

6.1.3.7 Recorders (optional). To provide a permanent record of the analyzer outputs.

6.1.4 Proportional Gas Flow Rate System. To monitor stack flow rate changes and provide a measurement that can be used to adjust and maintain particulate sampling flow rates proportional to the stack gas flow rate. A schematic of the proportional flow rate system is shown in Figure 5H-2 and consists of the following components:

6.1.4.1 Tracer Gas Injection System. To inject a known concentration of sulfur dioxide (SO) into the flue. The tracer gas injection system consists of a cylinder of SO, a gas cylinder regulator, a stainless steel needle valve or flow controller, a nonreactive (stainless steel and glass) rotameter, and an injection loop to disperse the SOevenly in the flue.

6.1.4.2 Sample Probe. A glass or stainless steel sampling probe.

6.1.4.3 Gas Conditioning System. A combustor as described in Method 16A, sections 6.1.5 and 6.1.6, followed by a high density filter to remove particulate matter, and a condenser capable of lowering the dew point of the gas to less than 5 &#xB0;C (40 &#xB0;F). Desiccant, such as Drierite, may be used to dry the sample gas. Do not use silica gel.

6.1.4.4 Pump. Same as described in section 6.1.3.3.

6.1.4.5 SOAnalyzer. Any analyzer capable of providing a measure of the SOconcentration in the range of 0 to 1,000 ppm by volume (or other range necessary to measure the SOconcentration) at least once every 10 minutes.

6.1.4.6 Recorder (optional). To provide a permanent record of the analyzer outputs.

6.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, section 6.2.

6.3 Sample Analysis. Same as Method 5, section 6.3, with the addition of the following:

6.3.1 Separatory Funnel. Glass or Teflon, 500-ml or greater.

7.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 5, section 7.1, including deionized distilled water.

7.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, section 7.2.

7.3 Sample Analysis. The following reagents and standards are required for sample analysis:

7.3.1 Acetone. Same as Method 5 section 7.2.

7.3.2 Dichloromethane (Methylene Chloride). Reagent grade, <0.001 percent residue in glass bottles.

7.3.3 Desiccant. Anhydrous calcium sulfate, calcium chloride, or silica gel, indicating type.

7.3.4 Cylinder Gases. For the purposes of this procedure, span value is defined as the upper limit of the range specified for each analyzer as described in section 6.1.3.4 or 6.1.3.5. If an analyzer with a range different from that specified in this method is used, the span value shall be equal to the upper limit of the range for the analyzer used (see note in section 6.1.3.5).

7.3.4.1 Calibration Gases. The calibration gases for the CO, CO, and SOanalyzers shall be COin nitrogen (N), CO in N, and SOin N, respectively. COand CO calibration gases may be combined in a single cylinder. Use three calibration gases as specified in Method 6C, sections 7.2.1 through 7.2.3.

7.3.4.2 SOInjection Gas. A known concentration of SOin N. The concentration must be at least 2 percent SOwith a maximum of 100 percent SO.

8.1 Pretest Preparation. Same as Method 5, section 8.1.

8.2 Calibration Gas and SOInjection Gas Concentration Verification, Sampling System Bias Check, Response Time Test, and Zero and Calibration Drift Tests. Same as Method 6C, sections 8.2.1, 8.2.3, 8.2.4, and 8.5, respectively, except that for verification of CO and COgas concentrations, substitute Method 3 for Method 6.

8.3 Preliminary Determinations.
