
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

8.1.2 Filter Weighing Procedures. a. Desiccate the entire filter holder assemblies at 20 +/-5.6 &#xB0;C (68 +/-10 &#xB0;F) and ambient pressure for at least 24 hours. Weigh at intervals of at least 6 hours to a constant weight,0.5 mg change from previous weighing. Record the results to the nearest 0.1 mg. During each weighing, the filter holder assemblies must not be exposed to the laboratory atmosphere for a period greater than 2 minutes and a relative humidity above 50 percent. Lower relative humidity may be required in order to improve analytical precision. However, low humidity conditions increase static charge to the sample media.

b. Alternatively (unless otherwise specified by the Administrator), the filters holder assemblies may be oven dried at 105 &#xB0;C (220 &#xB0;F) for a minimum of 2 hours, desiccated for 2 hours, and weighed. The procedure used for the tare weigh must also be used for the final weight determination.

c. Experience has shown that weighing uncertainties are not only related to the balance performance but to the entire weighing procedure. Therefore, before performing any measurement, establish and follow standard operating procedures, taking into account the sampling equipment and filters to be used.

8.2 Preliminary Determinations. Select the sampling site, traverse points, probe nozzle, and probe length as specified in Method 5.

8.3 Preparation of Sampling Train. Same as Method 5, section 8.3, with the following exception: During preparation and assembly of the sampling train, keep all openings where contamination can occur covered until justbefore assembly or until sampling is about to begin. Using gloves, place a labeled (identified) and weighed filter holder assembly into the stainless steel holder. Then place this whole unit in the Method 5 hot box, and attach it to the probe. Do not use stopcock grease.

8.4 Leak-Check Procedures. Same as Method 5.

8.5 Sampling Train Operation.

8.5.1. Operation. Operate the sampling train in a manner consistent with those described in Methods 1, 2, 4 and 5 in terms of the number of sample points and minimum time per point. The sample rate and total gas volume should be adjusted based on estimated grain loading of the source being characterized. The total sampling time must be a function of the estimated mass of particulate to be collected for the run. Targeted mass to be collected in a typical Method 5I sample train should be on the order of 10 to 20 mg. Method 5I is most appropriate for total collected masses of less than 50 milligrams, however, there is not an exact particulate loading cutoff, and it is likely that some runs may exceed 50 mg. Exceeding 50 mg (or less than 10 mg) for the sample mass does not necessarily justify invalidating a sample run if all other Method criteria are met.

8.5.2 Paired Train. This Method requires PM samples be collected with paired trains.

8.5.2.1 It is important that the systems be operated truly simultaneously. This implies that both sample systems start and stop at the same times. This also means that if one sample system is stopped during the run, the other sample systems must also be stopped until the cause has been corrected.

8.5.2.2 Care should be taken to maintain the filter box temperature of the paired trains as close as possible to the Method required temperature of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F). If separate ovens are being used for simultaneously operated trains, it is recommended that the oven temperature of each train be maintained within +/-14 &#xB0;C (+/-25 &#xB0;F) of each other.

8.5.2.3 The nozzles for paired trains need not be identically sized.

8.5.2.4 Co-located sample nozzles must be within the same plane perpendicular to the gas flow. Co-located nozzles and pitot assemblies should be within a 6.0 cm x 6.0 cm square (as cited for a quadruple train in Reference Method 301).

8.5.3 Duplicate gas samples for molecular weight determination need not be collected.

8.6 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5 with several exceptions specific to the filter housing.

8.6.1 Before moving the sampling train to the cleanup site, remove the probe from the train and seal the nozzle inlet and outlet of the probe. Be careful not to lose any condensate that might be present. Cap the filter inlet using a standard ground glass plug and secure the cap with an impinger clamp. Remove the umbilical cord from the last impinger and cap the impinger. If a flexible line is used between the first impinger condenser and the filter holder, disconnect the line at the filter holder and let any condensed water or liquid drain into the impingers or condenser.

8.6.2 Transfer the probe and filter-impinger assembly to the cleanup area. This area must be clean and protected from the wind so that the possibility of losing any of the sample will be minimized.

8.6.3 Inspect the train prior to and during disassembly and note any abnormal conditions such as particulate color, filter loading, impinger liquid color, etc.

8.6.4 Container No. 1, Filter Assembly. Carefully remove the cooled filter holder assembly from the Method 5 hot box and place it in the transport case. Use a pair of clean gloves to handle the filter holder assembly.

8.6.5 Container No. 2, Probe Nozzle and Probe Liner Rinse. Rinse the probe and nozzle components with acetone. Be certain that the probe and nozzle brushes have been thoroughly rinsed prior to use as they can be a source of contamination.

8.6.6 All Other Train Components. (Impingers) Same as Method 5.

8.7 Sample Storage and Transport. Whenever possible, containers should be shipped in such a way that they remain upright at all times. All appropriate dangerous goods shipping requirements must be observed since acetone is a flammable liquid.

9.1 Miscellaneous Field Quality Control Measures.

9.1.1 A quality control (QC) check of the volume metering system at the field site is suggested before collecting the sample using the procedures in Method 5, section 4.4.1.

9.1.2 All other quality control checks outlined in Methods 1, 2, 4 and 5 also apply to Method 5I. This includes procedures such as leak-checks, equipment calibration checks, and independent checks of field data sheets for reasonableness and completeness.

9.2 Quality Control Samples.

9.2.1 Required QC Sample. A laboratory reagent blank must be collected and analyzed for each lot of acetone used for a field program to confirm that it is of suitable purity. The particulate samples cannot be blank corrected.

9.2.2 Recommended QC Samples. These samples may be collected and archived for future analyses.

9.2.2.1 A field reagent blank is a recommended QC sample collected from a portion of the acetone used for cleanup of the probe and nozzle. Take 100 ml of this acetone directly from the wash bottle being used and place it in a glass sample container labeled "field acetone reagent blank." At least one field reagent blank is recommended for every five runs completed. The field reagent blank samples demonstrate the purity of the acetone was maintained throughout the program.

9.2.2.2 A field bias blank train is a recommended QC sample. This sample is collected by recovering a probe and filter assembly that has been assembled, taken to the sample location, leak checked, heated, allowed to sit at the sample location for a similar duration of time as a regular sample run, leak-checked again, and then recovered in the same manner as a regular sample. Field bias blanks are not a Method requirement, however, they are recommended and are very useful for identifying sources of contamination in emission testing samples. Field bias blank train results greater than 5 times the method detection limit may be considered problematic.

10.1 Field Balance Calibration Check. Check the calibration of the balance used to weigh impingers with a weight that is at least 500g or within 50g of a loaded impinger. The weight must be ASTM E617-13 "Standard Specification for Laboratory Weights and Precision Mass Standards" (incorporated by reference-see 40 CFR 60.17) Class 6 (or better). Daily, before use, the field balance must measure the weight within +/-0.5g of the certified mass. If the daily balance calibration check fails, perform corrective measures and repeat the check before using balance.

10.2 Analytical Balance Calibration. Perform a multipoint calibration (at least five points spanning the operational range) of the analytical balance before the first use, and semiannually thereafter. The calibration of the analytical balance must be conducted using ASTM E617-13 "Standard Specification for Laboratory Weights and Precision Mass Standards" (incorporated by reference-see 40 CFR 60.17) Class 2 (or better) tolerance weights. Audit the balance each day it is used for gravimetric measurements by weighing at least one ASTM E617-13 Class 2 tolerance (or better) calibration weight that corresponds to 50 to 150 percent of the weight of one filter or between 1g and 5g. If the scale cannot reproduce the value of the calibration weight to within 0.5 mg of the certified mass, perform corrective measures and conduct the multipoint calibration before use.

11.1 Analysis. Same as Method 5, sections 11.1-11.2.4, with the following exceptions:

11.1.1 Container No. 1. Same as Method 5, section 11.2.1, with the following exception: Use disposable gloves to remove each of the filter holder assemblies from the desiccator, transport container, or sample oven (after appropriate cooling).

11.1.2 Container No. 2. Same as Method 5, section 11.2.2, with the following exception: It is recommended that the contents of Container No. 2 be transferred to a 250 ml beaker with a Teflon liner or similar container that has a minimal tare weight before bringing to dryness.

12.1 Particulate Emissions. The analytical results cannot be blank corrected for residual acetone found in any of the blanks. All other sample calculations are identical to Method 5.

12.2 Paired Trains Outliers. a. Outliers are identified through the determination of precision and any systemic bias of the paired trains. Data that do not meet this criteria should be flagged as a data quality problem. The primary reason for performing dual train sampling is to generate information to quantify the precision of the Reference Method data. The relative standard deviation (RSD) of paired data is the parameter used to quantify data precision. RSD for two simultaneously gathered data points is determined according to:

b. A minimum precision criteria for Reference Method PM data is that RSD for any data pair must be less than 10% as long as the mean PM concentration is greater than 10 mg/dscm. If the mean PM concentration is less than 10 mg/dscm higher RSD values are acceptable. At mean PM concentration of 1 mg/dscm acceptable RSD for paired trains is 25%. Between 1 and 10 mg/dscm acceptable RSD criteria should be linearly scaled from 25% to 10%. Pairs of manual method data exceeding these RSD criteria should be eliminated from the data set used to develop a PM CEMS correlation or to assess RCA. If the mean PM concentration is less than 1 mg/dscm, RSD does not apply and the mean result is acceptable.

16. Alternative Procedures. Same as Method 5.

17. Bibliography. Same as Method 5.

18. Tables, Diagrams, Flowcharts and Validation Data. Figure 5I-1 is a schematic of the sample train.
