
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### e.g.,

8.5.2 Leak-Checks During Sample Run. If, during the sampling run, a component (filter assembly or impinger) change becomes necessary, conduct a leak-check as described in Method 5, section 8.4.3.

8.5.3 Post-Test Leak-Check. A leak-check is mandatory at the conclusion of each sampling run. The leak-check shall be performed in accordance with the procedures outlined in Method 5, section 8.4.4, except that a vacuum of 130 mm Hg (5 in. Hg) or the greatest vacuum measured during the test run, whichever is greater, may be used instead of 380 mm Hg (15 in. Hg).

8.6 Tracer Gas Procedure. A schematic of the tracer gas injection and sampling systems is shown in Figure 5H-2.

8.6.1 SOInjection Probe. Install the SOinjection probe and dispersion loop in the stack at a location 2.9 +/-0.15 m (9.5 +/-0.5 ft) above the sampling platform.

8.6.2 SOSampling Probe. Install the SOsampling probe at the centroid of the stack at a location 4.1 +/-0.15 m (13.5 +/-0.5 ft) above the sampling platform.

8.7 Flow Rate Measurement System. A schematic of the flow rate measurement system is shown in Figure 5H-2. Locate the flow rate measurement sampling probe at the centroid of the stack at a location 2.3 +/-0.3 m (7.5 +/-1 ft) above the sampling platform.
