
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.

16.1.1.4 Pump. An inert (, stainless steel or Teflon head) pump to deliver more than the total sample required by the manufacturer's specifications for the analyzer used to measure the downstream tracer gas concentration.

16.1.1.5 Gas Analyzer. A gas analyzer is any analyzer capable of measuring the tracer gas concentration in the range necessary at least every 10 minutes. A means of controlling the analyzer flow rate and a device for determining proper sample flow rate shall be provided unless data is provided to show that the analyzer is insensitive to flow variations over the range encountered during the test. The gas analyzer needs to meet or exceed the following performance specifications:

16.1.1.6 Recorder (optional). To provide a permanent record of the analyzer output.

16.1.2 Reagents.

16.1.2.1 Tracer Gas. The tracer gas is sulfur hexafluoride in an appropriate concentration for accurate analyzer measurement or pure sulfur dioxide. The gas used must be nonreactive with the stack effluent and give minimal (<3 percent) interference to measurement by the gas analyzer.

16.1.3 Procedure. Select upstream and downstream locations in the stack or duct for introducing the tracer gas and delivering the sampled gas to the analyzer. The inlet location should be 8 or more duct diameters beyond any upstream flow disturbance. The outlet should be 8 or more undisturbed duct diameters from the inlet and 2 or more duct diameters from the duct exit. After installing the apparatus, meter a known concentration of the tracer gas into the stack at the inlet location. Use the gas sample probe and analyzer to show that no stratification of the tracer gas is found in the stack at the measurement locations. Monitor the tracer gas concentration from the outlet location and record the concentration at 10-minute intervals or more often at the option of the tester. A minimum of three measured intervals is recommended to determine the stack gas volumetric flow rate. Other statistical procedures may be applied for complete flow characterization and additional QA/QC.

Same as Method 5G, section 17.0.

1.1 Analyte. Particulate matter (PM). No CAS number assigned.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of low level particulate matter (PM) emissions from stationary sources. The method is most effective for total PM catches of 50 mg or less. This method was initially developed for performing correlation of manual PM measurements to PM continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS), however it is also useful for other low particulate concentration applications.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods. Method 5I requires the use of paired trains. Acceptance criteria for the identification of data quality outliers from the paired trains are provided in section 12.2 of this Method.

2.1. Description. The system setup and operation is essentially identical to Method 5. Particulate is withdrawn isokinetically from the source and collected on a 47 mm glass fiber filter maintained at a temperature of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F). The PM mass is determined by gravimetric analysis after the removal of uncombined water. Specific measures in this procedure designed to improve system performance at low particulate levels include:

2.2 Paired Trains. This method must be performed using a paired train configuration. These trains may be operated as co-located trains (to trains operating collecting from one port) or as simultaneous trains (separate trains operating from different ports at the same time). Procedures for calculating precision of the paired trains are provided in section 12.

2.3 Detection Limit. a. Typical detection limit for manual particulate testing is 0.5 mg. This mass is also cited as the accepted weight variability limit in determination of "constant weight" as cited in section 8.1.2 of this Method. EPA has performed studies to provide guidance on minimum PM catch. The minimum detection limit (MDL) is the minimum concentration or amount of an analyte that can be determined with a specified degree of confidence to be different from zero. We have defined the minimum or target catch as a concentration or amount sufficiently larger than the MDL to ensure that the results are reliable and repeatable. The particulate matter catch is the product of the average particulate matter concentration on a mass per volume basis and the volume of gas collected by the sample train. The tester can generally control the volume of gas collected by increasing the sampling time or to a lesser extent by increasing the rate at which sample is collected. If the tester has a reasonable estimate of the PM concentration from the source, the tester can ensure that the target catch is collected by sampling the appropriate gas volume.

b. However, if the source has a very low particulate matter concentration in the stack, the volume of gas sampled may need to be very large which leads to unacceptably long sampling times. When determining compliance with an emission limit, EPA guidance has been that the tester does not always have to collect the target catch. Instead, we have suggested that the tester sample enough stack gas, that if the source were exactly at the level of the emission standard, the sample catch would equal the target catch. Thus, if at the end of the test the catch were smaller than the target, we could still conclude that the source is in compliance though we might not know the exact emission level. This volume of gas becomes a target volume that can be translated into a target sampling time by assuming an average sampling rate. Because the MDL forms the basis for our guidance on target sampling times, EPA has conducted a systematic laboratory study to define what is the MDL for Method 5 and determined the Method to have a calculated practical quantitation limit (PQL) of 3 mg of PM and an MDL of 1 mg.

c. Based on these results, the EPA has concluded that for PM testing, the target catch must be no less than 3 mg. Those sample catches between 1 mg and 3 mg are between the detection limit and the limit of quantitation. If a tester uses the target catch to estimate a target sampling time that results in sample catches that are less than 3 mg, you should not automatically reject the results. If the tester calculated the target sampling time as described above by assuming that the source was at the level of the emission limit, the results would still be valid for determining that the source was in compliance. For purposes other than determining compliance, results should be divided into two categories-those that fall between 3 mg and 1 mg and those that are below 1 mg. A sample catch between 1 and 3 mg may be used for such purposes as calculating emission rates with the understanding that the resulting emission rates can have a high degree of uncertainty. Results of less than 1 mg should not be used for calculating emission rates or pollutant concentrations.

d. When collecting small catches such as 3 mg, bias becomes an important issue. Source testers must use extreme caution to reach the PQL of 3 mg by assuring that sampling probes are very clean (perhaps confirmed by low blank weights) before use in the field. They should also use low tare weight sample containers, and establish a well-controlled balance room to weigh the samples.
