
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-3 to Part 60 - Test Methods 4 through 5I
###### i.e.,

10.2.3 Acceptable Variation in Calibration. If the dry gas meter coefficient values obtained before and after a certification test differ by more than 5 percent, the certification test shall either be voided and repeated, or calculations for the certification test shall be performed using whichever meter coefficient value (before or after) gives the lower value of total sample volume.

10.3 Temperature Sensors. Use the procedure in Method 2, section 10.3, to calibrate temperature sensors before the first certification or audit test and at least semiannually, thereafter.

10.4 Barometer. Calibrate against a mercury barometer before the first certification test and at least semiannually, thereafter. If a mercury barometer is used, no calibration is necessary. Follow the manufacturer's instructions for operation.

10.5 Analytical Balance. Perform a multipoint calibration (at least five points spanning the operational range) of the analytical balance before the first certification test and semiannually, thereafter. Before each certification test, audit the balance by weighing at least one calibration weight (class F) that corresponds to 50 to 150 percent of the weight of one filter. If the scale cannot reproduce the value of the calibration weight to within 0.1 mg, conduct the multipoint calibration before use.

11.1 Record the data required on a sheet such as the one shown in Figure 5G-4. Use the same analytical balance for determining tare weights and final sample weights.

11.2 Handle each sample container as follows:

11.2.1 Container Nos. 1 and 1A. Treat the two filters according to the procedures outlined in Method 5, section 11.2.1.

11.2.2 Container No. 2. Same as Method 5, section 11.2.2, except that the beaker may be smaller than 250 ml.

11.2.3 Acetone Blank Container. Same as Method 5, section 11.2.4, except that the beaker may be smaller than 250 ml.

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after the final calculation. Other forms of the equations may be used as long as they give equivalent results.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Dry Gas Volume. Same as Method 5, section 12.2, except that component changes are not allowable.

12.3 Solvent Wash Blank.

12.4 Total Particulate Weight. Determine the total particulate catch, mn, from the sum of the weights obtained from Container Nos. 1, 1A, and 2, less the acetone blank (see Figure 5G-4).

12.5 Particulate Concentration.

12.6 Particulate Emission Rate.

12.7 Proportional Rate Variation. Calculate PR for each 10-minute interval, i, of the test run.

Alternate calculation procedures for proportional rate variation may be used if other sample flow rate data (e.g., orifice flow meters or rotameters) are monitored to maintain proportional sampling rates. The proportional rate variations shall be calculated for each 10-minute interval by comparing the stack to nozzle velocity ratio for each 10-minute interval to the average stack to nozzle velocity ratio for the test run. Proportional rate variation may be calculated for intervals shorter than 10 minutes with appropriate revisions to Equation 5G-5. If no more than 10 percent of the PR values for all the intervals exceed 90 percent &#x2264;PR &#x2264;110 percent, and if no PR value for any interval exceeds 80 percent &#x2264;PR &#x2264;120 percent, the results are acceptable. If the PR values for the test run are judged to be unacceptable, report the test run emission results, but do not include the results in calculating the weighted average emission rate, and repeat the test run.

16.1 Method 5H Sampling Train. The sampling train and sample collection, recovery, and analysis procedures described in Method 5H, sections 6.1.1, 7.1, 7.2, 8.1, 8.10, 8.11, and 11.0, respectively, may be used in lieu of similar sections in Method 5G. Operation of the Method 5H sampling train in the dilution tunnel is as described in section 8.10 of this method. Filter temperatures and condenser conditions are as described in Method 5H. No adjustment to the measured particulate matter emission rate (Equation 5G-4, section 12.6) is to be applied to the particulate emission rate measured by this alternative method.

16.2 Dual Sampling Trains. Two sampling trains may be operated simultaneously at sample flow rates other than that specified in section 8.10, provided that the following specifications are met.

16.2.1 Sampling Train. The sampling train configuration shall be the same as specified in section 6.1.1, except the probe, filter, and filter holder need not be the same sizes as specified in the applicable sections. Filter holders of plastic materials such as Nalgene or polycarbonate materials may be used (the Gelman 1119 filter holder has been found suitable for this purpose). With such materials, it is recommended that solvents not be used in sample recovery. The filter face velocity shall not exceed 150 mm/sec (30 ft/min) during the test run. The dry gas meter shall be calibrated for the same flow rate range as encountered during the test runs. Two separate, complete sampling trains are required for each test run.

16.2.2 Probe Location. Locate the two probes in the dilution tunnel at the same level (see section 6.1.4.3). Two sample ports are necessary. Locate the probe inlets within the 50 mm (2 in.) diameter centroidal area of the dilution tunnel no closer than 25 mm (1 in.) apart.

16.2.3 Sampling Train Operation. Operate the sampling trains as specified in section 8.10, maintaining proportional sampling rates and starting and stopping the two sampling trains simultaneously. The pitot values as described in section 8.5.2 shall be used to adjust sampling rates in both sampling trains.

16.2.4 Recovery and Analysis of Sample. Recover and analyze the samples from the two sampling trains separately, as specified in sections 8.12 and 11.0, respectively.

16.2.4.1 For this alternative procedure, the probe and filter holder assembly may be weighed without sample recovery (use no solvents) described above in order to determine the sample weight gains. For this approach, weigh the clean, dry probe and filter holder assembly upstream of the front filter (without filters) to the nearest 0.1 mg to establish the tare weights. The filter holder section between the front and second filter need not be weighed. At the end of the test run, carefully clean the outside of the probe, cap the ends, and identify the sample (label). Remove the filters from the filter holder assemblies as described for container Nos. 1 and 1A in section 8.12.2.1. Reassemble the filter holder assembly, cap the ends, identify the sample (label), and transfer all the samples to the laboratory weighing area for final weighing. Requirements for capping and transport of sample containers are not applicable if sample recovery and analysis occur in the same room.

16.2.4.2 For this alternative procedure, filters may be weighed directly without a petri dish. If the probe and filter holder assembly are to be weighed to determine the sample weight, rinse the probe with acetone to remove moisture before desiccating prior to the test run. Following the test run, transport the probe and filter holder to the desiccator, and uncap the openings of the probe and the filter holder assembly. Desiccate for 24 hours and weigh to a constant weight. Report the results to the nearest 0.1 mg.

16.2.5 Calculations. Calculate an emission rate (Section 12.6) for the sample from each sampling train separately and determine the average emission rate for the two values. The two emission rates shall not differ by more than 7.5 percent from the average emission rate, or 7.5 percent of the weighted average emission rate limit in the applicable subpart of the regulations, whichever is greater. If this specification is not met, the results are unacceptable. Report the results, but do not include the results in calculating the weighted average emission rate. Repeat the test run until acceptable results are achieved, report the average emission rate for the acceptable test run, and use the average in calculating the weighted average emission rate.

Same as Method 5, section 17.0, References 1 through 11, with the addition of the following:

1. Oregon Department of Environmental Quality. Standard Method for Measuring the Emissions and Efficiencies of Woodstoves. June 8, 1984. Pursuant to Oregon Administrative Rules Chapter 340, Division 21.

2. American Society for Testing and Materials. Proposed Test Methods for Heating Performance and Emissions of Residential Wood-fired Closed Combustion-Chamber Heating Appliances. E-6 Proposal P 180. August 1986.

1.1 Analyte. Particulate matter (PM). No CAS number assigned.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of PM and condensible emissions from wood heaters.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 Particulate matter is withdrawn proportionally from the wood heater exhaust and is collected on two glass fiber filters separated by impingers immersed in an ice water bath. The first filter is maintained at a temperature of no greater than 120 &#xB0;C (248 &#xB0;F). The second filter and the impinger system are cooled such that the temperature of the gas exiting the second filter is no greater than 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F). The particulate mass collected in the probe, on the filters, and in the impingers is determined gravimetrically after the removal of uncombined water.

Same as in Method 6C, section 3.0.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

6.1 Sample Collection. The following items are required for sample collection:

6.1.1 Sampling Train. The sampling train configuration is shown in Figure 5H-1. Same as Method 5, section 6.1.1, with the exception of the following:

6.1.1.1 Probe Nozzle. The nozzle is optional; a straight sampling probe without a nozzle is an acceptable alternative.

6.1.1.2 Probe Liner. Same as Method 5, section 6.1.1.2, except that the maximum length of the sample probe shall be 0.6 m (2 ft) and probe heating is optional.

6.1.1.3 Filter Holders. Two each of borosilicate glass, with a glass frit or stainless steel filter support and a silicone rubber, Teflon, or Viton gasket. The holder design shall provide a positive seal against leakage from the outside or around the filter. The front filter holder shall be attached immediately at the outlet of the probe and prior to the first impinger. The second filter holder shall be attached on the outlet of the third impinger and prior to the inlet of the fourth (silica gel) impinger.

6.1.2 Barometer. Same as Method 5, section 6.2.

6.1.3 Stack Gas Flow Rate Measurement System. A schematic of an example test system is shown in Figure 5H-2. The flow rate measurement system consists of the following components:

6.1.3.1 Sample Probe. A glass or stainless steel sampling probe.

6.1.3.2 Gas Conditioning System. A high density filter to remove particulate matter and a condenser capable of lowering the dew point of the gas to less than 5 &#xB0;C (40 &#xB0;F). Desiccant, such as Drierite, may be used to dry the sample gas. Do not use silica gel.
