
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### i.e.

16.2.3.3 Critical Orifice Calibration. At the sampling location, prior to testing, calibrate the entire sampling train (, determine the flow rate of the sampling train when operated at critical conditions). Attach a 500-ml soap bubble meter to the inlet of the probe, and operate the sampling train at an outlet vacuum of 25 to 50 mm Hg (1 to 2 in. Hg) above the critical vacuum. Record the information listed in Figure 6-4. Calculate the standard volume of air measured by the soap bubble meter and the volumetric flow rate using the equations below:

16.2.3.4 Sampling.

16.2.3.4.1 Operate the sampling train for sample collection at the same vacuum used during the calibration run. Start the watch and pump simultaneously. Take readings (temperature, rate meter, inlet vacuum, and outlet vacuum) at least every 5 minutes. At the end of the sampling run, stop the watch and pump simultaneously.

16.2.3.4.2 Conduct a post-test calibration run using the calibration procedure outlined in section 16.2.3.3. If the Qobtained before and after the test differ by more than 5 percent, void the test run; if not, calculate the volume of the gas measured with the critical orifice using Equation 6-6 as follows:

16.2.3.4.3 If the percent difference between the molecular weight of the ambient air at saturated conditions and the sample gas is more that +/-3 percent, then the molecular weight of the gas sample must be considered in the calculations using the following equation:

16.2.3.4.4 Drain the ice bath, and purge the sampling train using the procedure described in section 8.3.4.

16.3 Elimination of Ammonia Interference. The following alternative procedures must be used in addition to those specified in the method when sampling at sources having ammonia emissions.

16.3.1 Sampling. The probe shall be maintained at 275 &#xB0;C (527 &#xB0;F) and equipped with a high-efficiency in-stack filter (glass fiber) to remove particulate matter. The filter material shall be unreactive to SO. Whatman 934AH (formerly Reeve Angel 934AH) filters treated as described in Reference 10 in section 17.0 of Method 5 is an example of a filter that has been shown to work. Where alkaline particulate matter and condensed moisture are present in the gas stream, the filter shall be heated above the moisture dew point but below 225 &#xB0;C (437 &#xB0;F).

16.3.2 Sample Recovery. Recover the sample according to section 8.4 except for discarding the contents of the midget bubbler. Add the bubbler contents, including the rinsings of the bubbler with water, to a separate polyethylene bottle from the rest of the sample. Under normal testing conditions where sulfur trioxide will not be present significantly, the tester may opt to delete the midget bubbler from the sampling train. If an approximation of the sulfur trioxide concentration is desired, transfer the contents of the midget bubbler to a separate polyethylene bottle.

16.3.3 Sample Analysis. Follow the procedures in sections 11.1 and 11.2, except add 0.5 ml of 0.1 N HCl to the Erlenmeyer flask and mix before adding the indicator. The following analysis procedure may be used for an approximation of the sulfur trioxide concentration. The accuracy of the calculated concentration will depend upon the ammonia to SOratio and the level of oxygen present in the gas stream. A fraction of the SOwill be counted as sulfur trioxide as the ammonia to SOratio and the sample oxygen content increases. Generally, when this ratio is 1 or less and the oxygen content is in the range of 5 percent, less than 10 percent of the SOwill be counted as sulfur trioxide. Analyze the peroxide and isopropanol sample portions separately. Analyze the peroxide portion as described above. Sulfur trioxide is determined by difference using sequential titration of the isopropanol portion of the sample. Transfer the contents of the isopropanol storage container to a 100-ml volumetric flask, and dilute to exactly 100 ml with water. Pipette a 20-ml aliquot of this solution into a 250-ml Erlenmeyer flask, add 0.5 ml of 0.1 N HCl, 80 ml of 100 percent isopropanol, and two to four drops of thorin indicator. Titrate to a pink endpoint using 0.0100 N barium perchlorate. Repeat and average the titration volumes that agree within 1 percent or 0.2 ml, whichever is larger. Use this volume in Equation 6-2 to determine the sulfur trioxide concentration. From the flask containing the remainder of the isopropanol sample, determine the fraction of SOcollected in the bubbler by pipetting 20-ml aliquots into 250-ml Erlenmeyer flasks. Add 5 ml of 3 percent HO, 100 ml of 100 percent isopropanol, and two to four drips of thorin indicator, and titrate as before. From this titration volume, subtract the titrant volume determined for sulfur trioxide, and add the titrant volume determined for the peroxide portion. This final volume constitutes V, the volume of barium perchlorate used for the SOsample.

1. Atmospheric Emissions from Sulfuric Acid Manufacturing Processes. U.S. DHEW, PHS, Division of Air Pollution. Public Health Service Publication No. 999-AP-13. Cincinnati, OH. 1965.
