
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### e.g.,

8.2.1 Temporarily attach a suitable (0- to 40- ml/min) rotameter to the outlet of the DGM, and place a vacuum gauge at or near the probe inlet. Plug the probe inlet, pull a vacuum of at least 250 mm Hg (10 in. Hg), and note the flow rate as indicated by the rotameter. A leakage rate in excess of 2 percent of the average sampling rate is not acceptable.

8.2.2 It is suggested (not mandatory) that the pump be leak-checked separately, either prior to or after the sampling run. To leak-check the pump, proceed as follows: Disconnect the drying tube from the probe-impinger assembly. Place a vacuum gauge at the inlet to either the drying tube or the pump, pull a vacuum of 250 mm Hg (10 in. Hg), plug or pinch off the outlet of the flow meter, and then turn off the pump. The vacuum should remain stable for at least 30 seconds.

If performed prior to the sampling run, the pump leak-check shall precede the leak-check of the sampling train described immediately above; if performed after the sampling run, the pump leak-check shall follow the sampling train leak-check.

8.2.3 Other leak-check procedures may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

8.3 Sample Collection.

8.3.1 Record the initial DGM reading and barometric pressure. To begin sampling, position the tip of the probe at the sampling point, connect the probe to the bubbler, and start the pump. Adjust the sample flow to a constant rate of approximately 1.0 liter/min as indicated by the rate meter. Maintain this constant rate (+/-10 percent) during the entire sampling run.

8.3.2 Take readings (DGM volume, temperatures at DGM and at impinger outlet, and rate meter flow rate) at least every 5 minutes. Add more ice during the run to keep the temperature of the gases leaving the last impinger at 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F) or less.

8.3.3 At the conclusion of each run, turn off the pump, remove the probe from the stack, and record the final readings. Conduct a leak-check as described in section 8.2. (This leak-check is mandatory.) If a leak is detected, void the test run or use procedures acceptable to the Administrator to adjust the sample volume for the leakage.

8.3.4 Drain the ice bath, and purge the remaining part of the train by drawing clean ambient air through the system for 15 minutes at the sampling rate. Clean ambient air can be provided by passing air through a charcoal filter or through an extra midget impinger containing 15 ml of 3 percent HO. Alternatively, ambient air without purification may be used.

8.4 Sample Recovery. Disconnect the impingers after purging. Discard the contents of the midget bubbler. Pour the contents of the midget impingers into a leak-free polyethylene bottle for shipment. Rinse the three midget impingers and the connecting tubes with water, and add the rinse to the same storage container. Mark the fluid level. Seal and identify the sample container.

10.1 Volume Metering System.

10.1.1 Initial Calibration.

10.1.1.1 Before its initial use in the field, leak-check the metering system (drying tube, needle valve, pump, rate meter, and DGM) as follows: Place a vacuum gauge at the inlet to the drying tube and pull a vacuum of 250 mm Hg (10 in. Hg). Plug or pinch off the outlet of the flow meter, and then turn off the pump. The vacuum must remain stable for at least 30 seconds. Carefully release the vacuum gauge before releasing the flow meter end.
