
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### i.e.,,i.e.,

4.2 Water-Soluble Cations and Fluorides. The cations and fluorides are removed by a glass wool filter and an isopropanol bubbler; therefore, they do not affect the SOanalysis. When samples are collected from a gas stream with high concentrations of metallic fumes (very fine cation aerosols) a high-efficiency glass fiber filter must be used in place of the glass wool plug (the one in the probe) to remove the cation interferent.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations before performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burns as thermal burns.

5.2.1 Hydrogen Peroxide (HO). Irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs. 30% HOis a strong oxidizing agent. Avoid contact with skin, eyes, and combustible material. Wear gloves when handling.

5.2.2 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). Causes severe damage to eyes and skin. Inhalation causes irritation to nose, throat, and lungs. Reacts exothermically with limited amounts of water.

5.2.3 Sulfuric Acid (HSO). Rapidly destructive to body tissue. Will cause third degree burns. Eye damage may result in blindness. Inhalation may be fatal from spasm of the larynx, usually within 30 minutes. May cause lung tissue damage with edema. 1 mg/mfor 8 hours will cause lung damage or, in higher concentrations, death. Provide ventilation to limit inhalation. Reacts violently with metals and organics.

6.1 Sample Collection. The following items are required for sample collection:

6.1.1 Sampling Train. A schematic of the sampling train is shown in Figure 6-1. The sampling equipment described in Method 8 may be substituted in place of the midget impinger equipment of Method 6. However, the Method 8 train must be modified to include a heated filter between the probe and isopropanol impinger, and the operation of the sampling train and sample analysis must be at the flow rates and solution volumes defined in Method 8. Alternatively, SOmay be determined simultaneously with particulate matter and moisture determinations by either (1) replacing the water in a Method 5 impinger system with a 3 percent HOsolution, or (2) replacing the Method 5 water impinger system with a Method 8 isopropanol-filter-HOsystem. The analysis for SOmust be consistent with the procedure of Method 8. The Method 6 sampling train consists of the following components:

6.1.1.1 Probe. Borosilicate glass or stainless steel (other materials of construction may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator), approximately 6 mm (0.25 in.) inside diameter, with a heating system to prevent water condensation and a filter (either in-stack or heated out-of-stack) to remove particulate matter, including sulfuric acid mist. A plug of glass wool is a satisfactory filter.

6.1.1.2 Bubbler and Impingers. One midget bubbler with medium-coarse glass frit and borosilicate or quartz glass wool packed in top (see Figure 6-1) to prevent sulfuric acid mist carryover, and three 30-ml midget impingers. The midget bubbler and midget impingers must be connected in series with leak-free glass connectors. Silicone grease may be used, if necessary, to prevent leakage. A midget impinger may be used in place of the midget bubbler.

6.1.1.3 Glass Wool. Borosilicate or quartz.

6.1.1.4 Stopcock Grease. Acetone-insoluble, heat-stable silicone grease may be used, if necessary.

6.1.1.5 Temperature Sensor. Dial thermometer, or equivalent, to measure temperature of gas leaving impinger train to within 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F).

6.1.1.6 Drying Tube. Tube packed with 6- to 16- mesh indicating-type silica gel, or equivalent, to dry the gas sample and to protect the meter and pump. If silica gel is previously used, dry at 177 &#xB0;C (350 &#xB0;F) for 2 hours. New silica gel may be used as received. Alternatively, other types of desiccants (equivalent or better) may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

6.1.1.7 Valve. Needle valve, to regulate sample gas flow rate.

6.1.1.8 Pump. Leak-free diaphragm pump, or equivalent, to pull gas through the train. Install a small surge tank between the pump and rate meter to negate the pulsation effect of the diaphragm pump on the rate meter.

6.1.1.9 Rate Meter. Rotameter, or equivalent, capable of measuring flow rate to within 2 percent of the selected flow rate of about 1 liter/min (0.035 cfm).

6.1.1.10 Volume Meter. Dry gas meter (DGM), sufficiently accurate to measure the sample volume to within 2 percent, calibrated at the selected flow rate and conditions actually encountered during sampling, and equipped with a temperature sensor (dial thermometer, or equivalent) capable of measuring temperature accurately to within 3 &#xB0;C (5.4 &#xB0;F). A critical orifice may be used in place of the DGM specified in this section provided that it is selected, calibrated, and used as specified in section 16.0.

6.1.2 Barometer. Mercury, aneroid, or other barometer capable of measuring atmospheric pressure to within 2.5 mm Hg (0.1 in. Hg). See the note in Method 5, section 6.1.2.

6.1.3 Vacuum Gauge and Rotameter. At least 760-mm Hg (30-in. Hg) gauge and 0- to 40-ml/min rotameter, to be used for leak-check of the sampling train.

6.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are needed for sample recovery:

6.2.1 Wash Bottles. Two polyethylene or glass bottles, 500-ml.

6.2.2 Storage Bottles. Polyethylene bottles, 100-ml, to store impinger samples (one per sample).

6.3 Sample Analysis. The following equipment is needed for sample analysis:

6.3.1 Pipettes. Volumetric type, 5-ml, 20-ml (one needed per sample), and 25-ml sizes.

6.3.2 Volumetric Flasks. 100-ml size (one per sample) and 1000-ml size.

6.3.3 Burettes. 5- and 50-ml sizes.

6.3.4 Erlenmeyer Flasks. 250-ml size (one for each sample, blank, and standard).

6.3.5 Dropping Bottle. 125-ml size, to add indicator.

6.3.6 Graduated Cylinder. 100-ml size.

6.3.7 Spectrophotometer. To measure absorbance at 352 nm.

7.1 Sample Collection. The following reagents are required for sample collection:

7.1.1 Water. Deionized distilled to conform to ASTM Specification D 1193-77 or 91 Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17). The KMnOtest for oxidizable organic matter may be omitted when high concentrations of organic matter are not expected to be present.

7.1.2 Isopropanol, 80 Percent by Volume. Mix 80 ml of isopropanol with 20 ml of water.

7.1.2.1 Check each lot of isopropanol for peroxide impurities as follows: Shake 10 ml of isopropanol with 10 ml of freshly prepared 10 percent potassium iodide solution. Prepare a blank by similarly treating 10 ml of water. After 1 minute, read the absorbance at 352 nm on a spectrophotometer using a 1-cm path length. If absorbance exceeds 0.1, reject alcohol for use.

7.1.2.2 Peroxides may be removed from isopropanol by redistilling or by passage through a column of activated alumina; however, reagent grade isopropanol with suitably low peroxide levels may be obtained from commercial sources. Rejection of contaminated lots may, therefore, be a more efficient procedure.

7.1.3 Hydrogen Peroxide (HO), 3 Percent by Volume. Add 10 ml of 30 percent HOto 90 ml of water. Prepare fresh daily.

7.1.4 Potassium Iodide Solution, 10 Percent Weight by Volume (w/v). Dissolve 10.0 g of KI in water, and dilute to 100 ml. Prepare when needed.

7.2 Sample Recovery. The following reagents are required for sample recovery:

7.2.1 Water. Same as in section 7.1.1.

7.2.2 Isopropanol, 80 Percent by Volume. Same as in section 7.1.2.

7.3 Sample Analysis. The following reagents and standards are required for sample analysis:

7.3.1 Water. Same as in section 7.1.1.

7.3.2 Isopropanol, 100 Percent.

7.3.3 Thorin Indicator. 1-(o-arsonophenylazo)-2-naphthol-3,6-disulfonic acid, disodium salt, or equivalent. Dissolve 0.20 g in 100 ml of water.

7.3.4 Barium Standard Solution, 0.0100 N. Dissolve 1.95 g of barium perchlorate trihydrate [Ba(ClO)3HO] in 200 ml water, and dilute to 1 liter with isopropanol. Alternatively, 1.22 g of barium chloride dihydrate [BaCl2HO] may be used instead of the barium perchlorate trihydrate. Standardize as in section 10.5.

7.3.5 Sulfuric Acid Standard, 0.0100 N. Purchase or standardize to +/-0.0002 N against 0.0100 N NaOH which has previously been standardized against potassium acid phthalate (primary standard grade).

8.1 Preparation of Sampling Train. Measure 15 ml of 80 percent isopropanol into the midget bubbler and 15 ml of 3 percent HOinto each of the first two midget impingers. Leave the final midget impinger dry. Assemble the train as shown in Figure 6-1. Adjust the probe heater to a temperature sufficient to prevent water condensation. Place crushed ice and water around the impingers.

8.2 Sampling Train Leak-Check Procedure. A leak-check prior to the sampling run is recommended, but not required. A leak-check after the sampling run is mandatory. The leak-check procedure is as follows:
