
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### e.g.,

10.1.1.2 Remove the drying tube, and calibrate the metering system (at the sampling flow rate specified by the method) as follows: Connect an appropriately sized wet-test meter (1 liter per revolution) to the inlet of the needle valve. Make three independent calibration runs, using at least five revolutions of the DGM per run. Calculate the calibration factor Y (wet-test meter calibration volume divided by the DGM volume, both volumes adjusted to the same reference temperature and pressure) for each run, and average the results (Y). If any Y-value deviates by more than 2 percent from (Y), the metering system is unacceptable for use. If the metering system is acceptable, use (Y) as the calibration factor for subsequent test runs.

10.1.2 Post-Test Calibration Check. After each field test series, conduct a calibration check using the procedures outlined in section 10.1.1.2, except that three or more revolutions of the DGM may be used, and only two independent runs need be made. If the average of the two post-test calibration factors does not deviate by more than 5 percent from Y, then Yis accepted as the DGM calibration factor (Y), which is used in Equation 6-1 to calculate collected sample volume (see section 12.2). If the deviation is more than 5 percent, recalibrate the metering system as in section 10.1.1, and determine a post-test calibration factor (Y). Compare Yand Y; the smaller of the two factors is accepted as the DGM calibration factor. If recalibration indicates that the metering system is unacceptable for use, either void the test run or use methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to determine an acceptable value for the collected sample volume.

10.1.3 DGM as a Calibration Standard. A DGM may be used as a calibration standard for volume measurements in place of the wet-test meter specified in section 10.1.1.2, provided that it is calibrated initially and recalibrated periodically according to the same procedures outlined in Method 5, section 10.3 with the following exceptions: (a) the DGM is calibrated against a wet-test meter having a capacity of 1 liter/rev (0.035 ft/rev) or 3 liters/rev (0.1 ft/rev) and having the capability of measuring volume to within 1 percent; (b) the DGM is calibrated at 1 liter/min (0.035 cfm); and (c) the meter box of the Method 6 sampling train is calibrated at the same flow rate.

10.2 Temperature Sensors. Calibrate against mercury-in-glass thermometers. An alternative mercury-free thermometer may be used if the thermometer is, at a minimum, equivalent in terms of performance or suitably effective for the specific temperature measurement application.

10.3 Rate Meter. The rate meter need not be calibrated, but should be cleaned and maintained according to the manufacturer's instructions.

10.4 Barometer. Calibrate against a mercury barometer or NIST-traceable barometer prior to the field test.

10.5 Barium Standard Solution. Standardize the barium perchlorate or chloride solution against 25 ml of standard sulfuric acid to which 100 ml of 100 percent isopropanol has been added. Run duplicate analyses. Calculate the normality using the average of duplicate analyses where the titrations agree within 1 percent or 0.2 ml, whichever is larger.

11.1 Sample Loss Check. Note level of liquid in container and confirm whether any sample was lost during shipment; note this finding on the analytical data sheet. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, either void the sample or use methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to correct the final results.

11.2 Sample Analysis.

11.2.1 Transfer the contents of the storage container to a 100-ml volumetric flask, dilute to exactly 100 ml with water, and mix the diluted sample.

11.2.2 Pipette a 20-ml aliquot of the diluted sample into a 250-ml Erlenmeyer flask and add 80 ml of 100 percent isopropanol plus two to four drops of thorin indicator. While stirring the solution, titrate to a pink endpoint using 0.0100 N barium standard solution.

11.2.3 Repeat the procedures in section 11.2.2, and average the titration volumes. Run a blank with each series of samples. Replicate titrations must agree within 1 percent or 0.2 ml, whichever is larger.

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after final calculation.

12.2 Dry Sample Gas Volume, Corrected to Standard Conditions.

12.3 SOConcentration.

13.1 Range. The minimum detectable limit of the method has been determined to be 3.4 mg SO/m(2.12 x 10lb/ft). Although no upper limit has been established, tests have shown that concentrations as high as 80,000 mg/m(0.005 lb/ft) of SOcan be collected efficiently at a rate of 1.0 liter/min (0.035 cfm) for 20 minutes in two midget impingers, each containing 15 ml of 3 percent HO. Based on theoretical calculations, the upper concentration limit in a 20 liter (0.7 ft) sample is about 93,300 mg/m(0.00583 lb/ft).

16.1 Nomenclature. Same as section 12.1, with the following additions:

V= Volume of gas as measured by the soap bubble meter, corrected to standard conditions, scm (scf).

16.2 Critical Orifices for Volume and Rate Measurements. A critical orifice may be used in place of the DGM specified in section 6.1.1.10, provided that it is selected, calibrated, and used as follows:

16.2.1 Preparation of Sampling Train. Assemble the sampling train as shown in Figure 6-2. The rate meter and surge tank are optional but are recommended in order to detect changes in the flow rate.

16.2.2 Selection of Critical Orifices.
