
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### e.g.,

6.3 Stainless steel sampling probes, type 316, are not recommended for use with Method 6B because of potential sample contamination due to corrosion. Glass probes or other types of stainless steel,Hasteloy or Carpenter 20, are recommended for long-term use.

Same as Method 6A, section 7.0, with the following exceptions:

7.1 Isopropanol is not used for sampling.

7.2 The hydrogen peroxide absorbing solution shall be diluted to no less than 6 percent by volume, instead of 3 percent as specified in Methods 6 and 6A.

7.3 If the Method 6B sampling train is to be operated in a low sample flow condition (less than 100 ml/min or 0.21 ft/hr), molecular sieve material may be substituted for Ascarite II as the COabsorbing material. The recommended molecular sieve material is Union Carbideinch pellets, 5 A&#xB0;, or equivalent. Molecular sieve material need not be discarded following the sampling run, provided that it is regenerated as per the manufacturer's instruction. Use of molecular sieve material at flow rates higher than 100 ml/min (0.21 ft/hr) may cause erroneous COresults.

8.1 Preparation of Sampling Train. Same as Method 6A, section 8.1, with the addition of the following:

8.1.1 The sampling train is assembled as shown in Figure 6A-1 of Method 6A, except that the isopropanol bubbler is not included.

8.1.2 Adjust the timer-switch to operate in the "on" position from 2 to 4 minutes on a 2-hour repeating cycle or other cycle specified in the applicable regulation. Other timer sequences may be used with the restriction that the total sample volume collected is between 25 and 60 liters (0.9 and 2.1 ft) for the amounts of sampling reagents prescribed in this method.

8.1.3 Add cold water to the tank until the impingers and bubblers are covered at least two-thirds of their length. The impingers and bubbler tank must be covered and protected from intense heat and direct sunlight. If freezing conditions exist, the impinger solution and the water bath must be protected.

8.2 Sampling Train Leak-Check Procedure. Same as Method 6, section 8.2.

8.3 Sample Collection.

8.3.1 The probe and filter (either in-stack, out-of-stack, or both) must be heated to a temperature sufficient to prevent water condensation.
