
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 3

1. Stanley, Jon and P.R. Westlin. An Alternate Method for Stack Gas Moisture Determination. Source Evaluation Society Newsletter.(4). November 1978.

2. Whittle, Richard N. and P.R. Westlin. Air Pollution Test Report: Development and Evaluation of an Intermittent Integrated SO/COEmission Sampling Procedure. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Standard and Engineering Division, Emission Measurement Branch. Research Triangle Park, NC. December 1979. 14 pp.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of SOemissions from combustion sources in terms of concentration (ng/dscm or lb/dscf) and emission rate (ng/J or lb/10Btu), and for the determination of COconcentration (percent) on a daily (24 hours) basis.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A gas sample is extracted from the sampling point in the stack intermittently over a 24-hour or other specified time period. The SOfraction is measured by the barium-thorin titration method. Moisture and COfractions are collected in the same sampling train, and are determined gravimetrically.

Same as Method 6, section 4.0.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. Same as Method 6, section 5.2.

Same as Method 6A, section 6.0, with the following exceptions and additions:

6.1 The isopropanol bubbler is not used. An empty bubbler for the collection of liquid droplets, that does not allow direct contact between the collected liquid and the gas sample, may be included in the sampling train.

6.2 For intermittent operation, include an industrial timer-switch designed to operate in the "on" position at least 2 minutes continuously and "off" the remaining period over a repeating cycle. The cycle of operation is designated in the applicable regulation. At a minimum, the sampling operation should include at least 12, equal, evenly-spaced periods per 24 hours.
