
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### i.e.,

6.1.1.2 COAbsorber. A sealable rigid cylinder or bottle with an inside diameter between 30 and 90 mm , a length between 125 and 250 mm, and appropriate connections at both ends. The filter may be a separate heated unit or may be within the heated portion of the probe. If the filter is within the sampling probe, the filter should not be within 15 cm of the probe inlet or any unheated section of the probe, such as the connection to the first bubbler. The probe and filter should be heated to at least 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F) above the source temperature, but not greater than 120 &#xB0;C (248 &#xB0;F). The filter temperature (the sample gas temperature) should be monitored to assure the desired temperature is maintained. A heated Teflon connector may be used to connect the filter holder or probe to the first impinger.

6.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 6, section 6.2.

6.3 Sample Analysis. Same as Method 6, section 6.3, with the addition of a balance to measure within 0.05 g.

7.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 6, section 7.1, with the addition of the following:

7.1.1 Drierite. Anhydrous calcium sulfate (CaSO) desiccant, 8 mesh, indicating type is recommended.

7.1.2 COAbsorbing Material. Ascarite II. Sodium hydroxide-coated silica, 8- to 20-mesh.

7.2 Sample Recovery and Analysis. Same as Method 6, sections 7.2 and 7.3, respectively.

8.1 Preparation of Sampling Train.

8.1.1 Measure 15 ml of 80 percent isopropanol into the first midget bubbler and 15 ml of 3 percent hydrogen peroxide into each of the two midget impingers (the second and third vessels in the train) as described in Method 6, section 8.1. Insert the glass wool into the top of the isopropanol bubbler as shown in Figure 6A-1. Place about 25 g of Drierite into the second midget bubbler (the fourth vessel in the train). Clean the outside of the bubblers and impingers and allow the vessels to reach room temperature. Weigh the four vessels simultaneously to the nearest 0.1 g, and record this initial weight (m).

8.1.2 With one end of the COabsorber sealed, place glass wool into the cylinder to a depth of about 1 cm (0.5 in.). Place about 150 g of COabsorbing material in the cylinder on top of the glass wool, and fill the remaining space in the cylinder with glass wool. Assemble the cylinder as shown in figure 6A-2. With the cylinder in a horizontal position, rotate it around the horizontal axis. The COabsorbing material should remain in position during the rotation, and no open spaces or channels should be formed. If necessary, pack more glass wool into the cylinder to make the COabsorbing material stable. Clean the outside of the cylinder of loose dirt and moisture and allow the cylinder to reach room temperature. Weigh the cylinder to the nearest 0.1 g, and record this initial weight (m).
