
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 10

12. Shigehara, R.T., and C.B. Sorrell. Using Critical Orifices as Method 5 CalibrationStandards. Source Evaluation Society Newsletter.:4-15. August 1985.

13. Curtis, F., Analysis of Method 6 Samples in the Presence of Ammonia. Source Evaluation Society Newsletter. 13(1):9-15 February 1988.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of sulfur dioxide (SO) emissions from fossil fuel combustion sources in terms of concentration (mg/dscm or lb/dscf) and in terms of emission rate (ng/J or lb/10Btu) and for the determination of carbon dioxide (CO) concentration (percent). Moisture content (percent), if desired, may also be determined by this method.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A gas sample is extracted from a sampling point in the stack. The SOand the sulfur trioxide, including those fractions in any sulfur acid mist, are separated. The SOfraction is measured by the barium-thorin titration method. Moisture and COfractions are collected in the same sampling train, and are determined gravimetrically.

Same as Method 6, section 4.0.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive reagents. Same as Method 6, section 5.2.

6.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 6, section 6.1, with the exception of the following:

6.1.1 Sampling Train. A schematic of the sampling train used in this method is shown in Figure 6A-1.
