
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### i.e.,

8.3.2 Record the initial dry gas meter reading. To begin sampling, position the tip of the probe at the sampling point, connect the probe to the first impinger (or filter), and start the timer and the sample pump. Adjust the sample flow to a constant rate of approximately 1.0 liter/min (0.035 cfm) as indicated by the rotameter. Observe the operation of the timer, and determine that it is operating as intended (the timer is in the "on" position for the desired period, and the cycle repeats as required).

8.3.3 One time between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. during the 24-hour sampling period, record the dry gas meter temperature (T) and the barometric pressure (P).

8.3.4 At the conclusion of the run, turn off the timer and the sample pump, remove the probe from the stack, and record the final gas meter volume reading. Conduct a leak-check as described in section 8.2. If a leak is found, void the test run or use procedures acceptable to the Administrator to adjust the sample volume for leakage. Repeat the steps in sections 8.3.1 to 8.3.4 for successive runs.

8.4 Sample Recovery. The procedures for sample recovery (moisture measurement, peroxide solution, and COabsorber) are the same as those in Method 6A, section 8.3.

Same as Method 6, section 9.0., with the exception of the isopropanol-check.

Same as Method 6, section 10.0, with the addition of the following:

10.1 Periodic Calibration Check. After 30 days of operation of the test train, conduct a calibration check according to the same procedures as the post-test calibration check (Method 6, section 10.1.2). If the deviation between initial and periodic calibration factors exceeds 5 percent, use the smaller of the two factors in calculations for the preceding 30 days of data, but use the most recent calibration factor for succeeding test runs.

11.1 Sample Loss Check and Analysis. Same as Method 6, sections 11.1 and 11.2, respectively.

Same as Method 6A, section 12.0, except that Pand Tcorrespond to the values recorded in section 8.3.3 of this method. The values are as follows:

13.1 Range.

13.1.1 Sulfur Dioxide. Same as Method 6.

13.1.2 Carbon Dioxide. Not determined.

13.2 Repeatability and Reproducibility. EPA-sponsored collaborative studies were undertaken to determine the magnitude of repeatability and reproducibility achievable by qualified testers following the procedures in this method. The results of the studies evolve from 145 field tests including comparisons with Methods 3 and 6. For measurements of emission rates from wet, flue gas desulfurization units in (ng/J), the repeatability (intra-laboratory precision) is 8.0 percent and the reproducibility (inter-laboratory precision) is 11.1 percent.

Same as Method 6A, section 16.0, except that the timer is needed and is operated as outlined in this method.

Same as Method 6A, section 17.0, with the addition of the following:

1. Butler, Frank E., et. al. The Collaborative Test of Method 6B: Twenty-Four-Hour Analysis of SOand CO. JAPCA. Vol. 33, No. 10. October 1983.

Method 6C is a procedure for measuring sulfur dioxide (SO) in stationary source emissions using a continuous instrumental analyzer. Quality assurance and quality control requirements are included to assure that you, the tester, collect data of known quality. You must document your adherence to these specific requirements for equipment, supplies, sample collection and analysis, calculations, and data analysis.

This method does not completely describe all equipment, supplies, and sampling and analytical procedures you will need but refers to other methods for some of the details. Therefore, to obtain reliable results, you should also have a thorough knowledge of these additional test methods which are found in appendix A to this part:

(a) Method 1-Sample and Velocity Traverses for Stationary Sources.

(b) Method 4-Determination of Moisture Content in Stack Gases.

(c) Method 6-Determination of Sulfur Dioxide Emissions from Stationary Sources.

(d) Method 7E-Determination of Nitrogen Oxides Emissions from Stationary Sources (Instrumental Analyzer Procedure).
