
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### e.g.,

8.1.3 Assemble the train as shown in figure 6A-1. Adjust the probe heater to a temperature sufficient to prevent condensation (see note in section 6.1). Place crushed ice and water around the impingers and bubblers. Mount the COabsorber outside the water bath in a vertical flow position with the sample gas inlet at the bottom. Flexible tubing (Tygon) may be used to connect the last SOabsorbing impinger to the moisture absorber and to connect the moisture absorber to the COabsorber. A second, smaller COabsorber containing Ascarite II may be added in-line downstream of the primary COabsorber as a breakthrough indicator. Ascarite II turns white when COis absorbed.

8.2 Sampling Train Leak-Check Procedure and Sample Collection. Same as Method 6, sections 8.2 and 8.3, respectively.

8.3 Sample Recovery.

8.3.1 Moisture Measurement. Disconnect the isopropanol bubbler, the SOimpingers, and the moisture absorber from the sample train. Allow about 10 minutes for them to reach room temperature, clean the outside of loose dirt and moisture, and weigh them simultaneously in the same manner as in section 8.1. Record this final weight (m).

8.3.2 Peroxide Solution. Discard the contents of the isopropanol bubbler and pour the contents of the midget impingers into a leak-free polyethylene bottle for shipping. Rinse the two midget impingers and connecting tubes with water, and add the washing to the same storage container.

8.3.3 COAbsorber. Allow the COabsorber to warm to room temperature (about 10 minutes), clean the outside of loose dirt and moisture, and weigh to the nearest 0.1 g in the same manner as in section 8.1. Record this final weight (m). Discard used Ascarite II material.

Same as Method 6, section 9.0.

Same as Method 6, section 10.0.

11.1 Sample Analysis. The sample analysis procedure for SOis the same as that specified in Method 6, section 11.0.

Same as Method 6, section 12.0, with the addition of the following:

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 COVolume Collected, Corrected to Standard Conditions.

12.3 Moisture Volume Collected, Corrected to Standard Conditions.

12.4 SOConcentration.

12.5 COConcentration.

12.6 Moisture Concentration.

13.1 Range and Precision. The minimum detectable limit and the upper limit for the measurement of SOare the same as for Method 6. For a 20-liter sample, this method has a precision of +/-0.5 percent COfor concentrations between 2.5 and 25 percent COand +/-1.0 percent moisture for moisture concentrations greater than 5 percent.

If the only emission measurement desired is in terms of emission rate of SO(ng/J or lb/10Btu), an abbreviated procedure may be used. The differences between the above procedure and the abbreviated procedure are described below.

16.1 Sampling Train. The sampling train is the same as that shown in Figure 6A-1 and as described in section 6.1, except that the dry gas meter is not needed.

16.2 Preparation of the Sampling Train. Follow the same procedure as in section 8.1, except do not weigh the isopropanol bubbler, the SOabsorbing impingers, or the moisture absorber.

16.3 Sampling Train Leak-Check Procedure and Sample Collection. Leak-check and operate the sampling train as described in section 8.2, except that dry gas meter readings, barometric pressure, and dry gas meter temperatures need not be recorded during sampling.

16.4 Sample Recovery. Follow the procedure in section 8.3, except do not weigh the isopropanol bubbler, the SOabsorbing impingers, or the moisture absorber.

16.5 Sample Analysis. Analysis of the peroxide solution is the same as that described in section 11.1.

16.6 Calculations.

16.6.1 SOCollected.

16.6.2 Sulfur Dioxide Emission Rate.

Same as Method 6, section 17.0, References 1 through 8, with the addition of the following:
