
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### i.e.,

10.1.2 Ion Chromatograph Calibration Quality Control. If any point on the calibration curve deviates from the line by more than 7 percent of the concentration at that point, remake and reanalyze that standard. This deviation can be determined by multiplying S times the peak height response for each standard. The resultant concentrations must not differ by more than 7 percent from each known standard mass (25, 50, 100, 150, and 250 µg).

10.2 Conductivity Detector. Calibrate according to manufacturer's specifications prior to initial use.

10.3 Barometer. Calibrate against a mercury barometer.

10.4 Temperature Gauge. Calibrate dial thermometers against mercury-in-glass thermometers. An alternative mercury-free thermometer may be used if the thermometer is, at a minimum, equivalent in terms of performance or suitably effective for the specific temperature measurement application.

10.5 Vacuum Gauge. Calibrate mechanical gauges, if used, against a mercury manometer such as that specified in section 6.1.6 of Method 7.

10.6 Analytical Balance. Calibrate against standard weights.

11.1 Sample Preparation.

11.1.1 Note on the analytical data sheet, the level of the liquid in the container, and whether any sample was lost during shipment. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, either void the sample or use methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to correct the final results. Immediately before analysis, transfer the contents of the shipping container to a 50-ml volumetric flask, and rinse the container twice with 5 ml portions of water. Add the rinse water to the flask, and dilute to the mark with water. Mix thoroughly.

11.1.2 Pipet a 5-ml aliquot of the sample into a 50-ml volumetric flask, and dilute to the mark with water. Mix thoroughly. For each set of determinations, prepare a reagent blank by diluting 5 ml of absorbing solution to 50 ml with water. (Alternatively, eluent solution may be used instead of water in all sample, standard, and blank dilutions.)

11.2 Analysis.

11.2.1 Prepare a standard calibration curve according to section 10.1.1. Analyze the set of standards followed by the set of samples using the same injection volume for both standards and samples. Repeat this analysis sequence followed by a final analysis of the standard set. Average the results. The two sample values must agree within 5 percent of their mean for the analysis to be valid. Perform this duplicate analysis sequence on the same day. Dilute any sample and the blank with equal volumes of water if the concentration exceeds that of the highest standard.

11.2.2 Document each sample chromatogram by listing the following analytical parameters: injection point, injection volume, nitrate and sulfate retention times, flow rate, detector sensitivity setting, and recorder chart speed.

Carry out the calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after final calculations.

12.1 Sample Volume. Calculate the sample volume Vsc (in ml), on a dry basis, corrected to standard conditions, using Equation 7-2 of Method 7.

12.2 Sample Concentration of NOas NO.

12.2.1 Calculate the sample concentration C (in mg/dscm) as follows:

12.2.2 If desired, the concentration of NOmay be calculated as ppm NOat standard conditions as follows:

13.1 Range. The analytical range of the method is from 125 to 1250 mg NO/mas NO(65 to 655 ppmv), and higher concentrations may be analyzed by diluting the sample. The lower detection limit is approximately 19 mg/m(10 ppmv), but may vary among instruments.

1. Mulik, J.D., and E. Sawicki. Ion Chromatographic Analysis of Environmental Pollutants. Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor Science Publishers, Inc. Vol. 2, 1979.

2. Sawicki, E., J.D. Mulik, and E. Wittgenstein. Ion Chromatographic Analysis of Environmental Pollutants. Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor Science Publishers, Inc. Vol. 1. 1978.
