
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 16.1 Alternative Interference Check.

You may perform an alternative interference check consisting of at least three comparison runs between Method 6C and Method 6. This check validates the Method 6C results at each particular source category (type of facility) where the check is performed. When testing under conditions of low concentrations (<15 ppm), this alternative interference check is not allowed.

a. Build the modified Method 6 sampling train (flow control valve, two midget impingers containing 3 percent hydrogen peroxide, and dry gas meter) shown in Figure 6C-1. Connect the sampling train to the sample bypass discharge vent. Record the dry gas meter reading before you begin sampling. Simultaneously collect modified Method 6 and Method 6C samples. Open the flow control valve in the modified Method 6 train as you begin to sample with Method 6C. Adjust the Method 6 sampling rate to 1 liter per minute (.10 percent). The sampling time per run must be the same as for Method 6 plus twice the average measurement system response time. If your modified Method 6 train does not include a pump, you risk biasing the results high if you over-pressurize the midget impingers and cause a leak. You can reduce this risk by cautiously increasing the flow rate as sampling begins.

b. After completing a run, record the final dry gas meter reading, meter temperature, and barometric pressure. Recover and analyze the contents of the midget impingers using the procedures in Method 6. Determine the average gas concentration reported by Method 6C for the run.

1. "EPA Traceability Protocol for Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards" September 1997 as amended, EPA-600/R-97/121

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the measurement of nitrogen oxides (NO) emitted from stationary sources.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sample methods.

A grab sample is collected in an evacuated flask containing a dilute sulfuric acid-hydrogen peroxide absorbing solution, and the nitrogen oxides, except nitrous oxide, are measured colorimetrically using the phenoldisulfonic acid (PDS) procedure.

Biased results have been observed when sampling under conditions of high sulfur dioxide concentrations. At or above 2100 ppm SO, use five times the HOconcentration of the Method 7 absorbing solution. Laboratory tests have shown that high concentrations of SO(about 2100 ppm) cause low results in Method 7 and 7A. Increasing the HOconcentration to five times the original concentration eliminates this bias. However, when no SOis present, increasing the concentration by five times results in a low bias.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burns as thermal burns.

5.2.1 Hydrogen Peroxide (HO). Irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs.

5.2.2 Phenoldisulfonic Acid. Irritating to eyes and skin.

5.2.3 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). Causes severe damage to eyes and skin. Inhalation causes irritation to nose, throat, and lungs. Reacts exothermically with limited amounts of water.

5.2.4 Sulfuric Acid (HSO). Rapidly destructive to body tissue. Will cause third degree burns. Eye damage may result in blindness. Inhalation may be fatal from spasm of the larynx, usually within 30 minutes. May cause lung tissue damage with edema. 1 mg/mfor 8 hours will cause lung damage or, in higher concentrations, death. Provide ventilation to limit inhalation. Reacts violently with metals and organics.

5.2.5 Phenol. Poisonous and caustic. Do not handle with bare hands as it is absorbed through the skin.

6.1 Sample Collection. A schematic of the sampling train used in performing this method is shown in Figure 7-1. Other grab sampling systems or equipment, capable of measuring sample volume to within 2.0 percent and collecting a sufficient sample volume to allow analytical reproducibility to within 5 percent, will be considered acceptable alternatives, subject to the approval of the Administrator. The following items are required for sample collection:

6.1.1 Probe. Borosilicate glass tubing, sufficiently heated to prevent water condensation and equipped with an in-stack or heated out-of-stack filter to remove particulate matter (a plug of glass wool is satisfactory for this purpose). Stainless steel or Teflon tubing may also be used for the probe. Heating is not necessary if the probe remains dry during the purging period.

6.1.2 Collection Flask. Two-liter borosilicate, round bottom flask, with short neck and 24/40 standard taper opening, protected against implosion or breakage.

6.1.3 Flask Valve. T-bore stopcock connected to a 24/40 standard taper joint.

6.1.4 Temperature Gauge. Dial-type thermometer, or other temperature gauge, capable of measuring 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F) intervals from -5 to 50 &#xB0;C (23 to 122 &#xB0;F).

6.1.5 Vacuum Line. Tubing capable of withstanding a vacuum of 75 mm (3 in.) Hg absolute pressure, with "T" connection and T-bore stopcock.

6.1.6 Vacuum Gauge. U-tube manometer, 1 meter (39 in.), with 1 mm (0.04 in.) divisions, or other gauge capable of measuring pressure to within 2.5 mm (0.10 in.) Hg.

6.1.7 Pump. Capable of evacuating the collection flask to a pressure equal to or less than 75 mm (3 in.) Hg absolute.

6.1.8 Squeeze Bulb. One-way.

6.1.9 Volumetric Pipette. 25-ml.

6.1.10 Stopcock and Ground Joint Grease. A high-vacuum, high-temperature chlorofluorocarbon grease is required. Halocarbon 25-5S has been found to be effective.

6.1.11 Barometer. Mercury, aneroid, or other barometer capable of measuring atmospheric pressure to within 2.5 mm (0.1 in.) Hg. See note in Method 5, section 6.1.2.

6.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are required for sample recovery:

6.2.1 Graduated Cylinder. 50-ml with 1 ml divisions.

6.2.2 Storage Containers. Leak-free polyethylene bottles.

6.2.3 Wash Bottle. Polyethylene or glass.

6.2.4 Glass Stirring Rod.

6.2.5 Test Paper for Indicating pH. To cover the pH range of 7 to 14.

6.3 Analysis. The following items are required for analysis:

6.3.1 Volumetric Pipettes. Two 1-ml, two 2-ml, one 3-ml, one 4-ml, two 10-ml, and one 25-ml for each sample and standard.

6.3.2 Porcelain Evaporating Dishes. 175- to 250-ml capacity with lip for pouring, one for each sample and each standard. The Coors No. 45006 (shallowform, 195-ml) has been found to be satisfactory. Alternatively, polymethyl pentene beakers (Nalge No. 1203, 150-ml), or glass beakers (150-ml) may be used. When glass beakers are used, etching of the beakers may cause solid matter to be present in the analytical step; the solids should be removed by filtration.

6.3.3 Steam Bath. Low-temperature ovens or thermostatically controlled hot plates kept below 70 &#xB0;C (160 &#xB0;F) are acceptable alternatives.

6.3.4 Dropping Pipette or Dropper. Three required.

6.3.5 Polyethylene Policeman. One for each sample and each standard.

6.3.6 Graduated Cylinder. 100-ml with 1-ml divisions.

6.3.7 Volumetric Flasks. 50-ml (one for each sample and each standard), 100-ml (one for each sample and each standard, and one for the working standard KNOsolution), and 1000-ml (one).

6.3.8 Spectrophotometer. To measure at 410 nm.

6.3.9 Graduated Pipette. 10-ml with 0.1-ml divisions.

6.3.10 Test Paper for Indicating pH. To cover the pH range of 7 to 14.

6.3.11 Analytical Balance. To measure to within 0.1 mg.

Unless otherwise indicated, it is intended that all reagents conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available; otherwise, use the best available grade.

7.1 Sample Collection. The following reagents are required for sampling:

7.1.1 Water. Deionized distilled to conform to ASTM D 1193-77 or 91 Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17). The KMnOtest for oxidizable organic matter may be omitted when high concentrations of organic matter are not expected to be present.

7.1.2 Absorbing Solution. Cautiously add 2.8 ml concentrated HSOto a 1-liter flask partially filled with water. Mix well, and add 6 ml of 3 percent hydrogen peroxide, freshly prepared from 30 percent hydrogen peroxide solution. Dilute to 1 liter of water and mix well. The absorbing solution should be used within 1 week of its preparation. Do not expose to extreme heat or direct sunlight.

7.2 Sample Recovery. The following reagents are required for sample recovery:

7.2.1 Water. Same as in 7.1.1.

7.2.2 Sodium Hydroxide, 1 N. Dissolve 40 g NaOH in water, and dilute to 1 liter.

7.3 Analysis. The following reagents and standards are required for analysis:

7.3.1 Water. Same as in 7.1.1.

7.3.2 Fuming Sulfuric Acid. 15 to 18 percent by weight free sulfur trioxide. HANDLE WITH CAUTION.

7.3.3 Phenol. White solid.

7.3.4 Sulfuric Acid. Concentrated, 95 percent minimum assay.

7.3.5 Potassium Nitrate (KNO). Dried at 105 to 110 &#xB0;C (221 to 230 &#xB0;F) for a minimum of 2 hours just prior to preparation of standard solution.

7.3.6 Standard KNOSolution. Dissolve exactly 2.198 g of dried KNOin water, and dilute to 1 liter with water in a 1000-ml volumetric flask.

7.3.7 Working Standard KNOSolution. Dilute 10 ml of the standard solution to 100 ml with water. One ml of the working standard solution is equivalent to 100 µg nitrogen dioxide (NO).

7.3.8 Phenoldisulfonic Acid Solution. Dissolve 25 g of pure white phenol solid in 150 ml concentrated sulfuric acid on a steam bath. Cool, add 75 ml fuming sulfuric acid (15 to 18 percent by weight free sulfur trioxide-HANDLE WITH CAUTION), and heat at 100 &#xB0;C (212 &#xB0;F) for 2 hours. Store in a dark, stoppered bottle.

7.3.9 Concentrated Ammonium Hydroxide.

8.1 Sample Collection.

8.1.1 Flask Volume. The volume of the collection flask and flask valve combination must be known prior to sampling. Assemble the flask and flask valve, and fill with water to the stopcock. Measure the volume of water to +/-10 ml. Record this volume on the flask.
