
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### e.g.,

8.1.4 If the gas being sampled contains insufficient oxygen for the conversion of NO to NO(an applicable subpart of the standards may require taking a sample of a calibration gas mixture of NO in N), then introduce oxygen into the flask to permit this conversion. Oxygen may be introduced into the flask by one of three methods: (1) Before evacuating the sampling flask, flush with pure cylinder oxygen, then evacuate flask to 75 mm (3 in.) Hg absolute pressure or less; or (2) inject oxygen into the flask after sampling; or (3) terminate sampling with a minimum of 50 mm (2 in.) Hg vacuum remaining in the flask, record this final pressure, and then vent the flask to the atmosphere until the flask pressure is almost equal to atmospheric pressure.

8.2 Sample Recovery. Let the flask sit for a minimum of 16 hours, and then shake the contents for 2 minutes.

8.2.1 Connect the flask to a mercury filled U-tube manometer. Open the valve from the flask to the manometer, and record the flask temperature (T), the barometric pressure, and the difference between the mercury levels in the manometer. The absolute internal pressure in the flask (P) is the barometric pressure less the manometer reading. Transfer the contents of the flask to a leak-free polyethylene bottle. Rinse the flask twice with 5 ml portions of water, and add the rinse water to the bottle. Adjust the pH to between 9 and 12 by adding 1 N NaOH, dropwise (about 25 to 35 drops). Check the pH by dipping a stirring rod into the solution and then touching the rod to the pH test paper. Remove as little material as possible during this step. Mark the height of the liquid level so that the container can be checked for leakage after transport. Label the container to identify clearly its contents. Seal the container for shipping.

10.1 Spectrophotometer.

10.1.1 Optimum Wavelength Determination.

10.1.1.1 Calibrate the wavelength scale of the spectrophotometer every 6 months. The calibration may be accomplished by using an energy source with an intense line emission such as a mercury lamp, or by using a series of glass filters spanning the measuring range of the spectrophotometer. Calibration materials are available commercially and from the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Specific details on the use of such materials should be supplied by the vendor; general information about calibration techniques can be obtained from general reference books on analytical chemistry. The wavelength scale of the spectrophotometer must read correctly within 5 nm at all calibration points; otherwise, repair and recalibrate the spectrophotometer. Once the wavelength scale of the spectrophotometer is in proper calibration, use 410 nm as the optimum wavelength for the measurement of the absorbance of the standards and samples.

10.1.1.2 Alternatively, a scanning procedure may be employed to determine the proper measuring wavelength. If the instrument is a double-beam spectrophotometer, scan the spectrum between 400 and 415 nm using a 200 µg NOstandard solution in the sample cell and a blank solution in the reference cell. If a peak does not occur, the spectrophotometer is probably malfunctioning and should be repaired. When a peak is obtained within the 400 to 415 nm range, the wavelength at which this peak occurs shall be the optimum wavelength for the measurement of absorbance of both the standards and the samples. For a single-beam spectrophotometer, follow the scanning procedure described above, except scan separately the blank and standard solutions. The optimum wavelength shall be the wavelength at which the maximum difference in absorbance between the standard and the blank occurs.

10.1.2 Determination of Spectrophotometer Calibration Factor K. Add 0 ml, 2.0 ml, 4.0 ml, 6.0 ml, and 8.0 ml of the KNOworking standard solution (1 ml = 100 µg NO) to a series of five 50-ml volumetric flasks. To each flask, add 25 ml of absorbing solution and 10 ml water. Add 1 N NaOH to each flask until the pH is between 9 and 12 (about 25 to 35 drops). Dilute to the mark with water. Mix thoroughly, and pipette a 25-ml aliquot of each solution into a separate porcelain evaporating dish. Beginning with the evaporation step, follow the analysis procedure of section 11.2 until the solution has been transferred to the 100-ml volumetric flask and diluted to the mark. Measure the absorbance of each solution at the optimum wavelength as determined in section 10.1.1. This calibration procedure must be repeated on each day that samples are analyzed. Calculate the spectrophotometer calibration factor as shown in section 12.2.
