
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### i.e.,

8.1.2 Pipette 25 ml of absorbing solution into a sample flask, retaining a sufficient quantity for use in preparing the calibration standards. Insert the flask valve stopper into the flask with the valve in the "purge" position. Assemble the sampling train as shown in Figure 7-1, and place the probe at the sampling point. Make sure that all fittings are tight and leak-free, and that all ground glass joints have been greased properly with a high-vacuum, high temperature chlorofluorocarbon-based stopcock grease. Turn the flask valve and the pump valve to their "evacuate" positions. Evacuate the flask to 75 mm (3 in.) Hg absolute pressure, or less. Evacuation to a pressure approaching the vapor pressure of water at the existing temperature is desirable. Turn the pump valve to its "vent" position, and turn off the pump. Check for leakage by observing the manometer for any pressure fluctuation. (Any variation greater than 10 mm (0.4 in.) Hg over a period of 1 minute is not acceptable, and the flask is not to be used until the leakage problem is corrected. Pressure in the flask is not to exceed 75 mm (3 in.) Hg absolute at the time sampling is commenced.) Record the volume of the flask and valve (V), the flask temperature (T), and the barometric pressure. Turn the flask valve counterclockwise to its "purge" position, and do the same with the pump valve. Purge the probe and the vacuum tube using the squeeze bulb. If condensation occurs in the probe and the flask valve area, heat the probe, and purge until the condensation disappears. Next, turn the pump valve to its "vent" position. Turn the flask valve clockwise to its "evacuate" position, and record the difference in the mercury levels in the manometer. The absolute internal pressure in the flask (P) is equal to the barometric pressure less the manometer reading. Immediately turn the flask valve to the "sample" position, and permit the gas to enter the flask until pressures in the flask and sample line (duct, stack) are equal. This will usually require about 15 seconds; a longer period indicates a plug in the probe, which must be corrected before sampling is continued. After collecting the sample, turn the flask valve to its "purge" position, and disconnect the flask from the sampling train.

8.1.3 Shake the flask for at least 5 minutes.
