
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### i.e.,

10.1.3 Spectrophotometer Calibration Quality Control. Multiply the absorbance value obtained for each standard by the Kfactor (reciprocal of the least squares slope) to determine the distance each calibration point lies from the theoretical calibration line. The difference between the calculated concentration values and the actual concentrations (100, 200, 300, and 400 µg NO) should be less than 7 percent for all standards.

10.2 Barometer. Calibrate against a mercury barometer or NIST-traceable barometer prior to the field test.

10.3 Temperature Gauge. Calibrate dial thermometers against mercury-in-glass thermometers. An alternative mercury-free thermometer may be used if the thermometer is, at a minimum, equivalent in terms of performance or suitably effective for the specific temperature measurement application.

10.4 Vacuum Gauge. Calibrate mechanical gauges, if used, against a mercury manometer such as that specified in section 6.1.6.

10.5 Analytical Balance. Calibrate against standard weights.

11.1 Sample Loss Check. Note the level of the liquid in the container, and confirm whether any sample was lost during shipment. Note this on the analytical data sheet. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, either void the sample or use methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to correct the final results.

11.2 Sample Preparation. Immediately prior to analysis, transfer the contents of the shipping container to a 50 ml volumetric flask, and rinse the container twice with 5 ml portions of water. Add the rinse water to the flask, and dilute to mark with water; mix thoroughly. Pipette a 25-ml aliquot into the porcelain evaporating dish. Return any unused portion of the sample to the polyethylene storage bottle. Evaporate the 25-ml aliquot to dryness on a steam bath, and allow to cool. Add 2 ml phenoldisulfonic acid solution to the dried residue, and triturate thoroughly with a polyethylene policeman. Make sure the solution contacts all the residue. Add 1 ml water and 4 drops of concentrated sulfuric acid. Heat the solution on a steam bath for 3 minutes with occasional stirring. Allow the solution to cool, add 20 ml water, mix well by stirring, and add concentrated ammonium hydroxide, dropwise, with constant stirring, until the pH is 10 (as determined by pH paper). If the sample contains solids, these must be removed by filtration (centrifugation is an acceptable alternative, subject to the approval of the Administrator) as follows: Filter through Whatman No. 41 filter paper into a 100-ml volumetric flask. Rinse the evaporating dish with three 5-ml portions of water. Filter these three rinses. Wash the filter with at least three 15-ml portions of water. Add the filter washings to the contents of the volumetric flask, and dilute to the mark with water. If solids are absent, the solution can be transferred directly to the 100-ml volumetric flask and diluted to the mark with water.

11.3 Sample Analysis. Mix the contents of the flask thoroughly, and measure the absorbance at the optimum wavelength used for the standards (section 10.1.1), using the blank solution as a zero reference. Dilute the sample and the blank with equal volumes of water if the absorbance exceeds A, the absorbance of the 400-µg NOstandard (see section 10.1.3).

Carry out the calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after final calculations.

12.1 12.1 Nomenclature

12.2 Spectrophotometer Calibration Factor.

12.3 Sample Volume, Dry Basis, Corrected to Standard Conditions.

12.4 Total µg NOper sample.

12.5 Sample Concentration, Dry Basis, Corrected to Standard Conditions.

13.1 Range. The analytical range of the method has been determined to be 2 to 400 milligrams NO(as NO) per dry standard cubic meter, without having to dilute the sample.

1. Standard Methods of Chemical Analysis. 6th ed. New York, D. Van Nostrand Co., Inc. 1962. Vol. 1, pp. 329-330.

2. Standard Method of Test for Oxides of Nitrogen in Gaseous Combustion Products (Phenoldisulfonic Acid Procedure). In: 1968 Book of ASTM Standards, Part 26. Philadelphia, PA. 1968. ASTM Designation D 1608-60, pp. 725-729.

3. Jacob, M.B. The Chemical Analysis of Air Pollutants. New York. Interscience Publishers, Inc. 1960. Vol. 10, pp. 351-356.

4. Beatty, R.L., L.B. Berger, and H.H. Schrenk. Determination of Oxides of Nitrogen by the Phenoldisulfonic Acid Method. Bureau of Mines, U.S. Dept. of Interior. R.I. 3687. February 1943.

5. Hamil, H.F. and D.E. Camann. Collaborative Study of Method for the Determination of Nitrogen Oxide Emissions from Stationary Sources (Fossil Fuel-Fired Steam Generators). Southwest Research Institute Report for Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, NC. October 5, 1973.

6. Hamil, H.F. and R.E. Thomas. Collaborative Study of Method for the Determination of Nitrogen Oxide Emissions from Stationary Sources (Nitric Acid Plants). Southwest Research Institute Report for Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, NC. May 8, 1974.

7. Stack Sampling Safety Manual (Draft). U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Research Triangle Park, NC. September 1978.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of NOemissions from stationary sources.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

A grab sample is collected in an evacuated flask containing a dilute sulfuric acid-hydrogen peroxide absorbing solution. The nitrogen oxides, excluding nitrous oxide (NO), are oxidized to nitrate and measured by ion chromatography.

Biased results have been observed when sampling under conditions of high sulfur dioxide concentrations. At or above 2100 ppm SO, use five times the HOconcentration of the Method 7 absorbing solution. Laboratory tests have shown that high concentrations of SO(about 2100 ppm) cause low results in Method 7 and 7A. Increasing the HOconcentration to five times the original concentration eliminates this bias. However, when no SOis present, increasing the concentration by five times results in a low bias.

5.1 This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burns as thermal burns.

5.2.1 Hydrogen Peroxide (HO). Irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs.

5.2.2 Sulfuric Acid (HSO). Rapidly destructive to body tissue. Will cause third degree burns. Eye damage may result in blindness. Inhalation may be fatal from spasm of the larynx, usually within 30 minutes. May cause lung tissue damage with edema. 3 mg/mwill cause lung damage in uninitiated. 1 mg/mfor 8 hours will cause lung damage or, in higher concentrations, death. Provide ventilation to limit inhalation. Reacts violently with metals and organics.

6.1 Sample Collection. Same as in Method 7, section 6.1.

6.2 Sample Recovery. Same as in Method 7, section 6.2, except the stirring rod and pH paper are not needed.

6.3 Analysis. For the analysis, the following equipment and supplies are required. Alternative instrumentation and procedures will be allowed provided the calibration precision requirement in section 10.1.2 can be met.

6.3.1 Volumetric Pipets. Class A;1-, 2-, 4-, 5-ml (two for the set of standards and one per sample), 6-, 10-, and graduated 5-ml sizes.

6.3.2 Volumetric Flasks. 50-ml (two per sample and one per standard), 200-ml, and 1-liter sizes.

6.3.3 Analytical Balance. To measure to within 0.1 mg.

6.3.4 Ion Chromatograph. The ion chromatograph should have at least the following components:

6.3.4.1 Columns. An anion separation or other column capable of resolving the nitrate ion from sulfate and other species present and a standard anion suppressor column (optional). Suppressor columns are produced as proprietary items; however, one can be produced in the laboratory using the resin available from BioRad Company, 32nd and Griffin Streets, Richmond, California. Peak resolution can be optimized by varying the eluent strength or column flow rate, or by experimenting with alternative columns that may offer more efficient separation. When using guard columns with the stronger reagent to protect the separation column, the analyst should allow rest periods between injection intervals to purge possible sulfate buildup in the guard column.

6.3.4.2 Pump. Capable of maintaining a steady flow as required by the system.

6.3.4.3 Flow Gauges. Capable of measuring the specified system flow rate.

6.3.4.4 Conductivity Detector.

6.3.4.5 Recorder. Compatible with the output voltage range of the detector.

Unless otherwise indicated, it is intended that all reagents conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available; otherwise, use the best available grade.

7.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 7, section 7.1.

7.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 7, section 7.1.1.

7.3 Analysis. The following reagents and standards are required for analysis:

7.3.1 Water. Same as Method 7, section 7.1.1.

7.3.2 Stock Standard Solution, 1 mg NO/ml. Dry an adequate amount of sodium nitrate (NaNO) at 105 to 110 &#xB0;C (221 to 230 &#xB0;F) for a minimum of 2 hours just before preparing the standard solution. Then dissolve exactly 1.847 g of dried NaNOin water, and dilute to l liter in a volumetric flask. Mix well. This solution is stable for 1 month and should not be used beyond this time.

7.3.3 Working Standard Solution, 25 µg/ml. Dilute 5 ml of the standard solution to 200 ml with water in a volumetric flask, and mix well.

7.3.4 Eluent Solution. Weigh 1.018 g of sodium carbonate (NaCO) and 1.008 g of sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO), and dissolve in 4 liters of water. This solution is 0.0024 M NaCO/0.003 M NaHCO. Other eluents appropriate to the column type and capable of resolving nitrate ion from sulfate and other species present may be used.

8.1 Sampling. Same as in Method 7, section 8.1.

8.2 Sample Recovery. Same as in Method 7, section 8.2, except delete the steps on adjusting and checking the pH of the sample. Do not store the samples more than 4 days between collection and analysis.

10.1 Ion Chromatograph.

10.1.1 Determination of Ion Chromatograph Calibration Factor S. Prepare a series of five standards by adding 1.0, 2.0, 4.0, 6.0, and 10.0 ml of working standard solution (25 µg/ml) to a series of five 50-ml volumetric flasks. (The standard masses will equal 25, 50, 100, 150, and 250 µg.) Dilute each flask to the mark with water, and mix well. Analyze with the samples as described in section 11.2, and subtract the blank from each value. Prepare or calculate a linear regression plot of the standard masses in µg (x-axis) versus their peak height responses in millimeters (y-axis). (Take peak height measurements with symmetrical peaks; in all other cases, calculate peak areas.) From this curve, or equation, determine the slope, and calculate its reciprocal to denote as the calibration factor, S.
