
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### i.e.,

10.2 Spectrophotometer Calibration Quality Control. Multiply the absorbance value obtained for each standard by the Kfactor (reciprocal of the least squares slope) to determine the distance each calibration point lies from the theoretical calibration line. The difference between the calculated concentration values and the actual concentrations (50, 100, 150, and 200 µg NO) should be less than 7 percent for all standards.

11.1 Sample Loss Check. Note the level of the liquid in the container, and confirm whether any sample was lost during shipment. Note this on the analytical data sheet. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, either void the sample or use methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to correct the final results.

11.2 Sample Preparation. Immediately prior to analysis, transfer the contents of the shipping container to a 100-ml volumetric flask, and rinse the container twice with 5-ml portions of water. Add the rinse water to the flask, and dilute to mark with water.

11.3 Sample Analysis. Mix the contents of the flask thoroughly and pipette a 20 ml-aliquot of sample into a 100-ml volumetric flask. Dilute to the mark with water. Using the blank as zero reference, read the absorbance of the sample at 210 nm.

11.4 Audit Sample Analysis. Same as Method 7, section 11.4, except that a set of audit samples must be analyzed with each set of compliance samples or once per analysis day, or once per week when averaging continuous samples.

Same as Method 7, section 12.0, except replace section 12.3 with the following:

12.1 Total µg NOPer Sample.

13.1 Range. The analytical range of the method as outlined has been determined to be 57 to 1500 milligrams NO(as NO) per dry standard cubic meter, or 30 to 786 parts per million by volume (ppmv) NO.

1. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Recommendations for Occupational Exposure to Nitric Acid. In: Occupational Safety and Health Reporter. Washington, D.C. Bureau of National Affairs, Inc. 1976. p. 149.
