
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 104

2. Rennie, P.J., A.M. Sumner, and F.B. Basketter. Determination of Nitrate in Raw, Potable, and Waste Waters by Ultraviolet Spectrophotometry. Analyst.:837. September 1979.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method applies to the measurement of NOemissions from fossil-fuel fired steam generators, electric utility plants, nitric acid plants, or other sources as specified in the regulations.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

An integrated gas sample is extracted from the stack and passed through impingers containing an alkaline potassium permanganate solution; NO(NO + NO) emissions are oxidized to NOand NO. Then NOis reduced to NOwith cadmium, and the NOis analyzed colorimetrically.

Possible interferents are sulfur dioxides (SO) and ammonia (NH).

4.1 High concentrations of SOcould interfere because SOconsumes MnO(as does NO) and, therefore, could reduce the NOcollection efficiency. However, when sampling emissions from a coal-fired electric utility plant burning 2.1 percent sulfur coal with no control of SOemissions, collection efficiency was not reduced. In fact, calculations show that sampling 3000 ppm SOwill reduce the MnOconcentration by only 5 percent if all the SOis consumed in the first impinger.

4.2 Ammonia (NH) is slowly oxidized to NOby the absorbing solution. At 100 ppm NHin the gas stream, an interference of 6 ppm NO(11 mg NO/m) was observed when the sample was analyzed 10 days after collection. Therefore, the method may not be applicable to plants using NHinjection to control NOemissions unless means are taken to correct the results. An equation has been developed to allow quantification of the interference and is discussed in Reference 5 of section 16.0.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burns as thermal burns.

5.2.1 Hydrochloric Acid (HCl). Highly toxic and corrosive. Causes severe damage to skin. Vapors are highly irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs, causing severe damage. May cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Exposure to vapor concentrations of 0.13 to 0.2 percent can be lethal in minutes. Will react with metals, producing hydrogen.

5.2.2 Oxalic Acid (COOH). Poisonous. Irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and throat.

5.2.3 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). Causes severe damage to eye tissues and to skin. Inhalation causes irritation to nose, throat, and lungs. Reacts exothermically with small amounts of water.

5.2.4 Potassium Permanganate (KMnO). Caustic, strong oxidizer. Avoid bodily contact with.

6.1 Sample Collection and Sample Recovery. A schematic of the Method 7C sampling train is shown in Figure 7C-1, and component parts are discussed below. Alternative apparatus and procedures are allowed provided acceptable accuracy and precision can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Administrator.

6.1.1 Probe. Borosilicate glass tubing, sufficiently heated to prevent water condensation and equipped with an in-stack or heated out-of-stack filter to remove particulate matter (a plug of glass wool is satisfactory for this purpose). Stainless steel or Teflon tubing may also be used for the probe.

6.1.2 Impingers. Three restricted-orifice glass impingers, having the specifications given in Figure 7C-2, are required for each sampling train. The impingers must be connected in series with leak-free glass connectors. Stopcock grease may be used, if necessary, to prevent leakage. (The impingers can be fabricated by a glass blower if not available commercially.)

6.1.3 Glass Wool, Stopcock Grease, Drying Tube, Valve, Pump, Barometer, and Vacuum Gauge and Rotameter. Same as in Method 6, sections 6.1.1.3, 6.1.1.4, 6.1.1.6, 6.1.1.7, 6.1.1.8, 6.1.2, and 6.1.3, respectively.

6.1.4 Rate Meter. Rotameter, or equivalent, accurate to within 2 percent at the selected flow rate of between 400 and 500 ml/min (0.014 to 0.018 cfm). For rotameters, a range of 0 to 1 liter/min (0 to 0.035 cfm) is recommended.

6.1.5 Volume Meter. Dry gas meter (DGM) capable of measuring the sample volume under the sampling conditions of 400 to 500 ml/min (0.014 to 0.018 cfm) for 60 minutes within an accuracy of 2 percent.
