
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### et al.,47

5. Margeson, J.H.,An Integrated Method for Determining NOEmissions at Nitric Acid Plants. Analytical Chemistry.(11):1801. 1975.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method applies to the measurement of NOemissions from fossil-fuel fired steam generators, electric utility plants, nitric acid plants, or other sources as specified in the regulations.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

An integrated gas sample is extracted from the stack and passed through impingers containing an alkaline-potassium permanganate solution; NO(NO + NO) emissions are oxidized to NO. Then NOis analyzed by ion chromatography.

Same as in Method 7C, section 4.0.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burns as thermal burns.

5.2.1 Hydrogen Peroxide (HO). Irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs. 30% HOis a strong oxidizing agent; avoid contact with skin, eyes, and combustible material. Wear gloves when handling.

5.2.2 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). Causes severe damage to eye tissues and to skin. Inhalation causes irritation to nose, throat, and lungs. Reacts exothermically with limited amounts of water.

5.2.3 Potassium Permanganate (KMnO). Caustic, strong oxidizer. Avoid bodily contact with.

6.1 Sample Collection and Sample Recovery. Same as Method 7C, section 6.1. A schematic of the sampling train used in performing this method is shown in Figure 7C-1 of Method 7C.

6.2 Sample Preparation and Analysis.

6.2.1 Magnetic Stirrer. With 25- by 10-mm Teflon-coated stirring bars.

6.2.2 Filtering Flask. 500-ml capacity with sidearm.

6.2.3 Buchner Funnel. 75-mm ID, with spout equipped with a 13-mm ID by 90-mm long piece of Teflon tubing to minimize possibility of aspirating sample solution during filtration.

6.2.4 Filter Paper. Whatman GF/C, 7.0-cm diameter.

6.2.5 Stirring Rods.

6.2.6 Volumetric Flask. 250-ml.

6.2.7 Pipettes. Class A.

6.2.8 Erlenmeyer Flasks. 250-ml.

6.2.9 Ion Chromatograph. Equipped with an anion separator column to separate NO, Hsuppressor, and necessary auxiliary equipment. Nonsuppressed and other forms of ion chromatography may also be used provided that adequate resolution of NOis obtained. The system must also be able to resolve and detect NO.

7.1 Sample Collection.

7.1.1 Water. Deionized distilled to conform to ASTM specification D 1193-77 or 91 Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

7.1.2 Potassium Permanganate, 4.0 Percent (w/w), Sodium Hydroxide, 2.0 Percent (w/w). Dissolve 40.0 g of KMnOand 20.0 g of NaOH in 940 ml of water.

7.2 Sample Preparation and Analysis.

7.2.1 Water. Same as in section 7.1.1.

7.2.2 Hydrogen Peroxide (HO), 5 Percent. Dilute 30 percent HO1:5 (v/v) with water.

7.2.3 Blank Solution. Dissolve 2.4 g of KMnOand 1.2 g of NaOH in 96 ml of water. Alternatively, dilute 60 ml of KMnO/NaOH solution to 100 ml.

7.2.4 KNOStandard Solution. Dry KNOat 110 &#xB0;C for 2 hours, and cool in a desiccator. Accurately weigh 9 to 10 g of KNOto within 0.1 mg, dissolve in water, and dilute to 1 liter. Calculate the exact NOconcentration using Equation 7D-1 in section 12.2. This solution is stable for 2 months without preservative under laboratory conditions.

7.2.5 Eluent, 0.003 M NaHCO/0.0024 M NaCO. Dissolve 1.008 g NaHCOand 1.018 g NaCOin water, and dilute to 4 liters. Other eluents capable of resolving nitrate ion from sulfate and other species present may be used.

8.1 Sampling. Same as in Method 7C, section 8.1.

8.2 Sample Recovery. Same as in Method 7C, section 8.2.

8.3 Sample Preparation for Analysis.

8.3.1 Note the level of liquid in the sample container, and determine whether any sample was lost during shipment. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, the volume lost can be determined from the difference between initial and final solution levels, and this value can then be used to correct the analytical result. Quantitatively transfer the contents to a 1-liter volumetric flask, and dilute to volume.

8.3.2 Sample preparation can be started 36 hours after collection. This time is necessary to ensure that all NOis converted to NOin the collection solution. Take a 50-ml aliquot of the sample and blank, and transfer to 250-ml Erlenmeyer flasks. Add a magnetic stirring bar. Adjust the stirring rate to as fast a rate as possible without loss of solution. Add 5 percent HOin increments of approximately 5 ml using a 5-ml pipette. When the KMnOcolor appears to have been removed, allow the precipitate to settle, and examine the supernatant liquid. If the liquid is clear, the HOaddition is complete. If the KMnOcolor persists, add more HO, with stirring, until the supernatant liquid is clear.

10.1 Dry Gas Meter (DGM) System.

10.1.1 Initial Calibration. Same as in Method 6, section 10.1.1. For detailed instructions on carrying out this calibration, it is suggested that section 3.5.2 of Citation 4 in section 16.0 of Method 7C be consulted.

10.1.2 Post-Test Calibration Check. Same as in Method 6, section 10.1.2.

10.2 Thermometers for DGM and Barometer. Same as in Method 6, sections 10.2 and 10.4, respectively.

10.3 Ion Chromatograph.

10.3.1 Dilute a given volume (1.0 ml or greater) of the KNOstandard solution to a convenient volume with water, and use this solution to prepare calibration standards. Prepare at least four standards to cover the range of the samples being analyzed. Use pipettes for all additions. Run standards as instructed in section 11.2. Determine peak height or area, and plot the individual values versus concentration in µg NO/ml.

10.3.2 Do not force the curve through zero. Draw a smooth curve through the points. The curve should be linear. With the linear curve, use linear regression to determine the calibration equation.

11.1 The following chromatographic conditions are recommended: 0.003 M NaHCO/0.0024 NaCOeluent solution (Section 7.2.5), full scale range, 3 µMHO; sample loop, 0.5 ml; flow rate, 2.5 ml/min. These conditions should give a NOretention time of approximately 15 minutes (Figure 7D-1).

11.2 Establish a stable baseline. Inject a sample of water, and determine whether any NOappears in the chromatogram. If NOis present, repeat the water load/injection procedure approximately five times; then re-inject a water sample and observe the chromatogram. When no NOis present, the instrument is ready for use. Inject calibration standards. Then inject samples and a blank. Repeat the injection of the calibration standards (to compensate for any drift in response of the instrument). Measure the NOpeak height or peak area, and determine the sample concentration from the calibration curve.

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after final calculation.

12.1 Nomenclature. Same as in Method 7C, section 12.1.

12.2 NOconcentration. Calculate the NOconcentration in the KNOstandard solution (see section 7.2.4) using the following equation:

12.3 Sample Volume, Dry Basis, Corrected to Standard Conditions. Same as in Method 7C, section 12.4.

12.4 Total µg NOPer Sample.

12.5 Sample Concentration. Same as in Method 7C, section 12.7.

13.1 Precision. The intra-laboratory relative standard deviation for a single measurement is approximately 6 percent at 200 to 270 ppm NO.

13.2 Bias. The method does not exhibit any bias relative to Method 7.

13.3 Range. The lower detectable limit is similar to that of Method 7C. No upper limit has been established; however, when using the recommended sampling conditions, the method has been found to collect NOemissions quantitatively up to 1782 mg NO/m, as NO(932 ppm NO).

Same as Method 7C, section 16.0, References 1, 2, 4, and 5.

Method 7E is a procedure for measuring nitrogen oxides (NO) in stationary source emissions using a continuous instrumental analyzer. Quality assurance and quality control requirements are included to assure that you, the tester, collect data of known quality. You must document your adherence to these specific requirements for equipment, supplies, sample collection and analysis, calculations, and data analysis. This method does not completely describe all equipment, supplies, and sampling and analytical procedures you will need but refers to other methods for some of the details. Therefore, to obtain reliable results, you should also have a thorough knowledge of these additional test methods which are found in appendix A to this part:

(a) Method 1-Sample and Velocity Traverses for Stationary Sources.

(b) Method 4-Determination of Moisture Content in Stack Gases.
