
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### e.g.,

6.1.6 Filter. To remove NOfrom ambient air, prepared by adding 20 g of 5-angstrom molecular sieve to a cylindrical tube (a polyethylene drying tube).

6.1.7 Polyethylene Bottles. 1-liter, for sample recovery.

6.1.8 Funnel and Stirring Rods. For sample recovery.

6.2 Sample Preparation and Analysis.

6.2.1 Hot Plate. Stirring type with 50- by 10-mm Teflon-coated stirring bars.

6.2.2 Beakers. 400-, 600-, and 1000-ml capacities.

6.2.3 Filtering Flask. 500-ml capacity with side arm.

6.2.4 Buchner Funnel. 75-mm ID, with spout equipped with a 13-mm ID by 90-mm long piece of Teflon tubing to minimize possibility of aspirating sample solution during filtration.

6.2.5 Filter Paper. Whatman GF/C, 7.0-cm diameter.

6.2.6 Stirring Rods.

6.2.7 Volumetric Flasks. 100-, 200- or 250-, 500-, and 1000-ml capacity.

6.2.8 Watch Glasses. To cover 600- and 1000-ml beakers.

6.2.9 Graduated Cylinders. 50- and 250-ml capacities.

6.2.10 Pipettes. Class A.

6.2.11 pH Meter. To measure pH from 0.5 to 12.0.

6.2.12 Burette. 50-ml with a micrometer type stopcock. (The stopcock is Catalog No. 8225-t-05, Ace Glass, Inc., Post Office Box 996, Louisville, Kentucky 50201.) Place a glass wool plug in bottom of burette. Cut off burette at a height of 43 cm (17 in.) from the top of plug, and have a blower attach a glass funnel to top of burette such that the diameter of the burette remains essentially unchanged. Other means of attaching the funnel are acceptable.

6.2.13 Glass Funnel. 75-mm ID at the top.

6.2.14 Spectrophotometer. Capable of measuring absorbance at 540 nm; 1-cm cells are adequate.

6.2.15 Metal Thermometers. Bimetallic thermometers, range 0 to 150 &#xB0;C (32 to 300 &#xB0;F).

6.2.16 Culture Tubes. 20-by 150-mm, Kimax No. 45048.

6.2.17 Parafilm "M." Obtained from American Can Company, Greenwich, Connecticut 06830.

6.2.18 COMeasurement Equipment. Same as in Method 3, section 6.0.

Unless otherwise indicated, it is intended that all reagents conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available; otherwise, use the best available grade.

7.1 Sample Collection.

7.1.1 Water. Deionized distilled to conform to ASTM Specification D 1193-77 or 91 Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

7.1.2 Potassium Permanganate, 4.0 Percent (w/w), Sodium Hydroxide, 2.0 Percent (w/w) solution (KMnO/NaOH solution). Dissolve 40.0 g of KMnOand 20.0 g of NaOH in 940 ml of water.

7.2 Sample Preparation and Analysis.

7.2.1 Water. Same as in section 7.1.1.

7.2.2 Oxalic Acid Solution. Dissolve 48 g of oxalic acid [(COOH)&#xB7;2HO] in water, and dilute to 500 ml. Do not heat the solution.

7.2.3 Sodium Hydroxide, 0.5 N. Dissolve 20 g of NaOH in water, and dilute to 1 liter.

7.2.4 Sodium Hydroxide, 10 N. Dissolve 40 g of NaOH in water, and dilute to 100 ml.

7.2.5 Ethylenediamine Tetraacetic Acid (EDTA) Solution, 6.5 percent (w/v). Dissolve 6.5 g of EDTA (disodium salt) in water, and dilute to 100 ml. Dissolution is best accomplished by using a magnetic stirrer.

7.2.6 Column Rinse Solution. Add 20 ml of 6.5 percent EDTA solution to 960 ml of water, and adjust the pH to between 11.7 and 12.0 with 0.5 N NaOH.

7.2.7 Hydrochloric Acid (HCl), 2 N. Add 86 ml of concentrated HCl to a 500 ml-volumetric flask containing water, dilute to volume, and mix well. Store in a glass-stoppered bottle.

7.2.8 Sulfanilamide Solution. Add 20 g of sulfanilamide (melting point 165 to 167 &#xB0;C (329 to 333 &#xB0;F)) to 700 ml of water. Add, with mixing, 50 ml concentrated phosphoric acid (85 percent), and dilute to 1000 ml. This solution is stable for at least 1 month, if refrigerated.

7.2.9 N-(1-Naphthyl)-Ethylenediamine Dihydrochloride (NEDA) Solution. Dissolve 0.5 g of NEDA in 500 ml of water. An aqueous solution should have one absorption peak at 320 nm over the range of 260 to 400 nm. NEDA that shows more than one absorption peak over this range is impure and should not be used. This solution is stable for at least 1 month if protected from light and refrigerated.

7.2.10 Cadmium. Obtained from Matheson Coleman and Bell, 2909 Highland Avenue, Norwood, Ohio 45212, as EM Laboratories Catalog No. 2001. Prepare by rinsing in 2 N HCl for 5 minutes until the color is silver-grey. Then rinse the cadmium with water until the rinsings are neutral when tested with pH paper. CAUTION: His liberated during preparation. Prepare in an exhaust hood away from any flame or combustion source.

7.2.11 Sodium Nitrite (NaNO) Standard Solution, Nominal Concentration, 1000 µg NO-/ml. Desiccate NaNOovernight. Accurately weigh 1.4 to 1.6 g of NaNO(assay of 97 percent NaNOor greater), dissolve in water, and dilute to 1 liter. Calculate the exact NO-concentration using Equation 7C-1 in section 12.2. This solution is stable for at least 6 months under laboratory conditions.

7.2.12 Potassium Nitrate (KNO) Standard Solution. Dry KNOat 110 &#xB0;C (230 &#xB0;F) for 2 hours, and cool in a desiccator. Accurately weigh 9 to 10 g of KNOto within 0.1 mg, dissolve in water, and dilute to 1 liter. Calculate the exact NOconcentration using Equation 7C-2 in section 12.3. This solution is stable for 2 months without preservative under laboratory conditions.

7.2.13 Spiking Solution. Pipette 7 ml of the KNOstandard into a 100-ml volumetric flask, and dilute to volume.

7.2.14 Blank Solution. Dissolve 2.4 g of KMnOand 1.2 g of NaOH in 96 ml of water. Alternatively, dilute 60 ml of KMnO/NaOH solution to 100 ml.

8.1 Preparation of Sampling Train. Add 200 ml of KMnO/NaOH solution (Section 7.1.2) to each of three impingers, and assemble the train as shown in Figure 7C-1. Adjust the probe heater to a temperature sufficient to prevent water condensation.

8.2 Leak-Checks. Same as in Method 6, section 8.2.

8.3 Sample Collection.
