
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### e.g.,

8.3.1 Record the initial DGM reading and barometric pressure. Determine the sampling point or points according to the appropriate regulations (§ 60.46(b)(5) of 40 CFR Part 60). Position the tip of the probe at the sampling point, connect the probe to the first impinger, and start the pump. Adjust the sample flow to a value between 400 and 500 ml/min (0.014 and 0.018 cfm). CAUTION: DO NOT EXCEED THESE FLOW RATES. Once adjusted, maintain a constant flow rate during the entire sampling run. Sample for 60 minutes. For relative accuracy (RA) testing of continuous emission monitors, the minimum sampling time is 1 hour, sampling 20 minutes at each traverse point.

8.3.2 Record the DGM temperature, and check the flow rate at least every 5 minutes. At the conclusion of each run, turn off the pump, remove the probe from the stack, and record the final readings. Divide the sample volume by the sampling time to determine the average flow rate. Conduct the mandatory post-test leak-check. If a leak is found, void the test run, or use procedures acceptable to the Administrator to adjust the sample volume for the leakage.

8.4 COMeasurement. During sampling, measure the COcontent of the stack gas near the sampling point using Method 3. The single-point grab sampling procedure is adequate, provided the measurements are made at least three times (near the start, midway, and before the end of a run), and the average COconcentration is computed. The Orsat or Fyrite analyzer may be used for this analysis.

8.5 Sample Recovery. Disconnect the impingers. Pour the contents of the impingers into a 1-liter polyethylene bottle using a funnel and a stirring rod (or other means) to prevent spillage. Complete the quantitative transfer by rinsing the impingers and connecting tubes with water until the rinsings are clear to light pink, and add the rinsings to the bottle. Mix the sample, and mark the solution level. Seal and identify the sample container.

10.1 Volume Metering System. Same as Method 6, section 10.1. For detailed instructions on carrying out these calibrations, it is suggested that section 3.5.2 of Reference 4 of section 16.0 be consulted.

10.2 Temperature Sensors and Barometer. Same as in Method 6, sections 10.2 and 10.4, respectively.

10.3 Check of Rate Meter Calibration Accuracy (Optional). Disconnect the probe from the first impinger, and connect the filter. Start the pump, and adjust the rate meter to read between 400 and 500 ml/min (0.014 and 0.018 cfm). After the flow rate has stabilized, start measuring the volume sampled, as recorded by the dry gas meter and the sampling time. Collect enough volume to measure accurately the flow rate. Then calculate the flow rate. This average flow rate must be less than 500 ml/min (0.018 cfm) for the sample to be valid; therefore, it is recommended that the flow rate be checked as above prior to each test.

10.4 Spectrophotometer.

10.4.1 Dilute 5.0 ml of the NaNOstandard solution to 200 ml with water. This solution nominally contains 25 µg NO/ml. Use this solution to prepare calibration standards to cover the range of 0.25 to 3.00 µg NO/ml. Prepare a minimum of three standards each for the linear and slightly nonlinear (described below) range of the curve. Use pipettes for all additions.

10.4.2 Measure the absorbance of the standards and a water blank as instructed in section 11.5. Plot the net absorbance vs. µg NO/ml. Draw a smooth curve through the points. The curve should be linear up to an absorbance of approximately 1.2 with a slope of approximately 0.53 absorbance units/µg NO/ml. The curve should pass through the origin. The curve is slightly nonlinear from an absorbance of 1.2 to 1.6.

11.1 Sample Stability. Collected samples are stable for at least four weeks; thus, analysis must occur within 4 weeks of collection.

11.2 Sample Preparation.

11.2.1 Prepare a cadmium reduction column as follows: Fill the burette with water. Add freshly prepared cadmium slowly, with tapping, until no further settling occurs. The height of the cadmium column should be 39 cm (15 in). When not in use, store the column under rinse solution.

11.2.2 Note the level of liquid in the sample container, and determine whether any sample was lost during shipment. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, the volume lost can be determined from the difference between initial and final solution levels, and this value can then be used to correct the analytical result. Quantitatively transfer the contents to a 1-liter volumetric flask, and dilute to volume.

11.2.3 Take a 100-ml aliquot of the sample and blank (unexposed KMnO/NaOH) solutions, and transfer to 400-ml beakers containing magnetic stirring bars. Using a pH meter, add concentrated HSOwith stirring until a pH of 0.7 is obtained. Allow the solutions to stand for 15 minutes. Cover the beakers with watch glasses, and bring the temperature of the solutions to 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F). Keep the temperature below 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F). Dissolve 4.8 g of oxalic acid in a minimum volume of water, approximately 50 ml, at room temperature. Do not heat the solution. Add this solution slowly, in increments, until the KMnOsolution becomes colorless. If the color is not completely removed, prepare some more of the above oxalic acid solution, and add until a colorless solution is obtained. Add an excess of oxalic acid by dissolving 1.6 g of oxalic acid in 50 ml of water, and add 6 ml of this solution to the colorless solution. If suspended matter is present, add concentrated HSOuntil a clear solution is obtained.

11.2.4 Allow the samples to cool to near room temperature, being sure that the samples are still clear. Adjust the pH to between 11.7 and 12.0 with 10 N NaOH. Quantitatively transfer the mixture to a Buchner funnel containing GF/C filter paper, and filter the precipitate. Filter the mixture into a 500-ml filtering flask. Wash the solid material four times with water. When filtration is complete, wash the Teflon tubing, quantitatively transfer the filtrate to a 500-ml volumetric flask, and dilute to volume. The samples are now ready for cadmium reduction. Pipette a 50-ml aliquot of the sample into a 150-ml beaker, and add a magnetic stirring bar. Pipette in 1.0 ml of 6.5 percent EDTA solution, and mix.

11.3 Determine the correct stopcock setting to establish a flow rate of 7 to 9 ml/min of column rinse solution through the cadmium reduction column. Use a 50-ml graduated cylinder to collect and measure the solution volume. After the last of the rinse solution has passed from the funnel into the burette, but before air entrapment can occur, start adding the sample, and collect it in a 250-ml graduated cylinder. Complete the quantitative transfer of the sample to the column as the sample passes through the column. After the last of the sample has passed from the funnel into the burette, start adding 60 ml of column rinse solution, and collect the rinse solution until the solution just disappears from the funnel. Quantitatively transfer the sample to a 200-ml volumetric flask (a 250-ml flask may be required), and dilute to volume. The samples are now ready for NO-analysis.

11.5 Sample Analysis. Pipette 10 ml of sample into a culture tube. Pipette in 10 ml of sulfanilamide solution and 1.4 ml of NEDA solution. Cover the culture tube with parafilm, and mix the solution. Prepare a blank in the same manner using the sample from treatment of the unexposed KMnO/NaOH solution. Also, prepare a calibration standard to check the slope of the calibration curve. After a 10-minute color development interval, measure the absorbance at 540 nm against water. Read µg NO/ml from the calibration curve. If the absorbance is greater than that of the highest calibration standard, use less than 10 ml of sample, and repeat the analysis. Determine the NOconcentration using the calibration curve obtained in section 10.4.

11.6 Audit Sample Analysis. Same as in Method 7, section 11.4.

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after final calculation.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 NOConcentration. Calculate the NOconcentration of the solution (see section 7.2.11) using the following equation:

12.3 NOConcentration. Calculate the NOconcentration of the KNOsolution (see section 7.2.12) using the following equation:

12.4 Sample Volume, Dry Basis, Corrected to Standard Conditions.

12.5 Efficiency of Cadmium Reduction Column. Calculate this value as follows:

12.6 Total µg NO.

12.7 Sample Concentration.

13.1 Precision. The intra-laboratory relative standard deviation for a single measurement is 2.8 and 2.9 percent at 201 and 268 ppm NO, respectively.

13.2 Bias. The method does not exhibit any bias relative to Method 7.

13.3 Range. The lower detectable limit is 13 mg NO/m, as NO(7 ppm NO) when sampling at 500 ml/min for 1 hour. No upper limit has been established; however, when using the recommended sampling conditions, the method has been found to collect NOemissions quantitatively up to 1782 mg NO/m, as NO(932 ppm NO).
