
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 4

5. Yu, K.K., and P.R. Westlin. Evaluation of Reference Method 7 Flask Reaction Time. Source Evaluation Society Newsletter.(4). November 1979. 10 pp.

6. Stack Sampling Safety Manual (Draft). U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standard, Research Triangle Park, NC. September 1978.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of NOemissions from nitric acid plants.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A grab sample is collected in an evacuated flask containing a dilute sulfuric acid-hydrogen peroxide absorbing solution; the NO, excluding nitrous oxide (NO), are measured by ultraviolet spectrophotometry.

5.1 This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burn as thermal burn.

5.2.1 Hydrogen Peroxide (HO). Irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs.

5.2.2 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). Causes severe damage to eyes and skin. Inhalation causes irritation to nose, throat, and lungs. Reacts exothermically with limited amounts of water.

5.2.3 Sulfuric Acid (HSO). Rapidly destructive to body tissue. Will cause third degree burns. Eye damage may result in blindness. Inhalation may be fatal from spasm of the larynx, usually within 30 minutes. May cause lung tissue damage with edema. 3 mg/mwill cause lung damage in uninitiated. 1 mg/mfor 8 hours will cause lung damage or, in higher concentrations, death. Provide ventilation to limit inhalation. Reacts violently with metals and organics.

6.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 7, section 6.1.

6.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are required for sample recovery:

6.2.1 Wash Bottle. Polyethylene or glass.

6.2.2 Volumetric Flasks. 100-ml (one for each sample).

6.3 Analysis. The following items are required for analysis:

6.3.1 Volumetric Pipettes. 5-, 10-, 15-, and 20-ml to make standards and sample dilutions.

6.3.2 Volumetric Flasks. 1000- and 100-ml for preparing standards and dilution of samples.

6.3.3 Spectrophotometer. To measure ultraviolet absorbance at 210 nm.

6.3.4 Analytical Balance. To measure to within 0.1 mg.

7.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 7, section 7.1. It is important that the amount of hydrogen peroxide in the absorbing solution not be increased. Higher concentrations of peroxide may interfere with sample analysis.

7.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 7, section 7.2.

7.3 Analysis. Same as Method 7, sections 7.3.1, 7.3.3, and 7.3.4, with the addition of the following:

7.3.1 Working Standard KNOSolution. Dilute 10 ml of the standard solution to 1000 ml with water. One milliliter of the working standard is equivalent to 10 µg NO.

8.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 7, section 8.1.

8.2 Sample Recovery.

8.2.1 Let the flask sit for a minimum of 16 hours, and then shake the contents for 2 minutes.

8.2.2 Connect the flask to a mercury filled U-tube manometer. Open the valve from the flask to the manometer, and record the flask temperature (T), the barometric pressure, and the difference between the mercury levels in the manometer. The absolute internal pressure in the flask (P) is the barometric pressure less the manometer reading.

8.2.3 Transfer the contents of the flask to a leak-free wash bottle. Rinse the flask three times with 10-ml portions of water, and add to the bottle. Mark the height of the liquid level so that the container can be checked for leakage after transport. Label the container to identify clearly its contents. Seal the container for shipping.

Same as Method 7, sections 10.2 through 10.5, with the addition of the following:

10.1 Determination of Spectrophotometer Standard Curve. Add 0 ml, 5 ml, 10 ml, 15 ml, and 20 ml of the KNOworking standard solution (1 ml = 10 µg NO) to a series of five 100-ml volumetric flasks. To each flask, add 5 ml of absorbing solution. Dilute to the mark with water. The resulting solutions contain 0.0, 50, 100, 150, and 200 µg NO, respectively. Measure the absorbance by ultraviolet spectrophotometry at 210 nm, using the blank as a zero reference. Prepare a standard curve plotting absorbance vs. µg NO.

10.1.1 Calculate the spectrophotometer calibration factor as follows:

10.1.2 For the set of calibration standards specified here, Equation 7B-1 simplifies to the following:
