
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### What safety measures should I consider when using this method?

This method may require you to work with hazardous materials and in hazardous conditions. We encourage you to establish safety procedures before using the method. Among other precautions, you should become familiar with the safety recommendations in the gas analyzer user's manual. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations concerning cylinder and noxious gases may apply. Nitric oxide and NOare toxic and dangerous gases. Nitric oxide is immediately converted to NOupon reaction with air. Nitrogen dioxide is a highly poisonous and insidious gas. Inflammation of the lungs from exposure may cause only slight pain or pass unnoticed, but the resulting edema several days later may cause death. A concentration of 100 ppm is dangerous for even a short exposure, and 200 ppm may be fatal. Calibration gases must be handled with utmost care and with adequate ventilation. Emission-level exposure to these gases should be avoided.

The performance criteria in this method will be met or exceeded if you are properly using equipment designed for this application.

6.1 What do I need for the measurement system? You may use any equipment and supplies meeting the following specifications:

(1) Sampling system components that are not evaluated in the system bias or system calibration error test must be glass, Teflon, or stainless steel. Other materials are potentially acceptable, subject to approval by the Administrator.

(2) The interference, calibration error, and system bias criteria must be met.

(3) Sample flow rate must be maintained within 10 percent of the flow rate at which the system response time was measured.

(4) All system components (excluding sample conditioning components, if used) must maintain the sample temperature above the moisture dew point. Ensure minimal contact between any condensate and the sample gas. Section 6.2 provides example equipment specifications for a NOmeasurement system. Figure 7E-1 is a diagram of an example dry-basis measurement system that is likely to meet the method requirements and is provided as guidance. For wet-basis systems, you may use alternative equipment and supplies as needed (some of which are described in Section 6.2), provided that the measurement system meets the applicable performance specifications of this method.
