
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - State Water Pollution Control Revolving Funds
###### ยง 35.3110 Fund establishment.
####### Transfer of title II allotments.

(f)A State may exercise the option to transfer a portion of its title II allotment for deposit, through a capitalization grant, into an established water pollution control revolving fund, under section 205(m) of the Act.

(1) If the State elects this option, the Governor of the State must submit a Notice of Intent to the RA specifying the amount of the title II allotment the State intends to use for title VI purposes during the fiscal year for which it is submitted. The Notice may also identify anticipated, unobligated title II funds from the prior fiscal year, and request transfer of those funds as well.

(2) Each Notice of Intent must be submitted on or before July 3 of the year preceding the Federal fiscal year in which those funds are available. If a State fails to file a Notice of Intent on or before the prescribed date, then the State may not transfer title II allotments into an SRF in the upcoming fiscal year. A timely Notice of Intent may be later withdrawn or amended.

(3) When the capitalization grant is awarded, funds requested under section 205(m) of the Act will be obligated under title VI for the activities of the SRF. If a Notice of Intent anticipates transfer of funds under the authority of section 205(m), but those funds are not so obligated by the end of the two year period of availability, they will be subject to reallotment as construction grant funds.
