
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 8.2.3 Calibration Error Test. How do I confirm my analyzer calibration is correct?

After you have assembled, prepared and calibrated your sampling system and analyzer, you must conduct a 3-point analyzer calibration error test (or a 3-point system calibration error test for dilution systems) before the first run and again after any failed system bias test (or 2-point system calibration error test for dilution systems) or failed drift test. Introduce the low-, mid-, and high-level calibration gases sequentially. For non-dilution-type measurement systems, introduce the gases in direct calibration mode. For dilution-type measurement systems, introduce the gases in system calibration mode.

(1) For non-dilution systems, you may adjust the system to maintain the correct flow rate at the analyzer during the test, but you may not make adjustments for any other purpose. For dilution systems, you must operate the measurement system at the appropriate dilution ratio during all system calibration error checks, and may make only the adjustments necessary to maintain the proper ratio.

(2) Record the analyzer's response to each calibration gas on a form similar to Table 7E-1. For each calibration gas, calculate the analyzer calibration error using Equation 7E-1 in section 12.2 or the system calibration error using Equation 7E-3 in section 12.4 (as applicable). The calibration error specification in section 13.1 must be met for the low-, mid-, and high-level gases. If the calibration error specification is not met, take corrective action and repeat the test until an acceptable 3-point calibration is achieved.
