
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 8.2.7 Interference Check.

Conduct an interference response test of the gas analyzer prior to its initial use in the field. If you have multiple analyzers of the same make and model, you need only perform this alternative interference check on one analyzer. You may also meet the interference check requirement if the instrument manufacturer performs this or a similar check on an analyzer of the same make and model of the analyzer that you use and provides you with documented results.

(1) You may introduce the appropriate interference test gases (that are potentially encountered during a test; see examples in Table 7E-3) into the analyzer separately or as mixtures. Test the analyzer with the interference gas alone at the highest concentration expected at a test source and again with the interference gas and NOat a representative NOtest concentration. For analyzers measuring NOgreater than 20 ppm, use a calibration gas with a NOconcentration of 80 to 100 ppm and set this concentration equal to the calibration span. For analyzers measuring less than 20 ppm NO, select an NO concentration for the calibration span that reflects the emission levels at the sources to be tested, and perform the interference check at that level. Measure the total interference response of the analyzer to these gases in ppmv. Record the responses and determine the interference using Table 7E-4. The specification in section 13.4 must be met.
