
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 7.2 Interference Check. What reagents do I need for the interference check?

Use the appropriate test gases listed in Table 7E-3 or others not listed that can potentially interfere (as indicated by the test facility type, instrument manufacturer, etc.) to conduct the interference check. These gases should be manufacturer certified but do not have to be prepared by the EPA traceability protocol.

Since you are allowed to choose different options to comply with some of the performance criteria, it is your responsibility to identify the specific options you have chosen, to document that the performance criteria for that option have been met, and to identify any deviations from the method.

8.1.1 Unless otherwise specified in an applicable regulation or by the Administrator, when this method is used to determine compliance with an emission standard, conduct a stratification test as described in section 8.1.2 to determine the sampling traverse points to be used. For performance testing of continuous emission monitoring systems, follow the sampling site selection and traverse point layout procedures described in the appropriate performance specification or applicable regulation (e.g., Performance Specification 2 in appendix B to this part).

8.1.2 Determination of Stratification. Perform a stratification test at each test site to determine the appropriate number of sample traverse points. If testing for multiple pollutants or diluents at the same site, a stratification test using only one pollutant or diluent satisfies this requirement. A stratification test is not required for small stacks that are less than 4 inches in diameter. To test for stratification, use a probe of appropriate length to measure the NO(or pollutant of interest) concentration at 12 traverse points located according to Table 1-1 or Table 1-2 of Method 1. Alternatively, you may measure at three points on a line passing through the centroidal area. Space the three points at 16.7, 50.0, and 83.3 percent of the measurement line. Sample for a minimum of twice the system response time (see section 8.2.6) at each traverse point. Calculate the individual point and mean NOconcentrations. If the concentration at each traverse point differs from the mean concentration for all traverse points by no more than: +/-5.0 percent of the mean concentration; or +/-0.5 ppm (whichever is less restrictive), the gas stream is considered unstratified, and you may collect samples from a single point that most closely matches the mean. If the 5.0 percent or 0.5 ppm criterion is not met, but the concentration at each traverse point differs from the mean concentration for all traverse points by not more than: +/-10.0 percent of the mean concentration; or +/-1.0 ppm (whichever is less restrictive), the gas stream is considered to be minimally stratified and you may take samples from three points. Space the three points at 16.7, 50.0, and 83.3 percent of the measurement line. Alternatively, if a 12-point stratification test was performed and the emissions were shown to be minimally stratified (all points within +/- 10.0 percent of their mean or within +/-1.0 ppm), and if the stack diameter (or equivalent diameter, for a rectangular stack or duct) is greater than 2.4 meters (7.8 ft), then you may use 3-point sampling and locate the three points along the measurement line exhibiting the highest average concentration during the stratification test at 0.4, 1.2 and 2.0 meters from the stack or duct wall. If the gas stream is found to be stratified because the 10.0 percent or 1.0 ppm criterion for a 3-point test is not met, locate 12 traverse points for the test in accordance with Table 1-1 or Table 1-2 of Method 1.
