
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 8.2.4 NO,to NO Conversion Efficiency Test.

Before or after each field test, you must conduct an NOto NO conversion efficiency test if your system converts NOto NO before analyzing for NO. You may risk testing multiple facilities before performing this test provided you pass this test at the conclusion of the final facility test. A failed final conversion efficiency test in this case will invalidate all tests performed subsequent to the test in which the converter efficiency test was passed. Follow the procedures in section 8.2.4.1, or 8.2.4.2. If desired, the converter efficiency factor derived from this test may be used to correct the test results for converter efficiency if the NOfraction in the measured test gas is known. Use Equation 7E-8 in section 12.8 for this correction.

8.2.4.1 Introduce NOconverter efficiency gas to the analyzer in direct calibration mode and record the NOconcentration displayed by the analyzer. Calculate the converter efficiency using Equation 7E-7 in section 12.7. The specification for converter efficiency in section 13.5 must be met. The user is cautioned that state-of-the-art NOcalibration gases may have limited shelf lives, and this could affect the ability to pass the 90-percent conversion efficiency requirement.

8.2.4.2 Alternatively, either of the procedures for determining conversion efficiency using NO in section 16.2 may be used.

8.2.5 Initial System Bias and System Calibration Error Checks. Before sampling begins, determine whether the high-level or mid-level calibration gas best approximates the emissions and use it as the upscale gas. Introduce the upscale gas at the probe upstream of all sample conditioning components in system calibration mode. Record the time it takes for the measured concentration to increase to a value that is at least 95 percent or within 0.5 ppm (whichever is less restrictive) of a stable response for both the low-level and upscale gases. Continue to observe the gas concentration reading until it has reached a final, stable value. Record this value on a form similar to Table 7E-2.

(1) Next, introduce the low-level gas in system calibration mode and record the time required for the concentration response to decrease to a value that is within 5.0 percent or 0.5 ppm (whichever is less restrictive) of the certified low-range gas concentration. If the low-level gas is a zero gas, use the procedures described above and observe the change in concentration until the response is 0.5 ppm or 5.0 percent of the upscale gas concentration (whichever is less restrictive).

(2) Continue to observe the low-level gas reading until it has reached a final, stable value and record the result on a form similar to Table 7E-2. Operate the measurement system at the normal sampling rate during all system bias checks. Make only the adjustments necessary to achieve proper calibration gas flow rates at the analyzer.

(3) From these data, calculate the measurement system response time (see section 8.2.6) and then calculate the initial system bias using Equation 7E-2 in section 12.3. For dilution systems, calculate the system calibration error in lieu of system bias using equation 7E-3 in section 12.4. See section 13.2 for acceptable performance criteria for system bias and system calibration error. If the initial system bias (or system calibration error) specification is not met, take corrective action. Then, you must repeat the applicable calibration error test from section 8.2.3 and the initial system bias (or 2-point system calibration error) check until acceptable results are achieved, after which you may begin sampling.

(For dilution-type systems, data from the 3-point system calibration error test described in section 8.2.3 may be used to meet the initial 2-point system calibration error test requirement of this section, if the calibration gases were injected as described in this section, and if response time data were recorded).
