
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 8.7 Moisture correction.

You must determine the moisture content of the flue gas and correct the measured gas concentrations to a dry basis using Method 4 or other appropriate methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, when the moisture basis (wet or dry) of the measurements made with this method is different from the moisture basis of either: (1) The applicable emissions limit; or (2) the CEMS being evaluated for relative accuracy. Moisture correction is also required if the applicable limit is in lb/mmBtu and the moisture basis of the Method 7E NOanalyzer is different from the moisture basis of the Method 3A diluent gas (COor O) analyzer.

The following table is a summary of the mandatory, suggested, and alternative quality assurance and quality control measures and the associated frequency and acceptance criteria. All of the QC data, along with the sample run data, must be documented and included in the test report.

(1) The initial 3-point calibration error test as described in section 8.2.3 and the system bias (or system calibration error) checks described in section 8.2.5 are required and must meet the specifications in section 13 before you start the test. Make all necessary adjustments to calibrate the gas analyzer and data recorder. Then, after the test commences, the system bias or system calibration error checks described in section 8.5 are required before and after each run. Your analyzer must be calibrated for all species of NOthat it detects. Analyzers that measure NO and NOseparately without using a converter must be calibrated with both NO and NO.

(2) You must include a copy of the manufacturer's certification of the calibration gases used in the testing as part of the test report. This certification must include the 13 documentation requirements in the EPA Traceability Protocol For Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards, September 1997, as amended August 25, 1999. When Method 205 is used to produce diluted calibration gases, you must document that the specifications for the gas dilution system are met for the test. You must also include the date of the most recent dilution system calibration against flow standards and the name of the person or manufacturer who carried out the calibration in the test report.

Because sample collection and analysis are performed together (see section 8), additional discussion of the analytical procedure is not necessary.

You must follow the procedures for calculations and data analysis listed in this section.
