
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 8.3 Dilution-Type Systems-Special Considerations.

When a dilution-type measurement system is used, there are three important considerations that must be taken into account to ensure the quality of the emissions data. First, the critical orifice size and dilution ratio must be selected properly so that the sample dew point will be below the sample line and analyzer temperatures. Second, a high-quality, accurate probe controller must be used to maintain the dilution ratio during the test. The probe controller should be capable of monitoring the dilution air pressure, eductor vacuum, and sample flow rates. Third, differences between the molecular weight of calibration gas mixtures and the stack gas molecular weight must be addressed because these can affect the dilution ratio and introduce measurement bias.

(1) Position the probe at the first sampling point. Purge the system for at least two times the response time before recording any data. Then, traverse all required sampling points, sampling at each point for an equal length of time and maintaining the appropriate sample flow rate or dilution ratio (as applicable). You must record at least one valid data point per minute during the test run.

(2) Each time the probe is removed from the stack and replaced, you must recondition the sampling system for at least two times the system response time prior to your next recording. If the average of any run exceeds the calibration span value, that run is invalid.

(3) You may satisfy the multipoint traverse requirement by sampling sequentially using a single-hole probe or a multi-hole probe designed to sample at the prescribed points with a flow within 10 percent of mean flow rate. Notwithstanding, for applications under part 75 of this chapter, the use of multi-hole probes is subject to the approval of the Administrator.

How do I confirm that each sample I collect is valid? After each run, repeat the system bias check or 2-point system calibration error check (for dilution systems) to validate the run. Do not make adjustments to the measurement system (other than to maintain the target sampling rate or dilution ratio) between the end of the run and the completion of the post-run system bias or system calibration error check. Note that for all post-run system bias or 2-point system calibration error checks, you may inject the low-level gas first and the upscale gas last, or vice-versa. If conducting a relative accuracy test or relative accuracy test audit, consisting of nine runs or more, you may risk sampling for up to three runs before performing the post-run bias or system calibration error check provided you pass this test at the conclusion of the group of three runs. A failed post-run bias or system calibration error check in this case will invalidate all runs subsequent to the last passed check. When conducting a performance or compliance test, you must perform a post-run system bias or system calibration error check after each individual test run.

(1) If you do not pass the post-run system bias (or system calibration error) check, then the run is invalid. You must diagnose and fix the problem and pass another calibration error test (Section 8.2.3) and system bias (or 2-point system calibration error) check (Section 8.2.5) before repeating the run. Record the system bias (or system calibration error) results on a form similar to Table 7E-2.

(2) After each run, calculate the low-level and upscale drift, using Equation 7E-4 in section 12.5. If the post-run low- and upscale bias (or 2-point system calibration error) checks are passed, but the low-or upscale drift exceeds the specification in section 13.3, the run data are valid, but a 3-point calibration error test and a system bias (or 2-point system calibration error) check must be performed and passed before any more test runs are done.

(3) For dilution systems, data from a 3-point system calibration error test may be used to met the pre-run 2-point system calibration error requirement for the first run in a test sequence. Also, the post-run bias (or 2-point calibration error) check data may be used as the pre-run data for the next run in the test sequence at the discretion of the tester.
