
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 12.1 Nomenclature.

Same as Method 5, section 12.1, with the following additions and exceptions:

12.2 Average Dry Gas Meter Temperature and Average Orifice Pressure Drop. See data sheet (Figure 8-2).

12.3 Dry Gas Volume. Same as Method 5, section 12.3.

12.4 Volume of Water Vapor Condensed and Moisture Content. Calculate the volume of water vapor using Equation 5-2 of Method 5; the weight of water collected in the impingers and silica gel can be converted directly to milliliters (the specific gravity of water is 1 g/ml). Calculate the moisture content of the stack gas (B) using Equation 5-3 of Method 5. The note in section 12.5 of Method 5 also applies to this method. Note that if the effluent gas stream can be considered dry, the volume of water vapor and moisture content need not be calculated.

12.5 Sulfuric Acid Mist (Including SO) Concentration.

12.6 Sulfur Dioxide Concentration.

12.7 Isokinetic Variation. Same as Method 5, section 12.11.

12.8 Stack Gas Velocity and Volumetric Flow Rate. Calculate the average stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate, if needed, using data obtained in this method and the equations in sections 12.6 and 12.7 of Method 2.

13.1 Analytical Range. Collaborative tests have shown that the minimum detectable limits of the method are 0.06 mg/m(4 x 10lb/ft) for HSOand 1.2 mg/m(74 x 10lb/ft) for SO. No upper limits have been established. Based on theoretical calculations for 200 ml of 3 percent HOsolution, the upper concentration limit for SOin a 1.0 m(35.3 ft) gas sample is about 12,000 mg/m(7.7 x 10lb/ft). The upper limit can be extended by increasing the quantity of peroxide solution in the impingers.

Same as section 17.0 of Methods 5 and 6.

Many stationary sources discharge visible emissions into the atmosphere; these emissions are usually in the shape of a plume. This method involves the determination of plume opacity by qualified observers. The method includes procedures for the training and certification of observers, and procedures to be used in the field for determination of plume opacity. The appearance of a plume as viewed by an observer depends upon a number of variables, some of which may be controllable and some of which may not be controllable in the field. Variables which can be controlled to an extent to which they no longer exert a significant influence upon plume appearance include: Angle of the observer with respect to the plume; angle of the observer with respect to the sun; point of observation of attached and detached steam plume; and angle of the observer with respect to a plume emitted from a rectangular stack with a large length to width ratio. The method includes specific criteria applicable to these variables.

Other variables which may not be controllable in the field are luminescence and color contrast between the plume and the background against which the plume is viewed. These variables exert an influence upon the appearance of a plume as viewed by an observer, and can affect the ability of the observer to accurately assign opacity values to the observed plume. Studies of the theory of plume opacity and field studies have demonstrated that a plume is most visible and presents the greatest apparent opacity when viewed against a contrasting background. It follows from this, and is confirmed by field trials, that the opacity of a plume, viewed under conditions where a contrasting background is present can be assigned with the greatest degree of accuracy. However, the potential for a positive error is also the greatest when a plume is viewed under such contrasting conditions. Under conditions presenting a less contrasting background, the apparent opacity of a plume is less and approaches zero as the color and luminescence contrast decrease toward zero. As a result, significant negative bias and negative errors can be made when a plume is viewed under less contrasting conditions. A negative bias decreases rather than increases the possibility that a plant operator will be cited for a violation of opacity standards due to observer error.

Studies have been undertaken to determine the magnitude of positive errors which can be made by qualified observers while reading plumes under contrasting conditions and using the procedures set forth in this method. The results of these studies (field trials) which involve a total of 769 sets of 25 readings each are as follows:

(1) For black plumes (133 sets at a smoke generator), 100 percent of the sets were read with a positive errorof less than 7.5 percent opacity; 99 percent were read with a positive error of less than 5 percent opacity.

(2) For white plumes (170 sets at a smoke generator, 168 sets at a coal-fired power plant, 298 sets at a sulfuric acid plant), 99 percent of the sets were read with a positive error of less than 7.5 percent opacity; 95 percent were read with a positive error of less than 5 percent opacity.

The positive observational error associated with an average of twenty-five readings is therefore established. The accuracy of the method must be taken into account when determining possible violations of applicable opacity standards.

1.1 Principle. The opacity of emissions from stationary sources is determined visually by a qualified observer.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of the opacity of emissions from stationary sources pursuant to § 60.11(b) and for qualifying observers for visually determining opacity of emissions.

The observer qualified in accordance with section 3 of this method shall use the following procedures for visually determining the opacity of emissions:

2.1 Position. The qualified observer shall stand at a distance sufficient to provide a clear view of the emissions with the sun oriented in the 140&#xB0; sector to his back. Consistent with maintaining the above requirement, the observer shall, as much as possible, make his observations from a position such that his line of vision is approximately perpendicular to the plume direction, and when observing opacity of emissions from rectangular outlets (e.g., roof monitors, open baghouses, noncircular stacks), approximately perpendicular to the longer axis of the outlet. The observer's line of sight should not include more than one plume at a time when multiple stacks are involved, and in any case the observer should make his observations with his line of sight perpendicular to the longer axis of such a set of multiple stacks (e.g., stub stacks on baghouses).

2.2 Field Records. The observer shall record the name of the plant, emission location, type facility, observer's name and affiliation, a sketch of the observer's position relative to the source, and the date on a field data sheet (Figure 9-1). The time, estimated distance to the emission location, approximate wind direction, estimated wind speed, description of the sky condition (presence and color of clouds), and plume background are recorded on a field data sheet at the time opacity readings are initiated and completed.

2.3 Observations. Opacity observations shall be made at the point of greatest opacity in that portion of the plume where condensed water vapor is not present. The observer shall not look continuously at the plume, but instead shall observe the plume momentarily at 15-second intervals.

2.3.1 Attached Steam Plumes. When condensed water vapor is present within the plume as it emerges from the emission outlet, opacity observations shall be made beyond the point in the plume at which condensed water vapor is no longer visible. The observer shall record the approximate distance from the emission outlet to the point in the plume at which the observations are made.

2.3.2 Detached Steam Plume. When water vapor in the plume condenses and becomes visible at a distinct distance from the emission outlet, the opacity of emissions should be evaluated at the emission outlet prior to the condensation of water vapor and the formation of the steam plume.

2.4 Recording Observations. Opacity observations shall be recorded to the nearest 5 percent at 15-second intervals on an observational record sheet. (See Figure 9-2 for an example.) A minimum of 24 observations shall be recorded. Each momentary observation recorded shall be deemed to represent the average opacity of emissions for a 15-second period.

2.5 Data Reduction. Opacity shall be determined as an average of 24 consecutive observations recorded at 15-second intervals. Divide the observations recorded on the record sheet into sets of 24 consecutive observations. A set is composed of any 24 consecutive observations. Sets need not be consecutive in time and in no case shall two sets overlap. For each set of 24 observations, calculate the average by summing the opacity of the 24 observations and dividing this sum by 24. If an applicable standard specifies an averaging time requiring more than 24 observations, calculate the average for all observations made during the specified time period. Record the average opacity on a record sheet. (See Figure 9-1 for an example.)

3.1 Certification Requirements. To receive certification as a qualified observer, a candidate must be tested and demonstrate the ability to assign opacity readings in 5 percent increments to 25 different black plumes and 25 different white plumes, with an error not to exceed 15 percent opacity on any one reading and an average error not to exceed 7.5 percent opacity in each category. Candidates shall be tested according to the procedures described in section 3.2. Smoke generators used pursuant to section 3.2 shall be equipped with a smoke meter which meets the requirements of section 3.3.

The certification shall be valid for a period of 6 months, at which time the qualification procedure must be repeated by any observer in order to retain certification.

3.2 Certification Procedure. The certification test consists of showing the candidate a complete run of 50 plumes-25 black plumes and 25 white plumes-generated by a smoke generator. Plumes within each set of 25 black and 25 white runs shall be presented in random order. The candidate assigns an opacity value to each plume and records his observation on a suitable form. At the completion of each run of 50 readings, the score of the candidate is determined. If a candidate fails to qualify, the complete run of 50 readings must be repeated in any retest. The smoke test may be administered as part of a smoke school or training program, and may be preceded by training or familiarization runs of the smoke generator during which candidates are shown black and white plumes of known opacity.

3.3 Smoke Generator Specifications. Any smoke generator used for the purposes of section 3.2 shall be equipped with a smoke meter installed to measure opacity across the diameter of the smoke generator stack. The smoke meter output shall display instack opacity based upon a pathlength equal to the stack exit diameter, on a full 0 to 100 percent chart recorder scale. The smoke meter optical design and performance shall meet the specifications shown in Table 9-1. The smoke meter shall be calibrated as prescribed in section 3.3.1 prior to the conduct of each smoke reading test. At the completion of each test, the zero and span drift shall be checked and if the drift exceeds +/-1 percent opacity, the condition shall be corrected prior to conducting any subsequent test runs. The smoke meter shall be demonstrated, at the time of installation, to meet the specifications listed in Table 9-1. This demonstration shall be repeated following any subsequent repair or replacement of the photocell or associated electronic circuitry including the chart recorder or output meter, or every 6 months, whichever occurs first.

3.3.1 Calibration. The smoke meter is calibrated after allowing a minimum of 30 minutes warmup by alternately producing simulated opacity of 0 percent and 100 percent. When stable response at 0 percent or 100 percent is noted, the smoke meter is adjusted to produce an output of 0 percent or 100 percent, as appropriate. This calibration shall be repeated until stable 0 percent and 100 percent readings are produced without adjustment. Simulated 0 percent and 100 percent opacity values may be produced by alternately switching the power to the light source on and off while the smoke generator is not producing smoke.

3.3.2 Smoke Meter Evaluation. The smoke meter design and performance are to be evaluated as follows:

3.3.2.1 Light Source. Verify from manufacturer's data and from voltage measurements made at the lamp, as installed, that the lamp is operated within +/-5 percent of the nominal rated voltage.

3.3.2.2 Spectral Response of Photocell. Verify from manufacturer's data that the photocell has a photopic response; i.e., the spectral sensitivity of the cell shall closely approximate the standard spectral-luminosity curve for photopic vision which is referenced in (b) of Table 9-1.

3.3.2.3 Angle of View. Check construction geometry to ensure that the total angle of view of the smoke plume, as seen by the photocell, does not exceed 15&#xB0;. The total angle of view may be calculated from: &#x3B8; = 2 tand/2L, where &#x3B8; = total angle of view; d = the sum of the photocell diameter + the diameter of the limiting aperture; and L = the distance from the photocell to the limiting aperture. The limiting aperture is the point in the path between the photocell and the smoke plume where the angle of view is most restricted. In smoke generator smoke meters this is normally an orifice plate.

3.3.2.4 Angle of Projection. Check construction geometry to ensure that the total angle of projection of the lamp on the smoke plume does not exceed 15&#xB0;. The total angle of projection may be calculated from: &#x3B8; = 2 tand/2L, where &#x3B8; = total angle of projection; d = the sum of the length of the lamp filament + the diameter of the limiting aperture; and L = the distance from the lamp to the limiting aperture.

3.3.2.5 Calibration Error. Using neutral-density filters of known opacity, check the error between the actual response and the theoretical linear response of the smoke meter. This check is accomplished by first calibrating the smoke meter according to 3.3.1 and then inserting a series of three neutral-density filters of nominal opacity of 20, 50, and 75 percent in the smoke meter pathlength. Filters calibrated within +/-2 percent shall be used. Care should be taken when inserting the filters to prevent stray light from affecting the meter. Make a total of five nonconsecutive readings for each filter. The maximum error on any one reading shall be 3 percent opacity.

3.3.2.6 Zero and Span Drift. Determine the zero and span drift by calibrating and operating the smoke generator in a normal manner over a 1-hour period. The drift is measured by checking the zero and span at the end of this period.

3.3.2.7 Response Time. Determine the response time by producing the series of five simulated 0 percent and 100 percent opacity values and observing the time required to reach stable response. Opacity values of 0 percent and 100 percent may be simulated by alternately switching the power to the light source off and on while the smoke generator is not operating.

1. Air Pollution Control District Rules and Regulations, Los Angeles County Air Pollution Control District, Regulation IV, Prohibitions, Rule 50.

2. Weisburd, Melvin I., Field Operations and Enforcement Manual for Air, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. APTD-1100, August 1972, pp. 4.1-4.36.

3. Condon, E.U., and Odishaw, H., Handbook of Physics, McGraw-Hill Co., New York, NY, 1958, Table 3.1, p. 6-52.

This alternate method provides the quantitative determination of the opacity of an emissions plume remotely by a mobile lidar system (laser radar; Light Detection and Ranging). The method includes procedures for the calibration of the lidar and procedures to be used in the field for the lidar determination of plume opacity. The lidar is used to measure plume opacity during either day or nighttime hours because it contains its own pulsed light source or transmitter. The operation of the lidar is not dependent upon ambient lighting conditions (light, dark, sunny or cloudy).

The lidar mechanism or technique is applicable to measuring plume opacity at numerous wavelengths of laser radiation. However, the performance evaluation and calibration test results given in support of this method apply only to a lidar that employs a ruby (red light) laser [Reference 5.1].

1.1 Principle. The opacity of visible emissions from stationary sources (stacks, roof vents, etc.) is measured remotely by a mobile lidar (laser radar).

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the remote measurement of the opacity of visible emissions from stationary sources during both nighttime and daylight conditions, pursuant to 40 CFR § 60.11(b). It is also applicable for the calibration and performance verification of the mobile lidar for the measurement of the opacity of emissions. A performance/design specification for a basic lidar system is also incorporated into this method.

1.3 Definitions.

Azimuth angle: The angle in the horizontal plane that designates where the laser beam is pointed. It is measured from an arbitrary fixed reference line in that plane.

Backscatter: The scattering of laser light in a direction opposite to that of the incident laser beam due to reflection from particulates along the beam's atmospheric path which may include a smoke plume.

Backscatter signal: The general term for the lidar return signal which results from laser light being backscattered by atmospheric and smoke plume particulates.

Convergence distance: The distance from the lidar to the point of overlap of the lidar receiver's field-of-view and the laser beam.

Elevation angle: The angle of inclination of the laser beam referenced to the horizontal plane.

Far region: The region of the atmosphere's path along the lidar line-of-sight beyond or behind the plume being measured.

Lidar: Acronym for Light Detection and Ranging.

Lidar range: The range or distance from the lidar to a point of interest along the lidar line-of-sight.

Near region: The region of the atmospheric path along the lidar line-of-sight between the lidar's convergence distance and the plume being measured.

Opacity: One minus the optical transmittance of a smoke plume, screen target, etc.

Pick interval: The time or range intervals in the lidar backscatter signal whose minimum average amplitude is used to calculate opacity. Two pick intervals are required, one in the near region and one in the far region.

Plume: The plume being measured by lidar.

Plume signal: The backscatter signal resulting from the laser light pulse passing through a plume.

1/RCorrection: The correction made for the systematic decrease in lidar backscatter signal amplitude with range.

Reference signal: The backscatter signal resulting from the laser light pulse passing through ambient air.

Sample interval: The time period between successive samples for a digital signal or between successive measurements for an analog signal.

Signal spike: An abrupt, momentary increase and decrease in signal amplitude.

Source: The source being tested by lidar.

Time reference: The time (t) when the laser pulse emerges from the laser, used as the reference in all lidar time or range measurements.

The mobile lidar calibrated in accordance with Paragraph 3 of this method shall use the following procedures for remotely measuring the opacity of stationary source emissions:

2.1 Lidar Position. The lidar shall be positioned at a distance from the plume sufficient to provide an unobstructed view of the source emissions. The plume must be at a range of at least 50 meters or three consecutive pick intervals (whichever is greater) from the lidar's transmitter/receiver convergence distance along the line-of-sight. The maximum effective opacity measurement distance of the lidar is a function of local atmospheric conditions, laser beam diameter, and plume diameter. The test position of the lidar shall be selected so that the diameter of the laser beam at the measurement point within the plume shall be no larger than three-fourths the plume diameter. The beam diameter is calculated by Equation (AM1-1):

When there is more than one source of emissions in the immediate vicinity of the plume, the lidar shall be positioned so that the laser beam passes through only a single plume, free from any interference of the other plumes for a minimum of 50 meters or three consecutive pick intervals (whichever is greater) in each region before and beyond the plume along the line-of-sight (determined from the backscatter signals). The lidar shall initially be positioned so that its line-of-sight is approximately perpendicular to the plume.

When measuring the opacity of emissions from rectangular outlets (e.g., roof monitors, open baghouses, noncircular stacks, etc.), the lidar shall be placed in a position so that its line-of-sight is approximately perpendicular to the longer (major) axis of the outlet.

2.2 Lidar Operational Restrictions. The lidar receiver shall not be aimed within an angle of +/-15&#xB0; (cone angle) of the sun.

This method shall not be used to make opacity measurements if thunderstorms, snowstorms, hail storms, high wind, high-ambient dust levels, fog or other atmospheric conditions cause the reference signals to consistently exceed the limits specified in section 2.3.

2.3 Reference Signal Requirements. Once placed in its proper position for opacity measurement, the laser is aimed and fired with the line-of-sight near the outlet height and rotated horizontally to a position clear of the source structure and the associated plume. The backscatter signal obtained from this position is called the ambient-air or reference signal. The lidar operator shall inspect this signal [Section V of Reference 5.1] to: (1) determine if the lidar line-of-sight is free from interference from other plumes and from physical obstructions such as cables, power lines, etc., for a minimum of 50 meters or three consecutive pick intervals (whichever is greater) in each region before and beyond the plume, and (2) obtain a qualitative measure of the homogeneity of the ambient air by noting any signal spikes.

Should there be any signal spikes on the reference signal within a minimum of 50 meters or three consecutive pick intervals (whichever is greater) in each region before and beyond the plume, the laser shall be fired three more times and the operator shall inspect the reference signals on the display. If the spike(s) remains, the azimuth angle shall be changed and the above procedures conducted again. If the spike(s) disappears in all three reference signals, the lidar line-of-sight is acceptable if there is shot-to-shot consistency and there is no interference from other plumes.

Shot-to-shot consistency of a series of reference signals over a period of twenty seconds is verified in either of two ways. (1) The lidar operator shall observe the reference signal amplitudes. For shot-to-shot consistency the ratio of Rto R[amplitudes of the near and far region pick intervals (Section 2.6.1)] shall vary by not more than +/-6% between shots; or (2) the lidar operator shall accept any one of the reference signals and treat the other two as plume signals; then the opacity for each of the subsequent reference signals is calculated (Equation AM1-2). For shot-to-shot consistency, the opacity values shall be within +/-3% of 0% opacity and the associated Svalues less than or equal to 8% (full scale) [Section 2.6].

If a set of reference signals fails to meet the requirements of this section, then all plume signals [Section 2.4] from the last set of acceptable reference signals to the failed set shall be discarded.

2.3.1 Initial and Final Reference Signals. Three reference signals shall be obtained within a 90-second time period prior to any data run. A final set of three reference signals shall be obtained within three (3) minutes after the completion of the same data run.

2.3.2 Temporal Criterion for Additional Reference Signals. An additional set of reference signals shall be obtained during a data run if there is a change in wind direction or plume drift of 30&#xB0; or more from the direction that was prevalent when the last set of reference signals was obtained. An additional set of reference signals shall also be obtained if there is an increase in value of S(near region standard deviation, Equation AM1-5) or S(far region standard deviation, Equation AM1-6) that is greater than 6% (full scale) over the respective values calculated from the immediately previous plume signal, and this increase in value remains for 30 seconds or longer. An additional set of reference signals shall also be obtained if there is a change in amplitude in either the near or the far region of the plume signal, that is greater than 6% of the near signal amplitude and this change in amplitude remains for 30 seconds or more.

2.4 Plume Signal Requirements. Once properly aimed, the lidar is placed in operation with the nominal pulse or firing rate of six pulses/minute (1 pulse/10 seconds). The lidar operator shall observe the plume backscatter signals to determine the need for additional reference signals as required by section 2.3.2. The plume signals are recorded from lidar start to stop and are called a data run. The length of a data run is determined by operator discretion. Short-term stops of the lidar to record additional reference signals do not constitute the end of a data run if plume signals are resumed within 90 seconds after the reference signals have been recorded, and the total stop or interrupt time does not exceed 3 minutes.

2.4.1 Non-hydrated Plumes. The laser shall be aimed at the region of the plume which displays the greatest opacity. The lidar operator must visually verify that the laser is aimed clearly above the source exit structure.

2.4.2 Hydrated Plumes. The lidar will be used to measure the opacity of hydrated or so-called steam plumes. As listed in the reference method, there are two types, i.e., attached and detached steam plumes.

2.4.2.1 Attached Steam Plumes. When condensed water vapor is present within a plume, lidar opacity measurements shall be made at a point within the residual plume where the condensed water vapor is no longer visible. The laser shall be aimed into the most dense region (region of highest opacity) of the residual plume.

During daylight hours the lidar operator locates the most dense portion of the residual plume visually. During nighttime hours a high-intensity spotlight, night vision scope, or low light level TV, etc., can be used as an aid to locate the residual plume. If visual determination is ineffective, the lidar may be used to locate the most dense region of the residual plume by repeatedly measuring opacity, along the longitudinal axis or center of the plume from the emissions outlet to a point just beyond the steam plume. The lidar operator should also observe color differences and plume reflectivity to ensure that the lidar is aimed completely within the residual plume. If the operator does not obtain a clear indication of the location of the residual plume, this method shall not be used.

Once the region of highest opacity of the residual plume has been located, aiming adjustments shall be made to the laser line-of-sight to correct for the following: movement to the region of highest opacity out of the lidar line-of-sight (away from the laser beam) for more than 15 seconds, expansion of the steam plume (air temperature lowers and/or relative humidity increases) so that it just begins to encroach on the field-of-view of the lidar's optical telescope receiver, or a decrease in the size of the steam plume (air temperature higher and/or relative humidity decreases) so that regions within the residual plume whose opacity is higher than the one being monitored, are present.

2.4.2.2 Detached Steam Plumes. When the water vapor in a hydrated plume condenses and becomes visible at a finite distance from the stack or source emissions outlet, the opacity of the emissions shall be measured in the region of the plume clearly above the emissions outlet and below condensation of the water vapor.

During daylight hours the lidar operators can visually determine if the steam plume is detached from the stack outlet. During nighttime hours a high-intensity spotlight, night vision scope, low light level TV, etc., can be used as an aid in determining if the steam plume is detached. If visual determination is ineffective, the lidar may be used to determine if the steam plume is detached by repeatedly measuring plume opacity from the outlet to the steam plume along the plume's longitudinal axis or center line. The lidar operator should also observe color differences and plume reflectivity to detect a detached plume. If the operator does not obtain a clear indication of the location of the detached plume, this method shall not be used to make opacity measurements between the outlet and the detached plume.

Once the determination of a detached steam plume has been confirmed, the laser shall be aimed into the region of highest opacity in the plume between the outlet and the formation of the steam plume. Aiming adjustments shall be made to the lidar's line-of-sight within the plume to correct for changes in the location of the most dense region of the plume due to changes in wind direction and speed or if the detached steam plume moves closer to the source outlet encroaching on the most dense region of the plume. If the detached steam plume should move too close to the source outlet for the lidar to make interference-free opacity measurements, this method shall not be used.

2.5 Field Records. In addition to the recording recommendations listed in other sections of this method the following records should be maintained. Each plume measured should be uniquely identified. The name of the facility, type of facility, emission source type, geographic location of the lidar with respect to the plume, and plume characteristics should be recorded. The date of the test, the time period that a source was monitored, the time (to the nearest second) of each opacity measurement, and the sample interval should also be recorded. The wind speed, wind direction, air temperature, relative humidity, visibility (measured at the lidar's position), and cloud cover should be recorded at the beginning and end of each time period for a given source. A small sketch depicting the location of the laser beam within the plume should be recorded.

If a detached or attached steam plume is present at the emissions source, this fact should be recorded. Figures AM1-I and AM1-II are examples of logbook forms that may be used to record this type of data. Magnetic tape or paper tape may also be used to record data.

2.6 Opacity Calculation and Data Analysis. Referring to the reference signal and plume signal in Figure AM1-III, the measured opacity (O) in percent for each lidar measurement is calculated using Equation AM1-2. (O= 1-T; Tis the plume transmittance.)

The 1/Rcorrection to the plume and reference signal amplitudes is made by multiplying the amplitude for each successive sample interval from the time reference, by the square of the lidar time (or range) associated with that sample interval [Reference 5.1].

The first step in selecting the pick intervals for Equation AM1-2 is to divide the plume signal amplitude by the reference signal amplitude at the same respective ranges to obtain a "normalized" signal. The pick intervals selected using this normalized signal, are a minimum of 15 m (100 nanoseconds) in length and consist of at least 5 contiguous sample intervals. In addition, the following criteria, listed in order of importance, govern pick interval selection. (1) The intervals shall be in a region of the normalized signal where the reference signal meets the requirements of section 2.3 and is everywhere greater than zero. (2) The intervals (near and far) with the minimum average amplitude are chosen. (3) If more than one interval with the same minimum average amplitude is found, the interval closest to the plume is chosen. (4) The standard deviation, S, for the calculated opacity shall be 8% or less. (Sis calculated by Equation AM1-7).

If Sis greater than 8%, then the far pick interval shall be changed to the next interval of minimal average amplitude. If Sis still greater than 8%, then this procedure is repeated for the far pick interval. This procedure may be repeated once again for the near pick interval, but if Sremains greater than 8%, the plume signal shall be discarded.

The reference signal pick intervals, Rand R, must be chosen over the same time interval as the plume signal pick intervals, Iand I, respectively [Figure AM1-III]. Other methods of selecting pick intervals may be used if they give equivalent results. Field-oriented examples of pick interval selection are available in Reference 5.1.

The average amplitudes for each of the pick intervals, I, I, R, R, shall be calculated by averaging the respective individual amplitudes of the sample intervals from the plume signal and the associated reference signal each corrected for 1/R. The amplitude of Ishall be calculated according to Equation (AM-3).

Similarly, the amplitudes for I, R, and Rare calculated with the three expressions in Equation (AM1-4).

The standard deviation, S, of the set of amplitudes for the near-region pick interval, I, shall be calculated using Equation (AM1-5).

Similarly, the standard deviations S, S, and Sare calculated with the three expressions in Equation (AM1-6).

The calculated values of I, I, R, R, S, S, S, S, O, and Sshould be recorded. Any plume signal with an Sgreater than 8% shall be discarded.

2.6.1 Azimuth Angle Correction. If the azimuth angle correction to opacity specified in this section is performed, then the elevation angle correction specified in section 2.6.2 shall not be performed. When opacity is measured in the residual region of an attached steam plume, and the lidar line-of-sight is not perpendicular to the plume, it may be necessary to correct the opacity measured by the lidar to obtain the opacity that would be measured on a path perpendicular to the plume. The following method, or any other method which produces equivalent results, shall be used to determine the need for a correction, to calculate the correction, and to document the point within the plume at which the opacity was measured.

Figure AM1-IV(b) shows the geometry of the opacity correction. L&#x2032; is the path through the plume along which the opacity measurement is made. P&#x2032; is the path perpendicular to the plume at the same point. The angle ε is the angle between L&#x2032; and the plume center line. The angle (π/2-ε), is the angle between the L&#x2032; and P&#x2032;. The measured opacity, O, measured along the path L&#x2032; shall be corrected to obtain the corrected opacity, O, for the path P&#x2032;, using Equation (AM1-8).

Figure AM1-IV(a) shows the geometry used to calculate ε and the position in the plume at which the lidar measurement is made. This analysis assumes that for a given lidar measurement, the range from the lidar to the plume, the elevation angle of the lidar from the horizontal plane, and the azimuth angle of the lidar from an arbitrary fixed reference in the horizontal plane can all be obtained directly.

The correction angle ε shall be determined using Equation AM1-10.

R&#x2264;, the distance from the source to the opacity measurement point projected in the horizontal plane, shall be determined using Equation AM1-11.

2.6.2 Elevation Angle Correction. An individual lidar-measured opacity, O, shall be corrected for elevation angle if the laser elevation or inclination angle, &#x3B2;[Figure AM1-V], is greater than or equal to the value calculated in Equation AM1-13.

The values for &#x3B2;, Oand Oshould be recorded.

2.6.3 Determination of Actual Plume Opacity. Actual opacity of the plume shall be determined by Equation AM1-15.

2.6.4 Calculation of Average Actual Plume Opacity. The average of the actual plume opacity, O, shall be calculated as the average of the consecutive individual actual opacity values, O, by Equation AM1-16.

The lidar shall be subjected to two types of performance verifications that shall be performed in the field. The annual calibration, conducted at least once a year, shall be used to directly verify operation and performance of the entire lidar system. The routine verification, conducted for each emission source measured, shall be used to insure proper performance of the optical receiver and associated electronics.

3.1 Annual Calibration Procedures. Either a plume from a smoke generator or screen targets shall be used to conduct this calibration.

If the screen target method is selected, five screens shall be fabricated by placing an opaque mesh material over a narrow frame (wood, metal extrusion, etc.). The screen shall have a surface area of at least one square meter. The screen material should be chosen for precise optical opacities of about 10, 20, 40, 60, and 80%. Opacity of each target shall be optically determined and should be recorded. If a smoke generator plume is selected, it shall meet the requirements of section 3.3 of Reference Method 9. This calibration shall be performed in the field during calm (as practical) atmospheric conditions. The lidar shall be positioned in accordance with section 2.1.

The screen targets must be placed perpendicular to and coincident with the lidar line-of-sight at sufficient height above the ground (suggest about 30 ft) to avoid ground-level dust contamination. Reference signals shall be obtained just prior to conducting the calibration test.

The lidar shall be aimed through the center of the plume within 1 stack diameter of the exit, or through the geometric center of the screen target selected. The lidar shall be set in operation for a 6-minute data run at a nominal pulse rate of 1 pulse every 10 seconds. Each backscatter return signal and each respective opacity value obtained from the smoke generator transmissometer, shall be obtained in temporal coincidence. The data shall be analyzed and reduced in accordance with section 2.6 of this method. This calibration shall be performed for 0% (clean air), and at least five other opacities (nominally 10, 20, 40, 60, and 80%).

The average of the lidar opacity values obtained during a 6-minute calibration run shall be calculated and should be recorded. Also the average of the opacity values obtained from the smoke generator transmissometer for the same 6-minute run shall be calculated and should be recorded.

Alternate calibration procedures that do not meet the above requirements but produce equivalent results may be used.

3.2 Routine Verification Procedures. Either one of two techniques shall be used to conduct this verification. It shall be performed at least once every 4 hours for each emission source measured. The following parameters shall be directly verified.

1) The opacity value of 0% plus a minimum of 5 (nominally 10, 20, 40, 60, and 80%) opacity values shall be verified through the PMT detector and data processing electronics.

2) The zero-signal level (receiver signal with no optical signal from the source present) shall be inspected to insure that no spurious noise is present in the signal. With the entire lidar receiver and analog/digital electronics turned on and adjusted for normal operating performance, the following procedures shall be used for Techniques 1 and 2, respectively.

3.2.1 Procedure for Technique 1. This test shall be performed with no ambient or stray light reaching the PMT detector. The narrow band filter (694.3 nanometers peak) shall be removed from its position in front of the PMT detector. Neutral density filters of nominal opacities of 10, 20, 40, 60, and 80% shall be used. The recommended test configuration is depicted in Figure AM1-VI.

The zero-signal level shall be measured and should be recorded, as indicated in Figure AM1-VI(a). This simulated clear-air or 0% opacity value shall be tested in using the selected light source depicted in Figure AM1-VI(b).

The light source either shall be a continuous wave (CW) laser with the beam mechanically chopped or a light emitting diode controlled with a pulse generator (rectangular pulse). (A laser beam may have to be attenuated so as not to saturate the PMT detector). This signal level shall be measured and should be recorded. The opacity value is calculated by taking two pick intervals [Section 2.6] about 1 microsecond apart in time and using Equation (AM1-2) setting the ratio R/R= 1. This calculated value should be recorded.

The simulated clear-air signal level is also employed in the optical test using the neutral density filters. Using the test configuration in Figure AM1-VI(c), each neutral density filter shall be separately placed into the light path from the light source to the PMT detector. The signal level shall be measured and should be recorded. The opacity value for each filter is calculated by taking the signal level for that respective filter (I), dividing it by the 0% opacity signal level (I) and performing the remainder of the calculation by Equation (AM1-2) with R/R= 1. The calculated opacity value for each filter should be recorded.

The neutral density filters used for Technique 1 shall be calibrated for actual opacity with accuracy of +/-2% or better. This calibration shall be done monthly while the filters are in use and the calibrated values should be recorded.

3.2.2 Procedure for Technique 2. An optical generator (built-in calibration mechanism) that contains a light-emitting diode (red light for a lidar containing a ruby laser) is used. By injecting an optical signal into the lidar receiver immediately ahead of the PMT detector, a backscatter signal is simulated. With the entire lidar receiver electronics turned on and adjusted for normal operating performance, the optical generator is turned on and the simulation signal (corrected for 1/R) is selected with no plume spike signal and with the opacity value equal to 0%. This simulated clear-air atmospheric return signal is displayed on the system's video display. The lidar operator then makes any fine adjustments that may be necessary to maintain the system's normal operating range.

The opacity values of 0% and the other five values are selected one at a time in any order. The simulated return signal data should be recorded. The opacity value shall be calculated. This measurement/calculation shall be performed at least three times for each selected opacity value. While the order is not important, each of the opacity values from the optical generator shall be verified. The calibrated optical generator opacity value for each selection should be recorded.

The optical generator used for Technique 2 shall be calibrated for actual opacity with an accuracy of +/-1% or better. This calibration shall be done monthly while the generator is in use and calibrated value should be recorded.

Alternate verification procedures that do not meet the above requirements but produce equivalent results may be used.

3.3 Deviation. The permissible error for the annual calibration and routine verification are:

3.3.1 Annual Calibration Deviation.

3.3.1.1 Smoke Generator. If the lidar-measured average opacity for each data run is not within +/-5% (full scale) of the respective smoke generator's average opacity over the range of 0% through 80%, then the lidar shall be considered out of calibration.

3.3.1.2 Screens. If the lidar-measured average opacity for each data run is not within +/-3% (full scale) of the laboratory-determined opacity for each respective simulation screen target over the range of 0% through 80%, then the lidar shall be considered out of calibration.

3.3.2 Routine Verification Error. If the lidar-measured average opacity for each neutral density filter (Technique 1) or optical generator selection (Technique 2) is not within +/-3% (full scale) of the respective laboratory calibration value then the lidar shall be considered non-operational.

4.1 Lidar Design Specification. The essential components of the basic lidar system are a pulsed laser (transmitter), optical receiver, detector, signal processor, recorder, and an aiming device that is used in aiming the lidar transmitter and receiver. Figure AM1-VII shows a functional block diagram of a basic lidar system.

4.2 Performance Evaluation Tests. The owner of a lidar system shall subject such a lidar system to the performance verification tests described in section 3, prior to first use of this method. The annual calibration shall be performed for three separate, complete runs and the results of each should be recorded. The requirements of section 3.3.1 must be fulfilled for each of the three runs.

Once the conditions of the annual calibration are fulfilled the lidar shall be subjected to the routine verification for three separate complete runs. The requirements of section 3.3.2 must be fulfilled for each of the three runs and the results should be recorded. The Administrator may request that the results of the performance evaluation be submitted for review.

5.1 The Use of Lidar for Emissions Source Opacity Determination, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, National Enforcement Investigations Center, Denver, CO. EPA-330/1-79-003-R, Arthur W. Dybdahl, current edition [NTIS No. PB81-246662].

5.2 Field Evaluation of Mobile Lidar for the Measurement of Smoke Plume Opacity, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, National Enforcement Investigations Center, Denver, CO. EPA/NEIC-TS-128, February 1976.

5.3 Remote Measurement of Smoke Plume Transmittance Using Lidar, C. S. Cook, G. W. Bethke, W. D. Conner (EPA/RTP). Applied Optics 11, pg 1742. August 1972.

5.4 Lidar Studies of Stack Plumes in Rural and Urban Environments, EPA-650/4-73-002, October 1973.

5.5 American National Standard for the Safe Use of Lasers ANSI Z 136.1-176, March 8, 1976.

5.6 U.S. Army Technical Manual TB MED 279, Control of Hazards to Health from Laser Radiation, February 1969.

5.7 Laser Institute of America Laser Safety Manual, 4th Edition.

5.8 U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Regulations for the Administration and Enforcement of the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act of 1968, January 1976.

5.9 Laser Safety Handbook, Alex Mallow, Leon Chabot, Van Nostrand Reinhold Co., 1978.

Method 10 is a procedure for measuring carbon monoxide (CO) in stationary source emissions using a continuous instrumental analyzer. Quality assurance and quality control requirements are included to assure that you, the tester, collect data of known quality. You must document your adherence to these specific requirements for equipment, supplies, sample collection and analysis, calculations, and data analysis. This method does not completely describe all equipment, supplies, and sampling and analytical procedures you will need but refers to other methods for some of the details. Therefore, to obtain reliable results, you should also have a thorough knowledge of these additional test methods which are found in appendix A to this part:

(a) Method 1-Sample and Velocity Traverses for Stationary Sources.

(b) Method 4-Determination of Moisture Content in Stack Gases.

(c) Method 7E-Determination of Nitrogen Oxides Emissions from Stationary Sources (Instrumental Analyzer Procedure).
