
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 16.2 Alternative NO,to NO Conversion Efficiency Procedures.

You may use either of the following procedures to determine converter efficiency in place of the procedure in section 8.2.4.1.

16.2.1 The procedure for determining conversion efficiency using NO in 40 CFR 86.123-78.

16.2.2 Bag Procedure. Perform the analyzer calibration error test to document the calibration (both NO and NOmodes, as applicable). Fill a Tedlar or equivalent bag approximately half full with either ambient air, pure oxygen, or an oxygen standard gas with at least 19.5 percent by volume oxygen content. Fill the remainder of the bag with mid- to high-level NO in N(or other appropriate concentration) calibration gas. (Note that the concentration of the NO standard should be sufficiently high enough for the diluted concentration to be easily and accurately measured on the scale used. The size of the bag should be large enough to accommodate the procedure and time required. Verify through the manufacturer that the Tedlar alternative is suitable for NO and make this verifed information available for inspection.)

(1) Immediately attach the bag to the inlet of the NOanalyzer (or external converter if used). In the case of a dilution-system, introduce the gas at a point upstream of the dilution assembly. Measure the NOconcentration for a period of 30 minutes. If the NOconcentration drops more than 2 percent absolute from the peak value observed, then the NOconverter has failed to meet the criteria of this test. Take corrective action. The highest NOvalue observed is considered to be NO. The final NOvalue observed is considered to be NO.

(2) [Reserved]
