
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 16.1.3 Example Spiking Procedure.

Determine the NO concentration needed to generate concentrations that are 50 and 150 percent of the anticipated NOconcentration in the stack at the total sampling flow rate while keeping the spike flow rate at or below 10 percent of this total. Use a mass flow meter (accurate within 2.0 percent) to generate these NO spike gas concentrations at a constant flow rate. Use Equation 7E-11 in section 12.11 to determine the calculated spike concentration in the collected sample.

(1) Prepare the measurement system and conduct the analyzer calibration error test as described in sections 8.2.2 and 8.2.3. Following the sampling procedures in section 8.1, determine the stack NOconcentration and use this concentration as the average stack concentration (C) for the first spike level, or if desired, for both pre-test spike levels. Introduce the first level spike gas into the system in system calibration mode and begin sample collection. Wait for at least two times the system response time before measuring the spiked sample concentration. Then record at least five successive 1-minute averages of the spiked sample gas. Monitor the spike gas flow rate and maintain at the determined addition rate. Average the five 1-minute averages and determine the spike recovery using Equation 7E-12. Repeat this procedure for the other pre-test spike level. The recovery at each level must be within the limits in section 13.6 before proceeding with the test.

(2) Conduct the number of runs required for the test. Then repeat the above procedure for the post-test spike evaluation. The last run of the test may serve as the average stack concentration for the post-test spike test calculations. The results of the post-test spikes must meet the limits in section 13.6.
