
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-4 to Part 60 - Test Methods 6 through 10B
###### 16.3 Manufacturer's Stability Test.

A manufacturer's stability test is required for all analyzers that routinely measure emissions below 20 ppmv and is optional but recommended for other analyzers. This test evaluates each analyzer model by subjecting it to the tests listed in Table 7E-5 following procedures similar to those in 40 CFR 53.23 for thermal stability and insensitivity to supply voltage variations. If the analyzer will be used under temperature conditions that are outside the test conditions in Table B-4 of Part 53.23, alternative test temperatures that better reflect the analyzer field environment should be used. Alternative procedures or documentation that establish the analyzer's stability over the appropriate line voltages and temperatures are acceptable.

1. "ERA Traceability Protocol for Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards" September 1997 as amended, ERA-600/R-97/121.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of HSO(including HSOmist and SO) and gaseous SOemissions from stationary sources.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

A gas sample is extracted isokinetically from the stack. The HSOand the SOare separated, and both fractions are measured separately by the barium-thorin titration method.

4.1 Possible interfering agents of this method are fluorides, free ammonia, and dimethyl aniline. If any of these interfering agents is present (this can be determined by knowledge of the process), alternative methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, are required.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive reagents. Same as Method 6, section 5.2.

6.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 5, section 6.1, with the following additions and exceptions:

6.1.1 Sampling Train. A schematic of the sampling train used in this method is shown in Figure 8-1; it is similar to the Method 5 sampling train, except that the filter position is different, and the filter holder does not have to be heated. See Method 5, section 6.1.1, for details and guidelines on operation and maintenance.
