
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-5 to Part 60 - Test Methods 11 through 15A
###### e.g.,

10.1.1.1 Initial Calibration. The DGM shall be calibrated before its initial use in the field. Proceed as follows: First, assemble the following components in series: Drying tube, needle valve, pump, rotameter, and DGM. Then, leak-check the metering system as follows: Place a vacuum gauge (at least 760 mm Hg) at the inlet to the drying tube, and pull a vacuum of 250 mm Hg (10 in. Hg); plug or pinch off the outlet of the flow meter, and then turn off the pump. The vacuum shall remain stable for at least 30 seconds. Carefully release the vacuum gauge before releasing the flow meter end. Next, calibrate the DGM (at the sampling flow rate specified by the method) as follows: Connect an appropriately sized wet-test meter (1 liter per revolution) to the inlet of the drying tube. Make three independent calibration runs, using at least five revolutions of the DGM per run. Calculate the calibration factor, Y (wet-test meter calibration volume divided by the DGM volume, both volumes adjusted to the same reference temperature and pressure), for each run, and average the results. If any Y value deviates by more than 2 percent from the average, the DGM is unacceptable for use. Otherwise, use the average as the calibration factor for subsequent test runs.

10.1.1.2 Post-Test Calibration Check. After each field test series, conduct a calibration check as in section 10.1.1.1, above, except for the following two variations: (a) three or more revolutions of the DGM may be used and (b) only two independent runs need be made. If the calibration factor does not deviate by more than 5 percent from the initial calibration factor (determined in section 10.1.1.1), then the DGM volumes obtained during the test series are acceptable. If the calibration factor deviates by more than 5 percent, recalibrate the DGM as in section 10.1.1.1, and for the calculations, use the calibration factor (initial or recalibration) that yields the lower gas volume for each test run.

10.1.2 Temperature Sensors. Calibrate against mercury-in-glass thermometers. An alternative mercury-free thermometer may be used if the thermometer is at a minimum equivalent in terms of performance or suitably effective for the specific temperature measurement application.

10.1.3 Rate Meter. The rate meter need not be calibrated, but should be cleaned and maintained according to the manufacturer's instructions.

10.1.4 Barometer. Calibrate against a mercury barometer.

10.2 Standardization.

10.2.1 Iodine Solution Standardization. Standardize the 0.01 N Isolution daily as follows: Pipette 25 ml of the Isolution into a 125-ml Erlenmeyer flask. Add 2 ml of 3 M HCl. Titrate rapidly with standard 0.01 N NaSOsolution or with 0.01 N CHAsO until the solution is light yellow, using gentle mixing. Add four drops of starch indicator solution, and continue titrating slowly until the blue color just disappears. Record the volume of NaSOsolution used, V, or the volume of CHAsO solution used, V, in ml. Repeat until replicate values agree within 0.05 ml. Average the replicate titration values which agree within 0.05 ml, and calculate the exact normality of the Isolution using Equation 11-3. Repeat the standardization daily.

10.2.2 Sodium Thiosulfate Solution Standardization. Standardize the 0.1 N NaSOsolution as follows: Oven-dry potassium dichromate (KCrO) at 180 to 200 &#xB0;C (360 to 390 &#xB0;F). To the nearest milligram, weigh 2 g of the dichromate (W). Transfer the dichromate to a 500-ml volumetric flask, dissolve in water, and dilute to exactly 500 ml. In a 500-ml iodine flask, dissolve approximately 3 g of KI in 45 ml of water, then add 10 ml of 3 M HCl solution. Pipette 50 ml of the dichromate solution into this mixture. Gently swirl the contents of the flask once, and allow it to stand in the dark for 5 minutes. Dilute the solution with 100 to 200 ml of water, washing down the sides of the flask with part of the water. Titrate with 0.1 N NaSOuntil the solution is light yellow. Add 4 ml of starch indicator and continue titrating slowly to a green end point. Record the volume of NaSOsolution used, V, in ml. Repeat until replicate values agree within 0.05 ml. Calculate the normality using Equation 11-1. Repeat the standardization each week or after each test series, whichever time is shorter.

10.2.3 Phenylarsine Oxide Solution Standardization. Standardize the 0.01 N CHAsO (if applicable) as follows: Oven-dry KCrOat 180 to 200 &#xB0;C (360 to 390 &#xB0;F). To the nearest milligram, weigh 2 g of the dichromate (W). Transfer the dichromate to a 500-ml volumetric flask, dissolve in water, and dilute to exactly 500 ml. In a 500-ml iodine flask, dissolve approximately 0.3 g of KI in 45 ml of water, then add 10 ml of 3 M HCl. Pipette 5 ml of the dichromate solution into the iodine flask. Gently swirl the contents of the flask once, and allow it to stand in the dark for 5 minutes. Dilute the solution with 100 to 200 ml of water, washing down the sides of the flask with part of the water. Titrate with 0.01 N CHAsO until the solution is light yellow. Add 4 ml of starch indicator, and continue titrating slowly to a green end point. Record the volume of CHAsO used, V, in ml. Repeat until replicate analyses agree within 0.05 ml. Calculate the normality using Equation 11-2. Repeat the standardization each week or after each test series, whichever time is shorter.

Conduct the titration analyses in a clean area away from direct sunlight.

11.1 Pipette exactly 50 ml of 0.01 N Isolution into a 125-ml Erlenmeyer flask. Add 10 ml of 3 M HCl to the solution. Quantitatively rinse the acidified Iinto the iodine flask. Stopper the flask immediately, and shake briefly.

11.2 Use these alternative procedures if Antifoam B was not used or if significant quantities of yellow CdS remain in the impingers. Extract the remaining CdS from the third, fourth, and fifth impingers using the acidified Isolution. Immediately after pouring the acidified Iinto an impinger, stopper it and shake for a few moments, then transfer the liquid to the iodine flask. Do not transfer any rinse portion from one impinger to another; transfer it directly to the iodine flask. Once the acidified Isolution has been poured into any glassware containing CdS, the container must be tightly stoppered at all times except when adding more solution, and this must be done as quickly and carefully as possible. After adding any acidified Isolution to the iodine flask, allow a few minutes for absorption of the HS before adding any further rinses. Repeat the Iextraction until all CdS is removed from the impingers. Extract that part of the connecting glassware that contains visible CdS. Quantitatively rinse all the Ifrom the impingers, connectors, and the beaker into the iodine flask using water. Stopper the flask and shake briefly.

11.3 Allow the iodine flask to stand about 30 minutes in the dark for absorption of the HS into the I, then complete the titration analysis as outlined in sections 11.5 and 11.6.

11.4 Prepare a blank by adding 45 ml of CdSOabsorbing solution to an iodine flask. Pipette exactly 50 ml of 0.01 N Isolution into a 125-ml Erlenmeyer flask. Add 10 ml of 3 M HCl. Stopper the flask, shake briefly, let stand 30 minutes in the dark, and titrate with the samples.

11.5 Using 0.01 N NaSOsolution (or 0.01 N CHAsO, if applicable), rapidly titrate each sample in an iodine flask using gentle mixing, until solution is light yellow. Add 4 ml of starch indicator solution, and continue titrating slowly until the blue color just disappears. Record the volume of NaSOsolution used, V, or the volume of CHAsO solution used, V, in ml.

11.6 Titrate the blanks in the same manner as the samples. Run blanks each day until replicate values agree within 0.05 ml. Average the replicate titration values which agree within 0.05 ml.

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures only after the final calculation.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Normality of the Standard (&#x2243;0.1 N) Sodium Thiosulfate Solution.

12.3 Normality of Standard Phenylarsine Oxide Solution (if applicable).

12.4 Normality of Standard Iodine Solution.

12.5 Dry Gas Volume. Correct the sample volume measured by the DGM to standard conditions (20 &#xB0;C and 760 mm Hg).

12.6 Concentration of HS. Calculate the concentration of HS in the gas stream at standard conditions using Equation 11-5:

13.1 Precision. Collaborative testing has shown the intra-laboratory precision to be 2.2 percent and the inter-laboratory precision to be 5 percent.

13.2 Bias. The method bias was shown to be -4.8 percent when only HS was present. In the presence of the interferences cited in section 4.0, the bias was positive at low HS concentration and negative at higher concentrations. At 230 mg HS/m, the level of the compliance standard, the bias was + 2.7 percent. Thiols had no effect on the precision.

1. Determination of Hydrogen Sulfide, Ammoniacal Cadmium Chloride Method. API Method 772-54. In: Manual on Disposal of Refinery Wastes, Vol. V: Sampling and Analysis of Waste Gases and Particulate Matter. American Petroleum Institute, Washington, D.C. 1954.

2. Tentative Method of Determination of Hydrogen Sulfide and Mercaptan Sulfur in Natural Gas. Natural Gas Processors Association, Tulsa, OK. NGPA Publication No. 2265-65. 1965.

3. Knoll, J.D., and M.R. Midgett. Determination of Hydrogen Sulfide in Refinery Fuel Gases. Environmental Monitoring Series, Office of Research and Development, USEPA. Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. EPA 600/4-77-007.

4. Scheil, G.W., and M.C. Sharp. Standardization of Method 11 at a Petroleum Refinery. Midwest Research Institute Draft Report for USEPA. Office of Research and Development. Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. EPA Contract No. 68-02-1098. August 1976. EPA 600/4-77-088a (Volume 1) and EPA 600/4-77-088b (Volume 2).

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of inorganic lead emissions from stationary sources, only as specified in an applicable subpart of the regulations.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 Particulate and gaseous Pb emissions are withdrawn isokinetically from the source and are collected on a filter and in dilute nitric acid. The collected samples are digested in acid solution and are analyzed by atomic absorption spectrophotometry using an air/acetylene flame.

4.1 Copper. High concentrations of copper may interfere with the analysis of Pb at 217.0 nm. This interference can be avoided by analyzing the samples at 283.3 nm.
