
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-5 to Part 60 - Test Methods 11 through 15A

The test methods in this appendix are referred to in ยง 60.8 (Performance Tests) and ยง 60.11 (Compliance With Standards and Maintenance Requirements) of 40 CFR part 60, subpart A (General Provisions). Specific uses of these test methods are described in the standards of performance contained in the subparts, beginning with Subpart D.

Within each standard of performance, a section title "Test Methods and Procedures" is provided to: (1) Identify the test methods to be used as reference methods to the facility subject to the respective standard and (2) identify any special instructions or conditions to be followed when applying a method to the respective facility. Such instructions (for example, establish sampling rates, volumes, or temperatures) are to be used either in addition to, or as a substitute for procedures in a test method. Similarly, for sources subject to emission monitoring requirements, specific instructions pertaining to any use of a test method as a reference method are provided in the subpart or in Appendix B.

Inclusion of methods in this appendix is not intended as an endorsement or denial of their applicability to sources that are not subject to standards of performance. The methods are potentially applicable to other sources; however, applicability should be confirmed by careful and appropriate evaluation of the conditions prevalent at such sources.

The approach followed in the formulation of the test methods involves specifications for equipment, procedures, and performance. In concept, a performance specification approach would be preferable in all methods because this allows the greatest flexibility to the user. In practice, however, this approach is impractical in most cases because performance specifications cannot be established. Most of the methods described herein, therefore, involve specific equipment specifications and procedures, and only a few methods in this appendix rely on performance criteria.

Minor changes in the test methods should not necessarily affect the validity of the results and it is recognized that alternative and equivalent methods exist. section 60.8 provides authority for the Administrator to specify or approve (1) equivalent methods, (2) alternative methods, and (3) minor changes in the methodology of the test methods. It should be clearly understood that unless otherwise identified all such methods and changes must have prior approval of the Administrator. An owner employing such methods or deviations from the test methods without obtaining prior approval does so at the risk of subsequent disapproval and retesting with approved methods.

Within the test methods, certain specific equipment or procedures are recognized as being acceptable or potentially acceptable and are specifically identified in the methods. The items identified as acceptable options may be used without approval but must be identified in the test report. The potentially approvable options are cited as "subject to the approval of the Administrator" or as "or equivalent." Such potentially approvable techniques or alternatives may be used at the discretion of the owner without prior approval. However, detailed descriptions for applying these potentially approvable techniques or alternatives are not provided in the test methods. Also, the potentially approvable options are not necessarily acceptable in all applications. Therefore, an owner electing to use such potentially approvable techniques or alternatives is responsible for: (1) assuring that the techniques or alternatives are in fact applicable and are properly executed; (2) including a written description of the alternative method in the test report (the written method must be clear and must be capable of being performed without additional instruction, and the degree of detail should be similar to the detail contained in the test methods); and (3) providing any rationale or supporting data necessary to show the validity of the alternative in the particular application. Failure to meet these requirements can result in the Administrator's disapproval of the alternative.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of the HS content of fuel gas streams at petroleum refineries.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A sample is extracted from a source and passed through a series of midget impingers containing a cadmium sulfate (CdSO) solution; HS is absorbed, forming cadmium sulfide (CdS). The latter compound is then measured iodometrically.

4.1 Any compound that reduces iodine (I) or oxidizes the iodide ion will interfere in this procedure, provided it is collected in the CdSOimpingers. Sulfur dioxide in concentrations of up to 2,600 mg/mis removed with an impinger containing a hydrogen peroxide (HO) solution. Thiols precipitate with HS. In the absence of HS, only traces of thiols are collected. When methane-and ethane-thiols at a total level of 300 mg/mare present in addition to HS, the results vary from 2 percent low at an HS concentration of 400 mg/mto 14 percent high at an HS concentration of 100 mg/m. Carbonyl sulfide at a concentration of 20 percent does not interfere. Certain carbonyl-containing compounds react with iodine and produce recurring end points. However, acetaldehyde and acetone at concentrations of 1 and 3 percent, respectively, do not interfere.

4.2 Entrained HOproduces a negative interference equivalent to 100 percent of that of an equimolar quantity of HS. Avoid the ejection of HOinto the CdSOimpingers.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burns as thermal burns.

5.2.1 Hydrogen Peroxide. Irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs. 30% HOis a strong oxidizing agent. Avoid contact with skin, eyes, and combustible material. Wear gloves when handling.

5.2.2 Hydrochloric Acid. Highly toxic. Vapors are highly irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs, causing severe damage. May cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Exposure to concentrations of 0.13 to 0.2 percent can be lethal in minutes. Will react with metals, producing hydrogen.

6.1 Sample Collection. The following items are needed for sample collection:

6.1.1 Sampling Line. Teflon tubing, 6- to 7- mm (-in.) ID, to connect the sampling train to the sampling valve.

6.1.2 Impingers. Five midget impingers, each with 30-ml capacity. The internal diameter of the impinger tip must be 1 mm +/-0.05 mm. The impinger tip must be positioned 4 to 6 mm from the bottom of the impinger.

6.1.3 Tubing. Glass or Teflon connecting tubing for the impingers.

6.1.4 Ice Water Bath. To maintain absorbing solution at a low temperature.

6.1.5 Drying Tube. Tube packed with 6- to 16- mesh indicating-type silica gel, or equivalent, to dry the gas sample and protect the meter and pump. If the silica gel has been used previously, dry at 175 &#xB0;C (350 &#xB0;F) for 2 hours. New silica gel may be used as received. Alternatively, other types of desiccants (equivalent or better) may be used, subject to approval of the Administrator.

6.1.6 Sampling Valve. Needle valve, or equivalent, to adjust gas flow rate. Stainless steel or other corrosion-resistant material.

6.1.7 Volume Meter. Dry gas meter (DGM), sufficiently accurate to measure the sample volume within 2 percent, calibrated at the selected flow rate (about 1.0 liter/min) and conditions actually encountered during sampling. The meter shall be equipped with a temperature sensor (dial thermometer or equivalent) capable of measuring temperature to within 3 &#xB0;C (5.4 &#xB0;F). The gas meter should have a petcock, or equivalent, on the outlet connector which can be closed during the leak-check. Gas volume for one revolution of the meter must not be more than 10 liters.

6.1.8 Rate Meter. Rotameter, or equivalent, to measure flow rates in the range from 0.5 to 2 liters/min (1 to 4 ft/hr).

6.1.9 Graduated Cylinder. 25-ml size.

6.1.10 Barometer. Mercury, aneroid, or other barometer capable of measuring atmospheric pressure to within 2.5 mm Hg (0.1 in. Hg). In many cases, the barometric reading may be obtained from a nearby National Weather Service station, in which case, the station value (which is the absolute barometric pressure) shall be requested and an adjustment for elevation differences between the weather station and the sampling point shall be applied at a rate of minus 2.5 mm Hg (0.1 in Hg) per 30 m (100 ft) elevation increase or vice-versa for elevation decrease.

6.1.11 U-tube Manometer. 0-; to 30-cm water column, for leak-check procedure.

6.1.12 Rubber Squeeze Bulb. To pressurize train for leak-check.

6.1.13 Tee, Pinchclamp, and Connecting Tubing. For leak-check.

6.1.14 Pump. Diaphragm pump, or equivalent. Insert a small surge tank between the pump and rate meter to minimize the pulsation effect of the diaphragm pump on the rate meter. The pump is used for the air purge at the end of the sample run; the pump is not ordinarily used during sampling, because fuel gas streams are usually sufficiently pressurized to force sample gas through the train at the required flow rate. The pump need not be leak-free unless it is used for sampling.

6.1.15 Needle Valve or Critical Orifice. To set air purge flow to 1 liter/min.

6.1.16 Tube Packed with Active Carbon. To filter air during purge.

6.1.17 Volumetric Flask. One 1000-ml.

6.1.18 Volumetric Pipette. One 15-ml.

6.1.19 Pressure-Reduction Regulator. Depending on the sampling stream pressure, a pressure-reduction regulator may be needed to reduce the pressure of the gas stream entering the Teflon sample line to a safe level.

6.1.20 Cold Trap. If condensed water or amine is present in the sample stream, a corrosion-resistant cold trap shall be used immediately after the sample tap. The trap shall not be operated below 0 &#xB0;C (32 &#xB0;F) to avoid condensation of Cor Chydrocarbons.

6.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are needed for sample recovery:

6.2.1 Sample Container. Iodine flask, glass-stoppered, 500-ml size.

6.2.2 Volumetric Pipette. One 50-ml.

6.2.3 Graduated Cylinders. One each 25- and 250-ml.

6.2.4 Erlenmeyer Flasks. 125-ml.

6.2.5 Wash Bottle.

6.2.6 Volumetric Flasks. Three 1000-ml.

6.3 Sample Analysis. The following items are needed for sample analysis:

6.3.1 Flask. Glass-stoppered iodine flask, 500-ml.

6.3.2 Burette. 50-ml.

6.3.3 Erlenmeyer Flask. 125-ml.

6.3.4 Volumetric Pipettes. One 25-ml; two each 50- and 100-ml.

6.3.5 Volumetric Flasks. One 1000-ml; two 500-ml.

6.3.6 Graduated Cylinders. One each 10- and 100-ml.

7.1 Sample Collection. The following reagents are required for sample collection:

7.1.1 CdSOAbsorbing Solution. Dissolve 41 g of 3CdSO8HO and 15 ml of 0.1 M sulfuric acid in a 1-liter volumetric flask that contains approximatelyliter of water. Dilute to volume with deionized, distilled water. Mix thoroughly. The pH should be 3 +/-0.1. Add 10 drops of Dow-Corning Antifoam B. Shake well before use. This solution is stable for at least one month. If Antifoam B is not used, a more labor-intensive sample recovery procedure is required (see section 11.2).

7.1.2 Hydrogen Peroxide, 3 Percent. Dilute 30 percent HOto 3 percent as needed. Prepare fresh daily.

7.1.3 Water. Deionized distilled to conform to ASTM D 1193-77 or 91, Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17). The KMnOtest for oxidizable organic matter may be omitted when high concentrations of organic matter are not expected to be present.

7.2 Sample Recovery. The following reagents are needed for sample recovery:

7.2.1 Water. Same as section 7.1.3.

7.2.2 Hydrochloric Acid (HCl) Solution, 3 M. Add 240 ml of concentrated HCl (specific gravity 1.19) to 500 ml of water in a 1-liter volumetric flask. Dilute to 1 liter with water. Mix thoroughly.

7.2.3 Iodine (I) Solution, 0.1 N. Dissolve 24 g of potassium iodide (KI) in 30 ml of water. Add 12.7 g of resublimed iodine (I) to the KI solution. Shake the mixture until the Iis completely dissolved. If possible, let the solution stand overnight in the dark. Slowly dilute the solution to 1 liter with water, with swirling. Filter the solution if it is cloudy. Store solution in a brown-glass reagent bottle.

7.2.4 Standard ISolution, 0.01 N. Pipette 100.0 ml of the 0.1 N iodine solution into a 1-liter volumetric flask, and dilute to volume with water. Standardize daily as in section 10.2.1. This solution must be protected from light. Reagent bottles and flasks must be kept tightly stoppered.

7.3 Sample Analysis. The following reagents and standards are needed for sample analysis:

7.3.1 Water. Same as in section 7.1.3.

7.3.2 Standard Sodium Thiosulfate Solution, 0.1 N. Dissolve 24.8 g of sodium thiosulfate pentahydrate (NaSO&#xB7;5HO) or 15.8 g of anhydrous sodium thiosulfate (NaSO) in 1 liter of water, and add 0.01 g of anhydrous sodium carbonate (NaCO) and 0.4 ml of chloroform (CHCl) to stabilize. Mix thoroughly by shaking or by aerating with nitrogen for approximately 15 minutes, and store in a glass-stoppered, reagent bottle. Standardize as in section 10.2.2.

7.3.3 Standard Sodium Thiosulfate Solution, 0.01 N. Pipette 50.0 ml of the standard 0.1 N NaSOsolution into a volumetric flask, and dilute to 500 ml with water.

7.3.4 Standard Phenylarsine Oxide Solution, 0.01 N. Dissolve 1.80 g of (CHAsO) in 150 ml of 0.3 N sodium hydroxide. After settling, decant 140 ml of this solution into 800 ml of water. Bring the solution to pH 6-7 with 6 N HCl, and dilute to 1 liter with water. Standardize as in section 10.2.3.

7.3.5 Starch Indicator Solution. Suspend 10 g of soluble starch in 100 ml of water, and add 15 g of potassium hydroxide (KOH) pellets. Stir until dissolved, dilute with 900 ml of water, and let stand for 1 hour. Neutralize the alkali with concentrated HCl, using an indicator paper similar to Alkacid test ribbon, then add 2 ml of glacial acetic acid as a preservative.

8.1 Sampling Train Preparation. Assemble the sampling train as shown in Figure 11-1, connecting the five midget impingers in series. Place 15 ml of 3 percent HOsolution in the first impinger. Leave the second impinger empty. Place 15 ml of the CdSOsolution in the third, fourth, and fifth impingers. Place the impinger assembly in an ice water bath container, and place water and crushed ice around the impingers. Add more ice during the run, if needed.

8.2 Leak-Check Procedure.

8.2.1 Connect the rubber bulb and manometer to the first impinger, as shown in Figure 11-1. Close the petcock on the DGM outlet. Pressurize the train to 25 cm water with the bulb, and close off the tubing connected to the rubber bulb. The train must hold 25 cm water pressure with not more than a 1 cm drop in pressure in a 1-minute interval. Stopcock grease is acceptable for sealing ground glass joints.

8.2.2 If the pump is used for sampling, it is recommended, but not required, that the pump be leak-checked separately, either prior to or after the sampling run. To leak-check the pump, proceed as follows: Disconnect the drying tube from the impinger assembly. Place a vacuum gauge at the inlet to either the drying tube or the pump, pull a vacuum of 250 mm Hg (10 in. Hg), plug or pinch off the outlet of the flow meter, and then turn off the pump. The vacuum should remain stable for at least 30 seconds. If performed prior to the sampling run, the pump leak-check should precede the leak-check of the sampling train described immediately above; if performed after the sampling run, the pump leak-check should follow the sampling train leak-check.

8.3 Purge the connecting line between the sampling valve and the first impinger by disconnecting the line from the first impinger, opening the sampling valve, and allowing process gas to flow through the line for one to two minutes. Then, close the sampling valve, and reconnect the line to the impinger train. Open the petcock on the dry gas meter outlet. Record the initial DGM reading.

8.4 Open the sampling valve, and then adjust the valve to obtain a rate of approximately 1 liter/min (0.035 cfm). Maintain a constant (+/-10 percent) flow rate during the test. Record the DGM temperature.

8.5 Sample for at least 10 minutes. At the end of the sampling time, close the sampling valve, and record the final volume and temperature readings. Conduct a leak-check as described in Section 8.2. A yellow color in the final cadmium sulfate impinger indicates depletion of the absorbing solution. An additional cadmium sulfate impinger should be added for subsequent samples and the sample with yellow color in the final impinger should be voided.

8.6 Disconnect the impinger train from the sampling line. Connect the charcoal tube and the pump as shown in Figure 11-1. Purge the train [at a rate of 1 liter/min (0.035 ft/min)] with clean ambient air for 15 minutes to ensure that all HS is removed from the HO. For sample recovery, cap the open ends, and remove the impinger train to a clean area that is away from sources of heat. The area should be well lighted, but not exposed to direct sunlight.

8.7 Sample Recovery.

8.7.1 Discard the contents of the HOimpinger. Carefully rinse with water the contents of the third, fourth, and fifth impingers into a 500-ml iodine flask.

8.7.2 Proceed to section 11 for the analysis.

10.1 Calibration. Calibrate the sample collection equipment as follows.

10.1.1 Dry Gas Meter.
