
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-5 to Part 60 - Test Methods 11 through 15A
###### Roof monitor

means that portion of the roof of a potroom where gases not captured at the cell exit from the potroom.

Same as section 4.0 of either Method 13A or Method 13B, with the addition of the following:

4.1 Magnetic Field Effects. Anemometer readings can be affected by potroom magnetic field effects. section 6.1 provides for minimization of this interference through proper shielding or encasement of anemometer components.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. Same as section 5.2 of either Method 13A or Method 13B.

Same as section 6.0 of either Method 13A or Method 13B, as applicable, with the addition of the following:

6.1 Velocity Measurement Apparatus.

6.1.1 Anemometer Specifications. Propeller anemometers, or equivalent. Each anemometer shall meet the following specifications:

6.1.1.1 Its propeller shall be made of polystyrene, or similar material of uniform density. To ensure uniformity of performance among propellers, it is desirable that all propellers be made from the same mold.

6.1.1.2 The propeller shall be properly balanced, to optimize performance.

6.1.1.3 When the anemometer is mounted horizontally, its threshold velocity shall not exceed 15 m/min (50 ft/min).

6.1.1.4 The measurement range of the anemometer shall extend to at least 600 m/min (2,000 ft/min).

6.1.1.5 The anemometer shall be able to withstand prolonged exposure to dusty and corrosive environments; one way of achieving this is to purge the bearings of the anemometer continuously with filtered air during operation.

6.1.1.6 All anemometer components shall be properly shielded or encased, such that the performance of the anemometer is uninfluenced by potroom magnetic field effects.
