
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-5 to Part 60 - Test Methods 11 through 15A
###### e.g.,

6.1.4 Impingers. Four impingers connected as shown in Figure 13A-1 with ground-glass (or equivalent), vacuum-tight fittings. For the first, third, and fourth impingers, use the Greenburg-Smith design, modified by replacing the tip with a 1.3-cm (in.) ID glass tube extending to 1.3 cm (in.) from the bottom of the flask. For the second impinger, use a Greenburg-Smith impinger with the standard tip. Modifications (flexible connections between the impingers or materials other than glass) may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator. Place a temperature sensor, capable of measuring temperature to within 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F), at the outlet of the fourth impinger for monitoring purposes.

6.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are needed for sample recovery:

6.2.1 Probe-liner and Probe-Nozzle Brushes, Wash Bottles, Graduated Cylinder and/or Balance, Plastic Storage Containers, Funnel and Rubber Policeman, and Funnel. Same as Method 5, sections 6.2.1, 6.2.2 and 6.2.5 to 6.2.8, respectively.

6.2.2 Sample Storage Container. Wide-mouth, high-density polyethylene bottles for impinger water samples, 1 liter.

6.3 Sample Preparation and Analysis. The following items are needed for sample preparation and analysis:

6.3.1 Distillation Apparatus. Glass distillation apparatus assembled as shown in Figure 13A-2.

6.3.2 Bunsen Burner.

6.3.3 Electric Muffle Furnace. Capable of heating to 600 &#xB0;C (1100 &#xB0;F).

6.3.4 Crucibles. Nickel, 75- to 100-ml.

6.3.5 Beakers. 500-ml and 1500-ml.

6.3.6 Volumetric Flasks. 50-ml.

6.3.7 Erlenmeyer Flasks or Plastic Bottles. 500-ml.

6.3.8 Constant Temperature Bath. Capable of maintaining a constant temperature of +/-1.0 &#xB0;C at room temperature conditions.

6.3.9 Balance. 300-g capacity, to measure to +/-0.5 g.

6.3.10 Spectrophotometer. Instrument that measures absorbance at 570 nm and provides at least a 1-cm light path.

6.3.11 Spectrophotometer Cells. 1-cm path length.

Unless otherwise indicated, all reagents are to conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available. Otherwise, use the best available grade.

7.1 Sample Collection. The following reagents are needed for sample collection:

7.1.1 Filters.

7.1.1.1 If the filter is located between the third and fourth impingers, use a Whatman No. 1 filter, or equivalent, sized to fit the filter holder.
