
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-5 to Part 60 - Test Methods 11 through 15A
###### e.g.,

6.1.1.7 A known relationship shall exist between the electrical output signal from the anemometer generator and the propeller shaft rpm (see section 10.2.1). Anemometers having other types of output signals (optical) may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator. If other types of anemometers are used, there must be a known relationship between output signal and shaft rpm (see section 10.2.2).

6.1.1.8 Each anemometer shall be equipped with a suitable readout system (see section 6.1.3).

6.1.2 Anemometer Installation Requirements.

6.1.2.1 Single, Isolated Potroom. If the affected facility consists of a single, isolated potroom (or potroom segment), install at least one anemometer for every 85 m (280 ft) of roof monitor length. If the length of the roof monitor divided by 85 m (280 ft) is not a whole number, round the fraction to the nearest whole number to determine the number of anemometers needed. For monitors that are less than 130 m (430 ft) in length, use at least two anemometers. Divide the monitor cross-section into as many equal areas as anemometers, and locate an anemometer at the centroid of each equal area. See exception in section 6.1.2.3.

6.1.2.2 Two or More Potrooms. If the affected facility consists of two or more potrooms (or potroom segments) ducted to a common control device, install anemometers in each potroom (or segment) that contains a sampling manifold. Install at least one anemometer for every 85 m (280 ft) of roof monitor length of the potroom (or segment). If the potroom (or segment) length divided by 85 m (280 ft) is not a whole number, round the fraction to the nearest whole number to determine the number of anemometers needed. If the potroom (or segment) length is less than 130 m (430 ft), use at least two anemometers. Divide the potroom (or segment) monitor cross-section into as many equal areas as anemometers, and locate an anemometer at the centroid of each equal area. See exception in section 6.1.2.3.
