
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-5 to Part 60 - Test Methods 11 through 15A
###### e.g.,

10.2.1 Pipet 50 ml of each standard into a separate beaker. Add 50 ml of TISAB to each beaker. Place the electrode in the most dilute standard solution. When a steady millivolt reading is obtained, plot the value on the linear axis of semilog graph paper versus concentration on the log axis. Plot the nominal value for concentration of the standard on the log axis, (when 50 ml of 10M standard is diluted with 50 ml of TISAB, the concentration is still designated "10M").

10.2.2 Between measurements, soak the fluoride sensing electrode in water for 30 seconds, and then remove and blot dry. Analyze the standards going from dilute to concentrated standards. A straight-line calibration curve will be obtained, with nominal concentrations of 10, 10, 10, 10fluoride molarity on the log axis plotted versus electrode potential (in mv) on the linear scale. Some electrodes may be slightly nonlinear between 10and 10M. If this occurs, use additional standards between these two concentrations.

10.2.3 Calibrate the fluoride electrode daily, and check it hourly. Prepare fresh fluoride standardizing solutions daily (10M or less). Store fluoride standardizing solutions in polyethylene or polypropylene containers.

11.1 Sample Loss Check, Sample Preparation, and Distillation. Same as Method 13A, sections 11.1 through 11.3, except that the note following section 11.3.1 is not applicable.

11.2 Analysis.

11.2.1 Containers No. 1 and No. 2. Distill suitable aliquots from Containers No. 1 and No. 2. Dilute the distillate in the volumetric flasks to exactly 250 ml with water, and mix thoroughly. Pipet a 25-ml aliquot from each of the distillate into separate beakers. Add an equal volume of TISAB, and mix. The sample should be at the same temperature as the calibration standards when measurements are made. If ambient laboratory temperature fluctuates more than +/-2 &#xB0;C from the temperature at which the calibration standards were measured, condition samples and standards in a constant-temperature bath before measurement. Stir the sample with a magnetic stirrer during measurement to minimize electrode response time. If the stirrer generates enough heat to change solution temperature, place a piece of temperature insulating material, such as cork, between the stirrer and the beaker. Hold dilute samples (below 10M fluoride ion content) in polyethylene beakers during measurement.

11.2.2 Insert the fluoride and reference electrodes into the solution. When a steady millivolt reading is obtained, record it. This may take several minutes. Determine concentration from the calibration curve. Between electrode measurements, rinse the electrode with water.

11.2.3 Container No. 3 (Silica Gel). Same as in Method 13A, section 11.4.2.

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after final calculation.

12.1 Nomenclature. Same as Method 13A, section 12.1, with the addition of the following:

12.2 Average DGM Temperature and Average Orifice Pressure Drop, Dry Gas Volume, Volume of Water Vapor and Moisture Content, Fluoride Concentration in Stack Gas, and Isokinetic Variation. Same as Method 13A, sections 12.2 to 12.4, 12.6, and 12.7, respectively.

12.3 Total Fluoride in Sample. Calculate the amount of Fin the sample using Equation 13B-1:

The following estimates are based on a collaborative test done at a primary aluminum smelter. In the test, six laboratories each sampled the stack simultaneously using two sampling trains for a total of 12 samples per sampling run. Fluoride concentrations encountered during the test ranged from 0.1 to 1.4 mg F/m.

13.1 Precision. The intra-laboratory and inter-laboratory standard deviations, which include sampling and analysis errors, are 0.037 mg F/mwith 60 degrees of freedom and 0.056 mg F/mwith five degrees of freedom, respectively.

13.2 Bias. The collaborative test did not find any bias in the analytical method.

13.3 Range. The range of this method is 0.02 to 2,000 µg F/ml; however, measurements of less than 0.1 µg F/ml require extra care.

16.1 Compliance with ASTM D 3270-73T, 91, 95 "Analysis for Fluoride Content of the Atmosphere and Plant Tissues (Semiautomated Method)" is an acceptable alternative for the distillation and analysis requirements specified in sections 11.1 and 11.2 when applied to suitable aliquots of Containers 1 and 2 samples.

Same as Method 13A, section 16.0, References 1 and 2, with the following addition:

1. MacLeod, Kathryn E., and Howard L. Crist. Comparison of the SPADNS-Zirconium Lake and Specific Ion Electrode Methods of Fluoride Determination in Stack Emission Samples. Analytical Chemistry. 45:1272-1273. 1973.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of fluoride emissions from roof monitors at primary aluminum reduction plant potroom groups.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 Gaseous and particulate fluoride roof monitor emissions are drawn into a permanent sampling manifold through several large nozzles. The sample is transported from the sampling manifold to ground level through a duct. The fluoride content of the gas in the duct is determined using either Method 13A or Method 13B. Effluent velocity and volumetric flow rate are determined using anemometers located in the roof monitor.
