
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-5 to Part 60 - Test Methods 11 through 15A
###### 9

3. Kelin, R., and C. Hach. Standard Additions-Uses and Limitations in Spectrophotometric Analysis. Amer. Lab.:21-27. 1977.

4. Mitchell, W.J., and M.R. Midgett. Determining Inorganic and Alkyl Lead Emissions from Stationary Sources. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Emission Monitoring and Support Laboratory. Research Triangle Park, NC. (Presented at National APCA Meeting, Houston. June 26, 1978).

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of fluoride (F) emissions from sources as specified in the regulations. It does not measure fluorocarbons, such as Freons.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

Gaseous and particulate Fare withdrawn isokinetically from the source and collected in water and on a filter. The total Fis then determined by the SPADNS Zirconium Lake Colorimetric method.

4.1 Chloride. Large quantities of chloride will interfere with the analysis, but this interference can be prevented by adding silver sulfate into the distillation flask (see section 11.3). If chloride ion is present, it may be easier to use the specific ion electrode method of analysis (Method 13B).

4.2 Grease. Grease on sample-exposed surfaces may cause low Fresults due to adsorption.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burn as thermal burn.

5.2.1 Hydrochloric Acid (HCl). Highly toxic. Vapors are highly irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs, causing severe damage. May cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Exposure to concentrations of 0.13 to 0.2 percent can be lethal in minutes. Will react with metals, producing hydrogen.

5.2.2 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). Causes severe damage to eye tissues and to skin. Inhalation causes irritation to nose, throat, and lungs. Reacts exothermically with limited amounts of water.

5.2.3 Sulfuric Acid (HSO). Rapidly destructive to body tissue. Will cause third degree burns. Eye damage may result in blindness. Inhalation may be fatal from spasm of the larynx, usually within 30 minutes. May cause lung tissue damage with edema. 1 mg/mfor 8 hours will cause lung damage or, in higher concentrations, death. Provide ventilation to limit inhalation. Reacts violently with metals and organics.

6.1 Sample Collection. A schematic of the sampling train used in performing this method is shown in Figure 13A-1; it is similar to the Method 5 sampling train except that the filter position is interchangeable. The sampling train consists of the following components:

6.1.1 Probe Nozzle, Pitot Tube, Differential Pressure Gauge, Filter Heating System, Temperature Sensor, Metering System, Barometer, and Gas Density Determination Equipment. Same as Method 5, sections 6.1.1.1, 6.1.1.3 through 6.1.1.7, 6.1.1.9, 6.1.2, and 6.1.3, respectively. The filter heating system and temperature sensor are needed only when moisture condensation is a problem.

6.1.2 Probe Liner. Borosilicate glass or 316 stainless steel. When the filter is located immediately after the probe, a probe heating system may be used to prevent filter plugging resulting from moisture condensation, but the temperature in the probe shall not be allowed to exceed 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F).

6.1.3 Filter Holder. With positive seal against leakage from the outside or around the filter. If the filter is located between the probe and first impinger, use borosilicate glass or stainless steel with a 20-mesh stainless steel screen filter support and a silicone rubber gasket; do not use a glass frit or a sintered metal filter support. If the filter is located between the third and fourth impingers, borosilicate glass with a glass frit filter support and a silicone rubber gasket may be used. Other materials of construction may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.
