
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-5 to Part 60 - Test Methods 11 through 15A
###### e.g.,

4.2 Matrix Effects. Analysis for Pb by flame atomic absorption spectrophotometry is sensitive to the chemical composition and to the physical properties (viscosity, pH) of the sample. The analytical procedure requires the use of the Method of Standard Additions to check for these matrix effects, and requires sample analysis using the Method of Standard Additions if significant matrix effects are found to be present.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burn as thermal burn.

5.2.1 Hydrogen Peroxide (HO). Irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs.

5.2.2 Nitric Acid (HNO). Highly corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs. Vapors cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Reaction to inhalation may be delayed as long as 30 hours and still be fatal. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Strong oxidizer. Hazardous reaction may occur with organic materials such as solvents.

6.1 Sample Collection. A schematic of the sampling train used in performing this method is shown in Figure 12-1 in section 18.0; it is similar to the Method 5 train. The following items are needed for sample collection:

6.1.1 Probe Nozzle, Probe Liner, Pitot Tube, Differential Pressure Gauge, Filter Holder, Filter Heating System, Temperature Sensor, Metering System, Barometer, and Gas Density Determination Equipment. Same as Method 5, sections 6.1.1.1 through 6.1.1.7, 6.1.1.9, 6.1.2, and 6.1.3, respectively.

6.1.2 Impingers. Four impingers connected in series with leak-free ground glass fittings or any similar leak-free noncontaminating fittings are needed. For the first, third, and fourth impingers, use the Greenburg-Smith design, modified by replacing the tip with a 1.3 cm (in.) ID glass tube extending to about 1.3 cm (in.) from the bottom of the flask. For the second impinger, use the Greenburg-Smith design with the standard tip.

6.1.3 Temperature Sensor. Place a temperature sensor, capable of measuring temperature to within 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F) at the outlet of the fourth impinger for monitoring purposes.

6.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are needed for sample recovery:

6.2.1 Probe-Liner and Probe-Nozzle Brushes, Petri Dishes, Graduated Cylinder and/or Balance, Plastic Storage Containers, and Funnel and Rubber Policeman. Same as Method 5, sections 6.2.1 and 6.2.4 through 6.2.7, respectively.

6.2.2 Wash Bottles. Glass (2).

6.2.3 Sample Storage Containers. Chemically resistant, borosilicate glass bottles, for 0.1 N nitric acid (HNO) impinger and probe solutions and washes, 1000-ml. Use screw-cap liners that are either rubber-backed Teflon or leak-free and resistant to chemical attack by 0.1 N HNO. (Narrow mouth glass bottles have been found to be less prone to leakage.)

6.2.4 Funnel. Glass, to aid in sample recovery.

6.3 Sample Analysis. The following items are needed for sample analysis:

6.3.1 Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer. With lead hollow cathode lamp and burner for air/acetylene flame.

6.3.2 Hot Plate.

6.3.3 Erlenmeyer Flasks. 125-ml, 24/40 standard taper.

6.3.4 Membrane Filters. Millipore SCWPO 4700, or equivalent.

6.3.5 Filtration Apparatus. Millipore vacuum filtration unit, or equivalent, for use with the above membrane filter.

6.3.6 Volumetric Flasks. 100-ml, 250-ml, and 1000-ml.

7.1 Sample Collection. The following reagents are needed for sample collection:

7.1.1 Filter. Gelman Spectro Grade, Reeve Angel 934 AH, MSA 1106 BH, all with lot assay for Pb, or other high-purity glass fiber filters, without organic binder, exhibiting at least 99.95 percent efficiency (<0.05 percent penetration) on 0.3 micron dioctyl phthalate smoke particles. Conduct the filter efficiency test using ASTM D 2986-71, 78, or 95a (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) or use test data from the supplier's quality control program.

7.1.2 Silica Gel and Crushed Ice. Same as Method 5, sections 7.1.2 and 7.1.4, respectively.

7.1.3 Water. Deionized distilled, to conform to ASTM D 1193-77 or 91, Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17). If high concentrations of organic matter are not expected to be present, the potassium permanganate test for oxidizable organic matter may be omitted.

7.1.4 Nitric Acid, 0.1 N. Dilute 6.5 ml of concentrated HNOto 1 liter with water. (It may be desirable to run blanks before field use to eliminate a high blank on test samples.)

7.2 Sample Recovery. 0.1 N HNO(Same as in section 7.1.4 above).

7.3 Sample Analysis. The following reagents and standards are needed for sample analysis:

7.3.1 Water. Same as in section 7.1.3.

7.3.2 Nitric Acid, Concentrated.

7.3.3 Nitric Acid, 50 Percent (v/v). Dilute 500 ml of concentrated HNOto 1 liter with water.

7.3.4 Stock Lead Standard Solution, 1000 µg Pb/ml. Dissolve 0.1598 g of lead nitrate [Pb(NO)] in about 60 ml water, add 2 ml concentrated HNO, and dilute to 100 ml with water.

7.3.5 Working Lead Standards. Pipet 0.0, 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, and 5.0 ml of the stock lead standard solution (Section 7.3.4) into 250-ml volumetric flasks. Add 5 ml of concentrated HNOto each flask, and dilute to volume with water. These working standards contain 0.0, 4.0, 8.0, 12.0, 16.0, and 20.0 µg Pb/ml, respectively. Prepare, as needed, additional standards at other concentrations in a similar manner.

7.3.6 Air. Suitable quality for atomic absorption spectrophotometry.

7.3.7 Acetylene. Suitable quality for atomic absorption spectrophotometry.

7.3.8 Hydrogen Peroxide, 3 Percent (v/v). Dilute 10 ml of 30 percent HOto 100 ml with water.

8.1 Pretest Preparation. Follow the same general procedure given in Method 5, section 8.1, except that the filter need not be weighed.

8.2 Preliminary Determinations. Follow the same general procedure given in Method 5, section 8.2.

8.3 Preparation of Sampling Train. Follow the same general procedure given in Method 5, section 8.3, except place 100 ml of 0.1 N HNO(instead of water) in each of the first two impingers. As in Method 5, leave the third impinger empty and transfer approximately 200 to 300 g of preweighed silica gel from its container to the fourth impinger. Set up the train as shown in Figure 12-1.

8.4 Leak-Check Procedures. Same as Method 5, section 8.4.

8.5 Sampling Train Operation. Same as Method 5, section 8.5.

8.6 Calculation of Percent Isokinetic. Same as Method 5, section 8.6.

8.7 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, sections 8.7.1 through 8.7.6.1, with the addition of the following:

8.7.1 Container No. 2 (Probe).

8.7.1.1 Taking care that dust on the outside of the probe or other exterior surfaces does not get into the sample, quantitatively recover sample matter and any condensate from the probe nozzle, probe fitting, probe liner, and front half of the filter holder by washing these components with 0.1 N HNOand placing the wash into a glass sample storage container. Measure and record (to the nearest 2 ml) the total amount of 0.1 N HNOused for these rinses. Perform the 0.1 N HNOrinses as follows:

8.7.1.2 Carefully remove the probe nozzle, and rinse the inside surfaces with 0.1 N HNOfrom a wash bottle while brushing with a stainless steel, Nylon-bristle brush. Brush until the 0.1 N HNOrinse shows no visible particles, then make a final rinse of the inside surface with 0.1 N HNO.

8.7.1.3 Brush and rinse with 0.1 N HNOthe inside parts of the Swagelok fitting in a similar way until no visible particles remain.

8.7.1.4 Rinse the probe liner with 0.1 N HNO. While rotating the probe so that all inside surfaces will be rinsed with 0.1 N HNO, tilt the probe, and squirt 0.1 N HNOinto its upper end. Let the 0.1 N HNOdrain from the lower end into the sample container. A glass funnel may be used to aid in transferring liquid washes to the container. Follow the rinse with a probe brush. Hold the probe in an inclined position, squirt 0.1 N HNOinto the upper end of the probe as the probe brush is being pushed with a twisting action through the probe; hold the sample container underneath the lower end of the probe, and catch any 0.1 N HNOand sample matter that is brushed from the probe. Run the brush through the probe three times or more until no visible sample matter is carried out with the 0.1 N HNOand none remains on the probe liner on visual inspection. With stainless steel or other metal probes, run the brush through in the above prescribed manner at least six times, since metal probes have small crevices in which sample matter can be entrapped. Rinse the brush with 0.1 N HNO, and quantitatively collect these washings in the sample container. After the brushing, make a final rinse of the probe as described above.

8.7.1.5 It is recommended that two people clean the probe to minimize loss of sample. Between sampling runs, keep brushes clean and protected from contamination.

8.7.1.6 Brush and rinse with 0.1 N HNOthe inside of the front half of the filter holder. Brush and rinse each surface three times or more, if needed, to remove visible sample matter. Make a final rinse of the brush and filter holder. After all 0.1 N HNOwashings and sample matter are collected in the sample container, tighten the lid on the sample container so that the fluid will not leak out when it is shipped to the laboratory. Mark the height of the fluid level to determine whether leakage occurs during transport. Label the container to identify its contents clearly.

8.7.2 Container No. 3 (Silica Gel). Note the color of the indicating silica gel to determine if it has been completely spent, and make a notation of its condition. Transfer the silica gel from the fourth impinger to the original container, and seal. A funnel may be used to pour the silica gel from the impinger and a rubber policeman may be used to remove the silica gel from the impinger. It is not necessary to remove the small amount of particles that may adhere to the walls and are difficult to remove. Since the gain in weight is to be used for moisture calculations, do not use any water or other liquids to transfer the silica gel. If a balance is available in the field, follow the procedure for Container No. 3 in section 11.4.2.

8.7.3 Container No. 4 (Impingers). Due to the large quantity of liquid involved, the impinger solutions may be placed in several containers. Clean each of the first three impingers and connecting glassware in the following manner:

8.7.3.1 Cap the impinger ball joints.

8.7.3.2 Rotate and agitate each impinger, so that the impinger contents might serve as a rinse solution.

8.7.3.3 Treat the impingers as follows: Make a notation of any color or film in the liquid catch. Measure the liquid that is in the first three impingers by weighing it to within 0.5 g at a minimum by using a balance. Record the weight of liquid present. The liquid weight is needed, along with the silica gel data, to calculate the stack gas moisture content (see Method 5, Figure 5-6).

8.7.3.4 Transfer the contents to Container No. 4.

8.7.3.5 Pour approximately 30 ml of 0.1 N HNOinto each of the first three impingers and agitate the impingers. Drain the 0.1 N HNOthrough the outlet arm of each impinger into Container No. 4. Repeat this operation a second time; inspect the impingers for any abnormal conditions.

8.7.3.6 Rinse the insides of each piece of connecting glassware for the impingers twice with 0.1 N HNO; transfer this rinse into Container No. 4. Do not rinse or brush the glass-fritted filter support. Mark the height of the fluid level to determine whether leakage occurs during transport. Label the container to identify its contents clearly.

8.8 Blanks.

8.8.1 Nitric Acid. Save 200 ml of the 0.1 N HNOused for sampling and cleanup as a blank. Take the solution directly from the bottle being used and place into a glass sample container labeled "0.1 N HNOblank."

8.8.2 Filter. Save two filters from each lot of filters used in sampling. Place these filters in a container labeled "filter blank."

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. Same as Method 5, section 9.2.

10.1 Sampling Equipment. Same as Method 5, section 10.0.

10.2 Spectrophotometer.

10.2.1 Measure the absorbance of the standard solutions using the instrument settings recommended by the spectrophotometer manufacturer. Repeat until good agreement (+/-3 percent) is obtained between two consecutive readings. Plot the absorbance (y-axis) versus concentration in µg Pb/ml (x-axis). Draw or compute a straight line through the linear portion of the curve. Do not force the calibration curve through zero, but if the curve does not pass through the origin or at least lie closer to the origin than +/-0.003 absorbance units, check for incorrectly prepared standards and for curvature in the calibration curve.

10.2.2 To determine stability of the calibration curve, run a blank and a standard after every five samples, and recalibrate as necessary.

11.1 Sample Loss Check. Prior to analysis, check the liquid level in Containers Number 2 and Number 4. Note on the analytical data sheet whether leakage occurred during transport. If a noticeable amount of leakage occurred, either void the sample or take steps, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to adjust the final results.

11.2 Sample Preparation.

11.2.1 Container No. 1 (Filter). Cut the filter into strips and transfer the strips and all loose particulate matter into a 125-ml Erlenmeyer flask. Rinse the petri dish with 10 ml of 50 percent HNOto ensure a quantitative transfer, and add to the flask.

11.2.2 Containers No. 2 and No. 4 (Probe and Impingers). Combine the contents of Containers No. 2 and No. 4, and evaporate to dryness on a hot plate.

11.2.3 Sample Extraction for Lead.

11.2.3.1 Based on the approximate stack gas particulate concentration and the total volume of stack gas sampled, estimate the total weight of particulate sample collected. Next, transfer the residue from Containers No. 2 and No. 4 to the 125-ml Erlenmeyer flask that contains the sampling filter using a rubber policeman and 10 ml of 50 percent HNOfor every 100 mg of sample collected in the train or a minimum of 30 ml of 50 percent HNO, whichever is larger.

11.2.3.2 Place the Erlenmeyer flask on a hot plate, and heat with periodic stirring for 30 minutes at a temperature just below boiling. If the sample volume falls below 15 ml, add more 50 percent HNO. Add 10 ml of 3 percent HO, and continue heating for 10 minutes. Add 50 ml of hot (80 &#xB0;C, 176 &#xB0;F) water, and heat for 20 minutes. Remove the flask from the hot plate, and allow to cool. Filter the sample through a Millipore membrane filter, or equivalent, and transfer the filtrate to a 250-ml volumetric flask. Dilute to volume with water.

11.2.4 Filter Blank. Cut each filter into strips, and place each filter in a separate 125-ml Erlenmeyer flask. Add 15 ml of 50 percent HNO, and treat as described in section 11.2.3 using 10 ml of 3 percent HOand 50 ml of hot water. Filter and dilute to a total volume of 100 ml using water.

11.2.5 Nitric Acid Blank, 0.1 N. Take the entire 200 ml of 0.1 N HNOto dryness on a steam bath, add 15 ml of 50 percent HNO, and treat as described in section 11.2.3 using 10 ml of 3 percent H0and 50 ml of hot water. Dilute to a total volume of 100 ml using water.

11.3 Spectrophotometer Preparation. Turn on the power; set the wavelength, slit width, and lamp current; and adjust the background corrector as instructed by the manufacturer's manual for the particular atomic absorption spectrophotometer. Adjust the burner and flame characteristics as necessary.

11.4 Analysis.

11.4.1 Lead Determination. Calibrate the spectrophotometer as outlined in section 10.2, and determine the absorbance for each source sample, the filter blank, and 0.1 N HNOblank. Analyze each sample three times in this manner. Make appropriate dilutions, as needed, to bring all sample Pb concentrations into the linear absorbance range of the spectrophotometer. Because instruments vary between manufacturers, no detailed operating instructions will be given here. Instead, the instructions provided with the particular instrument should be followed. If the Pb concentration of a sample is at the low end of the calibration curve and high accuracy is required, the sample can be taken to dryness on a hot plate and the residue dissolved in the appropriate volume of water to bring it into the optimum range of the calibration curve.

11.4.2 Container No. 3 (Silica Gel). This step may be conducted in the field. Weigh the spent silica gel (or silica gel plus impinger) to the nearest 0.5 g; record this weight.

11.5 Check for Matrix Effects. Use the Method of Standard Additions as follows to check at least one sample from each source for matrix effects on the Pb results:

11.5.1 Add or spike an equal volume of standard solution to an aliquot of the sample solution.

11.5.2 Measure the absorbance of the resulting solution and the absorbance of an aliquot of unspiked sample.

11.5.3 Calculate the Pb concentration Cin µg/ml of the sample solution using Equation 12-1 in section 12.5.

Volume corrections will not be required if the solutions as analyzed have been made to the same final volume. Therefore, Cand Crepresent Pb concentration before dilutions.

Method of Standard Additions procedures described on pages 9-4 and 9-5 of the section entitled "General Information" of the Perkin Elmer Corporation Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometry Manual, Number 303-0152 (Reference 1 in section 17.0) may also be used. In any event, if the results of the Method of Standard Additions procedure used on the single source sample do not agree to within +/-5 percent of the value obtained by the routine atomic absorption analysis, then reanalyze all samples from the source using the Method of Standard Additions procedure.

12.1 Nomenclature.

A= Absorbance of the sample solution.

A= Cross-sectional area of nozzle, m(ft).

A= Absorbance of the spiked sample solution.

B= Water in the gas stream, proportion by volume.

C= Lead concentration in standard solution, µg/ml.

C= Lead concentration in sample solution analyzed during check for matrix effects, µg/ml.

C= Lead concentration in stack gas, dry basis, converted to standard conditions, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).

I = Percent of isokinetic sampling.

L= Individual leakage rate observed during the leak-check conducted prior to the first component change, m/min (ft/min).

L= Maximum acceptable leakage rate for either a pretest leak-check or for a leak-check following a component change; equal to 0.00057 m/min (0.020 cfm) or 4 percent of the average sampling rate, whichever is less.

L= Individual leakage rate observed during the leak-check conducted prior to the "ith" component change (i = 1, 2, 3 * * * n), m/min (cfm).

L= Leakage rate observed during the post-test leak-check, m/min (cfm).

m= Total weight of lead collected in the sample, µg.

M= Molecular weight of water, 18.0 g/g-mole (18.0 lb/lb-mole).

P= Barometric pressure at the sampling site, mm Hg (in. Hg).

P= Absolute stack gas pressure, mm Hg (in. Hg).

P= Standard absolute pressure, 760 mm Hg (29.92 in. Hg).

R = Ideal gas constant, 0.06236 [(mm Hg) (m)]/[(&#xB0;K) (g-mole)] {21.85 [(in. Hg) (ft)]/[(&#xB0;R) (lb-mole)]}.

T= Absolute average dry gas meter temperature (see Figure 5-3 of Method 5), &#xB0;K (&#xB0;R).

T= Standard absolute temperature, 293 &#xB0;K (528 &#xB0;R).

v= Stack gas velocity, m/sec (ft/sec).

V= Volume of gas sample as measured by the dry gas meter, dry basis, m(ft).

V= Volume of gas sample as measured by the dry gas meter, corrected to standard conditions, m(ft).

V= Volume of water vapor collected in the sampling train, corrected to standard conditions, m(ft).

Y = Dry gas meter calibration factor.

ΔH = Average pressure differential across the orifice meter (see Figure 5-3 of Method 5), mm HO (in. HO).

&#x3B8; = Total sampling time, min.

&#x3B8;= Sampling time interval, from the beginning of a run until the first component change, min.

&#x3B8;= Sampling time interval, between two successive component changes, beginning with the interval between the first and second changes, min.

&#x3B8;= Sampling time interval, from the final (n) component change until the end of the sampling run, min.

12.2 Average Dry Gas Meter Temperatures (T) and Average Orifice Pressure Drop (ΔH). See data sheet (Figure 5-3 of Method 5).

12.3 Dry Gas Volume, Volume of Water Vapor Condensed, and Moisture Content. Using data obtained in this test, calculate V, V, and Baccording to the procedures outlined in Method 5, sections 12.3 through 12.5.

12.4 Total Lead in Source Sample. For each source sample, correct the average absorbance for the contribution of the filter blank and the 0.1 N HNOblank. Use the calibration curve and this corrected absorbance to determine the Pb concentration in the sample aspirated into the spectrophotometer. Calculate the total Pb content m(in µg) in the original source sample; correct for all the dilutions that were made to bring the Pb concentration of the sample into the linear range of the spectrophotometer.

12.5 Sample Lead Concentration. Calculate the Pb concentration of the sample using the following equation:

12.6 Lead Concentration. Calculate the stack gas Pb concentration Cusing Equation 12-2:

12.7 Stack Gas Velocity and Volumetric Flow Rate. Calculate the average stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate using data obtained in this method and the equations in sections 12.2 and 12.3 of Method 2.

12.8 Isokinetic Variation. Same as Method 5, section 12.11.

13.1 Precision. The within-laboratory precision, as measured by the coefficient of variation, ranges from 0.2 to 9.5 percent relative to a run-mean concentration. These values were based on tests conducted at a gray iron foundry, a lead storage battery manufacturing plant, a secondary lead smelter, and a lead recovery furnace of an alkyl lead manufacturing plant. The concentrations encountered during these tests ranged from 0.61 to 123.3 mg Pb/m.

13.2 Analytical Range. For a minimum analytical accuracy of +/-10 percent, the lower limit of the range is 100 µg. The upper limit can be extended considerably by dilution.

13.3 Analytical Sensitivity. Typical sensitivities for a 1-percent change in absorption (0.0044 absorbance units) are 0.2 and 0.5 µg Pb/ml for the 217.0 and 283.3 nm lines, respectively.

16.1 Simultaneous Determination of Particulate Matter and Lead Emissions. Method 12 may be used to simultaneously determine Pb and particulate matter provided:

(1) A glass fiber filter with a low Pb background is used and this filter is checked, desiccated and weighed per section 8.1 of Method 5,

(2) An acetone rinse, as specified by Method 5, sections 7.2 and 8.7.6.2, is used to remove particulate matter from the probe and inside of the filter holder prior to and kept separate from the 0.1 N HNOrinse of the same components,

(3) The recovered filter, the acetone rinse, and an acetone blank (Method 5, section 7.2) are subjected to the gravimetric analysis of Method 5, sections 6.3 and 11.0 prior to the analysis for Pb as described below, and

(4) The entire train contents, including the 0.1 N HNOimpingers, filter, acetone and 0.1 N HNOprobe rinses are treated and analyzed for Pb as described in sections 8.0 and 11.0 of this method.

16.2 Filter Location. A filter may be used between the third and fourth impingers provided the filter is included in the analysis for Pb.

16.3 In-Stack Filter. An in-stack filter may be used provided: (1) A glass-lined probe and at least two impingers, each containing 100 ml of 0.1 N HNOafter the in-stack filter, are used and (2) the probe and impinger contents are recovered and analyzed for Pb. Recover sample from the nozzle with acetone if a particulate analysis is to be made as described in section 16.1 of this method.

16.4 Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry (ICP-AES) Analysis. ICP-AES may be used as an alternative to atomic absorption analysis provided the following conditions are met:

16.4.1 Sample collection/recovery, sample loss check, and sample preparation procedures are as defined in sections 8.0, 11.1, and 11.2, respectively, of this method.

16.4.2 Analysis shall be conducted following Method 6010D of SW-846 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). The limit of detection for the ICP-AES must be demonstrated according to section 15.0 of Method 301 in appendix A of part 63 of this chapter and must be no greater than one-third of the applicable emission limit. Perform a check for matrix effects according to section 11.5 of this method.

16.5 Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS) Analysis. ICP-MS may be used as an alternative to atomic absorption analysis provided the following conditions are met:

16.5.1 Sample collection/recovery, sample loss check, and sample preparation procedures are as defined in sections 8.0, 11.1, and 11.2, respectively of this method.

16.5.2 Analysis shall be conducted following Method 6020B of SW-846 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). The limit of detection for the ICP-MS must be demonstrated according to section 15.0 of Method 301 in appendix A to part 63 of this chapter and must be no greater than one-third of the applicable emission limit. Use the multipoint calibration curve option in section 10.4 of Method 6020B and perform a check for matrix effects according to section 11.5 of this method.

Same as Method 5, section 17.0, References 2, 3, 4, 5, and 7, with the addition of the following:

1. Perkin Elmer Corporation. Analytical Methods for Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometry. Norwalk, Connecticut. September 1976.

2. American Society for Testing and Materials. Annual Book of ASTM Standards, Part 31: Water, Atmospheric Analysis. Philadelphia, PA 1974. p. 40-42.
