
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-6 to Part 60 - Test Methods 16 through 18

The test methods in this appendix are referred to in ยง 60.8 (Performance Tests) and ยง 60.11 (Compliance With Standards and Maintenance Requirements) of 40 CFR part 60, subpart A (General Provisions). Specific uses of these test methods are described in the standards of performance contained in the subparts, beginning with Subpart D.

Within each standard of performance, a section title "Test Methods and Procedures" is provided to: (1) Identify the test methods to be used as reference methods to the facility subject to the respective standard and (2) identify any special instructions or conditions to be followed when applying a method to the respective facility. Such instructions (for example, establish sampling rates, volumes, or temperatures) are to be used either in addition to, or as a substitute for procedures in a test method. Similarly, for sources subject to emission monitoring requirements, specific instructions pertaining to any use of a test method as a reference method are provided in the subpart or in Appendix B.

Inclusion of methods in this appendix is not intended as an endorsement or denial of their applicability to sources that are not subject to standards of performance. The methods are potentially applicable to other sources; however, applicability should be confirmed by careful and appropriate evaluation of the conditions prevalent at such sources.

The approach followed in the formulation of the test methods involves specifications for equipment, procedures, and performance. In concept, a performance specification approach would be preferable in all methods because this allows the greatest flexibility to the user. In practice, however, this approach is impractical in most cases because performance specifications cannot be established. Most of the methods described herein, therefore, involve specific equipment specifications and procedures, and only a few methods in this appendix rely on performance criteria.

Minor changes in the test methods should not necessarily affect the validity of the results and it is recognized that alternative and equivalent methods exist. section 60.8 provides authority for the Administrator to specify or approve (1) equivalent methods, (2) alternative methods, and (3) minor changes in the methodology of the test methods. It should be clearly understood that unless otherwise identified all such methods and changes must have prior approval of the Administrator. An owner employing such methods or deviations from the test methods without obtaining prior approval does so at the risk of subsequent disapproval and retesting with approved methods.

Within the test methods, certain specific equipment or procedures are recognized as being acceptable or potentially acceptable and are specifically identified in the methods. The items identified as acceptable options may be used without approval but must be identified in the test report. The potentially approvable options are cited as "subject to the approval of the Administrator" or as "or equivalent." Such potentially approvable techniques or alternatives may be used at the discretion of the owner without prior approval. However, detailed descriptions for applying these potentially approvable techniques or alternatives are not provided in the test methods. Also, the potentially approvable options are not necessarily acceptable in all applications. Therefore, an owner electing to use such potentially approvable techniques or alternatives is responsible for: (1) assuring that the techniques or alternatives are in fact applicable and are properly executed; (2) including a written description of the alternative method in the test report (the written method must be clear and must be capable of being performed without additional instruction, and the degree of detail should be similar to the detail contained in the test methods); and (3) providing any rationale or supporting data necessary to show the validity of the alternative in the particular application. Failure to meet these requirements can result in the Administrator's disapproval of the alternative.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of total reduced sulfur (TRS) compounds from recovery furnaces, lime kilns, and smelt dissolving tanks at kraft pulp mills and fuel gas combustion devices at petroleum refineries.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A gas sample is extracted from the emission source and an aliquot is analyzed for hydrogen sulfide (HS), methyl mercaptan (MeSH), dimethyl sulfide (DMS), and dimethyl disulfide (DMDS) by GC/FPD. These four compounds are known collectively as TRS.

4.1 Moisture. Moisture condensation in the sample delivery system, the analytical column, or the FPD burner block can cause losses or interferences. This is prevented by maintaining the probe, filter box, and connections at a temperature of at least 120 &#xB0;C (248 &#xB0;F). Moisture is removed in the SOscrubber and heating the sample beyond this point is not necessary when the ambient temperature is above 0 &#xB0;C (32 &#xB0;F). Alternatively, moisture may be eliminated by heating the sample line, and by conditioning the sample with dry dilution air to lower its dew point below the operating temperature of the GC/FPD analytical system prior to analysis.

4.2 Carbon Monoxide (CO) and Carbon Dioxide (CO). CO and COhave a substantial desensitizing effect on the flame photometric detector even after dilution. Acceptable systems must demonstrate that they have eliminated this interference by some procedure such as eluting these compounds before any of the compounds to be measured. Compliance with this requirement can be demonstrated by submitting chromatograms of calibration gases with and without COin the diluent gas. The COlevel should be approximately 10 percent for the case with COpresent. The two chromatograms should show agreement within the precision limits of section 10.2.

4.3 Particulate Matter. Particulate matter in gas samples can cause interference by eventual clogging of the analytical system. This interference is eliminated by using the Teflon filter after the probe.

4.4 Sulfur Dioxide (SO). Sulfur dioxide is not a specific interferant but may be present in such large amounts that it cannot effectively be separated from the other compounds of interest. The SOscrubber described in section 6.1.3 will effectively remove SOfrom the sample.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Hydrogen Sulfide. A flammable, poisonous gas with the odor of rotten eggs. HS is extremely hazardous and can cause collapse, coma, and death within a few seconds of one or two inhalations at sufficient concentrations. Low concentrations irritate the mucous membranes and may cause nausea, dizziness, and headache after exposure.

6.1. Sample Collection. The following items are needed for sample collection.

6.1.1 Probe. Teflon or Teflon-lined stainless steel. The probe must be heated to prevent moisture condensation. It must be designed to allow calibration gas to enter the probe at or near the sample point entry. Any portion of the probe that contacts the stack gas must be heated to prevent moisture condensation. Figure 16-1 illustrates the probe used in lime kilns and other sources where significant amounts of particulate matter are present. The probe is designed with the deflector shield placed between the sample and the gas inlet holes to reduce clogging of the filter and possible adsorption of sample gas. As an alternative, the probe described in section 6.1.1 of Method 16A having a nozzle directed away from the gas stream may be used at sources having significant amounts of particulate matter.

6.1.2 Particulate Filter. 50-mm Teflon filter holder and a 1- to 2-micron porosity Teflon filter (available through Savillex Corporation, 5325 Highway 101, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343). The filter holder must be maintained in a hot box at a temperature of at least 120 &#xB0;C (248 &#xB0;F).

6.1.3 SOScrubber. Three 300-ml Teflon segmented impingers connected in series with flexible, thick-walled, Teflon tubing. (Impinger parts and tubing available through Savillex.) The first two impingers contain 100 ml of citrate buffer and the third impinger is initially dry. The tip of the tube inserted into the solution should be constricted to less than 3 mm (in.) ID and should be immersed to a depth of at least 5 cm (2 in.). Immerse the impingers in an ice water bath and maintain near 0 &#xB0;C (32 &#xB0;F). The scrubber solution will normally last for a 3-hour run before needing replacement. This will depend upon the effects of moisture and particulate matter on the solution strength and pH. Connections between the probe, particulate filter, and SOscrubber must be made of Teflon and as short in length as possible. All portions of the probe, particulate filter, and connections prior to the SOscrubber (or alternative point of moisture removal) must be maintained at a temperature of at least 120 &#xB0;C (248 &#xB0;F).

6.1.4 Sample Line. Teflon, no greater than 1.3 cm (in.) ID. Alternative materials, such as virgin Nylon, may be used provided the line loss test is acceptable.

6.1.5 Sample Pump. The sample pump must be a leakless Teflon-coated diaphragm type or equivalent.

6.2 Analysis. The following items are needed for sample analysis:

6.2.1 Dilution System. Needed only for high sample concentrations. The dilution system must be constructed such that all sample contacts are made of Teflon, glass, or stainless steel.

6.2.2 Gas Chromatograph. The gas chromatograph must have at least the following components:

6.2.2.1 Oven. Capable of maintaining the separation column at the proper operating temperature +/-1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F).

6.2.2.2 Temperature Gauge. To monitor column oven, detector, and exhaust temperature +/-1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F).

6.2.2.3 Flow System. Gas metering system to measure sample, fuel, combustion gas, and carrier gas flows.

6.2.2.4 Flame Photometric Detector.

6.2.2.4.1 Electrometer. Capable of full scale amplification of linear ranges of 10to 10amperes full scale.

6.2.2.4.2 Power Supply. Capable of delivering up to 750 volts.

6.2.2.4.3 Recorder. Compatible with the output voltage range of the electrometer.

6.2.2.4.4 Rotary Gas Valves. Multiport Teflon-lined valves equipped with sample loop. Sample loop volumes must be chosen to provide the needed analytical range. Teflon tubing and fittings must be used throughout to present an inert surface for sample gas. The gas chromatograph must be calibrated with the sample loop used for sample analysis.

6.2.3 Gas Chromatogram Columns. The column system must be demonstrated to be capable of resolving the four major reduced sulfur compounds: HS, MeSH, DMS, and DMDS. It must also demonstrate freedom from known interferences. To demonstrate that adequate resolution has been achieved, submit a chromatogram of a calibration gas containing all four of the TRS compounds in the concentration range of the applicable standard. Adequate resolution will be defined as base line separation of adjacent peaks when the amplifier attenuation is set so that the smaller peak is at least 50 percent of full scale. Baseline separation is defined as a return to zero +/-5 percent in the interval between peaks. Systems not meeting this criteria may be considered alternate methods subject to the approval of the Administrator.

6.3 Calibration. A calibration system, containing the following components, is required (see Figure 16-2).

6.3.1 Tube Chamber. Chamber of glass or Teflon of sufficient dimensions to house permeation tubes.

6.3.2 Flow System. To measure air flow over permeation tubes at +/-2 percent. Flow over the permeation device may also be determined using a soap bubble flowmeter.

6.3.3 Constant Temperature Bath. Device capable of maintaining the permeation tubes at the calibration temperature within 0.1 &#xB0;C (0.2 &#xB0;F).

6.3.4 Temperature Gauge. Thermometer or equivalent to monitor bath temperature within 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F).

7.1 Fuel. Hydrogen (H), prepurified grade or better.

7.2 Combustion Gas. Oxygen (O) or air, research purity or better.

7.3 Carrier Gas. Prepurified grade or better.

7.4 Diluent (if required). Air containing less than 50 ppb total sulfur compounds and less than 10 ppmv each of moisture and total hydrocarbons.

7.5 Calibration Gases

7.5.1 Permeation tubes, one each of HS, MeSH, DMS, and DMDS, gravimetrically calibrated and certified at some convenient operating temperature. These tubes consist of hermetically sealed FEP Teflon tubing in which a liquified gaseous substance is enclosed. The enclosed gas permeates through the tubing wall at a constant rate. When the temperature is constant, calibration gases covering a wide range of known concentrations can be generated by varying and accurately measuring the flow rate of diluent gas passing over the tubes. These calibration gases are used to calibrate the GC/FPD system and the dilution system.

7.5.2 Cylinder Gases. Cylinder gases may be used as alternatives to permeation devices. The gases must be traceable to a primary standard (such as permeation tubes) and not used beyond the certification expiration date.

7.6 Citrate Buffer and Sample Line Loss Gas. Same as Method 15, sections 7.6 and 7.7.

Same as Method 15, section 8.0, except that the references to the dilution system may not be applicable.

Same as Method 15, section 10.0, with the following addition and exceptions:

10.1 Use the four compounds that comprise TRS instead of the three reduced sulfur compounds measured by Method 15.

10.2 Flow Meter. Calibration before each test run is recommended, but not required; calibration following each test series is mandatory. Calibrate each flow meter after each complete test series with a wet-test meter. If the flow measuring device differs from the wet-test meter by 5 percent or more, the completed test runs must be voided. Alternatively, the flow data that yield the lower flow measurement may be used. Flow over the permeation device may also be determined using a soap bubble flowmeter.

Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this method (see section 8.0).
