
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-5 to Part 60 - Test Methods 11 through 15A
###### e.g.,

6.1.3 Recorders. Recorders that are equipped with suitable auxiliary equipment (transducers) for converting the output signal from each anemometer to a continuous recording of air flow velocity or to an integrated measure of volumetric flowrate shall be used. A suitable recorder is one that allows the output signal from the propeller anemometer to be read to within 1 percent when the velocity is between 100 and 120 m/min (330 and 390 ft/min). For the purpose of recording velocity, "continuous" shall mean one readout per 15-minute or shorter time interval. A constant amount of time shall elapse between readings. Volumetric flow rate may be determined by an electrical count of anemometer revolutions. The recorders or counters shall permit identification of the velocities or flowrates measured by each individual anemometer.

6.1.4 Pitot Tube. Standard-type pitot tube, as described in section 6.7 of Method 2, and having a coefficient of 0.99 +/-0.01.

6.1.5 Pitot Tube (Optional). Isolated, Type S pitot, as described in section 6.1 of Method 2, and having a known coefficient, determined as outlined in section 4.1 of Method 2.

6.1.6 Differential Pressure Gauge. Inclined manometer, or equivalent, as described in section 6.1.2 of Method 2.

6.2 Roof Monitor Air Sampling System.

6.2.1 Manifold System and Ductwork. A minimum of one manifold system shall be installed for each potroom group. The manifold system and ductwork shall meet the following specifications:

6.2.1.1 The manifold system and connecting duct shall be permanently installed to draw an air sample from the roof monitor to ground level. A typical installation of a duct for drawing a sample from a roof monitor to ground level is shown in Figure 14-1 in section 17.0. A plan of a manifold system that is located in a roof monitor is shown in Figure 14-2. These drawings represent a typical installation for a generalized roof monitor. The dimensions on these figures may be altered slightly to make the manifold system fit into a particular roof monitor, but the general configuration shall be followed.

6.2.1.2 There shall be eight nozzles, each having a diameter of 0.40 to 0.50 m.

6.2.1.3 The length of the manifold system from the first nozzle to the eighth shall be 35 m (115 ft) or eight percent of the length of the potroom (or potroom segment) roof monitor, whichever is greater. Deviation from this requirement is subject to the approval of the Administrator.

6.2.1.4 The duct leading from the roof monitor manifold system shall be round with a diameter of 0.30 to 0.40 m (1.0 to 1.3 ft). All connections in the ductwork shall be leak-free.

6.2.1.5 As shown in Figure 14-2, each of the sample legs of the manifold shall have a device, such as a blast gate or valve, to enable adjustment of the flow into each sample nozzle.

6.2.1.6 The manifold system shall be located in the immediate vicinity of one of the propeller anemometers (see section 8.1.1.4) and as close as possible to the midsection of the potroom (or potroom segment). Avoid locating the manifold system near the end of a potroom or in a section where the aluminum reduction pot arrangement is not typical of the rest of the potroom (or potroom segment). The sample nozzles shall be centered in the throat of the roof monitor (see Figure 14-1).

6.2.1.7 All sample-exposed surfaces within the nozzles, manifold, and sample duct shall be constructed with 316 stainless steel. Alternatively, aluminum may be used if a new ductwork is conditioned with fluoride-laden roof monitor air for a period of six weeks before initial testing. Other materials of construction may be used if it is demonstrated through comparative testing, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that there is no loss of fluorides in the system.

6.2.1.8 Two sample ports shall be located in a vertical section of the duct between the roof monitor and the exhaust fan (see section 6.2.2). The sample ports shall be at least 10 duct diameters downstream and three diameters upstream from any flow disturbance such as a bend or contraction. The two sample ports shall be situated 90&#xB0; apart. One of the sample ports shall be situated so that the duct can be traversed in the plane of the nearest upstream duct bend.

6.2.2 Exhaust Fan. An industrial fan or blower shall be attached to the sample duct at ground level (see Figure 14-1). This exhaust fan shall have a capacity such that a large enough volume of air can be pulled through the ductwork to maintain an isokinetic sampling rate in all the sample nozzles for all flow rates normally encountered in the roof monitor. The exhaust fan volumetric flow rate shall be adjustable so that the roof monitor gases can be drawn isokinetically into the sample nozzles. This control of flow may be achieved by a damper on the inlet to the exhauster or by any other workable method.

6.3 Temperature Measurement Apparatus. To monitor and record the temperature of the roof monitor effluent gas, and consisting of the following:

6.3.1 Temperature Sensor. A temperature sensor shall be installed in the roof monitor near the sample duct. The temperature sensor shall conform to the specifications outlined in Method 2, section 6.3.

6.3.2 Signal Transducer. Transducer, to change the temperature sensor voltage output to a temperature readout.

6.3.3 Thermocouple Wire. To reach from roof monitor to signal transducer and recorder.

6.3.4 Recorder. Suitable recorder to monitor the output from the thermocouple signal transducer.

Same as section 7.0 of either Method 13A or Method 13B, as applicable.

8.1 Roof Monitor Velocity Determination.
