
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-5 to Part 60 - Test Methods 11 through 15A
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

8.1.1 Velocity Estimate(s) for Setting Isokinetic Flow. To assist in setting isokinetic flow in the manifold sample nozzles, the anticipated average velocity in the section of the roof monitor containing the sampling manifold shall be estimated before each test run. Any convenient means to make this estimate may be used (the velocity indicated by the anemometer in the section of the roof monitor containing the sampling manifold may be continuously monitored during the 24-hour period before the test run). If there is question as to whether a single estimate of average velocity is adequate for an entire test run (if velocities are anticipated to be significantly different during different potroom operations), the test run may be divided into two or more "sub-runs," and a different estimated average velocity may be used for each sub-run (see section 8.4.2).

8.1.2 Velocity Determination During a Test Run. During the actual test run, record the velocity or volumetric flowrate readings of each propeller anemometer in the roof monitor. Readings shall be taken from each anemometer at equal time intervals of 15 minutes or less (or continuously).

8.2 Temperature Recording. Record the temperature of the roof monitor effluent gases at least once every 2 hours during the test run.

8.3 Pretest Ductwork Conditioning. During the 24-hour period immediately preceding the test run, turn on the exhaust fan, and draw roof monitor air through the manifold system and ductwork. Adjust the fan to draw a volumetric flow through the duct such that the velocity of gas entering the manifold nozzles approximates the average velocity of the air exiting the roof monitor in the vicinity of the sampling manifold.

8.4 Manifold Isokinetic Sample Rate Adjustment(s).

8.4.1 Initial Adjustment. Before the test run (or first sub-run, if applicable; see sections 8.1.1 and 8.4.2), adjust the fan such that air enters the manifold sample nozzles at a velocity equal to the appropriate estimated average velocity determined under section 8.1.1. Use Equation 14-1 (Section 12.2.2) to determine the correct stream velocity needed in the duct at the sampling location, in order for sample gas to be drawn isokinetically into the manifold nozzles. Next, verify that the correct stream velocity has been achieved, by performing a pitot tube traverse of the sample duct (using either a standard or Type S pitot tube); use the procedure outlined in Method 2.

8.4.2 Adjustments During Run. If the test run is divided into two or more "sub-runs" (see section 8.1.1), additional isokinetic rate adjustment(s) may become necessary during the run. Any such adjustment shall be made just before the start of a sub-run, using the procedure outlined in section 8.4.1 above.

8.5 Pretest Preparation, Preliminary Determinations, Preparation of Sampling Train, Leak-Check Procedures, Sampling Train Operation, and Sample Recovery. Same as Method 13A, sections 8.1 through 8.6, with the exception of the following:

8.5.1 A single train shall be used for the entire sampling run. Alternatively, if two or more sub-runs are performed, a separate train may be used for each sub-run; note, however, that if this option is chosen, the area of the sampling nozzle shall be the same (+/-2 percent) for each train. If the test run is divided into sub-runs, a complete traverse of the duct shall be performed during each sub-run.

8.5.2 Time Per Run. Each test run shall last 8 hours or more; if more than one run is to be performed, all runs shall be of approximately the same (+/-10 percent) length. If questions exist as to the representativeness of an 8-hour test, a longer period should be selected. Conduct each run during a period when all normal operations are performed underneath the sampling manifold. For most recently-constructed plants, 24 hours are required for all potroom operations and events to occur in the area beneath the sampling manifold. During the test period, all pots in the potroom group shall be operated such that emissions are representative of normal operating conditions in the potroom group.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. Same as Method 5, section 9.2.

Same as section 10.0 of either Method 13A or Method 13B, as applicable, with the addition of the following:

10.1 Manifold Intake Nozzles. The manifold intake nozzles shall be calibrated when the manifold system is installed or, alternatively, the manifold may be preassembled and the nozzles calibrated on the ground prior to installation. The following procedures shall be observed:

10.1.1 Adjust the exhaust fan to draw a volumetric flow rate (refer to Equation 14-1) such that the entrance velocity into each manifold nozzle approximates the average effluent velocity in the roof monitor.

10.1.2 Measure the velocity of the air entering each nozzle by inserting a standard pitot tube into a 2.5 cm or less diameter hole (see Figure 14-2) located in the manifold between each blast gate (or valve) and nozzle. Note that a standard pitot tube is used, rather than a type S, to eliminate possible velocity measurement errors due to cross-section blockage in the small (0.13 m diameter) manifold leg ducts. The pitot tube tip shall be positioned at the center of each manifold leg duct. Take care to ensure that there is no leakage around the pitot tube, which could affect the indicated velocity in the manifold leg.

10.1.3 If the velocity of air being drawn into each nozzle is not the same, open or close each blast gate (or valve) until the velocity in each nozzle is the same. Fasten each blast gate (or valve) so that it will remain in position, and close the pitot port holes.

10.2 Initial Calibration of Propeller Anemometers.

10.2.1 Anemometers that meet the specifications outlined in section 6.1.1 need not be calibrated, provided that a reference performance curve relating anemometer signal output to air velocity (covering the velocity range of interest) is available from the manufacturer. If a reference performance curve is not available from the manufacturer, such a curve shall be generated.
