
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-5 to Part 60 - Test Methods 11 through 15A
###### e.g.,

10.2.2 Anemometers having output signals other than electrical (optical) may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator. If other types of anemometers are used, a reference performance curve shall be generated, using procedures subject to the approval of the Administrator.

10.2.3 The reference performance curve shall be derived from at least the following three points: 60 +/-15, 900 +/-100, and 1800 +/-100 rpm.

10.3 Initial Performance Checks. Conduct these checks within 60 days before the first performance test.

10.3.1 Anemometers. A performance-check shall be conducted as outlined in sections 10.3.1.1 through 10.3.1.3. Alternatively, any other suitable method that takes into account the signal output, propeller condition, and threshold velocity of the anemometer may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

10.3.1.1 Check the signal output of the anemometer by using an accurate rpm generator (see Figure 14-3) or synchronous motors to spin the propeller shaft at each of the three rpm settings described in section 10.2.3, and measuring the output signal at each setting. If, at each setting, the output signal is within 5 percent of the manufacturer's value, the anemometer can be used. If the anemometer performance is unsatisfactory, the anemometer shall either be replaced or repaired.

10.3.1.2 Check the propeller condition, by visually inspecting the propeller, making note of any significant damage or warpage; damaged or deformed propellers shall be replaced.

10.3.1.3 Check the anemometer threshold velocity as follows: With the anemometer mounted as shown in Figure 14-4(A), fasten a known weight (a straight-pin will suffice) to the anemometer propeller at a fixed distance from the center of the propeller shaft. This will generate a known torque; for example, a 0.1-g weight, placed 10 cm from the center of the shaft, will generate a torque of 1.0 g-cm. If the known torque causes the propeller to rotate downward, approximately 90&#xB0; [see Figure 14-4(B)], then the known torque is greater than or equal to the starting torque; if the propeller fails to rotate approximately 90&#xB0;, the known torque is less than the starting torque. By trying different combinations of weight and distance, the starting torque of a particular anemometer can be satisfactorily estimated. Once an estimate of the starting torque has been obtained, the threshold velocity of the anemometer (for horizontal mounting) can be estimated from a graph such as Figure 14-5 (obtained from the manufacturer). If the horizontal threshold velocity is acceptable [<15 m/min (50 ft/min), when this technique is used], the anemometer can be used. If the threshold velocity of an anemometer is found to be unacceptably high, the anemometer shall either be replaced or repaired.

10.3.2 Recorders and Counters. Check the calibration of each recorder and counter (see section 6.1.2) at a minimum of three points, approximately spanning the expected range of velocities. Use the calibration procedures recommended by the manufacturer, or other suitable procedures (subject to the approval of the Administrator). If a recorder or counter is found to be out of calibration by an average amount greater than 5 percent for the three calibration points, replace or repair the system; otherwise, the system can be used.

10.3.3 Temperature Measurement Apparatus. Check the calibration of the Temperature Measurement Apparatus, using the procedures outlined in section 10.3 of Method 2, at temperatures of 0, 100, and 150 &#xB0;C (32, 212, and 302 &#xB0;F). If the calibration is off by more than 5 &#xB0;C (9 &#xB0;F) at any of the temperatures, repair or replace the apparatus; otherwise, the apparatus can be used.
