
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-6 to Part 60 - Test Methods 16 through 18
###### e.g.,

6.1.4.2 Source-sampling assemblies that do not meet the minimum spacing requirements of Figure 17-1 (or the equivalent of these requirements,Figure 2-4 of Method 2) may be used; however, the pitot tube coefficients of such assemblies shall be determined by calibration, using methods subject to the approval of the Administrator.

6.1.5 Condenser. It is recommended that the impinger system or alternatives described in Method 5 be used to determine the moisture content of the stack gas. Flexible tubing may be used between the probe extension and condenser. Long tubing lengths may affect the moisture determination.

6.2 Sample Recovery. Probe-liner and probe-nozzle brushes, wash bottles, glass sample storage containers, petri dishes, graduated cylinder and/or balance, plastic storage containers, funnel and rubber policeman, funnel. Same as in Method 5, sections 6.2.1 through 6.2.8, respectively.

6.3 Sample Analysis. Glass weighing dishes, desiccator, analytical balance, balance, beakers, hygrometer, temperature sensor. Same as in Method 5, sections 6.3.1 through 6.3.7, respectively.

7.1 Sampling. Filters, silica gel, water, crushed ice, stopcock grease. Same as in Method 5, sections 7.1.1, 7.1.2, 7.1.3, 7.1.4, and 7.1.5, respectively. Thimble glass fiber filters may also be used.

7.2 Sample Recovery. Acetone (reagent grade). Same as in Method 5, section 7.2.

7.3 Sample Analysis. Acetone and Desiccant. Same as in Method 5, sections 7.3.1 and 7.3.2, respectively.

8.1 Sampling.

8.1.1 Pretest Preparation. Same as in Method 5, section 8.1.1.

8.1.2 Preliminary Determinations. Same as in Method 5, section 8.1.2, except as follows: Make a projected-area model of the probe extension-filter holder assembly, with the pitot tube face openings positioned along the centerline of the stack, as shown in Figure 17-2. Calculate the estimated cross-section blockage, as shown in Figure 17-2. If the blockage exceeds 5 percent of the duct cross sectional area, the tester has the following options exist: (1) a suitable out-of-stack filtration method may be used instead of in-stack filtration; or (2) a special in-stack arrangement, in which the sampling and velocity measurement sites are separate, may be used; for details concerning this approach, consult with the Administrator (see also Reference 1 in section 17.0). Select a probe extension length such that all traverse points can be sampled. For large stacks, consider sampling from opposite sides of the stack to reduce the length of probes.

8.1.3 Preparation of Sampling Train. Same as in Method 5, section 8.1.3, except the following: Using a tweezer or clean disposable surgical gloves, place a labeled (identified) and weighed filter in the filter holder. Be sure that the filter is properly centered and the gasket properly placed so as not to allow the sample gas stream to circumvent the filter. Check filter for tears after assembly is completed. Mark the probe extension with heat resistant tape or by some other method to denote the proper distance into the stack or duct for each sampling point. Assemble the train as in Figure 17-1, using a very light coat of silicone grease on all ground glass joints and greasing only the outer portion (see APTD-0576) to avoid possibility of contamination by the silicone grease. Place crushed ice around the impingers.

8.1.4 Leak-Check Procedures. Same as in Method 5, section 8.1.4, except that the filter holder is inserted into the stack during the sampling train leak-check. To do this, plug the inlet to the probe nozzle with a material that will be able to withstand the stack temperature. Insert the filter holder into the stack and wait approximately 5 minutes (or longer, if necessary) to allow the system to come to equilibrium with the temperature of the stack gas stream.

8.1.5 Sampling Train Operation. The operation is the same as in Method 5. Use a data sheet such as the one shown in Figure 5-3 of Method 5, except that the filter holder temperature is not recorded.

8.1.6 Calculation of Percent Isokinetic. Same as in Method 5, section 12.11.

8.2 Sample Recovery.

8.2.1 Proper cleanup procedure begins as soon as the probe extension assembly is removed from the stack at the end of the sampling period. Allow the assembly to cool.

8.2.2 When the assembly can be safely handled, wipe off all external particulate matter near the tip of the probe nozzle and place a cap over it to prevent losing or gaining particulate matter. Do not cap off the probe tip tightly while the sampling train is cooling down as this would create a vacuum in the filter holder, forcing condenser water backward.

8.2.3 Before moving the sample train to the cleanup site, disconnect the filter holder-probe nozzle assembly from the probe extension; cap the open inlet of the probe extension. Be careful not to lose any condensate, if present. Remove the umbilical cord from the condenser outlet and cap the outlet. If a flexible line is used between the first impinger (or condenser) and the probe extension, disconnect the line at the probe extension and let any condensed water or liquid drain into the impingers or condenser. Disconnect the probe extension from the condenser; cap the probe extension outlet. After wiping off the silicone grease, cap off the condenser inlet. Ground glass stoppers, plastic caps, or serum caps (whichever are appropriate) may be used to close these openings.

8.2.4 Transfer both the filter holder-probe nozzle assembly and the condenser to the cleanup area. This area should be clean and protected from the wind so that the chances of contaminating or losing the sample will be minimized.

8.2.5 Save a portion of the acetone used for cleanup as a blank. Take 200 ml of this acetone from the wash bottle being used and place it in a glass sample container labeled "acetone blank." Inspect the train prior to and during disassembly and not any abnormal conditions. Treat the sample as discussed in Method 5, section 8.2.

The calibrations of the probe nozzle, pitot tube, metering system, temperature sensors, and barometer are the same as in Method 5, sections 10.1 through 10.3, 10.5, and 10.6, respectively.

Same as in Method 5, section 11.0. Analytical data should be recorded on a form similar to that shown in Figure 5-6 of Method 5.

Same as in Method 5, section 12.0.

Same as in Method 5, section 16.0.

Same as in Method 5, section 17.0, with the addition of the following:

1. Vollaro, R.F. Recommended Procedure for Sample Traverses in Ducts Smaller than 12 Inches in Diameter. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Measurement Branch. Research Triangle Park, NC. November 1976.

1.1 Analyte. Total gaseous organic compounds.

1.2 Applicability.
