
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-5 to Part 60 - Test Methods 11 through 15A
###### i.e.,

10.4 Periodic Performance Checks. Repeat the procedures outlined in section 10.3 no more than 12 months after the initial performance checks. If the above systems pass the performance checks (if no repair or replacement of any component is necessary), continue with the performance checks on a 12-month interval basis. However, if any of the above systems fail the performance checks, repair or replace the system(s) that failed, and conduct the periodic performance checks on a 3-month interval basis, until sufficient information (to the satisfaction of the Administrator) is obtained to establish a modified performance check schedule and calculation procedure.

Same as section 11.0 of either Method 13A or Method 13B.

Same as section 12.0 of either Method 13A or Method 13B, as applicable, with the following additions and exceptions:

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Isokinetic Sampling Check.

12.2.1 Calculate the arithmetic mean of the roof monitor effluent gas velocity readings (v) as measured by the anemometer in the section of the roof monitor containing the sampling manifold. If two or more sub-runs have been performed, the average velocity for each sub-run may be calculated separately.

12.2.2 Calculate the expected average velocity (v) in the duct, corresponding to each value of vobtained under section 12.2.1, using Equation 14-1.

12.2.3 Calculate the actual average velocity (v) in the sampling duct for each run or sub-run according to Equation 2-9 of Method 2, using data obtained during sampling (Section 8.0 of Method 13A).

12.2.4 Express each vs value from section 12.2.3 as a percentage of the corresponding vvalue from section 12.2.2.

12.2.4.1 If vs is less than or equal to 120 percent of v, the results are acceptable (note that in cases where the above calculations have been performed for each sub-run, the results are acceptable if the average percentage for all sub-runs is less than or equal to 120 percent).

12.2.4.2 If vis more than 120 percent of v, multiply the reported emission rate by the following factor:

12.3 Average Velocity of Roof Monitor Effluent Gas. Calculate the arithmetic mean roof monitor effluent gas velocity (v) using all the velocity or volumetric flow readings from section 8.1.2.

12.4 Average Temperature of Roof Monitor Effluent Gas. Calculate the arithmetic mean roof monitor effluent gas temperature (T) using all the temperature readings recorded in section 8.2.

12.5 Concentration of Fluorides in Roof Monitor Effluent Gas.

12.5.1 If a single sampling train was used throughout the run, calculate the average fluoride concentration for the roof monitor using Equation 13A-2 of Method 13A.
