
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E

The test methods in this appendix are referred to in ยง 60.8 (Performance Tests) and ยง 60.11 (Compliance With Standards and Maintenance Requirements) of 40 CFR part 60, subpart A (General Provisions). Specific uses of these test methods are described in the standards of performance contained in the subparts, beginning with Subpart D.

Within each standard of performance, a section title "Test Methods and Procedures" is provided to: (1) Identify the test methods to be used as reference methods to the facility subject to the respective standard and (2) identify any special instructions or conditions to be followed when applying a method to the respective facility. Such instructions (for example, establish sampling rates, volumes, or temperatures) are to be used either in addition to, or as a substitute for procedures in a test method. Similarly, for sources subject to emission monitoring requirements, specific instructions pertaining to any use of a test method as a reference method are provided in the subpart or in Appendix B.

Inclusion of methods in this appendix is not intended as an endorsement or denial of their applicability to sources that are not subject to standards of performance. The methods are potentially applicable to other sources; however, applicability should be confirmed by careful and appropriate evaluation of the conditions prevalent at such sources.

The approach followed in the formulation of the test methods involves specifications for equipment, procedures, and performance. In concept, a performance specification approach would be preferable in all methods because this allows the greatest flexibility to the user. In practice, however, this approach is impractical in most cases because performance specifications cannot be established. Most of the methods described herein, therefore, involve specific equipment specifications and procedures, and only a few methods in this appendix rely on performance criteria.

Minor changes in the test methods should not necessarily affect the validity of the results and it is recognized that alternative and equivalent methods exist. section 60.8 provides authority for the Administrator to specify or approve (1) equivalent methods, (2) alternative methods, and (3) minor changes in the methodology of the test methods. It should be clearly understood that unless otherwise identified all such methods and changes must have prior approval of the Administrator. An owner employing such methods or deviations from the test methods without obtaining prior approval does so at the risk of subsequent disapproval and retesting with approved methods.

Within the test methods, certain specific equipment or procedures are recognized as being acceptable or potentially acceptable and are specifically identified in the methods. The items identified as acceptable options may be used without approval but must be identified in the test report. The potentially approvable options are cited as "subject to the approval of the Administrator" or as "or equivalent." Such potentially approvable techniques or alternatives may be used at the discretion of the owner without prior approval. However, detailed descriptions for applying these potentially approvable techniques or alternatives are not provided in the test methods. Also, the potentially approvable options are not necessarily acceptable in all applications. Therefore, an owner electing to use such potentially approvable techniques or alternatives is responsible for: (1) assuring that the techniques or alternatives are in fact applicable and are properly executed; (2) including a written description of the alternative method in the test report (the written method must be clear and must be capable of being performed without additional instruction, and the degree of detail should be similar to the detail contained in the test methods); and (3) providing any rationale or supporting data necessary to show the validity of the alternative in the particular application. Failure to meet these requirements can result in the Administrator's disapproval of the alternative.

1.1 Analytes. This method provides data reduction procedures relating to the following pollutants, but does not include any sample collection or analysis procedures.

1.2 Applicability. Where specified by an applicable subpart of the regulations, this method is applicable for the determination of (a) PM, SO, and NOemission rates; (b) sulfur removal efficiencies of fuel pretreatment and SOcontrol devices; and (c) overall reduction of potential SOemissions.

2.1 Emission Rates. Oxygen (O) or carbon dioxide (CO) concentrations and appropriate F factors (ratios of combustion gas volumes to heat inputs) are used to calculate pollutant emission rates from pollutant concentrations.

2.2 Sulfur Reduction Efficiency and SORemoval Efficiency. An overall SOemission reduction efficiency is computed from the efficiency of fuel pretreatment systems, where applicable, and the efficiency of SOcontrol devices.

2.2.1 The sulfur removal efficiency of a fuel pretreatment system is determined by fuel sampling and analysis of the sulfur and heat contents of the fuel before and after the pretreatment system.

2.2.2 The SOremoval efficiency of a control device is determined by measuring the SOrates before and after the control device.

2.2.2.1 The inlet rates to SOcontrol systems (or, when SOcontrol systems are not used, SOemission rates to the atmosphere) are determined by fuel sampling and analysis.

12.1 Nomenclature

12.2 Emission Rates of PM, SO, and NO. Select from the following sections the applicable procedure to compute the PM, S, or NOemission rate (E) in ng/J (lb/million Btu). The pollutant concentration must be in ng/scm (lb/scf) and the F factor must be in scm/J (scf/million Btu). If the pollutant concentration (C) is not in the appropriate units, use Table 19-1 in section 17.0 to make the proper conversion. An F factor is the ratio of the gas volume of the products of combustion to the heat content of the fuel. The dry F factor (F) includes all components of combustion less water, the wet F factor (F) includes all components of combustion, and the carbon F factor (F) includes only carbon dioxide.

12.2.1 Oxygen-Based F Factor, Dry Basis. When measurements are on a dry basis for both O (%O) and pollutant (C) concentrations, use the following equation:

12.2.2 Oxygen-Based F Factor, Wet Basis. When measurements are on a wet basis for both O(%O) and pollutant (C) concentrations, use either of the following:

12.2.2.1 If the moisture fraction of ambient air (B) is measured:

Instead of actual measurement, Bmay be estimated according to the procedure below.

12.2.2.1.1 B= 0.027. This value may be used at any location at all times.

12.2.2.1.2 B= Highest monthly average of Bthat occurred within the previous calendar year at the nearest Weather Service Station. This value shall be determined annually and may be used as an estimate for the entire current calendar year.

12.2.2.1.3 B= Highest daily average of Bwa that occurred within a calendar month at the nearest Weather Service Station, calculated from the data from the past 3 years. This value shall be computed for each month and may be used as an estimate for the current respective calendar month.

12.2.2.2 If the moisture fraction (B) of the effluent gas is measured:

12.2.3 Oxygen-Based F Factor, Dry/Wet Basis.

12.2.3.1 When the pollutant concentration is measured on a wet basis (C) and Oconcentration is measured on a dry basis (%O), use the following equation:

12.2.3.2 When the pollutant concentration is measured on a dry basis (C) and the Oconcentration is measured on a wet basis (%O), use the following equation:

12.2.4 Carbon Dioxide-Based F Factor, Dry Basis. When measurements are on a dry basis for both CO(%CO) and pollutant (C) concentrations, use the following equation:

12.2.5 Carbon Dioxide-Based F Factor, Wet Basis. When measurements are on a wet basis for both CO(%CO) and pollutant (C) concentrations, use the following equation:

12.2.6 Carbon Dioxide-Based F Factor, Dry/Wet Basis.

12.2.6.1 When the pollutant concentration is measured on a wet basis (C) and COconcentration is measured on a dry basis (%CO), use the following equation:

12.2.6.2 When the pollutant concentration is measured on a dry basis (C) and COconcentration is measured on a wet basis (%CO), use the following equation:

12.2.7 Direct-Fired Reheat Fuel Burning. The effect of direct-fired reheat fuel burning (for the purpose of raising the temperature of the exhaust effluent from wet scrubbers to above the moisture dew-point) on emission rates will be less than 1.0 percent and, therefore, may be ignored.

12.2.8 Combined Cycle-Gas Turbine Systems. For gas turbine-steam generator combined cycle systems, determine the emissions from the steam generating unit or the percent reduction in potential SOemissions as follows:

12.2.8.1 Compute the emission rate from the steam generating unit using the following equation:

12.2.8.1.1 Use the test methods and procedures section of 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart GG to obtain Eand E. Do not use Ffactors for determining Eor E. If an SOcontrol device is used, measure Eafter the control device.

12.2.8.1.2 Suitable methods shall be used to determine the heat input rates to the steam generating units (H) and the gas turbine (H).

12.2.8.2 If a control device is used, compute the percent of potential SOemissions (P) using the following equations:

12.3 F Factors. Use an average F factor according to section 12.3.1 or determine an applicable F factor according to section 12.3.2. If combined fuels are fired, prorate the applicable F factors using the procedure in section 12.3.3.

12.3.1 Average F Factors. Average F factors (F, F, or F) from Table 19-2 in section 17.0 may be used.

12.3.2 Determined F Factors. If the fuel burned is not listed in Table 19-2 or if the owner or operator chooses to determine an F factor rather than use the values in Table 19-2, use the procedure below:

12.3.2.1 Equations. Use the equations below, as appropriate, to compute the F factors:

12.3.2.2 Use applicable sampling procedures in section 12.5.2.1 or 12.5.2.2 to obtain samples for analyses.

12.3.2.3 Use ASTM D 3176-74 or 89 (all cited ASTM standards are incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17) for ultimate analysis of the fuel.

12.3.2.4 Use applicable methods in section 12.5.2.1 or 12.5.2.2 to determine the heat content of solid or liquid fuels. For gaseous fuels, use ASTM D 1826-77 or 94 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17) to determine the heat content.

12.3.3 F Factors for Combination of Fuels. If combinations of fuels are burned, use the following equations, as applicable unless otherwise specified in an applicable subpart:

12.4 Determination of Average Pollutant Rates.
