
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### e.g.,

12.5.2 Pretreatment Removal Efficiency (Optional). Compute the SOremoval efficiency from fuel pretreatment (%R) for the averaging period (90 days) as specified in the applicable regulation using the following equation:

12.5.2.1 Solid Fossil (Including Waste) Fuel/Sampling and Analysis.

12.5.2.1.1 Sample Increment Collection. Use ASTM D 2234-76, 96, 97a, or 98 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17), Type I, Conditions A, B, or C, and systematic spacing. As used in this method, systematic spacing is intended to include evenly spaced increments in time or increments based on equal weights of coal passing the collection area. As a minimum, determine the number and weight of increments required per gross sample representing each coal lot according to Table 2 or Paragraph 7.1.5.2 of ASTM D 2234. Collect one gross sample for each lot of raw coal and one gross sample for each lot of product coal.

12.5.2.1.2 ASTM Lot Size. For the purpose of section 12.5.2 (fuel pretreatment), the lot size of product coal is the weight of product coal from one type of raw coal. The lot size of raw coal is the weight of raw coal used to produce one lot of product coal. Typically, the lot size is the weight of coal processed in a 1-day (24-hour) period. If more than one type of coal is treated and produced in 1 day, then gross samples must be collected and analyzed for each type of coal. A coal lot size equaling the 90-day quarterly fuel quantity for a steam generating unit may be used if representative sampling can be conducted for each raw coal and product coal.

12.5.2.1.3 Gross Sample Analysis. Use ASTM D 2013-72 or 86 to prepare the sample, ASTM D 3177-75 or 89 or ASTM D 4239-85, 94, or 97 to determine sulfur content (%S), ASTM D 3173-73 or 87 to determine moisture content, and ASTM D 2015-77 (Reapproved 1978) or 96, D 3286-85 or 96, or D 5865-98 or 10 to determine gross calorific value (GCV) (all standards cited are incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17 for acceptable versions of the standards) on a dry basis for each gross sample.

12.5.2.2 Liquid Fossil Fuel-Sampling and Analysis. See Note under section 12.5.2.1.

12.5.2.2.1 Sample Collection. Follow the procedures for continuous sampling in ASTM D 270 or D 4177-95 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17) for each gross sample from each fuel lot.

12.5.2.2.2 Lot Size. For the purpose of section 12.5.2 (fuel pretreatment), the lot size of a product oil is the weight of product oil from one pretreatment facility and intended as one shipment (ship load, barge load, etc.). The lot size of raw oil is the weight of each crude liquid fuel type used to produce a lot of product oil.

12.5.2.2.3 Sample Analysis. Use ASTM D 129-64, 78, or 95, ASTM D 1552-83 or 95, or ASTM D 4057-81 or 95 to determine the sulfur content (%S) and ASTM D 240-76 or 92 (all standards cited are incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17) to determine the GCV of each gross sample. These values may be assumed to be on a dry basis. The owner or operator of an affected facility may elect to determine the GCV by sampling the oil combusted on the first steam generating unit operating day of each calendar month and then using the lowest GCV value of the three GCV values per quarter for the GCV of all oil combusted in that calendar quarter.

12.5.2.3 Use appropriate procedures, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to determine the fraction of total mass input derived from each type of fuel.

12.5.3 Control Device Removal Efficiency. Compute the percent removal efficiency (%R) of the control device using the following equation:

12.5.3.1 Use continuous emission monitoring systems or test methods, as appropriate, to determine the outlet SOrates and, if appropriate, the inlet SOrates. The rates may be determined as hourly (E) or other sampling period averages (E). Then, compute the average pollutant rates for the performance test period (Eand E) using the procedures in section 12.4.

12.5.3.2 As an alternative, as-fired fuel sampling and analysis may be used to determine inlet SOrates as follows:

12.5.3.2.1 Compute the average inlet SOrate (E) for each sampling period using the following equation:

12.5.3.2.2 Collect the fuel samples from a location in the fuel handling system that provides a sample representative of the fuel bunkered or consumed during a steam generating unit operating day. For the purpose of as-fired fuel sampling under section 12.5.3.2 or section 12.6, the lot size for coal is the weight of coal bunkered or consumed during each steam generating unit operating day. The lot size for oil is the weight of oil supplied to the "day" tank or consumed during each steam generating unit operating day. For reporting and calculation purposes, the gross sample shall be identified with the calendar day on which sampling began. For steam generating unit operating days when a coal-fired steam generating unit is operated without coal being added to the bunkers, the coal analysis from the previous "as bunkered" coal sample shall be used until coal is bunkered again. For steam generating unit operating days when an oil-fired steam generating unit is operated without oil being added to the oil "day" tank, the oil analysis from the previous day shall be used until the "day" tank is filled again. Alternative definitions of fuel lot size may be used, subject to prior approval of the Administrator.

12.5.3.2.3 Use ASTM procedures specified in section 12.5.2.1 or 12.5.2.2 to determine %S and GCV.

12.5.4 Daily Geometric Average Percent Reduction from Hourly Values. The geometric average percent reduction (%R) is computed using the following equation:

12.6 Sulfur Retention Credit for Compliance Fuel. If fuel sampling and analysis procedures in section 12.5.2.1 are being used to determine average SOemission rates (E) to the atmosphere from a coal-fired steam generating unit when there is no SOcontrol device, the following equation may be used to adjust the emission rate for sulfur retention credits (no credits are allowed for oil-fired systems) (E) for each sampling period using the following equation:

After calculating E, use the procedures in section 12.4.2 to determine the average SOemission rate to the atmosphere for the performance test period (E).

12.7 Determination of Compliance When Minimum Data Requirement Is Not Met.

12.7.1 Adjusted Emission Rates and Control Device Removal Efficiency. When the minimum data requirement is not met, the Administrator may use the following adjusted emission rates or control device removal efficiencies to determine compliance with the applicable standards.

12.7.1.1 Emission Rate. Compliance with the emission rate standard may be determined by using the lower confidence limit of the emission rate (E*) as follows:

12.7.1.2 Control Device Removal Efficiency. Compliance with the overall emission reduction (%R) may be determined by using the lower confidence limit of the emission rate (E*) and the upper confidence limit of the inlet pollutant rate (E*) in calculating the control device removal efficiency (%R) as follows:

12.7.2 Standard Deviation of Hourly Average Pollutant Rates. Compute the standard deviation (S) of the hourly average pollutant rates using the following equation:

Equation 19-19 through 19-31 may be used to compute the standard deviation for both the outlet (S) and, if applicable, inlet (S) pollutant rates.

Method 20 contains the details you must follow when using an instrumental analyzer to determine concentrations of nitrogen oxides, oxygen, carbon dioxide, and sulfur dioxide in the emissions from stationary gas turbines. This method follows the specific instructions for equipment and performance requirements, supplies, sample collection and analysis, calculations, and data analysis in the methods listed in section 2.0.

1.1 Analytes. What does this method determine?
