
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### 8.5 Post-Run System Bias Check, Drift Assessment, and Alternative Dynamic Spike Procedure.

You must follow the procedures of sections 8.5 and 8.6 of the appropriate methods listed in section 2.0. A test run must have a duration of at least 21 minutes.

Follow quality control procedures in section 9.0 of Method 7E.

Follow the procedures for calibration and standardization in section 10.0 of Method 7E.

Because sample collection and analysis are performed together (see section 8), additional discussion of the analytical procedure is not necessary.

You must follow the procedures for calculations and data analysis in section 12.0 of the appropriate method listed in section 2.0. Follow the procedures in section 12.0 of Method 19 for calculating fuel-specific F factors, diluent-corrected pollutant concentrations, and emission rates.

The specifications for the applicable performance checks are the same as in section 13.0 of Method 7E.

Refer to section 16.0 of the appropriate method listed in section 2.0 for alternative procedures.

Refer to section 17.0 of the appropriate method listed in section 2.0 for references.

Refer to section 18.0 of the appropriate method listed in section 2.0 for tables, diagrams, flowcharts, and validation data.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Scope. This method is applicable for the determination of VOC leaks from process equipment. These sources include, but are not limited to, valves, flanges and other connections, pumps and compressors, pressure relief devices, process drains, open-ended valves, pump and compressor seal system degassing vents, accumulator vessel vents, agitator seals, and access door seals.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A portable instrument is used to detect VOC leaks from individual sources. The instrument detector type is not specified, but it must meet the specifications and performance criteria contained in section 6.0. A leak definition concentration based on a reference compound is specified in each applicable regulation. This method is intended to locate and classify leaks only, and is not to be used as a direct measure of mass emission rate from individual sources.
