
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### i.e.,,i.e.,

11.2.3 Digital Photographic Records. Digital photographs, annotated or unaltered, may be used to record and report sky conditions, observer's location relative to the source, observer's location relative to the sun, process unit being observed, potential emission points and actual emission points for the requirements in sections 11.2.1 and 11.2.2. The image must have the proper lighting, field of view and depth of field to properly distinguish the sky condition (if applicable), process unit, potential emission point and actual emission point. At least one digital photograph must be from the point of the view of the observer. The photograph(s) representing the environmental conditions including the sky conditions and the position of the sun relative to the observer and the emission point must be taken within a reasonable time of the observation (15 minutes). When observations are taken from exactly the same observation point on a routine basis (daily) and as long as there are no modifications to the units depicted, only a single photograph each is necessary to document the observer's location relative to the emissions source, the process unit being observed, and the location of potential and actual emission points. Any photographs altered or annotated must be retained in an unaltered format for recordkeeping purposes.

11.3 Indoor Lighting Requirements. For indoor locations, use a light meter to measure the level of illumination at a location as close to the emission source(s) as is feasible. An illumination of greater than 100 lux (10 foot candles) is considered necessary for proper application of this method.

11.4 Observations.
