
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### e.g.,

6.3.2 Test Tubes. Use glass test tubes or small (5 to 10 mL) amber vials.

6.3.3 Soxhlet/Dean-Stark Extraction Apparatus.

6.3.3.1 Soxhlet Apparatus. Use 200-mL capacity thimble holder capable of holding 43 x 123-millimeter (mm) extraction thimbles, with receiving flask (typically round-bottom).

6.3.3.2 Moisture Trap. Use Dean-Stark or Barret with fluoropolymer stopcock trap to fit between the Soxhlet extractor body and the condenser as shown in Figure 23-3 of this method.

Dean-Stark or Barret traps are used to remove water with extraction solvents that are less dense and insoluble in water.

6.3.3.3 Extraction Thimble. Use quartz, glass, or glass fiber thimble, typically 43 x 123 mm to fit Soxhlet apparatus. The use of cellulose thimbles for sample extraction in this method is prohibited.

6.3.3.4 Heating Mantle. Use a hemispherical shaped heating mantle to fit round-bottom flask.

6.3.4 Kuderna-Danish (KD) Concentrator. Use an apparatus consisting of a three-ball Snyder column, a flask with leak-free joint to accept the three-ball Snyder column at the top, a leak-free joint to receive a graduated concentration tube at the bottom and a heating mantle.

Rotary evaporation has only been demonstrated when analyzing PCDD/PCDF. The KD with Snyder column is recommended when analyzing for PAH and/or PCB to avoid evaporation loss resulting in failed performance criteria for pre-extraction spike recovery.

6.3.5 Nitrogen Evaporative Concentrator. Use a nitrogen evaporative concentrator equipped with a water bath with the temperature controlled in the range of 30 to 60 &#xB0;C (86 to 140 &#xB0;F) (N-Evap Organomation Associates, Inc., South Berlin, MA, or equivalent).

6.3.6 Separatory Funnels. Use glass or PTFE 2-liter separatory funnels.

6.4 Glass Liquid Chromatography Columns.

6.4.1 Pasteur Pipettes. Use disposable pipettes, or glass serological pipettes typically 150 mm long x 6 mm ID.

6.4.2 Liquid Chromatography Columns. 200 to 300 mm long x 20 mm ID with 250-mL reservoir.

6.5 Analytical Equipment.

6.5.1 Gas Chromatograph. Use a gas chromatograph consisting of the following components:

6.5.1.1 GC Oven. Use an oven capable of maintaining the separation column at the proper operating temperature +/- 1.0 &#xB0;C (1.8 &#xB0;F) and performing programmed increases in temperature at rates of at least 40 &#xB0;C/min with isothermal hold.

6.5.1.2 GC Temperature Monitor. Use a temperature monitor to measure column oven temperature to +/- 1.0 &#xB0;C (1.8 &#xB0;F).

6.5.1.3 GC Flow System. Use an electronic pressure control or equivalent gas metering system to control carrier gas flow or pressure.

6.5.1.4 GC Injection Port. Use a split/splitless injection port in the splitless mode or on-column injection port for the capillary column.

6.5.2 Capillary GC Column. Use different columns for the analysis of the different target compound classes in this method, if needed. Perform the resolution checks in Sections 10.2.3.5 and 10.2.3.6 of this method to document the required resolution. Compound separation must meet the resolution specifications in Section 10.2.3.5 of this method and the identification specifications found in Section 11.4.3.4 of this method.

6.5.2.1 PCDD/PCDF Column. Gas chromatographic columns used to measure PCDD/PCDF should be capable of achieving separation of the 17 PCDD/PCDF target compounds from the nearest eluting target compound(s). The valley height resolution between 2,3,7,8-substituted TeCDD and TeCDF and the nearest eluting isomers must not exceed 25% of the taller of the two peaks. The valley height resolution between all other target PCDD/PCDF compounds and the nearest eluting targets (or interference) must not exceed 40% of the taller of the two peaks.

Fishman, et al. (see Section 16.3 of this method) demonstrated that all TEF isomers can be fully differentiated from closely eluting isomers using either of two sets of non-polar and polar stationary phase combinations. One set consisted of 5% phenyl methylpolysiloxane (DB-5, HP-5MS, Rtx-5MS, Equity-5) and 50% cyanopropylmethyl, 50% phenylmethylsiloxane (DB-225, SP 2331) GC columns and the other set consisted of 5% phenyl, 94% methyl, 1% vinyl silicone bonded-phase (DB-5MS, ZB-5MS, VF-5MS, CP-Sil 8 CB LowBleed/MS) with 50% cyanopropylmethyl, 50% phenylmethylsiloxane (SP-2331).
