
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### 6.1 Sampling Apparatus.

Figure 23-1 of this method shows a schematic of the Method 23 sampling train. Do not use sealing greases or brominated flame retardant-coated tape in assembling the train. Do not use silicon tubing in direct contact with flue gases. The train is identical to that described in Section 6.1.1 of Method 5 of Appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60 with the following additions:

6.1.1 Nozzle. The nozzle must be made of quartz, borosilicate glass, or titanium. Stainless steel nozzles should not be used.

6.1.2 Probe Liner. Use either polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), borosilicate, or quartz glass probe liners with a heating system capable of maintaining a probe gas temperature of 120 +/- 14 &#xB0;C (248 +/- 25 &#xB0;F) during sampling, or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or as approved by the Administrator. Use a PTFE ferrule or single-use PTFE coated O-ring to achieve the seal at the nozzle end of the probe for stack temperatures up to about 300 &#xB0;C (572 &#xB0;F). Use a quartz glass liner and integrated quartz nozzle for stack temperatures between 300 and 1,200 &#xB0;C (572 and 2,192 &#xB0;F).

6.1.3 Filter Holder. Use a filter holder of borosilicate glass with a PTFE frit or PTFE-coated wire filter support. The holder design should provide a positive seal against leakage from the outside or around the filter. The holder should be durable, easy to load, leak-free in normal applications, and positioned immediately following the probe and cyclone bypass (or cyclone, if used) with the active side of the filter perpendicular to the source of the flow.

6.1.4 Filter Heating System. Use any heating system capable of monitoring and maintaining the temperature around the filter to ensure that the sample gas temperature exiting the filter is 120 +/- 14 &#xB0;C (248 +/- 25 &#xB0;F) during sampling or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or approved by the Administrator for a particular application.

6.1.5 Filter Temperature Sensor. Install a temperature sensor capable of measuring temperature to within +/-3 &#xB0;C (5.4 &#xB0;F) so that the sensing tip protrudes at least 1.3 centimeters (cm) (1-2 in.) into the sample gas exiting the filter. Encase the sensing tip of the sensor in glass or PTFE, if needed.

6.1.6 Sample Transfer Line. The sample transfer line transports gaseous emissions from the heated filter holder to the condenser and must be heat traced and constructed of glass or PTFE with connecting fittings that form leak-free, vacuum-tight connections without using sealing greases or tapes. Keep the sample transfer lines as short as possible and maintain the lines at a temperature of 120 &#xB0;C +/- 14 &#xB0;C (248 &#xB0;F +/- 25 &#xB0;F) using active heating when necessary. Orient the sample transfer lines with the downstream end lower than the upstream end so that any condensate will flow away from the filter and into the condenser.

6.1.7 Condenser. Glass, water-jacketed, coil-type with compatible fittings. Orient the condenser to cause moisture to flow down to the adsorbent module to facilitate condensate drainage. Figure 23-2 of this method shows a schematic diagram of the condenser.

6.1.8 Water Circulating Bath. Use a bath pump circulating system capable of providing chilled water flow to the condenser and adsorbent module water jackets. Typically, a submersible pump is placed in the impinger ice water bath to circulate the ice water contained in the bath. Verify the function of this system by measuring the gas temperature at the entrance to the adsorbent module. Maintain this temperature at <20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F).

6.1.9 Adsorbent Module. Use a water-jacketed glass container to hold up to 40 grams (g) of the solid adsorbent. Figure 23-2 of this method shows a schematic diagram of the adsorbent module. Other physical configurations of the adsorbent resin module/condenser assembly are acceptable if the configuration contains the requisite amount of solid adsorbent and maintains the minimum length-to-width adsorbent bed ratio of two-to-one. Orient the adsorbent module vertically to facilitate condensate drainage. The connecting fittings must form leak-free, vacuum-tight seals. Include a coarse glass frit in the adsorbent module to retain the adsorbent.

6.1.10 Impingers. Use five impingers connected in series with leak-free ground glass fittings or any similar leak-free noncontaminating fittings. The first impinger must be a short-stem (water-dropout) design or equivalent. The second, fourth, and fifth impingers must be of the Greenburg-Smith design, modified by replacing the tip with a 1.3 cm (in.) inside diameter (ID) glass tube extending to approximately 1.3 cm (in.) from the bottom of the flask. The third impinger must be of the Greenburg-Smith design with the standard tip. The second and third impingers must contain known quantities of water, and the fifth impinger must contain a known weight of silica gel or equivalent desiccant. Alternatively, you may omit the first impinger if you do not expect excess moisture in the sample gas.

6.2.1 Fitting Caps. Use leak-free ground glass fittings or any similar leak-free non-contaminating fitting to cap the sections of the sampling train exposed to the sample gas. Alternatively, use PTFE tape or contaminant-free aluminum foil for this purpose (see Section 6.2.6 of this method).

6.2.2 Wash Bottles. Use PTFE bottles.

6.2.3 Probe-Liner, Probe-Nozzle, and Filter-Holder Brushes. Use inert bristle brushes with precleaned stainless steel or PTFE handles. Extensions of the probe brush must be made of stainless steel or PTFE and be at least as long as the probe. Use brushes that are properly sized and shaped to remove accumulated material from the nozzle and probe liner if used.

6.2.4 Filter Storage Container. Use a sealed filter holder, wide-mouth amber glass jar with PTFE-lined cap, or glass petri dish sealed with PTFE tape. Purchase precleaned amber glass jars and petri dishes, or clean according to the glassware cleaning procedures listed in Section 8.1.1.1 of this method.

6.2.5 Field Balance. Use a weighing device capable of measurements to an accuracy of 0.5 g.

6.2.6 Aluminum Foil. Use heavy duty aluminum foil cleaned by rinsing three times with hexane or toluene and stored in a pre-cleaned glass petri dish or glass jar. Do not use aluminum foil to wrap or contact filter samples due to the possibility of reaction between the sample and the aluminum.

6.2.7 Silica Adsorbent Storage Container. Use an air-tight container to store silica gel.

6.2.8 Glass Sample Storage Container. Recover samples in amber glass bottles, 500- or 1000-milliliters (mL) with leak-free PTFE-lined caps. Either purchase precleaned bottles or clean containers according to glassware cleaning procedures listed in Section 8.1.1.1 of this method.

6.3 Sample Extraction Equipment.

6.3.1 Sample Container. Use 125- and 250-mL amber glass bottles with PTFE-lined caps.
