
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### b,k

6.5.2.2 PAH Column. Use column systems for measuring PAH that can achieve separation of anthracene and phenanthrene at m/z 178 such that the valley between the peaks does not exceed 50% of the taller of the two peaks, and benzo[]fluoranthene and benzo[]fluoranthene such that the valley between the peaks is less than 60% of the height of the taller peak. These requirements are achievable using a 30-m narrow bore (0.25 mm ID) 5% phenyl polysilphenylene-siloxane (BPX5 or equivalent) bonded-phase, fused-silica capillary column.

6.5.2.3 PCB Column. Use column systems for measuring PCB that can achieve unique resolution and identification of the toxics for determination of a TEQusing toxic equivalency factors (TEF). Resolution is shown by a valley between the peaks not exceeding 40% of the taller of the two peaks. Isomers may be unresolved if they have the same TEF and RRF and if these unresolved isomers are uniquely resolved from all other congeners. These requirements are achievable using several 30-meter (m) narrow bore (0.25 mm ID) columns including 8% phenyl polycarborane-siloxane (HT8), DB-XLB, and poly (50% n-octyl/50% methyl siloxane) (SPB-Octyl). Quantification of unresolved isomers should use the nearest eluting target PCB pre-extraction standard in Appendix A of this method, unless otherwise specified in applicable rule, regulation, or permit.

If all 209 PCB are analyzed the 17 toxic PCB congeners should be resolved and reported while the other PCB can be reported as totals by homolog, for example, total TrCB.

6.5.3 Mass Spectrometer. Instrument employing 28 to 70 electron volt ionization. The instrument and data system must be capable of repetitive monitoring of at least 12 exact m/z values with a mass resolution defined in Section 10.2.1 within the measurement mass range. The recommended lock-mass ions to be used for mass drift correction are presented in Tables 23-4, 23-5, and 23-6 of this method for PCDD/PCDF, PAH, and PCB, respectively, as applicable to target analytes. Mass drifts of 5 parts per million (ppm) or more can have serious effects on instrument performance.

6.5.4 Mass Spectrometer Data System. Use a data system compatible with the mass spectrometer and capable of sequencing and monitoring multiple groups of selected ions.

6.5.5 Analytical Balance. Use an analytical balance to measure within 0.1 milligram (mg).

7.1 Filter. Glass fiber filters, without organic binder, exhibiting at least 99.95% efficiency (<0.05% penetration) on 0.3-micron dioctyl phthalate smoke particles.
