
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### e.g.,

7.8.8 High-Boiling Alkanes Used as Keeper Solvents (tetradecane, nonane, decane). Pesticide grade.Lower homologous series alkanes (nonane or decane) are necessary for higher volatility targets such as MoCB and naphthalene to maintain retention during concentration procedures. However, do not take samples to dryness when using these lower alkane homologs.

7.8.9 Liquid Column Chromatography Packing Materials. Use the following column chromatography packing materials, as needed, to prepare sample extracts by fractionation and removal of interferences. Commercially prepacked cleaning columns may be available for this purpose. The liquid column chromatography packing materials must be adequate to clean the samples to be fit for purpose and meet the performance criteria of this method. All procedures for preparing column chromatography packing materials are recommendations shown to meet the performance specifications required for the recovery of labeled compounds described in Section 13 of this method.

7.8.9.1 Alumina. Use either acidic or basic alumina in the cleanup of sample extracts. Use the same type of alumina for all samples in an analytical sequence, including those used to demonstrate LMB performance.

7.8.9.1.1 Acidic Alumina (Sigma-Aldrich&#xAE; 199966 or equivalent). Brockmann activity grade 1, 100-200 mesh. Prior to use, activate the alumina by heating for 12 hours at 130 &#xB0;C (266 &#xB0;F). Store in a desiccator. You may use pre-activated alumina purchased from a supplier as received.

7.8.9.1.2 Basic Alumina (Sigma-Aldrich&#xAE; 19943 or equivalent). Brockmann activity grade 1. Activate by heating to 600 &#xB0;C (1,112 &#xB0;F) for a minimum of 24 hours. Do not heat to over 700 &#xB0;C (1,292 &#xB0;F) because this can lead to reduced capacity for retaining the target compounds. Store at 130 &#xB0;C (266 &#xB0;F) in a covered flask. Recommended storage time for acidic alumina is up to five days from baking. Use prepacked alumina columns immediately after opening the vacuum-sealed pouch or container.

7.8.9.2 Florisil&#xAE;. Activated, 60-100 mesh recommended. Heat previously activated Florisil&#xAE; in a glass container loosely covered with aluminum foil in an oven at 130 to 150 &#xB0;C (266 to 302 &#xB0;F) for a minimum of 24 hours. Allow to cool and store activated Florisil&#xAE; silica in a desiccator.

7.8.9.3 Silica Gel. Use either activated, acid- or base-coated silica gel in the cleanup of sample extracts. Use the same type of silica gel for all samples in an analytical sequence, including those used to demonstrate LMB performance.

7.8.9.3.1 Activated Silica Gel. Supelco&#xAE; 1-3651, Bio-Sil&#xAE; A, 100-200 mesh (or equivalent). Prior to use, silica gel should be activated by solvent rinsing and heat activation. It is recommended to rinse with methylene chloride and activate the silica gel by heating for at least 1 hour at 180 &#xB0;C (356 &#xB0;F). After allowing to cool, rinse the silica gel sequentially with methanol and toluene. Heat the rinsed silica gel at 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F) for 10 minutes, then increase the temperature gradually to 180 &#xB0;C (356 &#xB0;F) over 25 minutes and maintain the gel at this temperature for 90 minutes. Allow to cool in a desiccator to room temperature and store in a glass container with a PTFE-lined screw cap. Alternative conditioning procedure may be used if the performance criteria in Section 13.1 are met for target compounds.

7.8.9.3.2 Acidic Silica Gel (30% weight/weight). Combine 100 g of activated silica gel with 44 g of concentrated sulfuric acid in a clean screw-capped glass container and agitate thoroughly. Disperse the solids with a stirring rod until obtaining a uniform mixture of acid-coated silica gel. Store the mixture in a glass container with a PTFE-lined screw cap.

7.8.9.3.3 Basic Silica Gel. Combine 30 g of 1 N sodium hydroxide with 100 g of activated silica gel in a clean screw-capped glass container and agitate thoroughly. Disperse solids with a stirring rod until obtaining a uniform mixture of base-coated silica gel. Store the mixture in glass container with a PTFE-lined screw cap.
