
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### e.g.,

7.9.2 Spiking Standards. Prepare spiking standards quantitatively at a convenient concentration (10 nanograms (ng)/mL) or use commercial standards if available, to enable accurate spiking of a labeled standard at various stages of the sample and extract preparation. You may adjust the sample fortification concentrations from those recommended in Tables 23-7, 23-8, and 23-9 of this method to accommodate the concentration of target compounds anticipated in samples if the performance criteria in Section 13 of this method are met.

When adjusting the fortification concentrations in the final sample extract, consider variables such as the aliquot of extract used and injection volume of samples and calibration.

7.9.3 Pre-Sampling Adsorbent Standard. Prepare stock standard solutions in nonane to enable spiking so that the isotopically labeled compounds in the final sample extract are at the concentration shown under the heading "Pre-sampling Adsorbent Standard" in Tables 23-7, 23-8, and 23-9 of this method, for applicable target compound classes.

7.9.4 Pre-extraction Filter Recovery Standard. Prepare stock standard solutions in nonane to enable spiking so that the isotopically labeled compounds in the final sample extract are at the concentration shown under the heading "Pre-extraction Filter Recovery Standard" in Tables 23-7, 23-8, and 23-9 of this method, for applicable target compound classes.

7.9.5 Pre-extraction Standard. Prepare stock standard solutions in nonane to enable spiking so that the isotopically labeled compounds in the final sample extract are at the concentration shown under the heading "Pre-extraction Standard" in Tables 23-7, 23-8, and 23-9 of this method, for applicable target compound classes.

7.9.6 Pre-analysis Standard. Prepare stock standard solutions in nonane to enable spiking so that the isotopically labeled compounds in the final sample extract are at the concentration shown under the heading "Pre-analysis Standard" in Tables 23-7, 23-8, and 23-9 of this method, for applicable target compound classes.
