
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### 9.1 Record and report data and information

that will allow an independent reviewer to validate the determination of each target compound concentration. Record and report the data as described in Sections 9.1.1 through 9.1.7 of this method and performance criteria results required in Section 13 of this method.

9.1.1 Sample numbers and other sample identifiers. Each sample must have a unique identifier.

9.1.2 Field sample volume.

9.1.3 Field sampling date.

9.1.4 Extraction dates.

9.1.5 Analysis dates and times.

9.1.6 Analysis sequence/run chronology.

9.1.7 Quantitation Reports.

9.1.7.1 This method does not consider EMPC-flagged data to be zero concentrations. Calculate and report the EMPC concentrations.

9.1.7.2 In determining compliance with any PCDD and PCDF standard developed using zero for values that are below the EDL of the method, including federal emission standards using Method 23 promulgated under 40 CFR parts 60 and 63 prior to March 20, 2023, use zero for the determination of total and weighted concentrations when the target compound is not detected. For all other circumstances, unless otherwise specified in applicable regulations, permits, or other requirements, when a target compound is measured at or below EDL, use EDL as the concentration for calculating compliance.

9.1.7.3 For each sample you must report EDLs, MDLs, LMBs and Field Train Proof Blank results and target compound analysis results.

9.2.1 Pre-sampling Adsorbent Standard and Pre-extraction Filter Recovery Standard Recoveries. Pre-sampling adsorbent standard and pre-extraction filter recovery standard recoveries must demonstrate on a per sample basis that recovery of the labeled standard achieved the requirements in Section 13 of this method. Recoveries below the acceptable range for the pre-sampling adsorbent standard may be an indication of breakthrough in the sampling train.

9.2.1.1 If the pre-sampling adsorbent standard average percent recovery is below 70%, the sampling run is not valid, and the stack test must be repeated. As an alternative, you do not have to repeat the stack test for invalid analyses if the pre-sampling adsorbent standard average percent recovery is 25% or more and you divide the final results by the fraction of the pre-sampling adsorbent standard average percent recovery.

9.2.1.2 If the percent recovery of all the pre-extraction filter recovery standard compounds is below 70%, you may reanalyze the sample. If the recovery is still below the limit, the filter sampling extraction is not valid, and you must repeat the stack or vent sampling and subsequent analysis.

9.2.2 Pre-extraction Standard Recoveries. Pre-extraction standard recoveries must demonstrate on a per sample basis that recovery of the labeled standard achieved the requirements in Section 13.15 of this method. If the recovery criteria are not met, you may reanalyze the sample. If the recovery criteria are still not met, the sampling run is not valid, and the stack test must be repeated. Recoveries outside the acceptable range for pre-extraction standard are an indication that sample preparation procedures did not adequately address sample and or sample matrix processing to recover native target compounds.

9.2.3 Pre-analysis Standard Response. Pre-analysis standard recoveries must demonstrate on a per sample basis that adequate labeled standard signal meets the requirements in Section 13.16 of this method. Add pre-analysis standard to every sample (including blanks, QC samples, and calibration solutions) in a known concentration. If the prepared samples do not meet the pre-analysis standard response criteria, you may reanalyze and/or prepare and analyze archive samples to attempt meeting requirements for the compounds that do not meet the pre-analysis standard response criteria. Poor sensitivity compared to initial calibration response may indicate injection errors or instrument drift.
