
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### 8.1 Sampling.

This method involves collection and recovery of trace concentrations of target semivolatile organic compounds. Therefore, field sampling and recovery staff should be trained and experienced in the best practices for handling and using organic solvents in field environments to recover and protect samples from contamination.

8.1.1 Pretest Preparation.

8.1.1.1 Cleaning Glassware. Clean glassware thoroughly before using. This section provides a recommended procedure, but any protocol that consistently results in contamination-free glassware meeting the LMB criteria in Section 13.1 of this method is acceptable.

8.1.1.1.1 Soak all glassware in hot soapy water (Alconox&#xAE; or equivalent).

8.1.1.1.2 Rinse with hot tap water.

8.1.1.1.3 Rinse with deionized/distilled water.

8.1.1.1.4 Rinse with methanol.

8.1.1.1.5 Rinse with toluene.

8.1.1.1.6 Baking glassware up to 400 &#xB0;C (752 &#xB0;F) for a minimum of 2 hours may be necessary to remove contaminants or interferents from particularly dirty samples. Allow glassware to cool after baking.

Repeated baking of glassware may cause active sites on the glass surface that may irreversibly adsorb target compounds.

8.1.1.1.7 Cover glassware openings with clean glass fitting caps or cleaned aluminum foil (see Section 6.2.6 of this method).

8.1.1.1.8 Rinse glassware immediately before use with acetone and toluene.
