
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### e.g.,

To prepare heavily soiled glassware, remove surface residuals from the glassware by soaking in hot soapy water, rinsing with hot water, then soaking with a non-chromic acid oxidizing cleaning reagent in a strong acid (NOCHROMIX&#xAE; prepared according to manufacturer's directions). After the acid soak, rinse with hot water and repeat the cleaning procedures in Section 8.1.1.1 of this method.

8.1.1.2 Adsorbent Module. Load the modules in a clean area to avoid contamination. Fill a module with 20 to 40 g of XAD-2. Spike modules before the sampling event, but do not spike the modules in the field. Add the pre-sampling adsorbent standard to the top quarter of the adsorbent bed rather than onto the top or bottom of the adsorbent bed. Add sufficient spike (picograms (pg)/module) to result in the final sample theoretical concentrations specified in Tables 23-7, 23-8, and 23-9 of this method for PCDD/PCDF, PAH, and PCB, respectively, and to be above the lowest calibration concentration to ensure the standard recovery is quantitative. For samples with known or anticipated target compound concentration significantly higher or lower than the specified concentration in these tables, adjust the pre-sampling adsorbent standard concentration to the expected native compound concentration, but no less than 10 times the method detection limit (MDL). Follow the XAD-2 with cleaned glass wool and tightly cap both ends of the module. For analysis that includes PAH, use spiked modules within 14 days of preparation. See Table 23-10 of this method for storage conditions.

8.1.1.3 Sampling Train. Figure 23-1 of this method shows the complete sampling train. Follow the best practices by maintaining all sampling train components according to the procedure described in APTD-0576 Maintenance, Calibration, and Operation of Isokinetic Source-sampling Equipment (U.S. EPA 1972).

8.1.1.4 Silica Gel. Weigh several 200 to 300 g portions of silica gel in an air-tight container to the nearest 0.5 g. Record the total weight of the silica gel plus container, on the outside of each container. As an alternative, directly weigh the silica gel in its impinger or sampling holder just prior to sampling.

8.1.1.5 Filter. Check each filter against light for irregularities and flaws or pinhole leaks. Pack the filters flat in a clean glass container. Do not mark filters with ink or any other contaminating substance.

8.1.2 Preliminary Determinations. Use the procedures specified in Section 8.2 of Method 5 of Appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60.

8.1.2.1 Sample Volume. Unless otherwise specified in an applicable rule, regulation, or permit, sample for a minimum of 2 minutes at each traverse point. This method recommends sampling a minimum of 2.5 dry standard cubic meters (dscm).

8.1.2.2 For continuously operating processes, use the same sampling time at each traverse point. To avoid timekeeping errors, use an integer, or an integer plus one-half minute, for each traverse point.

8.1.2.3 For batch processes, determine the minimum operating cycle duration, dividing the sampling time evenly between the required numbers of traverse points. After sampling all traverse points once, sample each point again for the same duration of time per sampling point in reverse order until the operating cycle is completed. Sample all traverse points at least once during each test run.

8.1.3 Preparation of Sampling Train.

8.1.3.1 During field preparation and assembly of the sampling train, keep all train openings where contamination can enter sealed until just prior to assembly or until sampling is about to begin. To protect the adsorbent module from radiant heat and sunlight, you must wrap the module with aluminum foil or other suitable material capable of shielding the module from light. The XAD-2 adsorbent resin temperature must never exceed 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F) because thermal decomposition will occur. Clean and prepare a complete set of sampling train components that will contact the sample for each sampling run, including one complete set to be used as a field train proof blank as a tool to evaluate equipment preparation and potential contamination during sample recovery as described in Section 9.6 of this method.

8.1.3.2 Place approximately 100 mL of water in the second and third impingers but leave the first and fourth impingers empty. Transfer approximately 200 g or more of silica gel from its container to the fifth impinger. Weigh each impinger and the adsorbent module, including the fitting caps, to the nearest 0.5 g using the field balance and record the weight for moisture determination. Remove the aluminum foil from the adsorbent module before weighing. Keep the module out of direct sunlight and rewrap the module with foil immediately after recording the module weight.

8.1.3.3 Using tweezers or clean disposable surgical gloves, place a filter in the filter holder. Be sure that the filter is properly centered, and the gasket properly placed, to prevent the sample gas stream from circumventing the filter. Check the filter for tears after completing the assembly.

8.1.3.4 Prepare the inside of the sampling probe and nozzle by brushing each component while rinsing three times each with acetone and toluene. Install the selected nozzle, using the connecting systems described in Section 6.1.2 of this method. Mark the probe with heat resistant tape or by some other method to denote the proper distance into the stack or duct for each sampling point. Assemble the train as shown in Figure 23-1 of this method. Orient the adsorbent module vertically so condensed moisture drains into the first impinger. See APTD-0576 Maintenance, Calibration, and Operation of Isokinetic Source-sampling Equipment (U.S. EPA 1972) for details.

8.1.3.5 Turn on the recirculation pump to the adsorbent module and condenser coil and begin monitoring the temperature of the gas entering the adsorbent module. Ensure proper temperature of the gas entering the adsorbent module before proceeding.

8.1.4 Leak-Check Procedure. Same as Section 8.4 of Method 5 of Appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60.

8.1.5 Sampling Train Operation. Same as Sections 8.5.1 through 8.5.9 of Method 5 of Appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60.

8.1.5.1 Monitor the filter temperature with a sensor and record the filter temperature during sampling to ensure a sample gas temperature exiting the filter of 120 &#xB0;C +/- 14 &#xB0;C (248 &#xB0;F +/- 25 &#xB0;F), or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or approved by the Administrator for an application of this method.

8.1.5.2 During testing, you must record the temperature of the gas entering the XAD-2 adsorbent module. The temperature of the gas must not exceed 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F) for efficient capture of the target compounds.
