
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### e.g.,

8.2.3 Inspect the train prior to and during disassembly. Note and record any abnormal conditions (broken filters, colored impinger liquid). Recover and prepare samples for shipping as follows in Sections 8.2.4 through 8.2.12 of this method.

8.2.4 Container No. 1. Either seal the filter holder or carefully remove the filter from the filter holder and place it in its identified container. If it is necessary to remove the filter, use a pair of cleaned tweezers to handle the filter. If necessary, fold the filter such that the particulate cake is inside the fold. Carefully transfer to the container any particulate matter and filter fibers that adhere to the filter holder gasket by using a dry inert bristle brush and a sharp-edged blade. Seal the container and store cool (&#x2264;20 &#xB0;C, 68 &#xB0;F) for transport to the laboratory.

8.2.5 Adsorbent Module Sample. Remove the module from the train, tightly cover both ends with fitting caps and PTFE tape, remove the foil, drain the recirculating water from the module, weigh and record the module weight, and label the adsorbent module. Moisture measurement in the field using the Method 23 train requires weighing the adsorbent module before sampling and after sampling as part of the sample recovery.

8.2.6 Container No. 2. Quantitatively recover material deposited in the nozzle, the front half of the filter holder, and the cyclone, if used, by brushing while rinsing three times with acetone followed by three rinses with toluene. Collect all the rinses in Container No. 2.

8.2.7 Rinse the back half of the filter holder three times with acetone followed by three rinses with toluene. Rinse the sample transfer line between the filter and the condenser three times with acetone followed by three rinses with toluene. If using a separate condenser and adsorbent module, rinse the condenser three times with acetone followed by three rinses with toluene. Collect all the rinses in Container No. 2 and mark the level of the liquid on the container.

8.2.8 Moisture Weight. Weigh the adsorbent module, impingers, and silica gel impinger to within +/-0.5 g using the field balance and record the weights. This information is required to calculate the moisture content of the effluent gas. For PCDD/PCDF-only measurements, discard the liquid after measuring and recording the weight.

8.2.9 Container No. 3. You must save and analyze impinger water samples if PAH and/or PCB are the target compounds. Quantitatively recover impinger water samples for analysis if PAH and/or PCB are the target compounds by rinsing three times with acetone followed by three rinses with toluene. Collect impinger water and rinses in Container No. 3 and mark the level of the liquid on the container.

8.2.10 Silica Gel. Note the color of the indicating silica gel to determine if it has been completely spent and report its condition on the field data sheet.

8.2.11 Field Sample Handling, Preservation, Storage, and Transport. Store all field samples temporarily in cool (&#x2264;20 &#xB0;C, 68 &#xB0;F) and dark conditions prior to transport to the laboratory. Ship samples cool (&#x2264;20 &#xB0;C, 68 &#xB0;F), shielded from ultraviolet light. In addition, follow the procedures in American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) D6911-15 (Guide for Packaging and Shipping Environmental Samples for Laboratory Analysis) for all samples, where appropriate. To avoid contamination of the samples, pay special attention to cleanliness during transport, field handling, sampling, recovery, and laboratory analysis, as well as during preparation of the adsorbent cartridges.

8.2.12 Sample Custody. Proper procedures and documentation for sample chain of custody are critical to ensuring data integrity. Follow the chain of custody procedures in ASTM D4840-99(2018)e1 (Standard Guide for Sample Chain-of-Custody Procedures) for all samples (including field samples and blanks).

8.3.1 Table 23-10 of this method summarizes the sample storage conditions and laboratory hold times.

8.3.2 Store sampling train rinses and filter samples in the dark at the storage conditions in Table 23-10 from the time the laboratory receives the samples until analysis.

8.3.3 You may store adsorbent samples for PCDD/PCDF or PCB analysis prior to extraction in the dark at 6 &#xB0;C (43 &#xB0;F) or less for up to one year from the time the laboratory receives the samples.

The hold times listed in this method for adsorbent samples for PCDD/PCDF and PCB are recommendations as these compounds are very stable under the conditions listed in this section.

8.3.4 Protect adsorbent samples destined for PAH analysis from ultraviolet light. You may store adsorbent samples for PAH analysis in the dark at 6 &#xB0;C (43 &#xB0;F) or less for up to 30 days from the time the laboratory receives the samples.

8.3.5 Analyze PAH extracts within 40 days of extraction.

8.3.6 You may store sample aliquots including archived extracts of PCDD/PCDF, PAH and/or PCB samples in the dark at -10 &#xB0;C (14 &#xB0;F) or less for up to one year. Sample extracts must not be stored with pierced septa.

The hold times listed in this method for sample aliquots for PCDD/PCDF and PCB are recommendations as these compounds are very stable under the conditions listed in this section.

In recognition of advances that are occurring in sampling and analytical technology, and to allow the test team to overcome analyte sensitivity and matrix interferences, this method allows certain options to increase sample collection volume and to improve separations and the quality of the analysis results for target analytes. It is the laboratory's responsibility to establish the conditions for optimum sample extraction, cleanup, and concentration to meet the performance criteria in this method. However, you may not change the fundamental sampling and analysis techniques, isokinetic sampling with an adsorbent collection media followed by sample extraction, and HRMS detection and isotopic dilution quantification procedures. Section 13 of this method specifies the performance criteria to ensure that options employed for a sample set and analytes of interest are equal to or better than the specificity of the techniques in this method. The minimum requirements of this method consist of the initial demonstration of capability (IDC) and ongoing QC requirements. The analysis team shall perform an IDC to demonstrate acceptable accuracy and precision with this method as described in Section 9.3. The ongoing QC includes performing CCVs and LMBs to evaluate an individual laboratory's performance against the criteria in this method. The method includes analysis of samples spiked with labeled compounds to evaluate and document data quality. Laboratory performance is compared to established performance criteria to determine if the results of analyses meet the performance characteristics and requirements of the method.
