
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### 9.3 Initial Demonstration of Capability (IDC).

The IDC must be successfully performed prior to analyzing field samples by meeting the QC requirements in Table 23-18. The IDC must be repeated if changes are made to analytical parameters not previously validated during the IDC. This may include, for example, changing the sample volume, selecting alternate quantitation ions, extending the calibration range, adding additional pre-analysis standard, or adding additional pre-extraction standard. The same calibration range used during the IDC must be used for the analysis of field samples.

9.3.1 Perform initial calibration following the procedures in Section 10. The lowest calibration standard used to establish the initial calibration must not be less than three times the MDL. The initial calibration must meet performance criteria in Section 13.9.

9.3.2 Lowest Calibration Concentration Confirmation. Establish a target concentration for the lowest calibration standard based on the intended use of the method. The lowest calibration concentration may be established by a laboratory or programmatic lowest quantitative reporting requirement. The laboratory calibration curve must be set at or below this level. Perform seven replicate analyses of a calibration sample prepared at proposed lowest calibration concentration. The replicate analyses of the lowest calibration concentrations standards must meet the criteria in Sections 13.9 and 13.17.1.

Consider that establishing the lowest calibration concentration too low may cause repeated failure of ongoing QC requirements.

9.3.3 Calculate Lowest Calibration Statistics. Calculate the mean and standard deviation for each analyte in these replicates (those used in Section 9.3.2). Determine the Half Range for the Prediction Interval of Results (HRPIR) using Equation 23-13. Calculate the Upper and Lower Limits for the Prediction Interval of Results (PIR) with Equations 23-14 and 23-15.

9.3.4 Lowest Calibration Point Acceptance Criteria. The laboratory's ability to measure analyte concentrations down to the lowest calibration point is confirmed if the criteria presented in Section 13.17.1 are met. If these criteria are not met, the lowest calibration point as been set too low and must be confirmed at a higher concentration.

9.3.5 Demonstration of Low System Background. Analyze an LMB after the highest standard in the calibration range. If an automated extraction system is used, an LMB must be extracted on each port. Performance criteria are presented in Section 13.1. Note: When using automated systems, the same systems must be used for samples and QC samples, such as blanks and resin checks.

9.3.6 Initial Calibration Verification. A QCS must be analyzed during the IDC, and then following each initial calibration thereafter (at a minimum quarterly). A QCS is a mid-level standard prepared from a second source standard or prepared from a source of standards different from the source of calibration standards. The purpose of the QCS is to verify the integrity of the primary calibration standards. The acceptance criterion is presented in Section 13.11.

9.3.7 MDL. Perform an MDL determination using a minimum of seven spiked combined filter/sorbent media samples, spiked within 2 to 10 times of the expected MDL, and seven LMBs (combined filter/sorbent media) through all the steps of the method following the requirements in 40 CFR part 136 Appendix B. Confirm target compounds meet the qualitative identification criteria in Sections 13.12 and 13.13. The criteria for the MDL determination are presented in Section 13.6.1 of this method.

9.3.8 MDL Confirmation. Confirm newly determined MDLs by preparing a low-level spiked combined filter/sorbent media sample by spiking the sorbent with native target compounds at 1 to 5 times the MDL and pre-extraction standard at the concentration used to analyze field samples and analyze. The criterion for the MDL confirmation is presented in Section 13.6.1 of this method.

9.3.9 Demonstration of Precision. Prepare, extract, and analyze seven replicate spiked samples in a valid Extraction Batch. Fortify the spiked samples near the midpoint of the initial calibration curve. The criterion is presented in Section 13.17.2 and Table 23-18. Demonstration is repeated for failed compounds only.

9.3.10 Demonstration of Accuracy. Using the same set of replicate data generated for Section 9.3.9 of this method, calculate the average % recovery. The criterion is presented in Section 13.17.3 and Table 23-18. Demonstration is repeated for failed compounds only.
