
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### 10.1 Sampling System.

Same as Sections 6.1 and 10.1 through 10.7 of Method 5 of Appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60.

10.2.1 Mass Resolution. Tune the HRMS instrument to a resolving power of at least 10,000 at 10% percent of the peak height or 25,000 at 50% percent of the peak height. The resolving power for PAH and PCB analysis may be 8,000 at 10% of the peak height or 15,000 at 50% of the peak height. Assess the resolution at three exact m/z's representing the low-, mid-, and high-m/z range of the masses used to measure the target compound class. You may use peak matching and the chosen perfluoro-kerosene (PFK) or perfluorotributylamine (FC43) reference peak to verify that the exact mass is within 5 ppm of the required value.

10.2.2 Initial Calibration. Calibrate the HRGC/HRMS system using a minimum of five concentrations over a range that brackets expected field sample concentrations and the concentration of isotopically labeled standards in spiked samples. Tables 23-11, 23-12, and/or 23-13 of this method show the calibration concentrations recommended by this method, as applicable to the target compound classes. Determine the initial relative response factors for the target compounds and isotopically labeled standards using the initial calibration. Criteria for the initial calibration is in Section 13.9 of this method.

10.2.2.1 Lock-Mass Ions. Tables 23-4, 23-5, and 23-6 of this method present the recommended mass spectrometer lock-mass ions for PCDD/PCDF, PAH, and PCB, respectively. The reference compounds PFK or FC43 have ions that may be selected as your lock-mass and QC check ions. Monitor the QC check ions specified in these tables to verify instrument stability during the analysis (see Section 13.8 for performance criteria). Additional cleanup of the sample extract (or archive extract) and reanalysis is necessary for failure to maintain the lock-mass during analysis.

10.2.2.2 The relative standard deviation (RSD) for the mean calibration relative response factor from each of the unlabeled analytes and isotopically labeled compounds used in an analysis must be less than or equal to the values in Table 23-14 of this method.

10.2.2.3 The signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio for the GC/MS signal present in every selected ion current profile must be greater than or equal to 10 in all concentrations of calibration standards for unlabeled targets and isotopically labeled standards. The ion abundance ratios must be within the control limits in Table 23-15 of this method.

An interference with PFK m/z 223.9872 may preclude meeting 10:1 S/N for the DiCB congeners at the optional Cal 1 level (Table 23-11). If this interference occurs, 10:1 S/N must be met at the Cal 2 level.

10.2.3 Continuing Calibration Verification.

10.2.3.1 Prepare the CCV standard at the same time as the batch of field samples using the same labeled standards. Prepare CCV standards at mid-level of the calibration (C3 level from Tables 23-11, 23-12, or 23-13 of this method). Inject a CCV standard, for the target compound class, at least once every 12 hours during an analysis sequence. Calculate the RRF for each compound and compare each RRF to the corresponding mean RRF obtained during the initial calibration. The RRF for each native compound measured in a CCV must not deviate from the initial calibration RRF by more than the limits shown in Table 23-14.

10.2.3.2 The ion abundance ratios must be within the allowable control limits shown in Table 23-15 of this method.

10.2.3.3 The S/N ratio for the GC/MS signal present in every selected ion current profile must be greater than or equal to 10.

10.2.3.4 Repeat the initial calibration when there is a failure to meet the requirements for acceptable CCV standard analysis.

10.2.3.5 Column Separation Check. Use the results from a CCV to verify and document the resolution required in Section 13.2, 13.3, or 13.4 of this method for the target compound classes analyzed with this method. If target compounds are not sufficiently resolved to meet the requirement, an analysis on a confirmation column is recommended (see Section 13.5 of this method).

10.2.3.6 If you use a confirmation column, perform the resolution check in Section 10.2.3.5 of this method to document the required resolution on the confirmation column. See Section 13.5 of this method on confirmation columns, if needed.
