
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### 11.1 Sample Extraction and Concentration.

The sample extraction procedures in this method are the same for PCDD, PCDF, PCB and PAH targets. Figure 23-4 provides a flow chart showing sample container combination and extraction steps. Do not allow samples and extracts destined for PAH or PCB analysis to concentrate to dryness because the lower molecular weight PAH and the mono- through tri-chlorobiphenyls may be totally or partially lost. Note: Rotary evaporation is applicable when analyzing for PCDD/PCDF only. Snyder column apparatus is recommended when analyzing for PAH and PCB.

11.1.1 Optional Soxhlet Precleaning. Place an extraction thimble (see Section 6.3.3.3 of this method) and a plug of glass wool into the Soxhlet apparatus equipped with a Dean-Stark trap, charge the apparatus with toluene, and reflux for a minimum of 3 hours. Remove the toluene and discard it. Remove the extraction thimble from the extraction system and place it in a glass beaker to catch the solvent rinses from sample transfer to the extraction thimble. Retain the clean glass wool plug. Alternatively, confirm that the LMB for associated reagents, materials, and media meets the performance requirements in Section 13.1 of this method.

11.1.2 Container No. 1 (Filter) Preparation. Spike the filter with the appropriate pre-extraction filter recovery standard to result in the final sample extract concentrations shown in Tables 23-7, 23-8, and 23-9 of this method taking care that all spike liquid is distributed on the filter. Allow the filter to dry enough to prevent overspill, then transfer the filter and the contents of Container No. 1 directly to the glass extraction thimble in the glass solvent rinse catch beaker so that the filter will be completely immersed in the solvent during extraction.

11.1.3 Adsorbent Module. Spike the adsorbent with the appropriate pre-extraction standard to result in the final sample extract concentrations shown in Tables 23-7, 23-8, and 23-9 of this method, as applicable, spiked into the adsorbent, not on top of the adsorbent. Transfer the adsorbent material to the glass extraction thimble in the glass solvent rinse catch beaker. Rinse the module into the thimble in the beaker with the contents of Container No. 1. Alternatively, suspend the adsorbent module directly over the extraction thimble in a beaker, then, using a wash bottle containing methanol, flush the XAD-2 into the thimble onto the filter. Thoroughly rinse the interior of the glass module that contained the XAD-2 with toluene.

11.1.4 Container No. 2 (Acetone and Toluene Rinses). Concentrate the sample to a volume of no less than 5 mL. Concentrate samples containing toluene using a heating mantle and three-ball Snyder column or a rotary evaporator. Rinse sample Container No. 2 three times with small portions of toluene and add these to the concentrated solution and concentrate further to no less than 5 mL. This residue contains particulate matter removed in the rinse of the train probe and nozzle. Rinse the concentrated material from Container No. 2 into the glass extraction thimble containing the filter and the XAD-2 resin.

11.1.5 Transfer the solvent contained in the glass solvent rinse catch beaker to the extraction apparatus solvent reservoir. Rinse the beaker into the Soxhlet extraction apparatus solvent reservoir three times with small portions of toluene.

11.1.6 Container No. 3 (Impinger Water and Rinses). For PAH and PCB analysis, transfer the contents of Container No. 3 to a separatory funnel. Adjust to pH 2 with 6 N sulfuric acid, if necessary. Rinse the sample container with three successive 10-mL aliquots of the toluene and add these rinses to the separatory funnel. Extract the sample by vigorously shaking the separatory funnel for 5 minutes. After complete separation of the phases, remove the solvent and filter it through a bed of precleaned, dry sodium sulfate into the Soxhlet extraction apparatus solvent reservoir. Repeat the extraction step two additional times. Adjust the pH to 11 with 6 N sodium hydroxide, re-extract the impinger water and rinses, and filter it through a bed of precleaned, dry sodium sulfate into the Soxhlet extraction apparatus solvent reservoir. Rinse the sodium sulfate into the extraction apparatus solvent reservoir with fresh solvent and discard the sodium sulfate.

11.1.7 Add the appropriate pre-extraction standard for the target compound classes (to result in the final sample extract concentrations shown in Tables 23-7, 23-8, and 23-9 of this method) to the extraction thimble containing the combined filter and adsorbent sample fractions. Cover the contents of the extraction thimble with the cleaned glass wool plug to prevent the XAD-2 resin from splashing into the solvent reservoir of the extractor. Place the extraction thimble into the Soxhlet extraction apparatus.

11.1.8 Pour additional toluene to fill the solvent reservoir to approximately two-thirds capacity. Add PTFE boiling chips and assemble the apparatus.

11.1.9 Adjust the heat source to cause the extractor to cycle approximately three times per hour. Extract the sample for sufficient time to meet the pre-extraction standard recovery performance criteria in Section 13.15 of this method. The solvent should cycle completely through the system a minimum of 48 times.

11.2 Sample Aliquots for Cleanup and Analysis.

11.2.1 After extraction, allow the Soxhlet apparatus to cool.
