
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### 11.3 Sample Cleanup and Fractionation.

You may process a separate aliquot/split of the sample extract for each of the compound classes analyzed by this method. Sample cleanup for each compound class may include techniques in addition to column chromatography such as acid/base back-extraction, Gel Permeation Chromatography, or high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to isolate target compounds from interferences. This section includes a description of column chromatography shown to meet the performance criteria in Sections 9.2 and 13 of this method. The following sample cleanup and fractionation procedures are recommended but not required. You may modify cleanup column dimensions to meet manual or automated cleanup procedures as technology changes and improves. You must evaluate the cleanup and fractionation procedures used to confirm acceptable recovery of isotopically labeled standards. The alternative procedures must provide sufficient cleanup to meet method identification criteria (Section 11.4.3.4 of this method) and recovery criteria (Section 9.2 of this method). Section 13 of this method summarizes the method performance requirements.

Recommendations in this section provide a cleanup approach that may allow multiple compound class measurement from a single aliquot of the original sample extract. Typically, Florisil&#xAE; and alumina are used to separate PAH and PCDPE from PCDD and PCDF target compounds. Use acid, neutral, and basic silica gel and cleanup procedures to remove nonpolar and polar interferences from samples destined for PCB and PCDD/PCDF analysis. Use Carbopack&#xAE;/Celite&#xAE; (or other equivalent carbon-based column material) to remove other nonpolar interferences.

11.3.1 PAH and PCDPE Fractionation and Cleanup. You may use a Florisil&#xAE; column to remove PAH and PCDPE from the sample extract. You may also fractionate sample extracts using Florisil&#xAE; as the first cleanup step to separate PAH for analysis.

High concentrations of PAH may interfere, leading to failure of performance criteria for PCDD/PCDF or PCB analysis.

11.3.1.1 Pack a 6-mm ID chromatographic column or equivalent diameter glass pipet with a glass wool plug followed by approximately 1.5 g (approximately 2 mL) of activated Florisil&#xAE;. Add approximately 1 cm (approximately 1 mL) of anhydrous sodium sulfate followed by a glass wool plug to the head of the column. Pre-elute the column with 10 mL of methylene chloride followed by 10 mL of hexane and discard the eluate.

11.3.1.2 When the solvent is within 1 mm of the packing, transfer the concentrated extract (up to 5 mL) to the top of the Florisil&#xAE; column, rinse the sample container twice with 1 to 2 mL of hexane, adding each rinse to the column, and elute the column with 35 mL of 5% dichloromethane in hexane. This fraction (Fraction 1) should contain target PCB, and selected hydrocarbons and chlorinated monoaromatic compounds.

11.3.1.3 Elute the column with 35 mL of 15% of dichloromethane in hexane and collect the eluate. This fraction (Fraction 2) should contain target PCDD/PCDF compounds.

11.3.1.4 Elute the column with 50 mL of 50% dichloromethane in hexane. The fraction (Fraction 3) should contain target PAH.

11.3.1.5 If necessary to remove any remaining polar organic compounds, elute the column with 70 mL of 15% acetone in hexane.

11.3.2 PCDD/PCDF and PCB Fractionation and Cleanup. You may remove PAH from the original aliquot of sample extract used for PCDD/PCDF analysis as described in Section 11.3.1 of this method. Design the column cleanup chromatography for PCDD/PCDF and PCB such that two consecutive fractions are collected (one with PCDD/PCDF and one with PCB) without impacting the detection limits. Depending on the source and sample matrix of the original sample, one or more of the following column cleanup approaches may be necessary to further remove polyhalogenated diphenyl ethers. You may use any number of permutations found in the referenced literature for this cleanup if the pre-extraction standard recoveries from field and LMB samples meet the associated performance criteria in Section 13 of this method. Alternatively, you may use an automated cleanup approach that meets the labeled spike recovery requirements in Section 13 of this method.

11.3.2.1 Silica Gel Column Chromatography. Pack one end of a glass column, approximately 20 mm ID x 230 mm long, with glass wool. Add in sequence to the glass column, 1 g of silica gel, 2 g of sodium hydroxide impregnated silica gel, 1 g of silica gel, 4 g of acid-modified silica gel, 1 g of silica gel, and 1 cm layer of anhydrous sodium sulfate. Pre-elute the column with 30 to 50 mL of hexane leaving a small quantity of hexane above the sodium sulfate layer. Discard the pre-elution hexane. Add the sample extract, dissolved in 5 mL of hexane to the head of the column. Allow the sample to flow into the column leaving a small quantity of hexane above the sodium sulfate layer. Rinse the extract container with two additional 5-mL rinses of hexane and apply each rinse to the column separately as the previous addition elutes. Elute the column with an additional 90 mL of hexane and retain the entire eluate. Concentrate this solution to a volume of about 1 mL using the nitrogen evaporative concentrator (see Section 6.3.5 of this method).

11.3.2.2 Silver Nitrate Silica Gel Column Chromatography. Pack a column (6 mm ID, 150 mm in length) sequentially with 1 g of silica gel and 1 g of 10% silver nitrate silica gel followed by a layer of about 10 mm of sodium sulfate (anhydrous). Wash the column sufficiently with hexane, elute until the liquid level reaches to the upper end of the column, and then transfer the concentrated sample (about 5 mL). Rinse the container several times with a small amount of hexane, elute with 200 mL of hexane at a flow rate about 2.5 mL/min (approximately one drop per second) to elute PCDD/PCDF.

11.3.2.3 Multi-layer Silica Gel Column Chromatography. You may use a multi-layer silica gel column in place of separate silica columns. Pack a column of 20 mm ID and 300 mm in length sequentially by the dry pack method with 0.9 g of silica gel, 3.0 g of 2% potassium hydroxide silica gel, 0.9 g of silica gel, 4.5 g of 44% sulfuric acid silica gel, 6.0 g of 22% sulfuric acid silica gel, 0.9 g of silica gel, 3.0 g of 10% silver nitrate silica gel, 2.0 g of silica gel and 6.0 g of sodium sulfate (anhydrous). Wash the column sufficiently with hexane, elute until the liquid level reaches to the upper end of the column, and then load the sample solution. Rinse the container several times with a small amount of hexane, elute with 150-200 mL of hexane at a flow rate about 2.5 mL/min (approximately one drop per second) to elute PCDD/PCDF.

11.3.2.4 Basic Alumina Column Chromatography. Pack a column (20 mm ID, 300 mm in length) with approximately 6 to 12 g of basic alumina. Pre-elute the column with 50 to 100 mL of hexane. Transfer the concentrated extract from the previous column cleanup to the top of the basic alumina column. Allow the sample to flow into the column leaving a small quantity of solvent above the top of the bed. Rinse the extract container with two additional 1-mL rinses of hexane and apply each rinse to the column separately as the previous addition elutes. Elute the column with 100 mL hexane to remove the interferences. Elute the PCDD/PCDF from the column with 20 to 40 mL of 50% methylene chloride in hexane. The ratio of methylene chloride to hexane may vary depending on the activity of the alumina used in the column preparation. Do not let the head of the column go without solvent. The first 100 mL hexane eluate is not used for subsequent PCDD/PCDF analysis. The eluate is concentrated to approximately 0.5 mL using the nitrogen evaporative concentrator.

11.3.2.5 Carbopack&#xAE; C/Celite&#xAE; 545 Column or Equivalent. Cut both ends from a 10 mL disposable Pasteur pipette (see Section 6.4.1 of this method) to produce a 10 cm column. Fire-polish both ends and flare both ends if desired. Insert a glass wool plug at one end and pack the column with 0.55 g of Carbopack&#xAE;/Celite&#xAE; (see Section 7.8.9.4 of this method) to form an adsorbent bed approximately 2 cm long. Insert a glass wool plug on top of the bed to hold the adsorbent in place. Pre-elute the column with 5 mL of toluene followed by 2 mL of methylene chloride:methanol:toluene (15:4:1 volume/volume (v/v)), 1 mL of methylene chloride:cyclohexane (1:1 v/v), and 5 mL of hexane. If the flow rate of eluate exceeds 0.5 mL/minute, discard the column. Do not let the head of the column go without solvent. Add the sample extract to the column. Rinse the sample container twice with 1 mL portions of hexane and apply separately to the column. Apply 2 mL of hexane to the head of the column to complete the transfer. Elute the interfering compounds with two 3 mL portions of hexane, 2 mL of methylene chloride:cyclohexane (1:1 v/v), and 2 mL of methylene chloride:methanol:toluene (15:4:1 v/v). Discard the eluate. Invert the column and elute the PCDD/PCDF with 20 mL of toluene. If carbon particles are present in the eluate, filter through glass-fiber filter paper. Concentrate the eluate to approximately 0.5 mL using the nitrogen evaporative concentrator for further cleanup or analysis by HRGC/HRMS.

11.4.1 Analyze the sample extract with an HRGC/HRMS using the instrumental parameters in Sections 11.4.2 and 11.4.3 of this method.

11.4.1.1 Immediately prior to analysis, add an aliquot (typically 20 microliters (µl)) of the pre-analysis standard to result in the final sample extract concentrations in Tables 23-7, 23-8, and 23-9 of this method to each sample as appropriate for the compounds you are measuring by this method.

11.4.1.2 Inject an aliquot of the sample extract into the GC, typically 1 µl. You may perform separate analyses using different GC columns for each of the target compound classes. Perform calibration and sample analysis for each target compound class using the same instrument operating conditions including injection volume.

11.4.1.2.1 If target compounds are not resolved sufficiently from other target compounds or interferences in the sample to meet the requirements in Section 10.2.3.5 or 10.2.3.6 of this method, as applicable to the compound class being analyzed, or as otherwise specified in an applicable regulation, permit, or other requirement, analyze sample (or another aliquot of the sample) using an alternative column that provides elution order to uniquely quantify the target compounds subject to interference on the first GC column.

11.4.1.2.2 You may use column systems other than those recommended in this method provided the analyst is able to demonstrate, using calibration and CCVs, that the alternative column system is able to meet the applicable specifications of Section 10.2.3.5 or 10.2.3.6 of this method.

11.4.2 Example Gas Chromatograph Operating Conditions.

11.4.2.1 Injector. Configured for capillary column, splitless, 250 &#xB0;C (482 &#xB0;F).

11.4.2.2 Carrier Gas. Helium, 1 to 2 mL/min.

11.4.2.3 Oven. Optimize the GC temperature program to achieve the required separation and target compound recovery for the GC column in use. Table 23-16 of this method presents the typical conditions for a DB5-MS column.

11.4.3 High-Resolution Mass Spectrometer.

11.4.3.1 Ionization Mode. Electron ionization.

11.4.3.2 Source Temperature. Maintain the source temperature in the range of 250 to 300 &#xB0;C (482 to 572 &#xB0;F).

11.4.3.3 Ion Monitoring Mode. Tables 23-4, 23-5, and 23-6 of this method summarize the various ions to be monitored for PCDD/PCDF, PAH, and PCB, respectively.

11.4.3.4 Identification Criteria for Target Compounds. Use the following identification criteria for the characterization of target compounds in this method. The available native and isotopically labeled standards allow the unique identification of all PCDD/PCDF, PAH, and selected PCB congeners analyzed in this method. Also see Sections 13.12 and 13.13 of this method for identification criteria for PCDD/PCDF/PCB and PAH target compounds, respectively.

11.4.3.4.1 For PCDD/PCDF and PCB, Table 23-15 of this method provides acceptance limits for the integrated ion abundance ratio of primary and secondary target compound ions. When the ion abundance ratio for a target analyte is outside the performance criteria, you may reanalyze samples on an alternative GC column to resolve chemical interferences, tune the mass spectrometer to operate at a higher mass resolution to discriminate against the interference(s), and/or further cleanup an archived sample to remove the interference(s). Report analysis results as an EMPC when a response meets identification criteria except the ion abundance ratio criteria or when a peak representing a PCDPE has been detected at the retention time. This method does not consider EMPC-flagged data to be zero concentrations.

Some EMPCs may be caused by poor ion statistics when the concentration of the target compound is at or near the DL.

11.4.3.4.2 The retention time for the analytes must be within 3 seconds of the corresponding labeled pre-extraction standard.

11.4.3.4.3 The signals for the two exact masses in Tables 23-4 and 23-6 of this method for PCDD/PCDF and PCB, respectively, must be present and must reach their maximum response within two seconds of each other.

11.4.3.4.4 Identify and quantify specific target compounds or isomers that do not have corresponding pre-extraction standard compounds by comparing to the pre-extraction standard of the same compound class with the nearest retention time to target compound.

11.4.3.4.5 For the identification of specific PCB congeners, the retention time of the native congener must be within 0.006 relative retention time (RRT) units of the pre-extraction standard.

11.4.3.4.6 For qualitative identification, the S/N ratio for the GC signal present in every selected ion current profile for native compound response must be greater than or equal to 2.5.

11.4.3.4.7 The separation of target compounds, including 2,3,7,8-TeCDD and 2,3,7,8-TeCDF, must satisfy the separation criteria in Section 10.2.3.5 of this method and all the identification criteria specified in Sections 11.4.3.4.1 through 11.4.3.4.6 of this method. See Section 13.5 of this method on confirmation columns, if needed.

11.4.3.4.8 Chlorodiphenyl Ether Interference. If chromatographic peaks are detected at the retention time of any PCDF in any of the m/z channels used to monitor PCDPE, there is evidence of a positive interference and you may opt to flag data noting the interference and keep the value to calculate PCDF concentration as EMPC or reanalyze to remove or shift the interference. This method recommends alumina (see Section 11.3.2.4 of this method) and Florisil&#xAE; (see Section 11.3.1 of this method) liquid column chromatography packing materials for removal of PCDPE during sample cleanup.

11.4.3.4.9 The recommended MS lock-mass ions are specified in Tables 23-4, 23-5, and 23-6 of this method for PCDD/PCDF, PAH, and PCB, respectively. Monitor the QC check ions to verify instrument stability during the analysis. If the QC check ion signal varies by more than 25% from the average response across the run, flag results for all isomers at corresponding retention time as the lock-mass ions or QC check ions. You have the option to reanalyze after additional cleanup on the sample (or an archived portion of the sample if the archive is available), or after dilution of the sample. Alternately, determine through additional quality review whether the target analyte and its corresponding isotopically labeled standard are equally affected by the change in lock-mass ions and/or QC check ions. When you reanalyze a sample, ensure all concentration calculations are reported from the reanalyzed sample.

11.4.3.4.10 For the identification of PAH, the RRT of each native to its labeled compound must be within 0.006 RRT units compared to the corresponding RRTs in the continuing calibration. The signals for the characteristic ion listed in Table 23-5 of this method must be present.

11.4.3.5 Quantitation. Measure the response of each native target compound and the corresponding pre-extraction standard. Using the CCV RRF, calculate the mass of each target compound, using equations in Section 12.7 of this method. Use the pre-extraction standard to correct the native target compounds result for variations in performance of the extraction, cleanup, and concentration steps of the analysis. Recovery of pre-extraction standard must meet the minimum specifications in Section 9.2. of this method to ensure that the method performance and reliability have not been compromised by unacceptable losses during sample processing. Table 23-17 of this method shows the assignments for pre-extraction standard compounds for use in calculating the response factor and the concentrations of PCB. Recoveries of all labeled standard compounds must meet the minimum recovery specifications in Section 13 of this method. Note: Unacceptably low recoveries can be an indication of a sample processing step that caused the low recoveries, such as spiking errors.

11.4.3.5.1 Use Equation 23-7 to calculate the amount of each target compound or group in the sample.

11.4.3.5.2 Use Equation 23-8 to calculate the concentration per dscm of each target compound or group in the gas.

11.4.3.5.3 Quantify native PCDD and PCDF in its homologous series using the corresponding native and pre-extraction standard response in its homologous series. For example, useC-2,3,7,8-TeCDD to calculate the concentrations of all other tetra chlorinated isomers.

11.4.3.5.4 As an option or as required or specified in applicable regulations, permits, or other requirements, you may quantify any or all other PCB congeners as resolved or coeluting combinations using the RRF of the nearest eluting native target PCB in the same homolog group and the pre-extraction standard assigned in Appendix A to this method.
