
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### 13.11 QCS.

A QCS must be analyzed during the IDC and after initial calibrations (at a minimum quarterly). The acceptance criterion for the QCS is 70-130% of the true value. If the accuracy for any analyte fails the recovery criterion, prepare a fresh standard dilution and repeat. If the freshly prepared QCS fails, determine the cause, recalibrate the instrument if necessary and reanalyze the QCS.

13.12.1 Target compounds must have ion abundance ratios within the control limits in Table 23-15 of this method. PAH target compounds have single ion identifiers with no ion abundance ratio requirement. Report analysis results as an EMPC when a response meets identification criteria but fails the ion abundance ratio criteria or when a peak representing a PCDPE has been detected at the target compound retention time.

13.12.2 The retention time for the analytes must be within 3 seconds of the corresponding pre-extraction standard.

13.12.3 The monitored ions, shown in Table 23-4 of this method for a given PCDD/PCDF, must reach their maximum response within 2 seconds of each other.

13.12.4 The monitored ions, shown in Table 23-6 of this method for a given PCB, must reach their maximum response within 2 seconds of each other.

13.12.5 For the identification of specific PCB, the RRT of the native congener must be within 0.006 RRT units of the pre-extraction standard RRT.

13.12.6 The S/N ratio for the monitored ions for native compounds must be greater than or equal to 2.5.

13.12.7 Identify and quantify isomers that do not have corresponding pre-extraction standard compounds by comparing to the pre-extraction standard of the same compound class with the nearest retention time to the target compound.

13.12.8 If chromatographic peaks are detected at the retention time of any PCDD/PCDF in any of the m/z channels used to monitor PCDPE, there is evidence of interference and positive bias. Data must be flagged to indicate an interference. You may report the total with bias for the affected target. To reduce the bias, you may use a confirmatory column or perform additional clean up on an archived sample followed by reanalysis.

13.13.1 The signals for the characteristic ion listed in Table 23-5 of this method must be present.

13.13.2 The RRT between each native and labeled compound must be within 0.006 RRT units.
