
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### 13.8 Lock-Mass Ions.

The MS lock-mass and QC check ions in Tables 23-4, 23-5, and 23-6 of this method are recommended for PCDD/PCDF, PCB, or PAH, respectively. The reference compounds PFK or FC43 have ions that may be selected as your lock-mass and QC check ions. Monitor the QC check ions specified in these tables to verify instrument stability during the analysis; these must not vary >25% from the average response. Additional cleanup on sample extract (or archive extract) and reanalysis is necessary for failure to maintain lock-mass during analysis.

13.9.1 The RSD for mean RRF from each of the target analytes and labeled standards in the calibration samples must not exceed the values in Table 23-14 of this method.

13.9.2 The S/N in every selected ion current profile must be ≥10 for all unlabeled targets and labeled standards in the calibration samples.

13.9.3 The ion abundance ratios must be within the control limits in Table 23-15 of this method.

13.10.1 The RRF for each unlabeled and labeled compound measured in a CCV must not deviate from the initial calibration RRF by more than the limits shown in Table 23-14 of this method.

13.10.2 The ion abundance ratios must be within the control limits in Table 23-15 of this method.

13.10.3 The S/N ratio for the GC/MS signal present in every selected ion current profile must be greater than or equal to 10.

13.10.4 Repeat the initial calibration when there is a failure to meet the requirements for an acceptable CCV analysis.

13.10.5 Column Separation Check. Use the results from a CCV to verify and document the resolution required in Sections 13.2, 13.3, or 13.4 of this method for the target compound classes analyzed with this method. The separation criteria are applicable to all the compounds in a target class whether analyzed by a single or multiple GC columns. If a confirmation column is used, document required resolution (see Section 13.5).
