
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### Methylene chloride:

-Extract for 22 hr.

You may store the resin in a sealed glass container filled with toluene prior to the final toluene extraction. It may be necessary to repeat the final methylene chloride extractions to meet the cleanliness requirements in Section 13.1 of Method 23.

2.2 You may use alternative extraction procedures to clean large batches of resin. Any size extractor may be constructed; the choice depends on the needs of the sampling programs. The resin is held in a glass or stainless-steel cylinder between a pair of coarse and fine screens. Spacers placed under the bottom screen allow for even distribution of clean solvent. Clean solvent is circulated through the resin for extraction. A flow rate is maintained upward through the resin to allow maximum solvent contact and prevent channeling.

2.2.1 Experience has shown that 1 mL/g of resin extracted is the minimum necessary to extract and clean the resin. The aqueous rinse is critical to the subsequent organic rinses and may be accomplished by simply flushing the canister with about 1 liter of distilled water for every 25 g of resin. A small pump may be useful for pumping the water through the canister. You should perform the water extraction at the rate of about 20 to 40 mL/min.

2.2.2 All materials of construction are glass, PTFE, or stainless steel. Pumps, if used, should not contain extractable materials.

3.1 Dry the adsorbent of extraction solvent before use. This section provides a recommended procedure to dry adsorbent that is wet with solvent. However, you may use other procedures if the cleanliness requirements in Section 13.1 of Method 23 are met.

3.2 Drying Column. A simple column with suitable retainers will hold all the XAD-2 from the extractor or the Soxhlet extractor, as shown in Figure B-1, with sufficient space for drying the bed while generating a minimum backpressure in the column.

3.3 Drying Procedure: Dry the adsorbent using clean inert gas. Liquid nitrogen from a standard commercial liquid nitrogen cylinder has proven to be a reliable source of large volumes of gas free from organic contaminants. You may use high-purity tank nitrogen to dry the resin. However, you should pass the high-purity nitrogen through a bed of activated charcoal approximately 150 mL in volume prior to entering the drying apparatus.
