
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### 15.3,The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel,Less is Better-Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction,

For further information on waste management, consultandavailable from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036.

XAD-2&#xAE; resin, as supplied by the original manufacturer, is impregnated with a bicarbonate solution to inhibit microbial growth during storage. Remove both the salt solution and any residual extractable chemicals used in the polymerization process before use. Prepare the resin by a series of water and organic extractions, followed by careful drying.

2.1 You may perform the extraction using a Soxhlet extractor or other apparatus that generates resin meeting the requirements in Section 13.1 of Method 23. Use an all-glass thimble containing an extra-coarse frit for extraction of the resin. The frit is recessed 10-15 mm above a crenellated ring at the bottom of the thimble to facilitate drainage. Because the resin floats on methylene chloride, carefully retain the resin in the extractor cup with a glass wool plug and stainless-steel screen. This process involves sequential extraction with the following recommended solvents in the listed order.
