
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### e.g.,

3.3.1 Connect the gas vent of a liquid nitrogen cylinder or the exit of the activated carbon scrubber to the column by a length of precleaned copper tubing (0.95 cm ID) coiled to pass through a heat source. A convenient heat source is a water bath heated from a steam line. The final nitrogen temperature should only be warm to the touch and not over 40 &#xB0;C.

3.3.2 Allow the methylene chloride to drain from the resin prior to placing the resin in the drying apparatus.

3.3.3 Flow nitrogen through the drying apparatus at a rate that does not fluidize or agitate the resin. Continue the nitrogen flow until the residual solvent is removed.

Experience has shown that about 500 g of resin may be dried overnight by consuming a full 160-L cylinder of liquid nitrogen.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of volatile matter content, water content, density, volume solids, and weight solids of paint, varnish, lacquer, or other related surface coatings.

1.3 Precision and Bias. Intra-and inter-laboratory analytical precision statements are presented in section 13.1. No bias has been identified.

2.1 Standard methods are used to determine the volatile matter content, water content, density, volume solids, and weight solids of paint, varnish, lacquer, or other related surface coatings.
