
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### Ultraviolet (UV) radiation-cured coatings

3.3are coatings which contain unreacted monomers that are polymerized by exposure to ultraviolet light.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Hazardous Components. Several of the compounds that may be contained in the coatings analyzed by this method may be irritating or corrosive to tissues (e.g., heptane) or may be toxic (e.g., benzene, methyl alcohol). Nearly all are fire hazards. Appropriate precautions can be found in reference documents, such as Reference 3 of section 16.0.

The equipment and supplies specified in the ASTM methods listed in sections 6.1 through 6.6 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17 for acceptable versions of the methods) are required:

6.1 ASTM D 1475-60, 80, or 90, Standard Test Method for Density of Paint, Varnish, Lacquer, and Related Products.

6.2 ASTM D 2369-81, 87, 90, 92, 93, 95, or 10. Standard Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings.

6.3 ASTM D 3792-79 or 91, Standard Test Method for Water Content of Water Reducible Paints by Direct Injection into a Gas Chromatograph.

6.4 ASTM D 4017-81, 90, or 96a, Standard Test Method for Water in Paints and Paint Materials by the Karl Fischer Titration Method.

6.5 ASTM 4457-85 91, Standard Test Method for Determination of Dichloromethane and 1,1,1-Trichloroethane in Paints and Coatings by Direct Injection into a Gas Chromatograph.

6.6 ASTM D 5403-93, Standard Test Methods for Volatile Content of Radiation Curable Materials.

6.7 ASTM D 6419-00, Test Method for Volatile Content of Sheet-Fed and Coldset Web Offset Printing Inks.

7.1 The reagents and standards specified in the ASTM methods listed in sections 6.1 through 6.6 are required.

8.1 Follow the sample collection, preservation, storage, and transport procedures described in Reference 1 of section 16.0.

9.1 Reproducibility

9.2 Confidence Limits for Waterborne Coatings. Because of the inherent increased imprecision in the determination of the VOC content of waterborne coatings as the weight percent of water increases, measured parameters for waterborne coatings are replaced with appropriate confidence limits (Section 12.6). These confidence limits are based on measured parameters and inter-laboratory precision statements.

10.1 Perform the calibration and standardization procedures specified in the ASTM methods listed in sections 6.1 through 6.6.

Additional guidance can be found in Reference 2 of section 16.0.

11.1 Non Thin-film Ultraviolet Radiation-cured (UV radiation-cured) Coatings.

11.1.1 Volatile Content. Use the procedure in ASTM D 5403 to determine the volatile matter content of the coating except the curing test described in NOTE 2 of ASTM D 5403 is required.

11.1.2 Water Content. To determine water content, follow section 11.3.2.

11.1.3 Coating Density. To determine coating density, follow section 11.3.3.

11.1.4 Solids Content. To determine solids content, follow section 11.3.4.

11.1.5 To determine if a coating or ink can be classified as a thin-film UV cured coating or ink, use the equation in section 12.2. If C is less than 0.2 g and A is greater than or equal to 225 cm(35 in) then the coating or ink is considered a thin-film UV radiation-cured coating and ASTM D 5403 is not applicable.

11.2 Multi-component Coatings.

11.2.1 Sample Preparation.

11.2.1.1 Prepare about 100 ml of sample by mixing the components in a storage container, such as a glass jar with a screw top or a metal can with a cap. The storage container should be just large enough to hold the mixture. Combine the components (by weight or volume) in the ratio recommended by the manufacturer. Tightly close the container between additions and during mixing to prevent loss of volatile materials. However, most manufacturers mixing instructions are by volume. Because of possible error caused by expansion of the liquid when measuring the volume, it is recommended that the components be combined by weight. When weight is used to combine the components and the manufacturer's recommended ratio is by volume, the density must be determined by section 11.3.3.

11.2.1.2 Immediately after mixing, take aliquots from this 100 ml sample for determination of the total volatile content, water content, and density.

11.2.2 Volatile Content. To determine total volatile content, use the apparatus and reagents described in ASTM D2369 (incorporated by reference; see § 60.17 for the approved versions of the standard), respectively, and use the following procedures:

11.2.2.1 Weigh and record the weight of an aluminum foil weighing dish. Add 3 +/-1 ml of suitable solvent as specified in ASTM D2369 to the weighing dish. Using a syringe as specified in ASTM D2369, weigh to 1 mg, by difference, a sample of coating into the weighing dish. For coatings believed to have a volatile content less than 40 weight percent, a suitable size is 0.3 + 0.10 g, but for coatings believed to have a volatile content greater than 40 weight percent, a suitable size is 0.5 +/-0.1 g.

11.2.2.2 Heat the aluminum foil dishes containing the dispersed specimens in the forced draft oven for 60 min at 110 +/-5 &#xB0;C (230 +/-9 &#xB0;F). Caution-provide adequate ventilation, consistent with accepted laboratory practice, to prevent solvent vapors from accumulating to a dangerous level.

11.2.2.3 Remove the dishes from the oven, place immediately in a desiccator, cool to ambient temperature, and weigh to within 1 mg.

11.2.2.4 Run analyses in pairs (duplicate sets) for each coating mixture until the criterion in section 11.4 is met. Calculate Wfollowing Equation 24-2 and record the arithmetic average.

11.2.3 Water Content. To determine water content, follow section 11.3.2.

11.2.4 Coating Density. To determine coating density, follow section 11.3.3.

11.2.5 Solids Content. To determine solids content, follow section 11.3.4.

11.2.6 Exempt Solvent Content. To determine the exempt solvent content, follow section 11.3.5.

11.3 Water-or Solvent-borne coatings.

11.3.1 Volatile Content. Use the procedure in ASTM D 2369 to determine the volatile matter content (may include water) of the coating.

11.3.1.1 Record the following information:

11.3.1.2 Calculate the weight fraction of the volatile matter (W) for each analysis as shown in section 12.3.

11.3.1.3 Run duplicate analyses until the difference between the two values in a set is less than or equal to the intra-laboratory precision statement in section 13.1.

11.3.1.4 Record the arithmetic average (W).

11.3.2 Water Content. For waterborne coatings only, determine the weight fraction of water (W) using either ASTM D 3792 or ASTM D 4017.

11.3.2.1 Run duplicate analyses until the difference between the two values in a set is less than or equal to the intra-laboratory precision statement in section 13.1.

11.3.2.2 Record the arithmetic average (w).

11.3.3 Coating Density. Determine the density (Dc, kg/l) of the surface coating using the procedure in ASTM D 1475.

11.3.3.1 Run duplicate analyses until each value in a set deviates from the mean of the set by no more than the intra-laboratory precision statement in section 13.1.

11.3.3.2 Record the arithmetic average (D).

11.3.4 Solids Content. Determine the volume fraction (V) solids of the coating by calculation using the manufacturer's formulation.

11.3.5 Exempt Solvent Content. Determine the weight fraction of exempt solvents (W) by using ASTM Method D4457. Run a duplicate set of determinations and record the arithmetic average (W).

11.4 Sample Analysis Criteria. For Wand W, run duplicate analyses until the difference between the two values in a set is less than or equal to the intra-laboratory precision statement for that parameter. For D, run duplicate analyses until each value in a set deviates from the mean of the set by no more than the intra-laboratory precision statement. If, after several attempts, it is concluded that the ASTM procedures cannot be used for the specific coating with the established intra-laboratory precision (excluding UV radiation-cured coatings), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will assume responsibility for providing the necessary procedures for revising the method or precision statements upon written request to: Director, Emissions, Monitoring, and Analysis Division, MD-14, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 To determine if a coating or ink can be classified as a thin-film UV cured coating or ink, use the following equation:

12.3 Calculate Wfor each analysis as shown below:

12.4 Nonaqueous Volatile Matter.

12.4.1 Solvent-borne Coatings.

12.4.2 Waterborne Coatings.

12.4.3 Coatings Containing Exempt Solvents.

12.5 Weight Fraction Solids.

12.6 Confidence Limit Calculations for Waterborne Coatings. To calculate the lower confidence limit, subtract the appropriate inter-laboratory precision value from the measured mean value for that parameter. To calculate the upper confidence limit, add the appropriate inter-laboratory precision value to the measured mean value for that parameter. For Wand D, use the lower confidence limits; for W, use the upper confidence limit. Because Wis calculated, there is no adjustment for this parameter.

13.1 Analytical Precision Statements. The intra-and inter-laboratory precision statements are given in Table 24-1 in section 17.0.

Same as specified in section 6.0, with the addition of the following:

1. Standard Procedure for Collection of Coating and Ink Samples for Analysis by Reference Methods 24 and 24A. EPA-340/1-91-010. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Stationary Source Compliance Division, Washington, D.C. September 1991.

2. Standard Operating Procedure for Analysis of Coating and Ink Samples by Reference Methods 24 and 24A.

EPA-340/1-91-011. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Stationary Source Compliance Division, Washington, D.C. September 1991.

3. Handbook of Hazardous Materials: Fire, Safety, Health. Alliance of American Insurers. Schaumberg, IL. 1983.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of the VOC content and density of solvent-borne (solvent-reducible) publication rotogravure inks and related publication rotogravure coatings.

2.1 Separate procedures are used to determine the VOC weight fraction and density of the ink or related coating and the density of the solvent in the ink or related coating. The VOC weight fraction is determined by measuring the weight loss of a known sample quantity which has been heated for a specified length of time at a specified temperature. The density of both the ink or related coating and solvent are measured by a standard procedure. From this information, the VOC volume fraction is calculated.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method does not purport to address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Hazardous Components. Some of the compounds that may be contained in the inks or related coatings analyzed by this method may be irritating or corrosive to tissues or may be toxic. Nearly all are fire hazards. Appropriate precautions can be found in reference documents, such as Reference 6 of section 16.0.

The following equipment and supplies are required for sample analysis:

6.1 Weighing Dishes. Aluminum foil, 58 mm (2.3 in.) in diameter by 18 mm (0.7 in.) high, with a flat bottom. There must be at least three weighing dishes per sample.

6.2 Disposable Syringe. 5 ml.

6.3 Analytical Balance. To measure to within 0.1 mg.

6.4 Oven. Vacuum oven capable of maintaining a temperature of 120 +/-2 &#xB0;C (248 +/-4 &#xB0;F) and an absolute pressure of 510 +/-51 mm Hg (20 +/-2 in. Hg) for 4 hours. Alternatively, a forced draft oven capable of maintaining a temperature of 120 +/-2 &#xB0;C (248 +/-4 &#xB0;F) for 24 hours.

6.5 The equipment and supplies specified in ASTM D 1475-60, 80, or 90 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).

7.1 The reagents and standards specified in ASTM D 1475-60, 80, or 90 are required.

8.1 Follow the sample collection, preservation, storage, and transport procedures described in Reference 4 of section 16.0.

Additional guidance can be found in Reference 5 of section 16.0.

11.1 VOC Weight Fraction. Shake or mix the ink or related coating sample thoroughly to assure that all the solids are completely suspended. Label and weigh to the nearest 0.1 mg a weighing dish and record this weight (M). Using a 5 ml syringe, without a needle, extract an aliquot from the ink or related coating sample. Weigh the syringe and aliquot to the nearest 0.1 mg and record this weight (M). Transfer 1 to 3 g of the aliquot to the tared weighing dish. Reweigh the syringe and remaining aliquot to the nearest 0.1 mg and record this weight (M). Heat the weighing dish with the transferred aliquot in a vacuum oven at an absolute pressure of 510 +/-51 mm Hg (20 +/-2 in. Hg) and a temperature of 120 +/-2 &#xB0;C (248 +/-4 &#xB0;F) for 4 hours. Alternatively, heat the weighing dish with the transferred aliquot in a forced draft oven at a temperature of 120 +/-2 &#xB0;C for 24 hours. After the weighing dish has cooled, reweigh it to the nearest 0.1 mg and record the weight (M). Repeat this procedure two times for each ink or related coating sample, for a total of three samples.

11.2 Ink or Related Coating Density. Determine the density of the ink or related coating (D) according to the procedure outlined in ASTM D 1475. Make a total of three determinations for each ink or related coating sample. Report the ink or related coating density as the arithmetic average (D) of the three determinations.

11.3 Solvent Density. Determine the density of the solvent (D) according to the procedure outlined in ASTM D 1475. Make a total of three determinations for each ink or related coating sample. Report the solvent density as the arithmetic average (D) of the three determinations.

12.1 VOC Weight Fraction. For each determination, calculate the volatile organic content weight fraction (W) using the following equation:

12.2 VOC Volume Fraction. Calculate the volume fraction volatile organic content (V) using the following equation:

1. Standard Test Method for Density of Paint, Varnish, Lacquer, and Related Products. ASTM Designation D 1475.

2. Teleconversation. Wright, Chuck, Inmont Corporation with Reich, R., A., Radian Corporation. September 25, 1979, Gravure Ink Analysis.

3. Teleconversation. Oppenheimer, Robert, Gravure Research Institute with Burt, Rick, Radian Corporation, November 5, 1979, Gravure Ink Analysis.

4. Standard Procedure for Collection of Coating and Ink Samples for Analysis by Reference Methods 24 and 24A. EPA-340/1-91-010. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Stationary Source Compliance Division, Washington, D.C. September 1991.

5. Standard Operating Procedure for Analysis of Coating and Ink Samples by Reference Methods 24 and 24A. EPA-340/1-91-011. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Stationary Source Compliance Division, Washington, D.C. September 1991.

6. Handbook of Hazardous Materials: Fire, Safety, Health. Alliance of American Insurers. Schaumberg, IL. 1983.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability.

1.2.1 This method is applicable for the determination of volatile organic compounds (VOC) (measured as total gaseous nonmethane organics (TGNMO) and reported as carbon) in stationary source emissions. This method is not applicable for the determination of organic particulate matter.

1.2.2 This method is not the only method that applies to the measurement of VOC. Costs, logistics, and other practicalities of source testing may make other test methods more desirable for measuring VOC contents of certain effluent streams. Proper judgment is required in determining the most applicable VOC test method. For example, depending upon the molecular composition of the organics in the effluent stream, a totally automated semicontinuous nonmethane organics (NMO) analyzer interfaced directly to the source may yield accurate results. This approach has the advantage of providing emission data semicontinuously over an extended time period.

1.2.3 Direct measurement of an effluent with a flame ionization detector (FID) analyzer may be appropriate with prior characterization of the gas stream and knowledge that the detector responds predictably to the organic compounds in the stream. If present, methane (CH) will, of course, also be measured. The FID can be used under any of the following limited conditions: (1) Where only one compound is known to exist; (2) when the organic compounds consist of only hydrogen and carbon; (3) where the relative percentages of the compounds are known or can be determined, and the FID responses to the compounds are known; (4) where a consistent mixture of the compounds exists before and after emission control and only the relative concentrations are to be assessed; or (5) where the FID can be calibrated against mass standards of the compounds emitted (solvent emissions, for example).

1.2.4 Another example of the use of a direct FID is as a screening method. If there is enough information available to provide a rough estimate of the analyzer accuracy, the FID analyzer can be used to determine the VOC content of an uncharacterized gas stream. With a sufficient buffer to account for possible inaccuracies, the direct FID can be a useful tool to obtain the desired results without costly exact determination.

1.2.5 In situations where a qualitative/quantitative analysis of an effluent stream is desired or required, a gas chromatographic FID system may apply. However, for sources emitting numerous organics, the time and expense of this approach will be formidable.

2.1 An emission sample is withdrawn from the stack at a constant rate through a heated filter and a chilled condensate trap by means of an evacuated sample tank. After sampling is completed, the TGNMO are determined by independently analyzing the condensate trap and sample tank fractions and combining the analytical results. The organic content of the condensate trap fraction is determined by oxidizing the NMO to carbon dioxide (CO) and quantitatively collecting in the effluent in an evacuated vessel; then a portion of the COis reduced to CHand measured by an FID. The organic content of the sample tank fraction is measured by injecting a portion of the sample into a gas chromatographic column to separate the NMO from carbon monoxide (CO), CO, and CH; the NMO are oxidized to CO, reduced to CH, and measured by an FID. In this manner, the variable response of the FID associated with different types of organics is eliminated.

4.1 Carbon Dioxide and Water Vapor. When carbon dioxide (CO) and water vapor are present together in the stack, they can produce a positive bias in the sample. The magnitude of the bias depends on the concentrations of COand water vapor. As a guideline, multiply the COconcentration, expressed as volume percent, times the water vapor concentration. If this product does not exceed 100, the bias can be considered insignificant. For example, the bias is not significant for a source having 10 percent COand 10 percent water vapor, but it might be significant for a source having 10 percent COand 20 percent water vapor.

4.2. Particulate Matter. Collection of organic particulate matter in the condensate trap would produce a positive bias. A filter is included in the sampling equipment to minimize this bias.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

6.1 Sample Collection. The sampling system consists of a heated probe, heated filter, condensate trap, flow control system, and sample tank (see Figure 25-1). The TGNMO sampling equipment can be constructed from commercially available components and components fabricated in a machine shop. The following equipment is required:

6.1.1 Heated Probe. 6.4-mm (-in.) OD stainless steel tubing with a heating system capable of maintaining a gas temperature at the exit end of at least 129 &#xB0;C (265 &#xB0;F). The probe shall be equipped with a temperature sensor at the exit end to monitor the gas temperature. A suitable probe is shown in Figure 25-1. The nozzle is an elbow fitting attached to the front end of the probe while the temperature sensor is inserted in the side arm of a tee fitting attached to the rear of the probe. The probe is wrapped with a suitable length of high temperature heating tape, and then covered with two layers of glass cloth insulation and one layer of aluminum foil or an equivalent wrapping.

6.1.2 Filter Holder. 25-mm (-in.) ID Gelman filter holder with 303 stainless steel body and 316 stainless steel support screen with the Viton O-ring replaced by a Teflon O-ring.

6.1.3 Filter Heating System.

6.1.3.1 A metal box consisting of an inner and an outer shell separated by insulating material with a heating element in the inner shell capable of maintaining a gas temperature at the filter of 121 +/-3 &#xB0;C (250 +/-5 &#xB0;F). The heating box shall include temperature sensors to monitor the gas temperature immediately upstream and immediately downstream of the filter.

6.1.3.2 A suitable heating box is shown in Figure 25-2. The outer shell is a metal box that measures 102 mm x 280 mm x 292 mm (4 in. x 11 in. x 11in.), while the inner shell is a metal box measuring 76 mm x 229 mm x 241 mm (3 in. x 9 in. x 9in.). The inner box is supported by 13-mm (-in.) phenolic rods. The void space between the boxes is filled with ceramic fiber insulation which is sealed in place by means of a silicon rubber bead around the upper sides of the box. A removable lid made in a similar manner, with a 25-mm (1-in.) gap between the parts is used to cover the heating chamber. The inner box is heated with a 250-watt cartridge heater, shielded by a stainless steel shroud. The heater is regulated by a thermostatic temperature controller which is set to maintain a gas temperature of 121 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F) as measured by the temperature sensor upstream of the filter.

6.1.4 Condensate Trap. 9.5-mm (-in.) OD 316 stainless steel tubing bent into a U-shape. Exact dimensions are shown in Figure 25-3. The tubing shall be packed with coarse quartz wool, to a density of approximately 0.11 g/cmbefore bending. While the condensate trap is packed with dry ice in the Dewar, an ice bridge may form between the arms of the condensate trap making it difficult to remove the condensate trap. This problem can be prevented by attaching a steel plate between the arms of the condensate trap in the same plane as the arms to completely fill the intervening space.

6.1.5 Valve. Stainless steel control valve for starting and stopping sample flow.

6.1.6 Metering Valve. Stainless steel valve for regulating the sample flow rate through the sample train.

6.1.7 Rate Meter. Rotameter, or equivalent, capable of measuring sample flow in the range of 60 to 100 cm/min (0.13 to 0.21 ft/hr).

6.1.8 Sample Tank. Stainless steel or aluminum tank with a minimum volume of 4 liters (0.14 ft).

6.1.9 Mercury Manometer. U-tube manometer or absolute pressure gauge capable of measuring pressure to within 1 mm Hg in the range of 0 to 900 mm.

6.1.10 Vacuum Pump. Capable of evacuating to an absolute pressure of 10 mm Hg.

6.2 Condensate Recovery. The system for the recovery of the organics captured in the condensate trap consists of a heat source, an oxidation catalyst, a nondispersive infrared (NDIR) analyzer, and an intermediate collection vessel (ICV). Figure 25-4 is a schematic of a typical system. The system shall be capable of proper oxidation and recovery, as specified in section 10.1.1. The following major components are required:

6.2.1 Heat Source. Sufficient to heat the condensate trap (including probe) to a temperature of 200 &#xB0;C (390 &#xB0;F). A system using both a heat gun and an electric tube furnace is recommended.

6.2.2 Heat Tape. Sufficient to heat the connecting tubing between the water trap and the oxidation catalyst to 100 &#xB0;C (212 &#xB0;F).

6.2.3 Oxidation Catalyst. A suitable length of 9.5 mm (-in.) OD Inconel 600 tubing packed with 15 cm (6 in.) of 3.2 mm (-in.) diameter 19 percent chromia on alumina pellets. The catalyst material is packed in the center of the catalyst tube with quartz wool packed on either end to hold it in place.

6.2.4 Water Trap. Leak-proof, capable of removing moisture from the gas stream.

6.2.5 Syringe Port. A 6.4-mm (-in.) OD stainless steel tee fitting with a rubber septum placed in the side arm.

6.2.6 NDIR Detector. Capable of indicating COconcentration in the range of zero to 5 percent, to monitor the progress of combustion of the organic compounds from the condensate trap.

6.2.7 Flow-Control Valve. Stainless steel, to maintain the trap conditioning system near atmospheric pressure.

6.2.8 Intermediate Collection Vessel. Stainless steel or aluminum, equipped with a female quick connect. Tanks with nominal volumes of at least 6 liters (0.2 ft) are recommended.

6.2.9 Mercury Manometer. Same as described in section 6.1.9.

6.2.10 Syringe. 10-ml gas-tight glass syringe equipped with an appropriate needle.

6.2.11 Syringes. 10-µl and 50-µl liquid injection syringes.

6.2.12 Liquid Sample Injection Unit. 316 Stainless steel U-tube fitted with an injection septum (see Figure 25-7).

6.3 Analysis.

6.3.1 NMO Analyzer. The NMO analyzer is a gas chromatograph (GC) with backflush capability for NMO analysis and is equipped with an oxidation catalyst, reduction catalyst, and FID. Figures 25-5 and 25-6 are schematics of a typical NMO analyzer. This semicontinuous GC/FID analyzer shall be capable of: (1) Separating CO, CO, and CHfrom NMO, (2) reducing the COto CHand quantifying as CH, and (3) oxidizing the NMO to CO, reducing the COto CHand quantifying as CH, according to section 10.1.2. The analyzer consists of the following major components:

6.3.1.1 Oxidation Catalyst. A suitable length of 9.5-mm (-in.) OD Inconel 600 tubing packed with 5.1 cm (2 in.) of 19 percent chromia on 3.2-mm (-in.) alumina pellets. The catalyst material is packed in the center of the tube supported on either side by quartz wool. The catalyst tube must be mounted vertically in a 650 &#xB0;C (1200 &#xB0;F) furnace. Longer catalysts mounted horizontally may be used, provided they can meet the specifications of section 10.1.2.1.

6.3.1.2 Reduction Catalyst. A 7.6-cm (3-in.) length of 6.4-mm (-in.) OD Inconel tubing fully packed with 100-mesh pure nickel powder. The catalyst tube must be mounted vertically in a 400 &#xB0;C (750 &#xB0;F) furnace.

6.3.1.3 Separation Column(s). A 30-cm (1-ft) length of 3.2-mm (-in.) OD stainless steel tubing packed with 60/80 mesh Unibeads 1S followed by a 61-cm (2-ft) length of 3.2-mm (-in.) OD stainless steel tubing packed with 60/80 mesh Carbosieve G. The Carbosieve and Unibeads columns must be baked separately at 200 &#xB0;C (390 &#xB0;F) with carrier gas flowing through them for 24 hours before initial use.

6.3.1.4 Sample Injection System. A single 10-port GC sample injection valve or a group of valves with sufficient ports fitted with a sample loop properly sized to interface with the NMO analyzer (1-cc loop recommended).

6.3.1.5 FID. An FID meeting the following specifications is required:

6.3.1.5.1 Linearity. A linear response (+/-5 percent) over the operating range as demonstrated by the procedures established in section 10.1.2.3.

6.3.1.5.2 Range. A full scale range of 10 to 50,000 ppm CH. Signal attenuators shall be available to produce a minimum signal response of 10 percent of full scale.

6.3.1.6 Data Recording System. Analog strip chart recorder or digital integration system compatible with the FID for permanently recording the analytical results.

6.3.2 Barometer. Mercury, aneroid, or other barometer capable of measuring atmospheric pressure to within 1 mm Hg.

6.3.3 Temperature Sensor. Capable of measuring the laboratory temperature within 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F).

6.3.4 Vacuum Pump. Capable of evacuating to an absolute pressure of 10 mm Hg.

7.1 Sample Collection. The following reagents are required for sample collection:

7.1.1 Dry Ice. Solid CO2, crushed.

7.1.2 Coarse Quartz Wool. 8 to 15 um.

7.1.3 Filters. Glass fiber filters, without organic binder, exhibiting at least 99.95 percent efficiency (<0.05 percent penetration) on 0.3 micron dioctyl phthalate smoke particles. The filter efficiency test shall be conducted in accordance with ASTM Method D2986-71, 78, or 95a (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17). Test data from the supplier's quality control program are sufficient for this purpose.

7.2 NMO Analysis. The following gases are required for NMO analysis:

7.2.1 Carrier Gases. Helium (He) and oxygen (O) containing less than 1 ppm COand less than 0.1 ppm hydrocarbon.

7.2.2 Fuel Gas. Hydrogen (H), at least 99.999 percent pure.

7.2.3 Combustion Gas. Either air (less than 0.1 ppm total hydrocarbon content) or O(purity 99.99 percent or greater), as required by the detector.

7.3 Condensate Analysis. The following are required for condensate analysis:

7.3.1 Gases. Containing less than 1 ppm carbon.

7.3.1.1 Air.

7.3.1.2 Oxygen.

7.3.2 Liquids. To conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society.

7.3.2.1 Hexane.

7.3.2.2 Decane.

7.4 Calibration. For all calibration gases, the manufacturer must recommend a maximum shelf life for each cylinder (i.e., the length of time the gas concentration is not expected to change more than +/-5 percent from its certified value). The date of gas cylinder preparation, certified organic concentration, and recommended maximum shelf life must be affixed to each cylinder before shipment from the gas manufacturer to the buyer. The following calibration gases are required:

7.4.1 Oxidation Catalyst Efficiency Check Calibration Gas. Gas mixture standard with nominal concentration of 1 percent methane in air.

7.4.2 FID Linearity and NMO Calibration Gases. Three gas mixture standards with nominal propane concentrations of 20 ppm, 200 ppm, and 3000 ppm, in air.

7.4.3 COCalibration Gases. Three gas mixture standards with nominal COconcentrations of 50 ppm, 500 ppm, and 1 percent, in air.

7.4.4 NMO Analyzer System Check Calibration Gases. Four calibration gases are needed as follows:

7.4.4.1 Propane Mixture. Gas mixture standard containing (nominal) 50 ppm CO, 50 ppm CH, 1 percent CO, and 20 ppm CH, prepared in air.

7.4.4.2 Hexane. Gas mixture standard containing (nominal) 50 ppm hexane in air.

7.4.4.3 Toluene. Gas mixture standard containing (nominal) 20 ppm toluene in air.

7.4.4.4 Methanol. Gas mixture standard containing (nominal) 100 ppm methanol in air.

8.1 Sampling Equipment Preparation.

8.1.1 Condensate Trap Cleaning. Before its initial use and after each use, a condensate trap should be thoroughly cleaned and checked to ensure that it is not contaminated. Both cleaning and checking can be accomplished by installing the trap in the condensate recovery system and treating it as if it were a sample. The trap should be heated as described in section 11.1.3. A trap may be considered clean when the COconcentration in its effluent gas drops below 10 ppm. This check is optional for traps that most recently have been used to collect samples which were then recovered according to the procedure in section 11.1.3.

8.1.2 Sample Tank Evacuation and Leak-Check. Evacuate the sample tank to 10 mm Hg absolute pressure or less. Then close the sample tank valve, and allow the tank to sit for 60 minutes. The tank is acceptable if a change in tank vacuum of less than 1 mm Hg is noted. The evacuation and leak-check may be conducted either in the laboratory or the field.

8.1.3 Sampling Train Assembly. Just before assembly, measure the tank vacuum using a mercury manometer. Record this vacuum, the ambient temperature, and the barometric pressure at this time. Close the sample tank valve and assemble the sampling system as shown in Figure 25-1. Immerse the condensate trap body in dry ice at least 30 minutes before commencing sampling to improve collection efficiency. The point where the inlet tube joins the trap body should be 2.5 to 5 cm (1 to 2 in.) above the top of the dry ice.

8.1.4 Pretest Leak-Check. A pretest leak-check is required. Calculate or measure the approximate volume of the sampling train from the probe tip to the sample tank valve. After assembling the sampling train, plug the probe tip, and make certain that the sample tank valve is closed. Turn on the vacuum pump, and evacuate the sampling system from the probe tip to the sample tank valve to an absolute pressure of 10 mm Hg or less. Close the purge valve, turn off the pump, wait a minimum period of 10 minutes, and recheck the indicated vacuum. Calculate the maximum allowable pressure change based on a leak rate of 1 percent of the sampling rate using Equation 25-1, section 12.2. If the measured pressure change exceeds the allowable, correct the problem and repeat the leak-check before beginning sampling.

8.2 Sample Collection.

8.2.1 Unplug the probe tip, and place the probe into the stack such that the probe is perpendicular to the duct or stack axis; locate the probe tip at a single preselected point of average velocity facing away from the direction of gas flow. For stacks having a negative static pressure, seal the sample port sufficiently to prevent air in-leakage around the probe. Set the probe temperature controller to 129 &#xB0;C (265 &#xB0;F) and the filter temperature controller to 121 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F). Allow the probe and filter to heat for about 30 minutes before purging the sample train.

8.2.2 Close the sample valve, open the purge valve, and start the vacuum pump. Set the flow rate between 60 and 100 cm/min (0.13 and 0.21 ft/hr), and purge the train with stack gas for at least 10 minutes.

8.2.3 When the temperatures at the exit ends of the probe and filter are within the corresponding specified ranges, check the dry ice level around the condensate trap, and add dry ice if necessary. Record the clock time. To begin sampling, close the purge valve and stop the pump. Open the sample valve and the sample tank valve. Using the flow control valve, set the flow through the sample train to the proper rate. Adjust the flow rate as necessary to maintain a constant rate (+/-10 percent) throughout the duration of the sampling period. Record the sample tank vacuum and flowmeter setting at 5-minute intervals. (See Figure 25-8.) Select a total sample time greater than or equal to the minimum sampling time specified in the applicable subpart of the regulations; end the sampling when this time period is reached or when a constant flow rate can no longer be maintained because of reduced sample tank vacuum.

8.3 Sample Recovery. After sampling is completed, close the flow control valve, and record the final tank vacuum; then record the tank temperature and barometric pressure. Close the sample tank valve, and disconnect the sample tank from the sample system. Disconnect the condensate trap at the inlet to the rate meter, and tightly seal both ends of the condensate trap. Do not include the probe from the stack to the filter as part of the condensate sample.

8.4 Sample Storage and Transport. Keep the trap packed in dry ice until the samples are returned to the laboratory for analysis. Ensure that run numbers are identified on the condensate trap and the sample tank(s).

10.1 Initial Performance Checks.

10.1.1 Condensate Recovery Apparatus. Perform these tests before the system is first placed in operation, after any shutdown of 6 months or more, and after any major modification of the system, or at the frequency recommended by the manufacturer.

10.1.1.1 Carrier Gas and Auxiliary OBlank Check. Analyze each new tank of carrier gas or auxiliary Owith the NMO analyzer to check for contamination. Treat the gas cylinders as noncondensible gas samples, and analyze according to the procedure in section 11.2.3. Add together any measured CH, CO, CO, or NMO. The total concentration must be less than 5 ppm.

10.1.1.2 Oxidation Catalyst Efficiency Check.

10.1.1.2.1 With a clean condensate trap installed in the recovery system or a&#x2033; stainless steel connector tube, replace the carrier gas cylinder with the high level methane standard gas cylinder (Section 7.4.1). Set the four-port valve to the recovery position, and attach an ICV to the recovery system. With the sample recovery valve in vent position and the flow-control and ICV valves fully open, evacuate the manometer or gauge, the connecting tubing, and the ICV to 10 mm Hg absolute pressure. Close the flow-control and vacuum pump valves.

10.1.1.2.2 After the NDIR response has stabilized, switch the sample recovery valve from vent to collect. When the manometer or pressure gauge begins to register a slight positive pressure, open the flow-control valve. Keep the flow adjusted such that the pressure in the system is maintained within 10 percent of atmospheric pressure. Continue collecting the sample in a normal manner until the ICV is filled to a nominal gauge pressure of 300 mm Hg. Close the ICV valve, and remove the ICV from the system. Place the sample recovery valve in the vent position, and return the recovery system to its normal carrier gas and normal operating conditions. Analyze the ICV for COusing the NMO analyzer; the catalyst efficiency is acceptable if the COconcentration is within 2 percent of the methane standard concentration.

10.1.1.3 System Performance Check. Construct a liquid sample injection unit similar in design to the unit shown in Figure 25-7. Insert this unit into the condensate recovery and conditioning system in place of a condensate trap, and set the carrier gas and auxiliary Oflow rates to normal operating levels. Attach an evacuated ICV to the system, and switch from system vent to collect. With the carrier gas routed through the injection unit and the oxidation catalyst, inject a liquid sample (see sections 10.1.1.3.1 to 10.1.1.3.4) into the injection port. Operate the trap recovery system as described in section 11.1.3. Measure the final ICV pressure, and then analyze the vessel to determine the COconcentration. For each injection, calculate the percent recovery according to section 12.7. Calculate the relative standard deviation for each set of triplicate injections according to section 12.8. The performance test is acceptable if the average percent recovery is 100 +/-5 percent and the relative standard deviation is less than 2 percent for each set of triplicate injections.

10.1.1.3.1 50 µl hexane.

10.1.1.3.2 10 µl hexane.

10.1.1.3.3 50 µl decane.

10.1.1.3.4 10 µl decane.

10.1.2 NMO Analyzer. Perform these tests before the system is first placed in operation, after any shutdown longer than 6 months, and after any major modification of the system.

10.1.2.1 Oxidation Catalyst Efficiency Check. Turn off or bypass the NMO analyzer reduction catalyst. Make triplicate injections of the high level methane standard (Section 7.4.1). The oxidation catalyst operation is acceptable if the FID response is less than 1 percent of the injected methane concentration.

10.1.2.2 Reduction Catalyst Efficiency Check. With the oxidation catalyst unheated or bypassed and the heated reduction catalyst bypassed, make triplicate injections of the high level methane standard (Section 7.4.1). Repeat this procedure with both catalysts operative. The reduction catalyst operation is acceptable if the responses under both conditions agree within 5 percent of their average.
