
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### i.e.,

10.1.2.3 NMO Analyzer Linearity Check Calibration. While operating both the oxidation and reduction catalysts, conduct a linearity check of the analyzer using the propane standards specified in section 7.4.2. Make triplicate injections of each calibration gas. For each gas (each set of triplicate injections), calculate the average response factor (area/ppm C) for each gas, as well as and the relative standard deviation (according to section 12.8). Then calculate the overall mean of the response factor values. The instrument linearity is acceptable if the average response factor of each calibration gas is within 2.5 percent of the overall mean value and if the relative standard deviation gas is less than 2 percent of the overall mean value. Record the overall mean of the propane response factor values as the NMO calibration response factor (RF). Repeat the linearity check using the COstandards specified in section 7.4.3. Make triplicate injections of each gas, and then calculate the average response factor (area/ppm C) for each gas, as well as the overall mean of the response factor values. Record the overall mean of the response factor values as the COcalibration response factor (RF). The RFmust be within 10 percent of the RF.

10.1.2.4 System Performance Check. Check the column separation and overall performance of the analyzer by making triplicate injections of the calibration gases listed in section 7.4.4. The analyzer performance is acceptable if the measured NMO value for each gas (average of triplicate injections) is within 5 percent of the expected value.

10.2 NMO Analyzer Daily Calibration. The following calibration procedures shall be performed before and immediately after the analysis of each set of samples, or on a daily basis, whichever is more stringent:

10.2.1 COResponse Factor. Inject triplicate samples of the high level COcalibration gas (Section 7.4.3), and calculate the average response factor. The system operation is adequate if the calculated response factor is within 5 percent of the RFcalculated during the initial performance test (Section 10.1.2.3). Use the daily response factor (DRF) for analyzer calibration and the calculation of measured COconcentrations in the ICV samples.

10.2.2 NMO Response Factors. Inject triplicate samples of the mixed propane calibration cylinder gas (Section 7.4.4.1), and calculate the average NMO response factor. The system operation is adequate if the calculated response factor is within 10 percent of the RFcalculated during the initial performance test (Section 10.1.2.4). Use the daily response factor (DRF) for analyzer calibration and calculation of NMO concentrations in the sample tanks.

10.3 Sample Tank and ICV Volume. The volume of the gas sampling tanks used must be determined. Determine the tank and ICV volumes by weighing them empty and then filled with deionized distilled water; weigh to the nearest 5 g, and record the results. Alternatively, measure the volume of water used to fill them to the nearest 5 ml.

11.1 Condensate Recovery. See Figure 25-9. Set the carrier gas flow rate, and heat the catalyst to its operating temperature to condition the apparatus.

11.1.1 Daily Performance Checks. Each day before analyzing any samples, perform the following tests:

11.1.1.1 Leak-Check. With the carrier gas inlets and the sample recovery valve closed, install a clean condensate trap in the system, and evacuate the system to 10 mm Hg absolute pressure or less. Monitor the system pressure for 10 minutes. The system is acceptable if the pressure change is less than 2 mm Hg.

11.1.1.2 System Background Test. Adjust the carrier gas and auxiliary oxygen flow rate to their normal values of 100 cc/min and 150 cc/min, respectively, with the sample recovery valve in vent position. Using a 10-ml syringe, withdraw a sample from the system effluent through the syringe port. Inject this sample into the NMO analyzer, and measure the COcontent. The system background is acceptable if the COconcentration is less than 10 ppm.

11.1.1.3 Oxidation Catalyst Efficiency Check. Conduct a catalyst efficiency test as specified in section 10.1.1.2. If the criterion of this test cannot be met, make the necessary repairs to the system before proceeding.

11.1.2 Condensate Trap COPurge and Sample Tank Pressurization.

11.1.2.1 After sampling is completed, the condensate trap will contain condensed water and organics and a small volume of sampled gas. This gas from the stack may contain a significant amount of COwhich must be removed from the condensate trap before the sample is recovered. This is accomplished by purging the condensate trap with zero air and collecting the purged gas in the original sample tank.

11.1.2.2 Begin with the sample tank and condensate trap from the test run to be analyzed. Set the four-port valve of the condensate recovery system in the COpurge position as shown in Figure 25-9. With the sample tank valve closed, attach the sample tank to the sample recovery system. With the sample recovery valve in the vent position and the flow control valve fully open, evacuate the manometer or pressure gauge to the vacuum of the sample tank. Next, close the vacuum pump valve, open the sample tank valve, and record the tank pressure.

11.1.2.3 Attach the dry ice-cooled condensate trap to the recovery system, and initiate the purge by switching the sample recovery valve from vent to collect position. Adjust the flow control valve to maintain atmospheric pressure in the recovery system. Continue the purge until the COconcentration of the trap effluent is less than 5 ppm. COconcentration in the trap effluent should be measured by extracting syringe samples from the recovery system and analyzing the samples with the NMO analyzer. This procedure should be used only after the NDIR response has reached a minimum level. Using a 10-ml syringe, extract a sample from the syringe port prior to the NDIR, and inject this sample into the NMO analyzer.

11.1.2.4 After the completion of the COpurge, use the carrier gas bypass valve to pressurize the sample tank to approximately 1,060 mm Hg absolute pressure with zero air.

11.1.3 Recovery of the Condensate Trap Sample (See Figure 25-10).

11.1.3.1 Attach the ICV to the sample recovery system. With the sample recovery valve in a closed position, between vent and collect, and the flow control and ICV valves fully open, evacuate the manometer or gauge, the connecting tubing, and the ICV to 10 mm Hg absolute pressure. Close the flow-control and vacuum pump valves.

11.1.3.2 Begin auxiliary oxygen flow to the oxidation catalyst at a rate of 150 cc/min, then switch the four-way valve to the trap recovery position and the sample recovery valve to collect position. The system should now be set up to operate as indicated in Figure 25-10. After the manometer or pressure gauge begins to register a slight positive pressure, open the flow control valve. Adjust the flow-control valve to maintain atmospheric pressure in the system within 10 percent.

11.1.3.3 Remove the condensate trap from the dry ice, and allow it to warm to ambient temperature while monitoring the NDIR response. If, after 5 minutes, the COconcentration of the catalyst effluent is below 10,000 ppm, discontinue the auxiliary oxygen flow to the oxidation catalyst. Begin heating the trap by placing it in a furnace preheated to 200 &#xB0;C (390 &#xB0;F). Once heating has begun, carefully monitor the NDIR response to ensure that the catalyst effluent concentration does not exceed 50,000 ppm. Whenever the COconcentration exceeds 50,000 ppm, supply auxiliary oxygen to the catalyst at the rate of 150 cc/min. Begin heating the tubing that connected the heated sample box to the condensate trap only after the COconcentration falls below 10,000 ppm. This tubing may be heated in the same oven as the condensate trap or with an auxiliary heat source such as a heat gun. Heating temperature must not exceed 200 &#xB0;C (390 &#xB0;F). If a heat gun is used, heat the tubing slowly along its entire length from the upstream end to the downstream end, and repeat the pattern for a total of three times. Continue the recovery until the COconcentration drops to less than 10 ppm as determined by syringe injection as described under the condensate trap COpurge procedure (Section 11.1.2).

11.1.3.4 After the sample recovery is completed, use the carrier gas bypass valve to pressurize the ICV to approximately 1060 mm Hg absolute pressure with zero air.

11.2 Analysis. Once the initial performance test of the NMO analyzer has been successfully completed (see section 10.1.2) and the daily COand NMO response factors have been determined (see section 10.2), proceed with sample analysis as follows:

11.2.1 Operating Conditions. The carrier gas flow rate is 29.5 cc/min He and 2.2 cc/min O. The column oven is heated to 85 &#xB0;C (185 &#xB0;F). The order of elution for the sample from the column is CO, CH, CO, and NMO.

11.2.2 Analysis of Recovered Condensate Sample. Purge the sample loop with sample, and then inject the sample. Under the specified operating conditions, the COin the sample will elute in approximately 100 seconds. As soon as the detector response returns to baseline following the COpeak, switch the carrier gas flow to backflush, and raise the column oven temperature to 195 &#xB0;C (380 &#xB0;F) as rapidly as possible. A rate of 30 &#xB0;C/min (90 &#xB0;F) has been shown to be adequate. Record the value obtained for the condensible organic material (C) measured as COand any measured NMO. Return the column oven temperature to 85 &#xB0;C (185 &#xB0;F) in preparation for the next analysis. Analyze each sample in triplicate, and report the average C.

11.2.3 Analysis of Sample Tank. Perform the analysis as described in section 11.2.2, but record only the value measured for NMO (C).

Carry out the calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after final calculations. All equations are written using absolute pressure; absolute pressures are determined by adding the measured barometric pressure to the measured gauge or manometer pressure.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Allowable Pressure Change. For the pretest leak-check, calculate the allowable pressure change using Equation 25-1:

12.3 Sample Volume. For each test run, calculate the gas volume sampled using Equation 25-2:

12.4 Noncondensible Organics. For each sample tank, determine the concentration of nonmethane organics (ppm C) using Equation 25-3:

12.5 Condensible Organics. For each condensate trap determine the concentration of organics (ppm C) using Equation 25-4:

12.6 TGNMO Mass Concentration. Determine the TGNMO mass concentration as carbon for each test run, using Equation 25-5:

12.7 Percent Recovery. Calculate the percent recovery for the liquid injections to the condensate recovery and conditioning system using Equation 25-6:

12.8 Relative Standard Deviation. Use Equation 25-7 to calculate the relative standard deviation (RSD) of percent recovery and analyzer linearity.

13.1 Range. The minimum detectable limit of the method has been determined to be 50 parts per million by volume (ppm). No upper limit has been established.

1. Salo, A.E., S. Witz, and R.D. MacPhee. Determination of Solvent Vapor Concentrations by Total Combustion Analysis: A Comparison of Infrared with Flame Ionization Detectors. Paper No. 75-33.2. (Presented at the 68th Annual Meeting of the Air Pollution Control Association. Boston, MA. June 15-20, 1975.) 14 p.

2. Salo, A.E., W.L. Oaks, and R.D. MacPhee. Measuring the Organic Carbon Content of Source Emissions for Air Pollution Control. Paper No. 74-190. (Presented at the 67th Annual Meeting of the Air Pollution Control Association. Denver, CO. June 9-13, 1974.) 25 p.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of total gaseous organic concentration of vapors consisting primarily of alkanes, alkenes, and/or arenes (aromatic hydrocarbons). The concentration is expressed in terms of propane (or other appropriate organic calibration gas) or in terms of carbon.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A gas sample is extracted from the source through a heated sample line and glass fiber filter to a flame ionization analyzer (FIA). Results are reported as volume concentration equivalents of the calibration gas or as carbon equivalents.
