
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### not

4.4 A glass wool plug shouldbe used to remove particulate matter since a negative bias in the data could result.

4.5 There is anecdotal evidence that HF may be outgassed from new teflon components. If HF is a target analyte, then preconditioning of new teflon components, by heating should be considered.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations before performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burns as thermal burns.

5.2.1 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). Causes severe damage to eyes and skin. Inhalation causes irritation to nose, throat, and lungs. Reacts exothermically with limited amounts of water.

5.2.2 Sulfuric Acid (HSO). Rapidly destructive to body tissue. Will cause third degree burns. Eye damage may result in blindness. Inhalation may be fatal from spasm of the larynx, usually within 30 minutes. May cause lung tissue damage with edema. 1 mg/mfor 8 hours will cause lung damage or, in higher concentrations, death. Provide ventilation to limit inhalation. Reacts violently with metals and organics.

6.1 Sampling. The sampling train is shown in Figure 26-1, and component parts are discussed below.

6.1.1 Probe. Borosilicate glass, approximately 3/8-in. (9-mm) I.D. with a heating system capable of maintaining a probe gas temperature during sampling between 120 and 134 &#xB0;C (248 and 273 &#xB0;F) to prevent moisture condensation; or Teflon where stack probes are below 210 &#xB0;C. If HF is a target analyte, then preconditioning of new teflon components by heating should be considered to prevent potential HF outgassing. A Teflon-glass filter in a mat configuration should be installed to remove particulate matter from the gas stream.

6.1.2 Three-way Stopcock. A borosilicate-glass three-way stopcock with a heating system to prevent moisture condensation. The heated stopcock should connect to the outlet of the heated filter and the inlet of the first impinger. The heating system should be capable of preventing condensation up to the inlet of the first impinger. Silicone grease may be used, if necessary, to prevent leakage.

6.1.3 Impingers. Four 30-ml midget impingers with leak-free glass connectors. Silicone grease may be used, if necessary, to prevent leakage. For sampling at high moisture sources or for sampling times greater than one hour, a midget impinger with a shortened stem (such that the gas sample does not bubble through the collected condensate) should be used in front of the first impinger.

6.1.4 Drying Tube or Impinger. Tube or impinger, of Mae West design, filled with 6- to 16-mesh indicating type silica gel, or equivalent, to dry the gas sample and to protect the dry gas meter and pump. If the silica gel has been used previously, dry at 175 &#xB0;C (350 &#xB0;F) for 2 hours. New silica gel may be used as received. Alternatively, other types of desiccants (equivalent or better) may be used.

6.1.5 Heating System. Any heating system capable of maintaining a temperature around the probe and filter holder between 120 and 134 &#xB0;C (248 and 273 &#xB0;F) during sampling, or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or approved by the Administrator for a particular application.

6.1.6 Filter Holder and Support. The filter holder shall be made of Teflon or quartz. The filter support shall be made of Teflon. All Teflon filter holders and supports are available from Savillex Corp., 5325 Hwy 101, Minnetonka, MN 55345.

6.1.7 Sample Line. Leak-free, with compatible fittings to connect the last impinger to the needle valve.

6.1.8 Rate Meter. Rotameter, or equivalent, capable of measuring flow rate to within 2 percent of the selected flow rate of 2 liters/min (0.07 ft/min).

6.1.9 Purge Pump, Purge Line, Drying Tube, Needle Valve, and Rate Meter. Pump capable of purging the sampling probe at 2 liters/min, with drying tube, filled with silica gel or equivalent, to protect pump, and a rate meter capable of measuring 0 to 5 liters/min (0.2 ft/min).

6.1.10 Stopcock Grease, Valve, Pump, Volume Meter, Barometer, and Vacuum Gauge. Same as in Method 6, sections 6.1.1.4, 6.1.1.7, 6.1.1.8, 6.1.1.10, 6.1.2, and 6.1.3.

6.1.11 Temperature Measuring Devices. Temperature sensors to monitor the temperature of the probe and to monitor the temperature of the sampling system from the outlet of the probe to the inlet of the first impinger.

6.1.12 Ice Water Bath. To minimize loss of absorbing solution.

6.2 Sample Recovery.

6.2.1 Wash Bottles. Polyethylene or glass, 500-ml or larger, two.

6.2.2 Storage Containers. 100- or 250-ml, high-density polyethylene or glass sample storage containers with Teflon screw cap liners to store impinger samples.

6.3 Sample Preparation and Analysis. The materials required for volumetric dilution and chromatographic analysis of samples are described below.

6.3.1 Volumetric Flasks. Class A, 100-ml size.

6.3.2 Volumetric Pipets. Class A, assortment. To dilute samples to the calibration range of the ion chromatograph.

6.3.3 Ion Chromatograph (IC). Suppressed or non-suppressed, with a conductivity detector and electronic integrator operating in the peak area mode. Other detectors, strip chart recorders, and peak height measurements may be used.

7.1 Sampling.

7.1.1 Filter. A 25-mm (1 in) (or other size) Teflon glass mat, Pallflex TX40HI75 (Pallflex Inc., 125 Kennedy Drive, Putnam, CT 06260). This filter is in a mat configuration to prevent fine particulate matter from entering the sampling train. Its composition is 75% Teflon/25% borosilicate glass. Other filters may be used, but they must be in a mat (as opposed to a laminate) configuration and contain at least 75% Teflon. For practical rather than scientific reasons, when the stack gas temperature exceeds 210 &#xB0;C (410 &#xB0;F) and the HCl concentration is greater than 20 ppm, a quartz-fiber filter may be used since Teflon becomes unstable above this temperature.

7.1.2 Water. Deionized, distilled water that conforms to American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) Specification D 1193-77 or 91, Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17).

7.1.3 Acidic Absorbing Solution, 0.1 N Sulfuric Acid (HSO). To prepare 100 ml of the absorbing solution for the front impinger pair, slowly add 0.28 ml of concentrated HSOto about 90 ml of water while stirring, and adjust the final volume to 100 ml using additional water. Shake well to mix the solution.

7.1.4 Silica Gel. Indicating type, 6 to 16 mesh. If previously used, dry at 180 &#xB0;C (350 &#xB0;F) for 2 hours. New silica gel may be used as received. Alternatively, other types of desiccants may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

7.1.5 Alkaline Adsorbing Solution, 0.1 N Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). To prepare 100 ml of the scrubber solution for the third and fourth impinger, dissolve 0.40 g of solid NaOH in about 90 ml of water, and adjust the final solution volume to 100 ml using additional water. Shake well to mix the solution.

7.1.6 Sodium Thiosulfate (NaSO5 HO)

7.2 Sample Preparation and Analysis.

7.2.1 Water. Same as in section 7.1.2.

7.2.2 Absorbing Solution Blanks. A separate blank solution of each absorbing reagent should be prepared for analysis with the field samples. Dilute 30 ml of each absorbing solution to approximately the same final volume as the field samples using the blank sample of rinse water.

7.2.3 Halide Salt Stock Standard Solutions. Prepare concentrated stock solutions from reagent grade sodium chloride (NaCl), sodium bromide (NaBr), and sodium fluoride (NaF). Each must be dried at 110 &#xB0;C (230 &#xB0;F) for two or more hours and then cooled to room temperature in a desiccator immediately before weighing. Accurately weigh 1.6 to 1.7 g of the dried NaCl to within 0.1 mg, dissolve in water, and dilute to 1 liter. Calculate the exact Clconcentration using Equation 26-1 in section 12.2. In a similar manner, accurately weigh and solubilize 1.2 to 1.3 g of dried NaBr and 2.2 to 2.3 g of NaF to make 1-liter solutions. Use Equations 26-2 and 26-3 in section 12.2, to calculate the Brand Fconcentrations. Alternately, solutions containing a nominal certified concentration of 1000 mg/l NaCl are commercially available as convenient stock solutions from which standards can be made by appropriate volumetric dilution. Refrigerate the stock standard solutions and store no longer than one month.

7.2.4 Chromatographic Eluent. Effective eluents for nonsuppressed IC using a resin-or silica-based weak ion exchange column are a 4 mM potassium hydrogen phthalate solution, adjusted to pH 4.0 using a saturated sodium borate solution, and a 4 mM 4-hydroxy benzoate solution, adjusted to pH 8.6 using 1 N NaOH. An effective eluent for suppressed ion chromatography is a solution containing 3 mM sodium bicarbonate and 2.4 mM sodium carbonate. Other dilute solutions buffered to a similar pH and containing no interfering ions may be used. When using suppressed ion chromatography, if the "water dip" resulting from sample injection interferes with the chloride peak, use a 2 mM NaOH/2.4 mM sodium bicarbonate eluent.

8.1 Sampling.

8.1.1 Preparation of Collection Train. Prepare the sampling train as follows: Pour 15 ml of the acidic absorbing solution into each one of the first pair of impingers, and 15 ml of the alkaline absorbing solution into each one of the second pair of impingers. Connect the impingers in series with the knockout impinger first, if used, followed by the two impingers containing the acidic absorbing solution and the two impingers containing the alkaline absorbing solution. Place a fresh charge of silica gel, or equivalent, in the drying tube or impinger at the end of the impinger train.
