
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-7 to Part 60 - Test Methods 19 through 25E
###### i.e.,

8.1 Selection of Sampling Site. The location of the sampling site is generally specified by the applicable regulation or purpose of the test (exhaust stack, inlet line, etc.). The sample port shall be located to meet the testing requirements of Method 1.

8.2 Location of Sample Probe. Install the sample probe so that the probe is centrally located in the stack, pipe, or duct and is sealed tightly at the stack port connection.

8.3 Measurement System Preparation. Prior to the emission test, assemble the measurement system by following the manufacturer's written instructions for preparing sample interface and the organic analyzer. Make the system operable (Section 10.1).

8.4 Calibration Error Test. Immediately prior to the test series (within 2 hours of the start of the test), introduce zero gas and high-level calibration gas at the calibration valve assembly. Adjust the analyzer output to the appropriate levels, if necessary. Calculate the predicted response for the low-level and mid-level gases based on a linear response line between the zero and high-level response. Then introduce low-level and mid-level calibration gases successively to the measurement system. Record the analyzer responses for low-level and mid-level calibration gases and determine the differences between the measurement system responses and the predicted responses. These differences must be less than 5 percent of the respective calibration gas value. If not, the measurement system is not acceptable and must be replaced or repaired prior to testing. No adjustments to the measurement system shall be conducted after the calibration and before the drift check (Section 8.6.2). If adjustments are necessary before the completion of the test series, perform the drift checks prior to the required adjustments and repeat the calibration following the adjustments. If multiple electronic ranges are to be used, each additional range must be checked with a mid-level calibration gas to verify the multiplication factor.

8.5 Response Time Test. Introduce zero gas into the measurement system at the calibration valve assembly. When the system output has stabilized, switch quickly to the high-level calibration gas. Record the time from the concentration change to the measurement system response equivalent to 95 percent of the step change. Repeat the test three times and average the results.

8.6 Emission Measurement Test Procedure.

8.6.1 Organic Measurement. Begin sampling at the start of the test period, recording time and any required process information as appropriate. In particulate, note on the recording chart, periods of process interruption or cyclic operation.

8.6.2 Drift Determination. Immediately following the completion of the test period and hourly during the test period, reintroduce the zero and mid-level calibration gases, one at a time, to the measurement system at the calibration valve assembly. (Make no adjustments to the measurement system until both the zero and calibration drift checks are made.) Record the analyzer response. If the drift values exceed the specified limits, invalidate the test results preceding the check and repeat the test following corrections to the measurement system. Alternatively, recalibrate the test measurement system as in section 8.4 and report the results using both sets of calibration data (i.e., data determined prior to the test period and data determined following the test period).

10.1 FIA equipment can be calibrated for almost any range of total organic concentrations. For high concentrations of organics (>1.0 percent by volume as propane), modifications to most commonly available analyzers are necessary. One accepted method of equipment modification is to decrease the size of the sample to the analyzer through the use of a smaller diameter sample capillary. Direct and continuous measurement of organic concentration is a necessary consideration when determining any modification design.

The sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this method (see section 8.0).

12.1 Determine the average organic concentration in terms of ppmv as propane or other calibration gas. The average shall be determined by integration of the output recording over the period specified in the applicable regulation. If results are required in terms of ppmv as carbon, adjust measured concentrations using Equation 25A-1.

13.1 Measurement System Performance Specifications.

13.1.1 Zero Drift. Less than +/-3 percent of the span value.

13.1.2 Calibration Drift. Less than +/-3 percent of span value.

13.1.3 Calibration Error. Less than +/-5 percent of the calibration gas value.

1. Measurement of Volatile Organic Compounds-Guideline Series. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, NC. Publication No. EPA-450/2-78-041. June 1978. p. 46-54.

2. EPA Traceability Protocol for Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Quality Assurance and Technical Support Division. Research Triangle Park, N.C. September 1993.

3. Gasoline Vapor Emission Laboratory Evaluation-Part 2. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards. Research Triangle Park, NC. EMB Report No. 75-GAS-6. August 1975.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of total gaseous organic concentration of vapors consisting primarily of alkanes. Other organic materials may be measured using the general procedure in this method, the appropriate calibration gas, and an analyzer set to the appropriate absorption band.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

A gas sample is extracted from the source through a heated sample line, if necessary, and glass fiber filter to a nondispersive infrared analyzer (NDIR). Results are reported as volume concentration equivalents of the calibration gas or as carbon equivalents.

Same as Method 25A, section 3.0.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method. The analyzer users manual should be consulted for specific precautions to be taken with regard to the analytical procedure.

5.2 Explosive Atmosphere. This method is often applied in highly explosive areas. Caution and care should be exercised in choice of equipment and installation.

Same as Method 25A, section 6.0, with the exception of the following:

6.1 Organic Concentration Analyzer. A nondispersive infrared analyzer designed to measure alkane organics and capable of meeting or exceeding the specifications in this method.

Same as Method 25A, section 7.1. No fuel gas is required for an NDIR.

Same as Method 25A, section 8.0.

Same as Method 25A, section 9.0.

Same as Method 25A, section 10.0.

The sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this method (see section 8.0).

Same as Method 25A, section 12.0.

Same as Method 25A, section 16.0.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable to the sampling and measurement of NMOC as carbon in landfill gases (LFG).

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A sample probe that has been perforated at one end is driven or augured to a depth of 0.9 m (3 ft) below the bottom of the landfill cover. A sample of the landfill gas is extracted with an evacuated cylinder. The NMOC content of the gas is determined by injecting a portion of the gas into a gas chromatographic column to separate the NMOC from carbon monoxide (CO), carbon dioxide (CO), and methane (CH); the NMOC are oxidized to CO, reduced to CH, and measured by a flame ionization detector (FID). In this manner, the variable response of the FID associated with different types of organics is eliminated.

5.1 Since this method is complex, only experienced personnel should perform this test. LFG contains methane, therefore explosive mixtures may exist on or near the landfill. It is advisable to take appropriate safety precautions when testing landfills, such as refraining from smoking and installing explosion-proof equipment.

6.1 Sample Probe. Stainless steel, with the bottom third perforated. Teflon probe liners and sampling lines are also allowed. Non-perforated probes are allowed as long as they are withdrawn to create a gap equivalent to having the bottom third perforated. The sample probe must be capped at the bottom and must have a threaded cap with a sampling attachment at the top. The sample probe must be long enough to go through and extend no less than 0.9 m (3 ft) below the landfill cover. If the sample probe is to be driven into the landfill, the bottom cap should be designed to facilitate driving the probe into the landfill.

6.2 Sampling Train.

6.2.1 Rotameter with Flow Control Valve. Capable of measuring a sample flow rate of 100 +/-10 ml/min. The control valve must be made of stainless steel.

6.2.2 Sampling Valve. Stainless steel.

6.2.3 Pressure Gauge. U-tube mercury manometer, or equivalent, capable of measuring pressure to within 1 mm Hg (0.5 in HO) in the range of 0 to 1,100 mm Hg (0 to 590 in HO).

6.2.4 Sample Tank. Stainless steel or aluminum cylinder, equipped with a stainless steel sample tank valve.

6.3 Vacuum Pump. Capable of evacuating to an absolute pressure of 10 mm Hg (5.4 in HO).

6.4 Purging Pump. Portable, explosion proof, and suitable for sampling NMOC.

6.5 Pilot Probe Procedure. The following are needed only if the tester chooses to use the procedure described in section 8.2.1.

6.5.1 Pilot Probe. Tubing of sufficient strength to withstand being driven into the landfill by a post driver and an outside diameter of at least 6 mm (0.25 in.) smaller than the sample probe. The pilot probe shall be capped on both ends and long enough to go through the landfill cover and extend no less than 0.9 m (3 ft) into the landfill.

6.5.2 Post Driver and Compressor. Capable of driving the pilot probe and the sampling probe into the landfill. The Kitty Hawk portable post driver has been found to be acceptable.

6.6 Auger Procedure. The following are needed only if the tester chooses to use the procedure described in section 8.2.2.

6.6.1 Auger. Capable of drilling through the landfill cover and to a depth of no less than 0.9 m (3 ft) into the landfill.

6.6.2 Pea Gravel.

6.6.3 Bentonite.

6.7 NMOC Analyzer, Barometer, Thermometer, and Syringes. Same as in sections 6.3.1, 6.3.2, 6.33, and 6.2.10, respectively, of Method 25.

7.1 NMOC Analysis. Same as in Method 25, section 7.2.

7.2 Calibration. Same as in Method 25, section 7.4, except omit section 7.4.3.

8.1 Sample Tank Evacuation and Leak-Check. Conduct the sample tank evacuation and leak-check either in the laboratory or the field. Connect the pressure gauge and sampling valve to the sample tank. Evacuate the sample tank to 10 mm Hg (5.4 in HO) absolute pressure or less. Close the sampling valve, and allow the tank to sit for 30 minutes. The tank is acceptable if no change more than +/-2 mm is noted. Include the results of the leak-check in the test report.

8.2 Sample Probe Installation. The tester may use the procedure in section 8.2.1 or 8.2.2.

8.2.1 Pilot Probe Procedure. Use the post driver to drive the pilot probe at least 0.9 m (3 ft) below the landfill cover. Alternative procedures to drive the probe into the landfill may be used subject to the approval of the Administrator's designated representative.

8.2.1.1 Remove the pilot probe and drive the sample probe into the hole left by the pilot probe. The sample probe shall extend at least 0.9 m (3 ft) below the landfill cover and shall protrude about 0.3 m (1 ft) above the landfill cover. Seal around the sampling probe with bentonite and cap the sampling probe with the sampling probe cap.

8.2.2 Auger Procedure. Use an auger to drill a hole to at least 0.9 m (3 ft) below the landfill cover. Place the sample probe in the hole and backfill with pea gravel to a level 0.6 m (2 ft) from the surface. The sample probe shall protrude at least 0.3 m (1 ft) above the landfill cover. Seal the remaining area around the probe with bentonite. Allow 24 hours for the landfill gases to equilibrate inside the augured probe before sampling.

8.2.3 Driven Probes. Closed-point probes may be driven directly into the landfill in a single step. This method may not require backfilling if the probe is adequately sealed by its insertion. Unperforated probes that are inserted in this manner and withdrawn at a distance from a detachable tip to create an open space are also acceptable.

8.3 Sample Train Assembly. Just before assembling the sample train, measure the sample tank vacuum using the pressure gauge. Record the vacuum, the ambient temperature, and the barometric pressure at this time. Assemble the sampling probe purging system as shown in Figure 25C-1.

8.4 Sampling Procedure. Open the sampling valve and use the purge pump and the flow control valve to evacuate at least two sample probe volumes from the system at a flow rate of 500 ml/min or less. Close the sampling valve and replace the purge pump with the sample tank apparatus as shown in Figure 25C-2. Open the sampling valve and the sample tank valve and, using the flow control valve, sample at a flow rate of 500 ml/min or less until either a constant flow rate can no longer be maintained because of reduced sample tank vacuum or the appropriate composite volume is attained. Disconnect the sampling tank apparatus and pressurize the sample cylinder to approximately 1,060 mm Hg (567 in. HO) absolute pressure with helium, and record the final pressure. Alternatively, the sample tank may be pressurized in the lab.

8.4.1 The following restrictions apply to compositing samples from different probe sites into a single cylinder: (1) Individual composite samples per cylinder must be of equal volume; this must be verified by recording the flow rate, sampling time, vacuum readings, or other appropriate volume measuring data, (2) individual composite samples must have a minimum volume of 1 liter unless data is provided showing smaller volumes can be accurately measured, and (3) composite samples must not be collected using the final cylinder vacuum as it diminishes to ambient pressure.

8.4.2 Use Method 3C to determine the percent Nand Oin each cylinder. The presence of Nand Oindicate either infiltration of ambient air into the landfill gas sample or an inappropriate testing site has been chosen where anaerobic decomposition has not begun. The landfill gas sample is acceptable if the concentration of Nis less than 20 percent. Alternatively, the oxygen content of each cylinder must be less than 5 percent. Landfills with 3-year average annual rainfalls equal to or less than 20 inches annual rainfalls samples are acceptable when the Nto Oconcentration ratio is greater than 3.71.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

10.1 Initial NMOC Analyzer Performance Test. Same as in Method 25, section 10.1, except omit the linearity checks for COstandards.

10.2 NMOC Analyzer Daily Calibration.

10.2.1 NMOC Response Factors. Same as in Method 25, section 10.2.2.

10.3 Sample Tank Volume. The volume of the gas sampling tanks must be determined. Determine the tank volumes by weighing them empty and then filled with deionized water; weigh to the nearest 5 g, and record the results. Alternatively, measure the volume of water used to fill them to the nearest 5 ml.

11.1 The oxidation, reduction, and measurement of NMOC's is similar to Method 25. Before putting the NMOC analyzer into routine operation, conduct an initial performance test. Start the analyzer, and perform all the necessary functions in order to put the analyzer into proper working order. Conduct the performance test according to the procedures established in section 10.1. Once the performance test has been successfully completed and the NMOC calibration response factor has been determined, proceed with sample analysis as follows:

11.1.1 Daily Operations and Calibration Checks. Before and immediately after the analysis of each set of samples or on a daily basis (whichever occurs first), conduct a calibration test according to the procedures established in section 10.2. If the criteria of the daily calibration test cannot be met, repeat the NMOC analyzer performance test (Section 10.1) before proceeding.

11.1.2 Operating Conditions. Same as in Method 25, section 11.2.1.

11.1.3 Analysis of Sample Tank. Purge the sample loop with sample, and then inject the sample. Under the specified operating conditions, the COin the sample will elute in approximately 100 seconds. As soon as the detector response returns to baseline following the COpeak, switch the carrier gas flow to backflush, and raise the column oven temperature to 195 &#xB0;C (383 &#xB0;F) as rapidly as possible. A rate of 30 &#xB0;C/min (54 &#xB0;F/min) has been shown to be adequate. Record the value obtained for any measured NMOC. Return the column oven temperature to 85 &#xB0;C (185 &#xB0;F) in preparation for the next analysis. Analyze each sample in triplicate, and report the average as C.

12.1 Nomenclature

12.2 Water Correction. Use Table 25C-1 (Section 17.0), the LFG temperature, and barometric pressure at the sampling site to calculate B.

12.3 Nitrogen Concentration in the landfill gas. Use equation 25C-2 to calculate the measured concentration of nitrogen in the original landfill gas.

12.4 Oxygen Concentration in the landfill gas. Use equation 25C-3 to calculate the measured concentration of oxygen in the original landfill gas.

12.5 You must correct the NMOC Concentration for the concentration of nitrogen or oxygen based on which gas or gases passes the requirements in section 9.1 or based on the 3-year average annual rainfall based on the closest NOAA land-based station.

12.5.1 NMOC Concentration with nitrogen correction. Use Equation 25C-4 to calculate the concentration of NMOC for each sample tank when the nitrogen concentration is less than 20 percent.

12.5.2 NMOC Concentration with oxygen correction. Use Equation 25C-5 to calculate the concentration of NMOC for each sample tank if the landfill gas oxygen is less than 5 percent and the landfill gas nitrogen concentration is greater than 20 percent, or 3-year average annual rainfall based annual rainfall of less than 20 inches.

1. Salo, Albert E., Samuel Witz, and Robert D. MacPhee. Determination of Solvent Vapor Concentrations by Total Combustion Analysis: A Comparison of Infrared with Flame Ionization Detectors. Paper No. 75-33.2. (Presented at the 68th Annual Meeting of the Air Pollution Control Association. Boston, Massachusetts. June 15-20, 1975.) 14 p.

2. Salo, Albert E., William L. Oaks, and Robert D. MacPhee. Measuring the Organic Carbon Content of Source Emissions for Air Pollution Control. Paper No. 74-190. (Presented at the 67th Annual Meeting of the Air Pollution Control Association. Denver, Colorado. June 9-13, 1974.) 25 p.

1.1 Analyte. Volatile Organic Compounds. No CAS No. assigned.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for determining the volatile organic (VO) concentration of a waste sample.

2.1 Principle. A sample of waste is obtained at a point which is most representative of the unexposed waste (where the waste has had minimum opportunity to volatilize to the atmosphere). The sample is suspended in an organic/aqueous matrix, then heated and purged with nitrogen for 30 min. in order to separate certain organic compounds. Part of the sample is analyzed for carbon concentration, as methane, with an FID, and part of the sample is analyzed for chlorine concentration, as chloride, with an ELCD. The VO concentration is the sum of the carbon and chlorine content of the sample.
