
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.,

4.3 High concentrations of nitrogen oxides (NO) may produce sufficient nitrate (NO) to interfere with measurements of very low Brlevels. Dissociating chloride salts (ammonium chloride) at elevated temperatures interfere with halogen acid measurement in this method. Maintaining particulate probe/filter temperatures between 120 &#xB0;C and 134 &#xB0;C (248 &#xB0;F and 273 &#xB0;F) minimizes this interference.

4.4 There is anecdotal evidence that HF may be outgassed from new Teflon components. If HF is a target analyte then preconditioning of new Teflon components, by heating, should be considered.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations before performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burns as thermal burns.

5.2.1 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). Causes severe damage to eyes and skin. Inhalation causes irritation to nose, throat, and lungs. Reacts exothermically with limited amounts of water.

5.2.2 Sulfuric Acid (HSO). Rapidly destructive to body tissue. Will cause third degree burns. Eye damage may result in blindness. Inhalation may be fatal from spasm of the larynx, usually within 30 minutes. May cause lung tissue damage with edema. 1 mg/mfor 8 hours will cause lung damage or, in higher concentrations, death. Provide ventilation to limit inhalation. Reacts violently with metals and organics.

6.1 Sampling. The sampling train is shown in Figure 26A-1; the apparatus is similar to the Method 5 train where noted as follows:

6.1.1 Probe Nozzle. Borosilicate or quartz glass; constructed and calibrated according to Method 5, sections 6.1.1.1 and 10.1, and coupled to the probe liner using a Teflon union; a stainless steel nut is recommended for this union. When the stack temperature exceeds 210 &#xB0;C (410 &#xB0;F), a one-piece glass nozzle/liner assembly must be used.

6.1.2 Probe Liner. Same as Method 5, section 6.1.1.2, except metal liners shall not be used. Water-cooling of the stainless steel sheath is recommended at temperatures exceeding 500 &#xB0;C (932 &#xB0;F). Teflon may be used in limited applications where the minimum stack temperature exceeds 120 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F) but never exceeds the temperature where Teflon is estimated to become unstable [approximately 210 &#xB0;C (410 &#xB0;F)].

6.1.3 Pitot Tube, Differential Pressure Gauge, Filter Heating System, Filter Temperature Sensor with a glass or Teflon encasement, Metering System, Barometer, Gas Density Determination Equipment. Same as Method 5, sections 6.1.1.3, 6.1.1.4, 6.1.1.6, 6.1.1.7, 6.1.1.9, 6.1.2, and 6.1.3.

6.1.4 Cyclone (Optional). Glass or Teflon. Use of the cyclone is required only when the sample gas stream is saturated with moisture; however, the cyclone is recommended to protect the filter from any liquid droplets present.

6.1.5 Filter Holder. Borosilicate or quartz glass, or Teflon filter holder, with a Teflon filter support and a sealing gasket. The sealing gasket shall be constructed of Teflon or equivalent materials. The holder design shall provide a positive seal against leakage at any point along the filter circumference. The holder shall be attached immediately to the outlet of the cyclone.

6.1.6 Impinger Train. The following system shall be used to determine the stack gas moisture content and to collect the hydrogen halides and halogens: five or six impingers connected in series with leak-free ground glass fittings or any similar leak-free noncontaminating fittings. The first impinger shown in Figure 26A-1 (knockout or condensate impinger) is optional and is recommended as a water knockout trap for use under high moisture conditions. If used, this impinger should be constructed as described below for the alkaline impingers, but with a shortened stem, and should contain 50 ml of 0.1 N HSO. The following two impingers (acid impingers which each contain 100 ml of 0.1 N HSO) shall be of the Greenburg-Smith design with the standard tip (Method 5, section 6.1.1.8). The next two impingers (alkaline impingers which each contain 100 ml of 0.1 N NaOH) and the last impinger (containing silica gel) shall be of the modified Greenburg-Smith design (Method 5, section 6.1.1.8). The condensate, acid, and alkaline impingers shall contain known quantities of the appropriate absorbing reagents. The last impinger shall contain a known weight of silica gel or equivalent desiccant. Teflon impingers are an acceptable alternative.

6.1.7 Heating System. Any heating system capable of maintaining a temperature around the probe and filter holder between 120 and 134 &#xB0;C (248 to 273 &#xB0;F) during sampling, or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or approved by the Administrator for a particular application.

6.1.8 Ambient Air Conditioning Tube (Optional). Tube tightly packed with approximately 150 g of fresh 8 to 20 mesh sodium hydroxide-coated silica, or equivalent, (Ascarite II has been found suitable) to dry and remove acid gases from the ambient air used to remove moisture from the filter and cyclone, when the cyclone is used. The inlet and outlet ends of the tube should be packed with at least 1-cm thickness of glass wool or filter material suitable to prevent escape of fines. Fit one end with flexible tubing, etc. to allow connection to probe nozzle following the test run.

6.2 Sample Recovery.

6.2.1 Probe-Liner and Probe-Nozzle Brushes, Wash Bottles, Petri Dishes, Graduated Cylinder and/or Balance, and Rubber Policeman. Same as Method 5, sections 6.2.1, 6.2.2, 6.2.4, 6.2.5, and 6.2.7.

6.2.2 Plastic Storage Containers. Screw-cap polypropylene or polyethylene containers to store silica gel. High-density polyethylene bottles with Teflon screw cap liners to store impinger reagents, 1-liter.

6.2.3 Funnels. Glass or high-density polyethylene, to aid in sample recovery.

6.2.4 Sample Storage Containers. High-density polyethylene or glass sample storage containers with Teflon screw cap liners to store impinger samples.

6.3 Sample Preparation and Analysis.

6.3.1 Volumetric Flasks. Class A, various sizes.

6.3.2 Volumetric Pipettes. Class A, assortment. To dilute samples to calibration range of the ion chromatograph (IC).

6.3.3 Ion Chromatograph (IC). Suppressed or nonsuppressed, with a conductivity detector and electronic integrator operating in the peak area mode. Other detectors, a strip chart recorder, and peak heights may be used.

7.1 Sampling.
