
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.,

7.1.1 Filter. Teflon mat (Pallflex TX40HI45) filter. When the stack gas temperature exceeds 210 &#xB0;C (410 &#xB0;F) a quartz fiber filter may be used.

7.1.2 Water. Deionized, distilled water that conforms to American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) Specification D 1193-77 or 91, Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17).

7.1.3 Acidic Absorbing Solution, 0.1 N Sulfuric Acid (HSO). To prepare 1 L, slowly add 2.80 ml of concentrated 17.9 M H2SO4 to about 900 ml of water while stirring, and adjust the final volume to 1 L using additional water. Shake well to mix the solution.

7.1.4 Silica Gel, Crushed Ice, and Stopcock Grease. Same as Method 5, sections 7.1.2, 7.1.4, and 7.1.5, respectively.

7.1.5 Alkaline Absorbing Solution, 0.1 N Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). To prepare 1 L, dissolve 4.00 g of solid NaOH in about 900 ml of water and adjust the final volume to 1 L using additional water. Shake well to mix the solution.

7.1.6 Sodium Thiosulfate, (NaSO3.5 HO).

7.2 Sample Preparation and Analysis.

7.2.1 Water. Same as in section 7.1.2.

7.2.2 Absorbing Solution Blanks. A separate blank solution of each absorbing reagent should be prepared for analysis with the field samples. Dilute 200 ml of each absorbing solution (250 ml of the acidic absorbing solution, if a condensate impinger is used) to the same final volume as the field samples using the blank sample of rinse water. If a particulate determination is conducted, collect a blank sample of acetone.

7.2.3 Halide Salt Stock Standard Solutions. Prepare concentrated stock solutions from reagent grade sodium chloride (NaCl), sodium bromide (NaBr), and sodium fluoride (NaF). Each must be dried at 110 &#xB0;C (230 &#xB0;F) for two or more hours and then cooled to room temperature in a desiccator immediately before weighing. Accurately weigh 1.6 to 1.7 g of the dried NaCl to within 0.1 mg, dissolve in water, and dilute to 1 liter. Calculate the exact Clconcentration using Equation 26A-1 in section 12.2. In a similar manner, accurately weigh and solubilize 1.2 to 1.3 g of dried NaBr and 2.2 to 2.3 g of NaF to make 1-liter solutions. Use Equations 26A-2 and 26A-3 in section 12.2, to calculate the Brand Fconcentrations. Alternately, solutions containing a nominal certified concentration of 1000 mg/L NaCl are commercially available as convenient stock solutions from which standards can be made by appropriate volumetric dilution. Refrigerate the stock standard solutions and store no longer than one month.

7.2.4 Chromatographic Eluent. Same as Method 26, section 7.2.4.

7.2.5 Water. Same as section 7.1.1.

7.2.6 Acetone. Same as Method 5, section 7.2.

8.1 Sampling.

8.1.1 Pretest Preparation. Follow the general procedure given in Method 5, section 8.1, except the filter need only be desiccated and weighed if a particulate determination will be conducted.

8.1.2 Preliminary Determinations. Same as Method 5, section 8.2.

8.1.3 Preparation of Sampling Train. Follow the general procedure given in Method 5, section 8.1.3, except for the following variations: Add 50 ml of 0.1 N HSOto the condensate impinger, if used. Place 100 ml of 0.1 N HSOin each of the next two impingers. Place 100 ml of 0.1 N NaOH in each of the following two impingers. Finally, transfer approximately 200-300 g of preweighed silica gel from its container to the last impinger. Set up the train as in Figure 26A-1. When used, the optional cyclone is inserted between the probe liner and filter holder and located in the heated filter box.

8.1.4 Leak-Check Procedures. Follow the leak-check procedures given in Method 5, sections 8.4.2 (Pretest Leak-Check), 8.4.3 (Leak-Checks During the Sample Run), and 8.4.4 (Post-Test Leak-Check).

8.1.5 Sampling Train Operation. Follow the general procedure given in Method 5, Section 8.5. It is important to maintain a temperature around the probe, filter (and cyclone, if used) between 120 and 134 &#xB0;C (248 and 273 &#xB0;F) since it is extremely difficult to purge acid gases off these components. (These components are not quantitatively recovered and hence any collection of acid gases on these components would result in potential under reporting these emissions. The applicable subparts may specify alternative higher temperatures.) For each run, record the data required on a data sheet such as the one shown in Method 5, Figure 5-3. If the condensate impinger becomes too full, it may be emptied, recharged with 50 ml of 0.1 N H2SO4, and replaced during the sample run. The condensate emptied must be saved and included in the measurement of the volume of moisture collected and included in the sample for analysis. The additional 50 ml of absorbing reagent must also be considered in calculating the moisture. Before the sampling train integrity is compromised by removing the impinger, conduct a leak-check as described in Method 5, section 8.4.2.
