
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.,

8.1.6 Post-Test Moisture Removal (Optional). When the optional cyclone is included in the sampling train or when liquid is visible on the filter at the end of a sample run even in the absence of a cyclone, perform the following procedure. Upon completion of the test run, connect the ambient air conditioning tube at the probe inlet and operate the train with the filter heating system between 120 and 134 &#xB0;C (248 and 273 &#xB0;F) at a low flow rate (ΔH = 1 in. HO) to vaporize any liquid and hydrogen halides in the cyclone or on the filter and pull them through the train into the impingers. After 30 minutes, turn off the flow, remove the conditioning tube, and examine the cyclone and filter for any visible liquid. If liquid is visible, repeat this step for 15 minutes and observe again. Keep repeating until the cyclone is dry.

8.2 Sample Recovery. Allow the probe to cool. When the probe can be handled safely, wipe off all the external surfaces of the tip of the probe nozzle and place a cap loosely over the tip to prevent gaining or losing particulate matter. Do not cap the probe tip tightly while the sampling train is cooling down because this will create a vacuum in the filter holder, drawing water from the impingers into the holder. Before moving the sampling train to the cleanup site, remove the probe from the sample train, wipe off any silicone grease, and cap the open outlet of the impinger train, being careful not to lose any condensate that might be present. Wipe off any silicone grease and cap the filter or cyclone inlet. Remove the umbilical cord from the last impinger and cap the impinger. If a flexible line is used between the first impinger and the filter holder, disconnect it at the filter holder and let any condensed water drain into the first impinger. Wipe off any silicone grease and cap the filter holder outlet and the impinger inlet. Ground glass stoppers, plastic caps, serum caps, Teflon tape, Parafilm, or aluminum foil may be used to close these openings. Transfer the probe and filter/impinger assembly to the cleanup area. This area should be clean and protected from the weather to minimize sample contamination or loss. Inspect the train prior to and during disassembly and note any abnormal conditions. Treat samples as follows:

8.2.1 Container No. 1 (Optional; Filter Catch for Particulate Determination). Same as Method 5, section 8.7.6.1, Container No. 1.

8.2.2 Container No. 2 (Optional; Front-Half Rinse for Particulate Determination). Same as Method 5, section 8.7.6.2, Container No. 2.

8.2.3 Container No. 3 (Knockout and Acid Impinger Catch for Moisture and Hydrogen Halide Determination). Disconnect the impingers. Measure the liquid in the acid and knockout impingers to +/-1 ml by using a graduated cylinder or by weighing it to +/-0.5 g by using a balance. Record the volume or weight of liquid present. This information is required to calculate the moisture content of the effluent gas. Quantitatively transfer this liquid to a leak-free sample storage container. Rinse these impingers and connecting glassware including the back portion of the filter holder (and flexible tubing, if used) with water and add these rinses to the storage container. Seal the container, shake to mix, and label. The fluid level should be marked so that if any sample is lost during transport, a correction proportional to the lost volume can be applied. Retain rinse water and acidic absorbing solution blanks to be analyzed with the samples.

8.2.4 Container No. 4 (Alkaline Impinger Catch for Halogen and Moisture Determination). Measure and record the liquid in the alkaline impingers as described in section 8.2.3. Quantitatively transfer this liquid to a leak-free sample storage container. Rinse these two impingers and connecting glassware with water and add these rinses to the container. Add 25 mg of sodium thiosulfate per ppm halogen anticipated to be in the stack gas multiplied by the volume (dscm) of stack gas sampled (0.7 mg/ppm-dscf). Seal the container, shake to mix, and label; mark the fluid level. Retain alkaline absorbing solution blank to be analyzed with the samples.

8.2.5 Container No. 5 (Silica Gel for Moisture Determination). Same as Method 5, section 8.7.6.3, Container No. 3.

8.2.6 Container Nos. 6 through 9 (Reagent Blanks). Save portions of the absorbing reagents (0.1 N HSOand 0.1 N NaOH) equivalent to the amount used in the sampling train; dilute to the approximate volume of the corresponding samples using rinse water directly from the wash bottle being used. Add the same ratio of sodium thiosulfate solution used in container No. 4 to the 0.1 N NaOH absorbing reagent blank. Also, save a portion of the rinse water alone and a portion of the acetone equivalent to the amount used to rinse the front half of the sampling train. Place each in a separate, prelabeled sample container.

8.2.7 Prior to shipment, recheck all sample containers to ensure that the caps are well-secured. Seal the lids of all containers around the circumference with Teflon tape. Ship all liquid samples upright and all particulate filters with the particulate catch facing upward.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. Same as Method 5, section 9.2.

10.1 Probe Nozzle, Pitot Tube Assembly, Dry Gas Metering System, Probe Heater, Temperature Sensors, Leak-Check of Metering System, and Barometer. Same as Method 5, sections 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5, 8.4.1, and 10.6, respectively.

10.2 Ion Chromatograph.

10.2.1 To prepare the calibration standards, dilute given amounts (1.0 ml or greater) of the stock standard solutions to convenient volumes, using 0.1 N HSOor 0.1 N NaOH, as appropriate. Prepare at least four calibration standards for each absorbing reagent containing the three stock solutions such that they are within the linear range of the field samples.

10.2.2 Using one of the standards in each series, ensure adequate baseline separation for the peaks of interest.

10.2.3 Inject the appropriate series of calibration standards, starting with the lowest concentration standard first both before and after injection of the quality control check sample, reagent blanks, and field samples. This allows compensation for any instrument drift occurring during sample analysis. The values from duplicate injections of these calibration samples should agree within 5 percent of their mean for the analysis to be valid.

10.2.4 Determine the peak areas, or height, of the standards and plot individual values versus halide ion concentrations in µg/ml.

10.2.5 Draw a smooth curve through the points. Use linear regression to calculate a formula describing the resulting linear curve.

11.1 Sample Analysis.

11.1.1 The IC conditions will depend upon analytical column type and whether suppressed or non-suppressed IC is used. An example chromatogram from a non-suppressed system using a 150-mm Hamilton PRP-X100 anion column, a 2 ml/min flow rate of a 4 mM 4-hydroxy benzoate solution adjusted to a pH of 8.6 using 1 N NaOH, a 50 µl sample loop, and a conductivity detector set on 1.0 µS full scale is shown in Figure 26-2.

11.1.2 Before sample analysis, establish a stable baseline. Next, inject a sample of water, and determine if any Cl, Br, or Fappears in the chromatogram. If any of these ions are present, repeat the load/injection procedure until they are no longer present. Analysis of the acid and alkaline absorbing solution samples requires separate standard calibration curves; prepare each according to section 10.2. Ensure adequate baseline separation of the analyses.

11.1.3 Between injections of the appropriate series of calibration standards, inject in duplicate the reagent blanks, quality control sample, and the field samples. Measure the areas or heights of the Cl, Br, and Fpeaks. Use the mean response of the duplicate injections to determine the concentrations of the field samples and reagent blanks using the linear calibration curve. The values from duplicate injections should agree within 5 percent of their mean for the analysis to be valid. If the values of duplicate injections are not within 5 percent of the mean, the duplicator injections shall be repeated and all four values used to determine the average response. Dilute any sample and the blank with equal volumes of water if the concentration exceeds that of the highest standard.

11.2 Container Nos. 1 and 2 and Acetone Blank (Optional; Particulate Determination). Same as Method 5, sections 11.2.1 and 11.2.2, respectively.

11.3 Container No. 5. Same as Method 5, section 11.2.3 for silica gel.

12.1 Nomenclature. Same as Method 5, section 12.1. In addition:

12.2 Calculate the exact Cl, Br, and Fconcentration in the halide salt stock standard solutions using the following equations.

12.3 Average Dry Gas Meter Temperature and Average Orifice Pressure Drop. See data sheet (Figure 5-3 of Method 5).

12.4 Dry Gas Volume. Calculate Vand adjust for leakage, if necessary, using the equation in section 12.3 of Method 5.

12.5 Volume of Water Vapor and Moisture Content. Calculate the volume of water vapor Vand moisture content Bfrom the data obtained in this method (Figure 5-3 of Method 5); use Equations 5-2 and 5-3 of Method 5.

12.6 Isokinetic Variation and Acceptable Results. Use Method 5, section 12.11.

12.7 Acetone Blank Concentration, Acetone Wash Blank Residue Weight, Particulate Weight, and Particulate Concentration. For particulate determination.

12.8 Total µg HCl, HBr, or HF Per Sample.

12.9 Total µg Clor BrPer Sample.

12.10 Concentration of Hydrogen Halide or Halogen in Flue Gas.

12.11 Stack Gas Velocity and Volumetric Flow Rate. Calculate the average stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate, if needed, using data obtained in this method and the equations in sections 12.3 and 12.4 of Method 2.

13.1 Precision and Bias. The method has a possible measurable negative bias below 20 ppm HCl perhaps due to reaction with small amounts of moisture in the probe and filter. Similar bias for the other hydrogen halides is possible.

13.2 Sample Stability. The collected Cl-samples can be stored for up to 4 weeks for analysis for HCl and Cl2.

13.3 Detection Limit. A typical analytical detection limit for HCl is 0.2 µg/ml. Detection limits for the other analyses should be similar. Assuming 300 ml of liquid recovered for the acidified impingers and a similar amounts recovered from the basic impingers, and 1 dscm of stack gas sampled, the analytical detection limits in the stack gas would be about 0.04 ppm for HCl and Cl2, respectively.

1. Steinsberger, S. C. and J. H. Margeson. Laboratory and Field Evaluation of a Methodology for Determination of Hydrogen Chloride Emissions from Municipal and Hazardous Waste Incinerators. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Research and Development. Publication No. 600/3-89/064. April 1989. Available from National Technical Information Service, Springfield, VA 22161 as PB89220586/AS.

2. State of California Air Resources Board. Method 421-Determination of Hydrochloric Acid Emissions from Stationary Sources. March 18, 1987.
