
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.,

8.1.3.1 Sampling Train. A leak-check prior to the sampling run is optional; however, a leak-check after the sampling run is mandatory. The leak-check procedure is as follows: Temporarily attach a suitable [0-40 cc/min (0-2.4 in/min)] rotameter to the outlet of the dry gas meter and place a vacuum gauge at or near the probe inlet. Plug the probe inlet, pull a vacuum of at least 250 mm Hg (10 in. Hg), and note the flow rate as indicated by the rotameter. A leakage rate not in excess of 2 percent of the average sampling rate is acceptable.

8.1.3.2 Pump. It is suggested (not mandatory) that the pump be leak-checked separately, either prior to or after the sampling run. If done prior to the sampling run, the pump leak-check shall precede the leak-check of the sampling train described immediately above; if done after the sampling run, the pump leak-check shall follow the train leak-check. To leak-check the pump, proceed as follows: Disconnect the drying tube from the probe-impinger assembly. Place a vacuum gauge at the inlet to either the drying tube or pump, pull a vacuum of 250 mm (10 in) Hg, plug or pinch off the outlet of the flow meter, and then turn off the pump. The vacuum should remain stable for at least 30 sec. Other leak-check procedures may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

8.1.4 Purge Procedure. Immediately before sampling, connect the purge line to the stopcock, and turn the stopcock to permit the purge pump to purge the probe (see Figure 1A of Figure 26-1). Turn on the purge pump, and adjust the purge rate to 2 liters/min (0.07 ft/min). Purge for at least 5 minutes before sampling.

8.1.5 Sample Collection. Turn on the sampling pump, pull a slight vacuum of approximately 25 mm Hg (1 in Hg) on the impinger train, and turn the stopcock to permit stack gas to be pulled through the impinger train (see Figure 1C of Figure 26-1). Adjust the sampling rate to 2 liters/min, as indicated by the rate meter, and maintain this rate to within 10 percent during the entire sampling run. Take readings of the dry gas meter volume and temperature, rate meter, and vacuum gauge at least once every five minutes during the run. A sampling time of one hour is recommended. Shorter sampling times may introduce a significant negative bias in the HCl concentration. At the conclusion of the sampling run, remove the train from the stack, cool, and perform a leak-check as described in section 8.1.3.1.

8.2 Sample Recovery.

8.2.1 Disconnect the impingers after sampling. Quantitatively transfer the contents of the acid impingers and the knockout impinger, if used, to a leak-free storage bottle. Add the water rinses of each of these impingers and connecting glassware to the storage bottle.

8.2.2 Repeat this procedure for the alkaline impingers and connecting glassware using a separate storage bottle. Add 25 mg of sodium thiosulfate per the product of ppm of halogen anticipated to be in the stack gas times the volume (dscm) of stack gas sampled (0.7 mg per ppm-dscf).

8.2.3 Save portions of the absorbing reagents (0.1 N HSOand 0.1 N NaOH) equivalent to the amount used in the sampling train (these are the absorbing solution blanks described in section 7.2.2); dilute to the approximate volume of the corresponding samples using rinse water directly from the wash bottle being used. Add the same amount of sodium thiosulfate solution to the 0.1 N NaOH absorbing solution blank. Also, save a portion of the rinse water used to rinse the sampling train. Place each in a separate, prelabeled storage bottle. The sample storage bottles should be sealed, shaken to mix, and labeled. Mark the fluid level.

8.3 Sample Preparation for Analysis. Note the liquid levels in the storage bottles and confirm on the analysis sheet whether or not leakage occurred during transport. If a noticeable leakage has occurred, either void the sample or use methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to correct the final results. Quantitatively transfer the sample solutions to 100-ml volumetric flasks, and dilute to 100 ml with water.

10.1 Volume Metering System, Temperature Sensors, Rate Meter, and Barometer. Same as in Method 6, sections 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, and 10.4.

10.2 Ion Chromatograph.

10.2.1 To prepare the calibration standards, dilute given amounts (1.0 ml or greater) of the stock standard solutions to convenient volumes, using 0.1 N HSOor 0.1 N NaOH, as appropriate. Prepare at least four calibration standards for each absorbing reagent containing the appropriate stock solutions such that they are within the linear range of the field samples.

10.2.2 Using one of the standards in each series, ensure adequate baseline separation for the peaks of interest.

10.2.3 Inject the appropriate series of calibration standards, starting with the lowest concentration standard first both before and after injection of the quality control check sample, reagent blanks, and field samples. This allows compensation for any instrument drift occurring during sample analysis. The values from duplicate injections of these calibration samples should agree within 5 percent of their mean for the analysis to be valid.

10.2.4 Determine the peak areas, or heights, for the standards and plot individual values versus halide ion concentrations in µg/ml.

10.2.5 Draw a smooth curve through the points. Use linear regression to calculate a formula describing the resulting linear curve.

11.1 Sample Analysis.

11.1.1 The IC conditions will depend upon analytical column type and whether suppressed or non-suppressed IC is used. An example chromatogram from a non-suppressed system using a 150-mm Hamilton PRP-X100 anion column, a 2 ml/min flow rate of a 4 mM 4-hydroxy benzoate solution adjusted to a pH of 8.6 using 1 N NaOH, a 50 µl sample loop, and a conductivity detector set on 1.0 µS full scale is shown in Figure 26-2.

11.1.2 Before sample analysis, establish a stable baseline. Next, inject a sample of water, and determine if any Cl, Br, or Fappears in the chromatogram. If any of these ions are present, repeat the load/injection procedure until they are no longer present. Analysis of the acid and alkaline absorbing solution samples requires separate standard calibration curves; prepare each according to section 10.2. Ensure adequate baseline separation of the analyses.

11.1.3 Between injections of the appropriate series of calibration standards, inject in duplicate the reagent blanks, quality control sample, and the field samples. Measure the areas or heights of the Cl, Br, and Fpeaks. Use the mean response of the duplicate injections to determine the concentrations of the field samples and reagent blanks using the linear calibration curve. The values from duplicate injections should agree within 5 percent of their mean for the analysis to be valid. If the values of duplicate injections are not within 5 percent of the mean, the duplicate injections shall be repeated and all four values used to determine the average response. Dilute any sample and the blank with equal volumes of water if the concentration exceeds that of the highest standard.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Calculate the exact Cl, Br, and Fconcentration in the halide salt stock standard solutions using the following equations.

12.3 Sample Volume, Dry Basis, Corrected to Standard Conditions. Calculate the sample volume using Eq. 6-1 of Method 6.

12.4 Total µg HCl, HBr, or HF Per Sample.

12.5 Total µg Clor BrPer Sample.

12.6 Concentration of Hydrogen Halide or Halogen in Flue Gas.

13.1 Precision and Bias. The within-laboratory relative standard deviations are 6.2 and 3.2 percent at HCl concentrations of 3.9 and 15.3 ppm, respectively. The method does not exhibit a bias to Clwhen sampling at concentrations less than 50 ppm.

13.2 Sample Stability. The collected Clsamples can be stored for up to 4 weeks.

13.3 Detection Limit. A typical IC instrumental detection limit for Clis 0.2 µg/ml. Detection limits for the other analyses should be similar. Assuming 50 ml liquid recovered from both the acidified impingers, and the basic impingers, and 0.12 dscm (4.24 dscf) of stack gas sampled, then the analytical detection limit in the stack gas would be about 0.05 ppm for HCl and Cl, respectively.

Method 26A. Method 26A, which uses isokinetic sampling equipment, is an acceptable alternative to Method 26.

1. Steinsberger, S. C. and J. H. Margeson, "Laboratory and Field Evaluation of a Methodology for Determination of Hydrogen Chloride Emissions from Municipal and Hazardous Waste Incinerators," U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Research and Development, Report No. 600/3-89/064, April 1989. Available from the National Technical Information Service, Springfield, VA 22161 as PB89220586/AS.

2. State of California, Air Resources Board, Method 421, "Determination of Hydrochloric Acid Emissions from Stationary Sources," March 18, 1987.
