
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.,

8.5.2 Locate wood heater surface temperature monitors at five locations on the wood heater firebox exterior surface. Position the temperature monitors centrally on the top surface, on two sidewall surfaces, and on the bottom and back surfaces. Position the monitor sensing tip on the firebox exterior surface inside of any heat shield, air circulation walls, or other wall or shield separated from the firebox exterior surface. Surface temperature locations for unusual design shapes (spherical, etc.) shall be positioned so that there are four surface temperature monitors in both the vertical and horizontal planes passing at right angles through the centroid of the firebox, not including the fuel loading door (total of five temperature monitors).

8.6 Test Facility Conditions.

8.6.1 Locate the test facility temperature monitor on the horizontal plane that includes the primary air intake opening for the wood heater. Locate the temperature monitor 1 to 2 m (3 to 6 ft) from the front of the wood heater in the 90&#xB0; sector in front of the wood heater.

8.6.2 Use an anemometer to measure the air velocity. Measure and record the room air velocity before the pretest ignition period (Section 8.7) and once immediately following the test run completion.

8.6.3 Measure and record the test facility's ambient relative humidity, barometric pressure, and temperature before and after each test run.

8.6.4 Measure and record the flue draft or static pressure in the flue at a location no greater than 0.3 m (1 ft) above the flue connector at the wood heater exhaust during the test run at the recording intervals (Section 8.8.2).

8.7 Wood Heater Firebox Volume.

8.7.1 Determine the firebox volume using the definitions for height, width, and length in section 3. Volume adjustments due to presence of firebrick and other permanent fixtures may be necessary. Adjust width and length dimensions to extend to the metal wall of the wood heater above the firebrick or permanent obstruction if the firebrick or obstruction extending the length of the side(s) or back wall extends less than one-third of the usable firebox height. Use the width or length dimensions inside the firebrick if the firebrick extends more than one-third of the usable firebox height. If a log retainer or grate is a permanent fixture and the manufacturer recommends that no fuel be placed outside the retainer, the area outside of the retainer is excluded from the firebox volume calculations.

8.7.2 In general, exclude the area above the ash lip if that area is less than 10 percent of the usable firebox volume. Otherwise, take into account consumer loading practices. For instance, if fuel is to be loaded front-to-back, an ash lip may be considered usable firebox volume.
