
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.,

8.7.3 Include areas adjacent to and above a baffle (up to two inches above the fuel loading opening) if four inches or more horizontal space exist between the edge of the baffle and a vertical obstruction (sidewalls or air channels).

8.8 Test Fuel Charge.

8.8.1 Prepare the test fuel pieces in accordance with the specifications outlined in sections 7.1 and 7.2. Determine the test fuel moisture content with a calibrated electrical resistance meter or other equivalent performance meter. If necessary, convert fuel moisture content values from dry basis (%M) to wet basis (%M) in section 12.2 using Equation 28-1. Determine fuel moisture for each fuel piece (not including spacers) by averaging at least three moisture meter readings, one from each of three sides, measured parallel to the wood grain. Average all the readings for all the fuel pieces in the test fuel charge. If an electrical resistance type meter is used, penetration of insulated electrodes shall be one-fourth the thickness of the test fuel piece or 19 mm (0.75 in.), whichever is greater. Measure the moisture content within a 4-hour period prior to the test run. Determine the fuel temperature by measuring the temperature of the room where the wood has been stored for at least 24 hours prior to the moisture determination.

8.8.2 Attach the spacers to the test fuel pieces with uncoated, ungalvanized nails or staples as illustrated in Figure 28-2. Attachment of spacers to the top of the test fuel piece(s) on top of the test fuel charge is optional.

8.8.3 To avoid stacking difficulties, or when a whole number of test fuel pieces does not result, all piece lengths shall be adjusted uniformly to remain within the specified loading density. The shape of the test fuel crib shall be geometrically similar to the shape of the firebox volume without resorting to special angular or round cuts on the individual fuel pieces.

8.8.4 The test fuel loading density shall be 112 +/-11.2 kg/m(7 +/-0.7 lb/ft) of usable firebox volume on a wet basis.
