
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.,

8.12.1.1 When the kindling and pretest fuel have been consumed to leave a fuel weight between 20 and 25 percent of the weight of the test fuel charge, record the weight of the fuel remaining and start the test run. Record and report any other criteria, in addition to those specified in this section, used to determine the moment of the test run start (firebox or catalyst temperature), whether such criteria are specified by the wood heater manufacturer or the testing laboratory. Record all wood heater individual surface temperatures, catalyst temperatures, any initial sampling method measurement values, and begin the particulate emission sampling. Within 1 minute following the start of the test run, open the wood heater door, load the test fuel charge, and record the test fuel charge weight. Recording of average, rather than individual, surface temperatures is acceptable for tests conducted in accordance with ยง 60.533(o)(3)(i) of 40 CFR part 60.

8.12.1.2 Position the fuel charge so that the spacers are parallel to the floor of the firebox, with the spacer edges abutting each other. If loading difficulties result, some fuel pieces may be placed on edge. If the usable firebox volume is between 0.043 and 0.085 m(1.5 and 3.0 ft), alternate the piece sizes in vertical stacking layers to the extent possible. For example, place 2 x 4's on the bottom layer in direct contact with the coal bed and 4 x 4's on the next layer, etc. (See Figure 28-3). Position the fuel pieces parallel to each other and parallel to the longest wall of the firebox to the extent possible within the specifications in section 8.8.

8.12.1.3 Load the test fuel in appliances having unusual or unconventional firebox design maintaining air space intervals between the test fuel pieces and in conformance with the manufacturer's written instructions. For any appliance that will not accommodate the loading arrangement specified in the paragraph above, the test facility personnel shall contact the Administrator for an alternative loading arrangement.

8.12.1.4 The wood heater door may remain open and the air supply controls adjusted up to five minutes after the start of the test run in order to make adjustments to the test fuel charge and to ensure ignition of the test fuel charge has occurred. Within the five minutes after the start of the test run, close the wood heater door and adjust the air supply controls to the position determined to produce the desired burn rate. No other adjustments to the air supply controls or the test fuel charge are allowed (except as specified in sections 8.12.3 and 8.12.4) after the first five minutes of the test run. Record the length of time the wood heater door remains open, the adjustments to the air supply controls, and any other operational adjustments.
