
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.,

6.12.4 For test facilities with artificially induced barometric pressures (pressurized chambers), the barometric pressure in the test facility shall not exceed 775 mm Hg (30.5 in. Hg) during any test run.

Same as section 6.0 of either Method 5G or Method 5H, with the addition of the following:

7.1 Test Fuel. The test fuel shall conform to the following requirements:

7.1.1 Fuel Species. Untreated, air-dried, Douglas fir lumber. Kiln-dried lumber is not permitted. The lumber shall be certified C grade (standard) or better Douglas fir by a lumber grader at the mill of origin as specified in the West Coast Lumber Inspection Bureau Standard No. 16 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17).

7.1.2 Fuel Moisture. The test fuel shall have a moisture content range between 16 to 20 percent on a wet basis (19 to 25 percent dry basis). Addition of moisture to previously dried wood is not allowed. It is recommended that the test fuel be stored in a temperature and humidity-controlled room.

7.1.3 Fuel Temperature. The test fuel shall be at the test facility temperature of 18 to 32 &#xB0;C (65 to 90 &#xB0;F).

7.1.4 Fuel Dimensions. The dimensions of each test fuel piece shall conform to the nominal measurements of 2 x 4 and 4 x 4 lumber. Each piece of test fuel (not including spacers) shall be of equal length, except as necessary to meet requirements in section 8.8, and shall closely approximatethe dimensions of the length of the usable firebox. The fuel piece dimensions shall be determined in relation to the appliance's firebox volume according to guidelines listed below:

7.1.4.1 If the usable firebox volume is less than or equal to 0.043 m(1.5 ft), use 2 x 4 lumber.

7.1.4.2 If the usable firebox volume is greater than 0.043 m(1.5 ft) and less than or equal to 0.085 m(3.0 ft), use 2 x 4 and 4 x 4 lumber. About half the weight of the test fuel charge shall be 2 x 4 lumber, and the remainder shall be 4 x 4 lumber.

7.1.4.3 If the usable firebox volume is greater than 0.085 m(3.0 ft), use 4 x 4 lumber.

7.2 Test Fuel Spacers. Air-dried, Douglas fir lumber meeting the requirements outlined in sections 7.1.1 through 7.1.3. The spacers shall be 130 x 40 x 20 mm (5 x 1.5 x 0.75 in.).

8.1 Test Run Requirements.

8.1.1 Burn Rate Categories. One emission test run is required in each of the following burn rate categories:

8.1.1.1 Maximum Burn Rate. For Category 4, the wood heater shall be operated with the primary air supply inlet controls fully open (or, if thermostatically controlled, the thermostat shall be set at maximum heat output) during the entire test run, or the maximum burn rate setting specified by the manufacturer's written instructions.

8.1.1.2 Other Burn Rate Categories. For burn rates in Categories 1 through 3, the wood heater shall be operated with the primary air supply inlet control, or other mechanical control device, set at a predetermined position necessary to obtain the average burn rate required for the category.

8.1.1.3 Alternative Burn Rates for Burn Rate Categories 1 and 2.

8.1.1.3.1 If a wood heater cannot be operated at a burn rate below 0.80 kg/hr (1.76 lb/hr), two test runs shall be conducted with burn rates within Category 2. If a wood heater cannot be operated at a burn rate below 1.25 kg/hr (2.76 lb/hr), the flue shall be dampered or the air supply otherwise controlled in order to achieve two test runs within Category 2.

8.1.1.3.2 Evidence that a wood heater cannot be operated at a burn rate less than 0.80 kg/hr shall include documentation of two or more attempts to operate the wood heater in burn rate Category 1 and fuel combustion has stopped, or results of two or more test runs demonstrating that the burn rates were greater than 0.80 kg/hr when the air supply controls were adjusted to the lowest possible position or settings. Stopped fuel combustion is evidenced when an elapsed time of 30 minutes or more has occurred without a measurable (<0.05 kg (0.1 lb) or 1.0 percent, whichever is greater) weight change in the test fuel charge. See also section 8.8.3. Report the evidence and the reasoning used to determine that a test in burn rate Category 1 cannot be achieved; for example, two unsuccessful attempts to operate at a burn rate of 0.4 kg/hr are not sufficient evidence that burn rate Category 1 cannot be achieved.

8.2 Catalytic Combustor and Wood Heater Aging. The catalyst-equipped wood heater or a wood heater of any type shall be aged before the certification test begins. The aging procedure shall be conducted and documented by a testing laboratory accredited according to procedures in ยง 60.535 of 40 CFR part 60.

8.2.1 Catalyst-equipped Wood Heater. Operate the catalyst-equipped wood heater using fuel meeting the specifications outlined in sections 7.1.1 through 7.1.3, or cordwood with a moisture content between 15 and 25 percent on a wet basis. Operate the wood heater at a medium burn rate (Category 2 or 3) with a new catalytic combustor in place and in operation for at least 50 hours. Record and report hourly catalyst exit temperature data (Section 8.6.2) and the hours of operation.

8.2.2 Non-Catalyst Wood Heater. Operate the wood heater using the fuel described in section 8.4.1 at a medium burn rate for at least 10 hours. Record and report the hours of operation.

8.3 Pretest Recordkeeping. Record the test fuel charge dimensions and weights, and wood heater and catalyst descriptions as shown in the example in Figure 28-1.

8.4 Wood Heater Installation. Assemble the wood heater appliance and parts in conformance with the manufacturer's written installation instructions. Place the wood heater centrally on the platform scale and connect the wood heater to the flue described in section 6.11. Clean the flue with an appropriately sized, wire chimney brush before each certification test.

8.5 Wood Heater Temperature Monitors.

8.5.1 For catalyst-equipped wood heaters, locate a temperature monitor (optional) about 25 mm (1 in.) upstream of the catalyst at the centroid of the catalyst face area, and locate a temperature monitor (mandatory) that will indicate the catalyst exhaust temperature. This temperature monitor is centrally located within 25 mm (1 in.) downstream at the centroid of catalyst face area. Record these locations.
