
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Wood heater

3.17means an enclosed, woodburning appliance capable of and intended for space heating or domestic water heating, as defined in the applicable regulation.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

Same as section 6.0 of either Method 5G or Method 5H, with the addition of the following:

6.1 Insulated Solid Pack Chimney. For installation of wood heaters. Solid pack insulated chimneys shall have a minimum of 2.5 cm (1 in.) solid pack insulating material surrounding the entire flue and possess a label demonstrating conformance to U.L. 103 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17).

6.2 Platform Scale and Monitor. For monitoring of fuel load weight change. The scale shall be capable of measuring weight to within 0.05 kg (0.1 lb) or 1 percent of the initial test fuel charge weight, whichever is greater.

6.3 Wood Heater Temperature Monitors. Seven, each capable of measuring temperature to within 1.5 percent of expected absolute temperatures.

6.4 Test Facility Temperature Monitor. A thermocouple located centrally in a vertically oriented 150 mm (6 in.) long, 50 mm (2 in.) diameter pipe shield that is open at both ends, capable of measuring temperature to within 1.5 percent of expected temperatures.

6.5 Balance (optional). Balance capable of weighing the test fuel charge to within 0.05 kg (0.1 lb).

6.6 Moisture Meter. Calibrated electrical resistance meter for measuring test fuel moisture to within 1 percent moisture content.

6.7 Anemometer. Device capable of detecting air velocities less than 0.10 m/sec (20 ft/min), for measuring air velocities near the test appliance.

6.8 Barometer. Mercury, aneroid or other barometer capable of measuring atmospheric pressure to within 2.5 mm Hg (0.1 in. Hg).

6.9 Draft Gauge. Electromanometer or other device for the determination of flue draft or static pressure readable to within 0.50 Pa (0.002 in. HO).

6.10 Humidity Gauge. Psychrometer or hygrometer for measuring room humidity.

6.11 Wood Heater Flue.

6.11.1 Steel flue pipe extending to 2.6 +/-0.15 m (8.5 +/-0.5 ft) above the top of the platform scale, and above this level, insulated solid pack type chimney extending to 4.6 +/-0.3 m (15 +/-1 ft) above the platform scale, and of the size specified by the wood heater manufacturer. This applies to both freestanding and insert type wood heaters.
