
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### i.e.,

8.9 Sampling Equipment. Prepare the sampling equipment as defined by the selected method (either Method 5G or Method 5H). Collect one particulate emission sample for each test run.

8.10 Secondary Air Adjustment Validation.

8.10.1 If design drawings do not show the introduction of secondary air into a chamber outside the firebox (see "secondary air supply" under section 3.0, Definitions), conduct a separate test of the wood heater's secondary air supply. Operate the wood heater at a burn rate in Category 1 (Section 8.1.1) with the secondary air supply operated following the manufacturer's written instructions. Start the secondary air validation test run as described in section 8.8.1, except no emission sampling is necessary and burn rate data shall be recorded at 5-minute intervals.

8.10.2 After the start of the test run, operate the wood heater with the secondary air supply set as per the manufacturer's instructions, but with no adjustments to this setting. After 25 percent of the test fuel has been consumed, adjust the secondary air supply controls to another setting, as per the manufacturer's instructions. Record the burn rate data (5-minute intervals) for 20 minutes following the air supply adjustment.

8.10.3 Adjust the air supply control(s) to the original position(s), operate at this condition for at least 20 minutes, and repeat the air supply adjustment procedure above. Repeat the procedure three times at equal intervals over the entire burn period as defined in section 8.8. If the secondary air adjustment results in a burn rate change of more than an average of 25 percent between the 20-minute periods before and after the secondary adjustments, the secondary air supply shall be considered a primary air supply, and no adjustment to this air supply is allowed during the test run.

8.10.4 The example sequence below describes a typical secondary air adjustment validation check. The first cycle begins after at least 25 percent of the test fuel charge has been consumed.

8.11 Pretest Ignition. Build a fire in the wood heater in accordance with the manufacturer's written instructions.

8.11.1 Pretest Fuel Charge. Crumpled newspaper loaded with kindling may be used to help ignite the pretest fuel. The pretest fuel, used to sustain the fire, shall meet the same fuel requirements prescribed in section 7.1. The pretest fuel charge shall consist of whole 2 x 4's that are no less thanthe length of the test fuel pieces. Pieces of 4 x 4 lumber in approximately the same weight ratio as for the test fuel charge may be added to the pretest fuel charge.

8.11.2 Wood Heater Operation and Adjustments. Set the air inlet supply controls at any position that will maintain combustion of the pretest fuel load. At least one hour before the start of the test run, set the air supply controls at the approximate positions necessary to achieve the burn rate desired for the test run. Adjustment of the air supply controls, fuel addition or subtractions, and coalbed raking shall be kept to a minimum but are allowed up to 15 minutes prior to the start of the test run. For the purposes of this method, coalbed raking is the use of a metal tool (poker) to stir coals, break burning fuel into smaller pieces, dislodge fuel pieces from positions of poor combustion, and check for the condition of uniform charcoalization. Record all adjustments made to the air supply controls, adjustments to and additions or subtractions of fuel, and any other changes to wood heater operations that occur during pretest ignition period. Record fuel weight data and wood heater temperature measurements at 10-minute intervals during the hour of the pretest ignition period preceding the start of the test run. During the 15-minute period prior to the start of the test run, the wood heater loading door shall not be open more than a total of 1 minute. Coalbed raking is the only adjustment allowed during this period.

8.11.3 The weight of pretest fuel remaining at the start of the test run is determined as the difference between the weight of the wood heater with the remaining pretest fuel and the tare weight of the cleaned, dry wood heater with or without dry ash or sand added consistent with the manufacturer's instructions and the owner's manual. The tare weight of the wood heater must be determined with the wood heater (and ash, if added) in a dry condition.

8.12 Test Run. Complete a test run in each burn rate category, as follows:

8.12.1 Test Run Start.
