
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.,

12.6.1.7.6 Sampling and Operation Records. Copies of uncorrected records of activities not included on raw data sheets (wood heater door open times and durations).

12.6.1.7.7 Additional Information. Wood heater manufacturer's written instructions for operation during the certification test.

12.6.2.1 Wood Heater Identification. Report wood heater identification information. An example data form is shown in Figure 28-4.

12.6.2.2 Test Facility Information. Report test facility temperature, air velocity, and humidity information. An example data form is shown on Figure 28-4.

12.6.2.3 Test Equipment Calibration and Audit Information. Report calibration and audit results for the platform scale, test fuel balance, test fuel moisture meter, and sampling equipment including volume metering systems and gaseous analyzers.

12.6.2.4 Pretest Procedure Description. Report all pretest procedures including pretest fuel weight, burn rates, wood heater temperatures, and air supply settings. An example data form is shown on Figure 28-4.

12.6.2.5 Particulate Emission Data. Report a summary of test results for all test runs and the weighted average emission rate. Submit copies of all data sheets and other records collected during the testing. Submit examples of all calculations.

16.1 Pellet Burning Heaters. Certification testing requirements and procedures for pellet burning wood heaters are identical to those for other wood heaters, with the following exceptions:

16.1.1 Test Fuel Properties. The test fuel shall be all wood pellets with a moisture content no greater than 20 percent on a wet basis (25 percent on a dry basis). Determine the wood moisture content with either ASTM D 2016-74 or 83, (Method A), ASTM D 4444-92, or ASTM D 4442-84 or 92 (all noted ASTM standards are incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17).

16.1.2 Test Fuel Charge Specifications. The test fuel charge size shall be as per the manufacturer's written instructions for maintaining the desired burn rate.

16.1.3 Wood Heater Firebox Volume. The firebox volume need not be measured or determined for establishing the test fuel charge size. The firebox dimensions and other heater specifications needed to identify the heater for certification purposes shall be reported.

16.1.4 Heater Installation. Arrange the heater with the fuel supply hopper on the platform scale as described in section 8.6.1.

16.1.5 Pretest Ignition. Start a fire in the heater as directed by the manufacturer's written instructions, and adjust the heater controls to achieve the desired burn rate. Operate the heater at the desired burn rate for at least 1 hour before the start of the test run.

16.1.6 Test Run. Complete a test run in each burn rate category as follows:

16.1.6.1 Test Run Start. When the wood heater has operated for at least 1 hour at the desired burn rate, add fuel to the supply hopper as necessary to complete the test run, record the weight of the fuel in the supply hopper (the wood heater weight), and start the test run. Add no additional fuel to the hopper during the test run.

Record all the wood heater surface temperatures, the initial sampling method measurement values, the time at the start of the test, and begin the emission sampling. Make no adjustments to the wood heater air supply or wood supply rate during the test run.

16.1.6.2 Data Recording. Record the fuel (wood heater) weight data, wood heater temperature and operational data, and emission sampling data as described in section 8.12.2.

16.1.6.3 Test Run Completion. Continue emission sampling and wood heater operation for 2 hours. At the end of the test run, stop the particulate sampling, and record the final fuel weight, the run time, and all final measurement values, including all wood heater individual surface temperatures.

16.1.7 Calculations. Determine the burn rate using the difference between the initial and final fuel (wood heater) weights and the procedures described in section 12.4. Complete the other calculations as described in section 12.0.

Same as Method 5G, with the addition of the following:

1. Radian Corporation. OMNI Environmental Services, Inc., Cumulative Probability for a Given Burn Rate Based on Data Generated in the CONEG and BPA Studies. Package of materials submitted to the Fifth Session of the Regulatory Negotiation Committee, July 16-17, 1986.

1.1 Analyte. Particulate matter (PM). No CAS number assigned.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the measurement of air-to-fuel ratios and minimum achievable burn rates, for determining whether a wood-fired appliance is an affected facility, as specified in 40 CFR 60.530.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 A gas sample is extracted from a location in the stack of a wood-fired appliance while the appliance is operating at a prescribed set of conditions. The gas sample is analyzed for carbon dioxide (CO), oxygen (O), and carbon monoxide (CO). These stack gas components are measured for determining the dry molecular weight of the exhaust gas. Total moles of exhaust gas are determined stoichiometrically. Air-to-fuel ratio is determined by relating the mass of dry combustion air to the mass of dry fuel consumed.

Same as Method 28, section 3.0, with the addition of the following:

3.1 Air-to-fuel ratio means the ratio of the mass of dry combustion air introduced into the firebox to the mass of dry fuel consumed (grams of dry air per gram of dry wood burned).

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

6.1 Test Facility. Insulated Solid Pack Chimney, Platform Scale and Monitor, Test Facility Temperature Monitor, Balance, Moisture Meter, Anemometer, Barometer, Draft Gauge, Humidity Gauge, Wood Heater Flue, and Test Facility. Same as Method 28, sections 6.1, 6.2, and 6.4 to 6.12, respectively.

6.2 Sampling System. Probe, Condenser, Valve, Pump, Rate Meter, Flexible Bag, Pressure Gauge, and Vacuum Gauge. Same as Method 3, sections 6.2.1 to 6.2.8, respectively. Alternatively, the sampling system described in Method 5H, section 6.1 may be used.

6.3 Exhaust Gas Analysis. Use one or both of the following:

6.3.1 Orsat Analyzer. Same as Method 3, section 6.1.3

6.3.2 Instrumental Analyzers. Same as Method 5H, sections 6.1.3.4 and 6.1.3.5, for COand CO analyzers, except use a CO analyzer with a range of 0 to 5 percent and use a COanalyzer with a range of 0 to 5 percent. Use an Oanalyzer capable of providing a measure of Oin the range of 0 to 25 percent by volume at least once every 10 minutes.

7.1 Test Fuel and Test Fuel Spacers. Same as Method 28, sections 7.1 and 7.2, respectively.

7.2 Cylinder Gases. For each of the three analyzers, use the same concentration as specified in sections 7.2.1, 7.2.2, and 7.2.3 of Method 6C.

8.1 Wood Heater Air Supply Adjustments.

8.1.1 This section describes how dampers are to be set or adjusted and air inlet ports closed or sealed during Method 28A tests. The specifications in this section are intended to ensure that affected facility determinations are made on the facility configurations that could reasonably be expected to be employed by the user. They are also intended to prevent circumvention of the standard through the addition of an air port that would often be blocked off in actual use. These specifications are based on the assumption that consumers will remove such items as dampers or other closure mechanism stops if this can be done readily with household tools; that consumers will block air inlet passages not visible during normal operation of the appliance using aluminum tape or parts generally available at retail stores; and that consumers will cap off any threaded or flanged air inlets. They also assume that air leakage around glass doors, sheet metal joints or through inlet grilles visible during normal operation of the appliance would not be further blocked or taped off by a consumer.

8.1.2 It is not the intention of this section to cause an appliance that is clearly designed, intended, and, in most normal installations, used as a fireplace to be converted into a wood heater for purposes of applicability testing. Such a fireplace would be identifiable by such features as large or multiple glass doors or panels that are not gasketed, relatively unrestricted air inlets intended, in large part, to limit smoking and fogging of glass surfaces, and other aesthetic features not normally included in wood heaters.
