
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.,

9.2 Method 3 Analyses. Compare the results of the analyses of the two bag samples. If all the gas components (O, CO, and CO) values for the two analyses agree within 0.5 percent (6.0 percent Ofor bag 1 and 6.5 percent Ofor bag 2, agree within 0.5 percent), the results of the bag analyses may be averaged for the calculations in section 12. If the analysis results do not agree within 0.5 percent for each component, calculate the air-to-fuel ratio using both sets of analyses and report the results.

11.1 Method 3 Integrated Bag Samples. Within 4 hours after the sample collection, analyze each bag sample for percent CO, O, and CO using an Orsat analyzer as described in Method 3, section 11.0.

11.2 Instrumental Analyzers. Average the percent CO, CO, and Ovalues for the test run.

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figure after the final calculation. Other forms of the equations may be used as long as they give equivalent results.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Fuel Factor. Use Equation 28A-1 to calculate the fuel factor.

12. 3 Adjusted %CO. Use Equation 28A-2 to adjust COvalues if measurable CO is present.

12.4 Adjusted %O. Use Equation 28A-3 to adjust Ovalue if measurable CO is present.

12.5 Dry Molecular Weight. Use Equation 28A-4 to calculate the dry molecular weight of the stack gas.

12.6 Dry Moles of Exhaust Gas. Use Equation 28A-5 to calculate the total moles of dry exhaust gas produced per kilogram of dry wood burned.

12.7 Air-to-Fuel Ratio. Use Equation 28A-6 to calculate the air-to-fuel ratio on a dry mass basis.

12.8 Burn Rate. Calculate the fuel burn rate as in Method 28, section 12.4.

Same as section 16.0 of Method 3 and section 17 of Method 5G.

1.1 This test method applies to certification and auditing of wood-fired room heaters and fireplace inserts.

1.2 The test method covers the fueling and operating protocol for measuring particulate emissions, as well as determining burn rates, heat output and efficiency.
