
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.,

8.1.5 Notwithstanding section 8.1.1, any flue damper, adjustment mechanism, or air inlet port (whether or not equipped with flue dampers or adjusting mechanisms) that is visible during normal operation of the appliance and which could not reasonably be closed further or blocked except through means that would significantly degrade the aesthetics of the facility (through use of duct tape) will not be closed further or blocked.

8.2 Sampling System.

8.2.1 Sampling Location. Same as Method 5H, section 8.1.2.

8.2.2 Sampling System Set Up. Set up the sampling equipment as described in Method 3, section 8.1.

8.3 Wood Heater Installation, Test Facility Conditions, Wood Heater Firebox Volume, and Test Fuel Charge. Same as Method 28, sections 8.4 and 8.6 to 8.8, respectively.

8.4 Pretest Ignition. Same as Method 28, section 8.11. Set the wood heater air supply settings to achieve a burn rate in Category 1 or the lowest achievable burn rate (see section 8.1).

8.5 Test Run. Same as Method 28, section 8.12. Begin sample collection at the start of the test run as defined in Method 28, section 8.12.1.

8.5.1 Gas Analysis.

8.5.1.1 If Method 3 is used, collect a minimum of two bag samples simultaneously at a constant sampling rate for the duration of the test run. A minimum sample volume of 30 liters (1.1 ft) per bag is recommended.

8.5.1.2 If instrumental gas concentration measurement procedures are used, conduct the gas measurement system performance tests, analyzer calibration, and analyzer calibration error check outlined in Method 6C, sections 8.2.3, 8.2.4, 8.5, and 10.0, respectively. Sample at a constant rate for the duration of the test run.

8.5.2 Data Recording. Record wood heater operational data, test facility temperature, sample train flow rate, and fuel weight data at intervals of no greater than 10 minutes.

8.5.3 Test Run Completion. Same as Method 28, section 8.13.

9.1 Data Validation. The following quality control procedure is suggested to provide a check on the quality of the data.

9.1.1 Calculate a fuel factor, F, using Equation 28A-1 in section 12.2.

9.1.2 If CO is present in quantities measurable by this method, adjust the Oand COvalues before performing the calculation for Fas shown in section 12.3 and 12.4.

9.1.3 Compare the calculated Ffactor with the expected Frange for wood (1.000-1.120). Calculated Fvalues beyond this acceptable range should be investigated before accepting the test results. For example, the strength of the solutions in the gas analyzer and the analyzing technique should be checked by sampling and analyzing a known concentration, such as air. If no detectable or correctable measurement error can be identified, the test should be repeated. Alternatively, determine a range of air-to-fuel ratio results that could include the correct value by using an Fvalue of 1.05 and calculating a potential range of COand Ovalues. Acceptance of such results will be based on whether the calculated range includes the exemption limit and the judgment of the Administrator.
