
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### i.e.,

8.12.3 Test Fuel Charge Adjustment. The test fuel charge may be adjusted (repositioned) once during a test run if more than 60 percent of the initial test fuel charge weight has been consumed and more than 10 minutes have elapsed without a measurable (<0.05 kg (0.1 lb) or 1.0 percent, whichever is greater) weight change. The time used to make this adjustment shall be less than 15 seconds.

8.12.4 Air Supply Adjustment. Secondary air supply controls may be adjusted once during the test run following the manufacturer's written instructions (see section 8.10). No other air supply adjustments are allowed during the test run. Recording of wood heater flue draft during the test run is optional for tests conducted in accordance with ยง 60.533(o)(3)(i) of 40 CFR part 60.

8.12.5 Auxiliary Wood Heater Equipment Operation. Heat exchange blowers sold with the wood heater shall be operated during the test run following the manufacturer's written instructions. If no manufacturer's written instructions are available, operate the heat exchange blower in the "high" position. (Automatically operated blowers shall be operated as designed.) Shaker grates, by-pass controls, or other auxiliary equipment may be adjusted only one time during the test run following the manufacturer's written instructions.

Record all adjustments on a wood heater operational written record.

8.13 Test Run Completion. Continue emission sampling and wood heater operation for 2 hours. The test run is completed when the remaining weight of the test fuel charge is 0.00 kg (0.0 lb). End the test run when the scale has indicated a test fuel charge weight of 0.00 kg (0.0 lb) or less for 30 seconds. At the end of the test run, stop the particulate sampling, and record the final fuel weight, the run time, and all final measurement values.

8.14 Wood Heater Thermal Equilibrium. The average of the wood heater surface temperatures at the end of the test run shall agree with the average surface temperature at the start of the test run to within 70 &#xB0;C (126 &#xB0;F).

8.15 Consecutive Test Runs. Test runs on a wood heater may be conducted consecutively provided that a minimum one-hour interval occurs between test runs.

8.16 Additional Test Runs. The testing laboratory may conduct more than one test run in each of the burn rate categories specified in section 8.1.1. If more than one test run is conducted at a specified burn rate, the results from at least two-thirds of the test runs in that burn rate category shall be used in calculating the weighted average emission rate (see section 12.2). The measurement data and results of all test runs shall be reported regardless of which values are used in calculating the weighted average emission rate (see note in section 8.1).

Same as section 9.0 of either Method 5G or Method 5H.

Same as section 10.0 of either Method 5G or Method 5H, with the addition of the following:

10.1 Platform Scale. Perform a multi-point calibration (at least five points spanning the operational range) of the platform scale before its initial use. The scale manufacturer's calibration results are sufficient for this purpose. Before each certification test, audit the scale with the wood heater in place by weighing at least one calibration weight (Class F) that corresponds to between 20 percent and 80 percent of the expected test fuel charge weight. If the scale cannot reproduce the value of the calibration weight within 0.05 kg (0.1 lb) or 1 percent of the expected test fuel charge weight, whichever is greater, recalibrate the scale before use with at least five calibration weights spanning the operational range of the scale.

10.2 Balance (optional). Calibrate as described in section 10.1.

10.3 Temperature Monitor. Calibrate as in Method 2, section 4.3, before the first certification test and semiannually thereafter.

10.4 Moisture Meter. Calibrate as per the manufacturer's instructions before each certification test.

10.5 Anemometer. Calibrate the anemometer as specified by the manufacturer's instructions before the first certification test and semiannually thereafter.

10.6 Barometer. Calibrate against a mercury barometer before the first certification test and semiannually thereafter.

10.7 Draft Gauge. Calibrate as per the manufacturer's instructions; a liquid manometer does not require calibration.

10.8 Humidity Gauge. Calibrate as per the manufacturer's instructions before the first certification test and semiannually thereafter.

Same as section 11.0 of either Method 5G or Method 5H.

Same as section 12.0 of either Method 5G or Method 5H, with the addition of the following:

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Wet Basis Fuel Moisture Content.

12.3 Weighted Average Emission Rate. Calculate the weighted average emission rate (E) using Equation 28-1:

12.3.1 Example Calculation of Weighted Average Emission Rate.

12.4 Average Wood Heater Surface Temperatures. Calculate the average of the wood heater surface temperatures for the start of the test run (Section 8.12.1) and for the test run completion (Section 8.13). If the two average temperatures do not agree within 70 &#xB0;C (125 &#xB0;F), report the test run results, but do not include the test run results in the test average. Replace such test run results with results from another test run in the same burn rate category.

12.5 Burn Rate. Calculate the burn rate (BR) using Equation 28-3:

12.6 Reporting Criteria. Submit both raw and reduced test data for wood heater tests.

12.6.1 Suggested Test Report Format.

12.6.1.1 Introduction.

12.6.1.1.1 Purpose of test-certification, audit, efficiency, research and development.

12.6.1.1.2 Wood heater identification-manufacturer, model number, catalytic/noncatalytic, options.

12.6.1.1.3 Laboratory-name, location (altitude), participants.

12.6.1.1.4 Test information-date wood heater received, date of tests, sampling methods used, number of test runs.

12.6.1.2 Summary and Discussion of Results

12.6.1.2.1 Table of results (in order of increasing burn rate)-test run number, burn rate, particulate emission rate, efficiency (if determined), averages (indicate which test runs are used).

12.6.1.2.2 Summary of other data-test facility conditions, surface temperature averages, catalyst temperature averages, pretest fuel weights, test fuel charge weights, run times.

12.6.1.2.3 Discussion-Burn rate categories achieved, test run result selection, specific test run problems and solutions.

12.6.1.3 Process Description.

12.6.1.3.1 Wood heater dimensions-volume, height, width, lengths (or other linear dimensions), weight, volume adjustments.

12.6.1.3.2 Firebox configuration-air supply locations and operation, air supply introduction location, refractory location and dimensions, catalyst location, baffle and by-pass location and operation (include line drawings or photographs).

12.6.1.3.3 Process operation during test-air supply settings and adjustments, fuel bed adjustments, draft.

12.6.1.3.4 Test fuel-test fuel properties (moisture and temperature), test fuel crib description (include line drawing or photograph), test fuel loading density.

12.6.1.4 Sampling Locations.

12.6.1.4.1 Describe sampling location relative to wood heater. Include drawing or photograph.

12.6.1.5 Sampling and Analytical Procedures

12.6.1.5.1 Sampling methods-brief reference to operational and sampling procedures and optional and alternative procedures used.

12.6.1.5.2 Analytical methods-brief description of sample recovery and analysis procedures.

12.6.1.6 Quality Control and Assurance Procedures and Results

12.6.1.6.1 Calibration procedures and results-certification procedures, sampling and analysis procedures.

12.6.1.6.2 Test method quality control procedures-leak-checks, volume meter checks, stratification (velocity) checks, proportionality results.

12.6.1.7 Appendices

12.6.1.7.1 Results and Example Calculations. Complete summary tables and accompanying examples of all calculations.

12.6.1.7.2 Raw Data. Copies of all uncorrected data sheets for sampling measurements, temperature records and sample recovery data. Copies of all pretest burn rate and wood heater temperature data.
