
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Standard Test Method for Determination of Particulate Matter Emissions Collected in a Dilution Tunnel

4.1 Dilution Tunnel. Emissions are determined using the "dilution tunnel" method specified in ASTM E2515-11(IBR, see § 60.17). The flow rate in the dilution tunnel is maintained at a constant level throughout the test cycle and accurately measured. Samples of the dilution tunnel flow stream are extracted at a constant flow rate and drawn through high efficiency filters. The filters are dried and weighed before and after the test to determine the emissions catch and this value is multiplied by the ratio of tunnel flow to filter flow to determine the total particulate emissions produced in the test cycle.

4.2 Efficiency. The efficiency test procedure takes advantage of the fact that this type of appliance delivers heat through circulation of the heated liquid (water) from the appliance to a remote heat exchanger and back to the appliance. Measurements of the water temperature difference as it enters and exits the heat exchanger along with the measured flow rate allow for an accurate determination of the useful heat output of the appliance. The input is determined by weight of the test fuel charge, adjusted for moisture content, multiplied by the higher heating value. Additional measurements of the appliance weight and temperature at the beginning and end of a test cycle are used to correct for heat stored in the appliance. Overall efficiency (SLM) is determined using the CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17) stack loss method for data quality assurance purposes.

4.3 Operation. Appliance operation is conducted on a hot-to-hot test cycle meaning that the appliance is brought to operating temperature and a coal bed is established prior to the addition of the test fuel charge and measurements are made for each test fuel charge cycle. The measurements are made under constant heat draw conditions within predetermined ranges. No attempt is made to modulate the heat demand to simulate an indoor thermostat cycling on and off in response to changes in the indoor environment. Four test categories are used. These are:

4.3.1 Category I: A heat output of 15 percent or less of manufacturer's rated heat output capacity.

4.3.2 Category II: A heat output of 16 percent to 24 percent of manufacturer's rated heat output capacity.

4.3.3 Category III: A heat output of 25 percent to 50 percent of manufacturer's rated heat output capacity.

4.3.4 Category IV: Manufacturer's rated heat output capacity.

5.1 The measurement of particulate matter emission rates is an important test method widely used in the practice of air pollution control.

5.1.1 These measurements, when approved by state or federal agencies, are often required for the purpose of determining compliance with regulations and statutes.

5.1.2 The measurements made before and after design modifications are necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of design changes in reducing emissions and make this standard an important tool in manufacturers' research and development programs.

5.2 Measurement of heating efficiency provides a uniform basis for comparison of product performance that is useful to the consumer. It is also required to relate emissions produced to the useful heat production.

5.3 This is a laboratory method and is not intended to be fully representative of all actual field use. It is recognized that users of hand-fired, wood-burning equipment have a great deal of influence over the performance of any wood-burning appliance. Some compromises in realism have been made in the interest of providing a reliable and repeatable test method.

6.1 Scale. A platform scale capable of weighing the appliance under test and associated parts and accessories when completely filled with water to an accuracy of +/-1.0 pound (+/-0.5 kg).

6.2 Heat Exchanger. A water-to-water heat exchanger capable of dissipating the expected heat output from the system under test.

6.3 Water Temperature Difference Measurement. A Type-T 'special limits' thermopile with a minimum of 5 pairs of junctions shall be used to measure the temperature difference in water entering and leaving the heat exchanger. The temperature difference measurement uncertainty of this type of thermopile is equal to or less than +/-0.50 &#xB0;F (+/-0.25 &#xB0;C). Other temperature measurement methods may be used if the temperature difference measurement uncertainty is equal to or less than +/-0.50 &#xB0;F (+/-0.25 &#xB0;C).

6.4 Water Flow Meter. A water flow meter shall be installed in the inlet to the load side of the heat exchanger. The flow meter shall have an accuracy of +/-1 percent of measured flow.

6.4.1 Optional-Appliance Side Water Flow Meter. A water flow meter with an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the flow rate is recommended to monitor supply side water flow rate.

6.5 Optional Recirculation Pump. Circulating pump used during test to prevent stratification of liquid being heated.

6.6 Water Temperature Measurement-Thermocouples or other temperature sensors to measure the water temperature at the inlet and outlet of the load side of the heat exchanger. Must meet the calibration requirements specified in section 10.1.

6.7 Wood Moisture Meter-Calibrated electrical resistance meter capable of measuring test fuel moisture to within 1 percent moisture content. Must meet the calibration requirements specified in section 10.4.

6.8 Flue Gas Temperature Measurement-Must meet the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clause 6.2.2.

6.9 Test Room Temperature Measurement-Must meet the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clause 6.2.1.

6.10 Flue Gas Composition Measurement-Must meet the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clauses 6.3.1 through 6.3.3.

7.1 These tests involve combustion of wood fuel and substantial release of heat and products of combustion. The heating system also produces large quantities of very hot water and the potential for steam production and system pressurization. Appropriate precautions must be taken to protect personnel from burn hazards and respiration of products of combustion.

8.1 Test specimens shall be supplied as complete appliances including all controls and accessories necessary for installation in the test facility. A full set of specifications and design and assembly drawings shall be provided when the product is to be placed under certification of a third-party agency. The manufacturer's written installation and operating instructions are to be used as a guide in the set-up and testing of the appliance.

9.1 The appliance is to be placed on a scale capable of weighing the appliance fully loaded with a resolution of +/-1.0 lb (0.5 kg).

9.2 The appliance shall be fitted with the type of chimney recommended or provided by the manufacturer and extending to 15 +/-0.5 feet (4.6 +/-0.15 m) from the upper surface of the scale. If no flue or chimney system is recommended or provided by the manufacturer, connect the appliance to a flue of a diameter equal to the flue outlet of the appliance. The flue section from the appliance flue collar to 8 +/-0.5 feet above the scale shall be single wall stove pipe and the remainder of the flue shall be double wall insulated class A chimney.

9.3 Optional Equipment Use

9.3.1 A recirculation pump may be installed between connections at the top and bottom of the appliance to minimize thermal stratification if specified by the manufacturer. The pump shall not be installed in such a way as to change or affect the flow rate between the appliance and the heat exchanger.

9.3.2 If the manufacturer specifies that a thermal control valve or other device be installed and set to control the return water temperature to a specific set point, the valve or other device shall be installed and set per the manufacturer's written instructions.

9.4 Prior to filling the tank, weigh and record the appliance mass.

9.5 Heat Exchanger

9.5.1 Plumb the unit to a water-to-water heat exchanger with sufficient capacity to draw off heat at the maximum rate anticipated. Route hoses, electrical cables, and instrument wires in a manner that does not influence the weighing accuracy of the scale as indicated by placing dead weights on the platform and verifying the scale's accuracy.

9.5.2 Locate thermocouples to measure the water temperature at the inlet and outlet of the load side of the heat exchanger.

9.5.3 Install a thermopile meeting the requirements of section 6.3 to measure the water temperature difference between the inlet and outlet of the load side of the heat exchanger.

9.5.4 Install a calibrated water flow meter in the heat exchanger load side supply line. The water flow meter is to be installed on the cooling water inlet side of the heat exchanger so that it will operate at the temperature at which it is calibrated.

9.5.5 Place the heat exchanger in a box with 2 in. (50 mm) of expanded polystyrene (EPS) foam insulation surrounding it to minimize heat losses from the heat exchanger.

9.5.6 The reported efficiency and heat output rate shall be based on measurements made on the load side of the heat exchanger.

9.5.7 Temperature instrumentation per section 6.6 shall be installed in the appliance outlet and return lines. The average of the outlet and return water temperature on the supply side of the system shall be considered the average appliance temperature for calculation of heat storage in the appliance (TFand TI). Installation of a water flow meter in the supply side of the system is optional.

9.6 Fill the system with water. Determine the total weight of the water in the appliance when the water is circulating. Verify that the scale indicates a stable weight under operating conditions. Make sure air is purged properly.

10.1 Water Temperature Sensors. Temperature measuring equipment shall be calibrated before initial use and at least semi-annually thereafter. Calibrations shall be in compliance with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Monograph 175, Standard Limits of Error.

10.2 Heat Exchanger Load Side Water Flow Meter.

10.2.1 The heat exchanger load side water flow meter shall be calibrated within the flow range used for the test run using NIST traceable methods. Verify the calibration of the water flow meter before and after each test run and at least once during each test run by comparing the water flow rate indicated by the flow meter to the mass of water collected from the outlet of the heat exchanger over a timed interval. Volume of the collected water shall be determined based on the water density calculated from section 13, Eq. 8, using the water temperature measured at the flow meter. The uncertainty in the verification procedure used shall be 1 percent or less. The water flow rate determined by the collection and weighing method shall be within 1 percent of the flow rate indicated by the water flow meter.

10.3 Scales. The scales used to weigh the appliance and test fuel charge shall be calibrated using NIST traceable methods at least once every 6 months.

10.4 Moisture Meter. The moisture meter shall be calibrated per the manufacturer's instructions and checked before each use.

10.5 Flue Gas Analyzers-In accordance with CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clause 6.8.

11.1 Prior to testing, the appliance is to be operated for a minimum of 50 hours using a medium heat draw rate. The conditioning may be at the manufacturer's facility prior to the certification test. If the conditioning is at the certification test laboratory, the pre-burn for the first test can be included as part of the conditioning requirement. If conditioning is included in pre-burn, then the appliance shall be aged with fuel meeting the specifications outlined in sections 12.2 with a moisture content between 19 and 25 percent on a dry basis. Operate the appliance at a medium burn rate (Category II or III) for at least 10 hours for noncatalytic appliances and 50 hours for catalytic appliances. Record and report hourly flue gas exit temperature data and the hours of operation. The aging procedure shall be conducted and documented by a testing laboratory.

12.1 Appliance Installation. Assemble the appliance and parts in conformance with the manufacturer's written installation instructions. Clean the flue with an appropriately sized, wire chimney brush before each certification test series.
