
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Quercus ruba L.,Quercus alba

12.2 Fuel. Test fuel charge fuel shall be red () or white () oak 19 to 25 percent moisture content on a dry basis. Piece length shall be 80 percent of the firebox depth rounded down to the nearest 1 inch (25mm) increment. For example, if the firebox depth is 46 inches (1168mm) the 4 x 4 piece length would be 36 inches (46 inches x 0.8 = 36.8 inches rounded down to 36 inches). Pieces are to be placed in the firebox parallel to the longest firebox dimension. For fireboxes with sloped surfaces that create a non-uniform firebox length, the piece length shall be adjusted for each layer based on 80 percent of the length at the level where the layer is placed. Pieces are to be spacedinches (19 mm) apart on all faces. The first fuel layer may be assembled using fuel units consisting of multiple 4 x 4s consisting of single pieces with bottom and side spacers of 3 or more pieces if needed for a stable layer. The second layer may consist of fuel units consisting of no more than two pieces with spacers attached on the bottom and side. The top two layers of the fuel charge must consist of single pieces unless the fuel charge is only three layers. In that instance only the top layer must consist of single units. Three-quarter inch (19 mm) by 1.5 inch (38 mm) spacers shall be attached to the bottom of piece to maintain ainch (19 mm) separation. When a layer consists of two or more units of 4 x 4s an additionalinch (19 mm) thick by 1.5 inch (38 mm) wide spacer shall be attached to the vertical face of each end of one 4 x 4, such that theinch (19 mm) space will be maintained when two 4 x 4 units or pieces are loaded side by side. In cases where a layer contains an odd number of 4 x 4s one piece shall not be attached, but shall have spacers attached in a manner that will provide for theinch (19 mm) space to be maintained (See Figure 1). Spacers shall be attached perpendicular to the length of the 4 x 4s such that the edge of the spacer is 1 +/- 0.25 inch from the end of the 4 x 4s in the previous layers. Spacers shall be red or white oak and will be attached with either nails (non-galvanized), brads or oak dowels. The use of kiln-dried wood is not allowed.

12.2.1 Using a fuel moisture meter as specified in section 6.7 of the test method, determine the fuel moisture for each test fuel piece used for the test fuel load by averaging at least five fuel moisture meter readings measured parallel to the wood grain. Penetration of the moisture meter insulated electrodes for all readings shall bethe thickness of the fuel piece or 19 mm (in.), whichever is lesser. One measurement from each of three sides shall be made at approximately 3 inches from each end and the center. Two additional measurements shall be made centered between the other three locations. Each individual moisture content reading shall be in the range of 18 to 28 percent on a dry basis. The average moisture content of each piece of test fuel shall be in the range of 19 to 25 percent. It is not required to measure the moisture content of the spacers. Moisture shall not be added to previously dried fuel pieces except by storage under high humidity conditions and temperature up to 100 &#xB0;F. Fuel moisture shall be measured within 4 hours of using the fuel for a test.

12.2.2 Firebox Volume. Determine the firebox volume in cubic feet. Firebox volume shall include all areas accessible through the fuel loading door where firewood could reasonably be placed up to the horizontal plane defined by the top of the loading door. A drawing of the firebox showing front, side and plan views or an isometric view with interior dimensions shall be provided by the manufacturer and verified by the laboratory. Calculations for firebox volume from computer aided design (CAD) software programs are acceptable and shall be included in the test report if used. If the firebox volume is calculated by the laboratory the firebox drawings and calculations shall be included in the test report.

12.2.3 Test Fuel Charge. Test fuel charges shall be determined by multiplying the firebox volume by 10 pounds (4.54 kg) per ft(28L), or a higher load density as recommended by the manufacturer's printed operating instructions, of wood (as used wet weight). Select the number of pieces of standard fuel that most nearly match this target weight. This is the standard fuel charge for all tests. For example, if the firebox loading area volume is 10 ft(280L) and the firebox depth is 46 inches (1168 mm), test fuel charge target is 100 lbs (45 kg) minimum and the piece length is 36 inches (914 mm). If eight 4 x 4s, 36 inches long weigh 105 lbs (48 kg), use 8 pieces for each test fuel charge. All test fuel charges will be of the same configuration.
