
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### i.e.,

12.5.2 Test Fuel Charge Adjustment. It is acceptable to adjust the test fuel charge (reposition) once during a test run if more than 60 percent of the initial test fuel charge weight has been consumed and more than 10 minutes have elapsed without a measurable (1 lb or 0. 5 kg) weight change while the operating control is in the demand mode. The time used to make this adjustment shall be less than 60 seconds.

12.5.3 Test Run Completion. The test run is completed when the remaining weight of the test fuel charge is 0.0 lb (0.0 kg). End the test run when the scale has indicated a test fuel charge weight of 0.0 lb (0.0 kg) or less for 30 seconds.

12.5.3.1 At the end of the test run, stop the particulate sampling train and overall efficiency (SLM) measurements, and record the run time, and all final measurement values.

12.5.4 Heat Output Capacity Validation. The first test run must produce a heat output rate that is within 10 percent of the manufacturer's rated heat output capacity (Category IV) throughout the test run and an average heat output rate within 5 percent of the manufacturer's rated heat output capacity. If the appliance is not capable of producing a heat output within these limits, the manufacturer's rated heat output capacity is considered not validated and testing is to be terminated. In such cases, the tests may be restarted using a lower heat output capacity if requested by the manufacturer.

12.5.5 Additional Test Runs. Using the manufacturer's rated heat output capacity as a basis, conduct a test for additional heat output categories as specified in section 4.3. It is not required to run these tests in any particular order.

12.5.6 Alternative Heat Output Rate for Category I. If an appliance cannot be operated in the Category I heat output range due to stopped combustion, two test runs shall be conducted at heat output rates within Category II, provided that the completed test run burn rate is no greater than the burn rate expected in home use. If this rate cannot be achieved, the test is not valid.

When the alternative heat output rate is used, the weightings for the weighted averages indicated in Table 2 shall be the average of the Category I and II weightings and shall be applied to both Category II results. The two completed runs in Category II will be deemed to meet the requirement for runs completed in both Category I and Category II. Appliances that are not capable of operation within Category II (<25 percent of maximum) cannot be evaluated by this test method. The test report must include full documentation and discussion of the attempted runs, completed rums and calculations.

12.5.6.1 Stopped Fuel Combustion. Evidence that an appliance cannot be operated at a Category I heat output rate due to stopped fuel combustion shall include documentation of two or more attempts to operate the appliance in burn rate Category I and fuel combustion has stopped prior to complete consumption of the test fuel charge. Stopped fuel combustion is evidenced when an elapsed time of 60 minutes or more has occurred without a measurable (1 lb or 0.5 kg) weight change in the test fuel charge while the appliance operating control is in the demand mode. Report the evidence and the reasoning used to determine that a test in burn rate Category I cannot be achieved. For example, two unsuccessful attempts to operate at an output rate of 10 percent of the rated output capacity are not sufficient evidence that burn rate Category I cannot be achieved. Note that section 12.5.6 requires that the completed test run burn rate can be no greater than the burn rate expected in home use. If this rate cannot be achieved, the test is not valid.

12.5.7 Appliance Overheating. Appliances shall be capable of operating in all heat output categories without overheating to be rated by this test method. Appliance overheating occurs when the rate of heat withdrawal from the appliance is lower than the rate of heat production when the unit control is in the idle mode. This condition results in the water in the appliance continuing to increase in temperature well above the upper limit setting of the operating control. Evidence of overheating includes: 1 hour or more of appliance water temperature increase above the upper temperature set-point of the operating control, exceeding the temperature limit of a safety control device (independent from the operating control), boiling water in a non-pressurized system or activation of a pressure or temperature relief valve in a pressurized system.

12.6 Additional Test Runs. The testing laboratory may conduct more than one test run in each of the heat output categories specified in section 4.3.1. If more than one test run is conducted at a specified heat output rate, the results from at least two-thirds of the test runs in that heat output rate category shall be used in calculating the weighted average emission rate (See section 14.1.14). The measurement data and results of all test runs shall be reported regardless of which values are used in calculating the weighted average emission rate.

13.2 After the test is completed, determine the particulate emissions Ein accordance with ASTM E2515-11 (IBR, see ยง 60.17).



For determination of the average overall thermal efficiency (&#x3B7;) for the test run, use the data collected over the full test run and the calculations in accordance with CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see ยง 60.17), clause 13.7 except for 13.7.2 (e), (f), (g), and (h), use the following average fuel properties for oak: percent C = 50.0, percent H = 6.6, percent O = 43.2, percent ash = 0.2 percent. The averaging period for determination of efficiency by the stack loss method allows averaging over 10 minute time periods for flue gas temperature, flue gas CO, and flue gas CO for the determination of the efficiency. However, under some cycling conditions the "on" period may be short relative to this 10 minute period. For this reason, during cycling operation the averaging period for these parameters may not be longer than the burner on period divided by 10. The averaging period need not be shorter than one minute. During the off period, under cycling operation, the averaging periods specified may be used. Where short averaging times are used, however, the averaging period for fuel consumption may still be at 10 minutes. This average wood consumption rate shall be applied to all of the smaller time intervals included.

13.5.5.1 Whenever the CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see ยง 60.17) overall efficiency is found to be lower than the overall efficiency based on load side measurements, as determined by Eq. 16 of this method, section 14.1.7 of the test report must include a discussion of the reasons for this result.

13.6.1 Determine the weighted average emission rate and delivered efficiency from the individual tests in the specified heat output categories. The weighting factors (Fi) are derived from an analysis of ASHRAE bin data which provides details of normal building heating requirements in terms of percent of design capacity and time in a particular capacity range-or "bin"-over the course of a heating season. The values used in this method represent an average of data from several cities located in the northern United States.

13.7 Average Heat Output (Q) and Efficiency ((&#x3B7;) for 8 hour burn time.

13.7.1 Units tested under this standard typically require infrequent fuelling, 8 to 12 hours intervals being typical. Rating unit's based on an average output sustainable over an 8 hour duration will assist consumers in appropriately sizing units to match the theoretical heat demand of their application.

13.7.2 Calculations:

13.7.2.1 Determine the test durations and actual load for each category as recorded in Table 1A.

13.7.2.2 Determine the data point that has the nearest duration greater than 8 hrs.

13.7.2.3 Determine the data point that has the nearest duration less than 8 hours.

13.7.2.4 Example:

Category 2 duration is just above 8 hours, therefore: X1 = 26,000 Btu/hr, &#x3B7;= 75.5% and Y1 = 8.4 hrs

Category 3 duration is just below 8 hours, therefore: X2 = 50,000 Btu/hr, &#x3B7;= 80.1% and Y2 = 6.4 hrs

For each minute of the test period, the carbon monoxide emission rate shall be calculated as:

Total CO emissions for each of the three test periods (CO, CO, CO) shall be calculated as the sum of the emission rates for each of the 1 minute intervals.

Total CO emission for the test run, CO, shall be calculated as the sum of CO, CO, and CO.

14.1.1 The report shall include the following.

14.1.2 Name and location of the laboratory conducting the test.

14.1.3 A description of the appliance tested and its condition, date of receipt and dates of tests.

14.1.4 A statement that the test results apply only to the specific appliance tested.

14.1.5 A statement that the test report shall not be reproduced except in full, without the written approval of the laboratory.

14.1.6 A description of the test procedures and test equipment including a schematic or other drawing showing the location of all required test equipment. Also, a description of test fuel sourcing, handling and storage practices shall be included.

14.1.7 Details of deviations from, additions to or exclusions from the test method, and their data quality implications on the test results (if any), as well as information on specific test conditions, such as environmental conditions.

14.1.8 A list of participants and observers present for the tests.

14.1.9 Data and drawings indicating the fire box size and location of the fuel charge.

14.1.10 Drawings and calculations used to determine firebox volume.

14.1.11 Information for each test run fuel charge including piece size, moisture content, and weight.

14.1.12 All required data for each test run shall be provided in spreadsheet format. Formulae used for all calculations shall be accessible for review.

14.1.13 Test run duration for each test.

14.1.14 Calculated results for delivered efficiency at each burn rate and the weighted average emissions reported as total emissions in grams, pounds per mm Btu of delivered heat, grams per MJ of delivered heat, grams per kilogram of dry fuel and grams per hour. Results shall be reported for each heat output category and the weighted average.

14.1.15 Tables 1A, 1B, 1C and Table 2 must be used for presentation of results in test reports.

14.1.16 A statement of the estimated uncertainty of measurement of the emissions and efficiency test results.

14.1.17 Raw data, calibration records, and other relevant documentation shall be retained by the laboratory for a minimum of 7 years.

15.1 Precision-It is not possible to specify the precision of the procedure in Method 28WHH because the appliance operation and fueling protocols and the appliances themselves produce variable amounts of emissions and cannot be used to determine reproducibility or repeatability of this measurement method.

15.2 Bias-No definitive information can be presented on the bias of the procedure in Method 28WHH for measuring solid fuel burning hydronic heater emissions because no material having an accepted reference value is available.

16.1 Solid fuel, hydronic heating appliances, wood-burning hydronic heaters.

1.1 This test method applies to wood-fired hydronic heating appliances with heat storage external to the appliance. The units typically transfer heat through circulation of a liquid heat exchange media such as water or a water-antifreeze mixture. Throughout this document, the term "water" will be used to denote any of the heat transfer liquids approved for use by the manufacturer.

1.2 The test method measures PM and CO emissions and delivered heating efficiency at specified heat output rates referenced against the appliance's rated heating capacity as specified by the manufacturer and verified under this test method.

1.3 PM emissions are measured by the dilution tunnel method as specified in the EPA Method 28WHH and the standards referenced therein with the exceptions noted in section 12.5.9. Delivered efficiency is measured by determining the fuel energy input and appliance output. Heat output is determined through measurement of the flow rate and temperature change of water circulated through a heat exchanger external to the appliance and the increase in energy of the external storage. Heat input is determined from the mass of dry wood fuel and its higher heating value (HHV). Delivered efficiency does not attempt to account for pipeline loss.

1.4 Products covered by this test method include both pressurized and non-pressurized hydronic heating appliances intended to be fired with wood and for which the manufacturer specifies for indoor or outdoor installation. The system, which includes the heating appliance and external storage, is commonly connected to a heat exchanger by insulated pipes and normally includes a pump to circulate heated liquid. These systems are used to heat structures such as homes, barns and greenhouses. They also provide heat for domestic hot water, spas and swimming pools.

1.5 Distinguishing features of products covered by this standard include:

1.5.1 The manufacturer specifies the application for either indoor or outdoor installation.

1.5.2 A firebox with an access door for hand loading of fuel.

1.5.3 Typically an aquastat mounted as part of the appliance that controls combustion air supply to maintain the liquid in the appliance within a predetermined temperature range provided sufficient fuel is available in the firebox. The appliance may be equipped with other devices to control combustion.

1.5.4 A chimney or vent that exhausts combustion products from the appliance.

1.5.5 A liquid storage system, typically water, which is not large enough to accept all of the heat produced when a full load of wood is burned and the storage system starts a burn cycle at 125 &#xB0;F.

1.5.6 The heating appliances require external thermal storage and these units will only be installed as part of a system which includes thermal storage. The manufacturer specifies the minimum amount of thermal storage required. However, the storage system shall be large enough to ensure that the boiler (heater) does not cycle, slumber, or go into an off-mode when operated in a Category III load condition (See section 4.3).

1.6 The values stated are to be regarded as the standard whether in I-P or SI units. The values given in parentheses are for information only.

2.1 PM and CO emissions are measured from a wood-fired hydronic heating appliance burning a prepared test fuel charge in a test facility maintained at a set of prescribed conditions. Procedures for determining heat output rates, PM and CO emissions, and efficiency and for reducing data are provided.

2.2.1 EPA Standards

2.2.1.1 Method 28 Certification and Auditing of Wood Heaters

2.2.1.2 Method 28WHH Measurement of Particulate Emissions and Heating Efficiency of Wood-Fired Hydronic Heating Appliances and the Standards Referenced therein.

2.2.2 Other Standards
