
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Performance Testing of Solid-Fuel-Burning Heating Appliances

2.2.2.2 CSA-B415.1-10(IBR, see ยง 60.17).

3.1 Definitions.

3.1.1 Hydronic Heating-A heating system in which a heat source supplies energy to a liquid heat exchange media such as water that is circulated to a heating load and returned to the heat source through pipes.

3.1.2 Aquastat-A control device that opens or closes a circuit to control the rate of fuel consumption in response to the temperature of the heating media in the heating appliance.

3.1.3 Delivered Efficiency-The percentage of heat available in a test fuel charge that is delivered to a simulated heating load as specified in this test method.

3.1.4 Manufacturer's Rated Heat Output Capacity-The value in Btu/hr (MJ/hr) that the manufacturer specifies that a particular model of hydronic heating appliance is capable of supplying at its design capacity as verified by testing, in accordance with Section 13.

3.1.5 Burn Rate-The rate at which test fuel is consumed in an appliance. Measured in pounds (lbs) or kilograms of wood (dry basis) per hour (lb/hr or kg/hr).

3.1.6 Firebox-The chamber in the appliance in which the test fuel charge is placed and combusted.

3.1.7 Test Fuel Charge-The collection of test fuel layers placed in the appliance at the start of the emission test run.

3.1.8 Test Fuel Layer-Horizontal arrangement of test fuel units.

3.1.9 Test Fuel Unit-One or more test fuel pieces withinch (19 mm) spacers attached to the bottom and to one side. If composed of multiple test fuel pieces, the bottom spacer may be one continuous piece.

3.1.10 Test Fuel Piece-A single 4 x 4 (4 +/-0.25 inches by 4 +/-0.25 inches) [100 +/-6 mm by 100 +/-6 mm] white or red oak wood piece cut to the length required.

3.1.11 Test Run-An individual emission test that encompasses the time required to consume the mass of the test fuel charge.

3.1.12 Overall Efficiency (SLM)-The efficiency for each test run as determined using the CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see ยง 60.17) stack loss method.

3.1.13 Thermopile-A device consisting of a number of thermocouples connected in series, used for measuring differential temperature.
