
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Performance Testing of Solid-Fuel-Burning Heating Appliances

2.2.2.1 CSA-B415.1-10

3.1.1 Hydronic Heating-A heating system in which a heat source supplies energy to a liquid heat exchange media such as water that is circulated to a heating load and returned to the heat source through pipes.

3.1.2 Aquastat-A control device that opens or closes a circuit to control the rate of fuel consumption in response to the temperature of the heating media in the heating appliance.

3.1.3 Delivered Efficiency-The percentage of heat available in a test fuel charge that is delivered to a simulated heating load or the storage system as specified in this test method.

3.1.4 Emission Factor-The emission of a pollutant expressed in mass per unit of energy (typically) output from the boiler/heater.

3.1.5 Emission Index-The emission of a pollutant expressed in mass per unit mass of fuel used.

3.1.6 Emission Rate-The emission of a pollutant expressed in mass per unit time

3.1.7 Manufacturer's Rated Heat Output Capacity-The value in Btu/hr (MJ/hr) that the manufacturer specifies that a particular model of hydronic heating appliance is capable of supplying at its design capacity as verified by testing, in accordance with section 12.5.4.

3.1.8 Heat Output Rate-The average rate of energy output from the appliance during a specific test period in Btu/hr (MJ/hr).

3.1.9 Firebox-The chamber in the appliance in which the test fuel charge is placed and combusted.

3.1.10 NIST-National Institute of Standards and Technology.

3.1.11 Test Fuel Charge-The collection of test fuel placed in the appliance at the start of the emission test run.

3.1.12 Test Run-An individual emission test which encompasses the time required to consume the mass of the test fuel charge. The time of the test run also considers the time for the energy to be drawn from the thermal storage.

3.1.13 Test Run Under "Cold-to-Cold" Condition-Under this test condition the test fuel is added into an empty chamber along with kindling and ignition materials (paper). The boiler/heater at the start of this test is typically 125&#xB0; to 130 &#xB0;F.

3.1.14 Test Run Under "Hot-to-Hot" Condition-Under this test condition the test fuel is added onto a still-burning bed of charcoals produced in a pre-burn period. The boiler/heater water is near its operating control limit at the start of the test.

3.1.15 Overall Efficiency, also known as Stack Loss Efficiency-The efficiency for each test run as determined using the CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see ยง 60.17) stack loss method (SLM).

3.1.16 Phases of a Burn Cycle-The "startup phase" is defined as the period from the start of the test until 15 percent of the test fuel charge is consumed. The "steady-state phase" is defined as the period from the end of the startup phase to a point at which 80 percent of the test fuel charge is consumed. The "end phase" is defined as the time from the end of the steady-state period to the end of the test.

3.1.17 Thermopile-A device consisting of a number of thermocouples connected in series, used for measuring differential temperature.

3.1.18 Slumber Mode-This is a mode in which the temperature of the water in the boiler/heater has exceeded the operating control limit and the control has changed the boiler/heater fan speed, dampers, and/or other operating parameters to minimize the heat output of the boiler/heater.

4.1 Dilution Tunnel. Emissions are determined using the "dilution tunnel" method specified in EPA Method 28WHH and the standards referenced therein. The flow rate in the dilution tunnel is maintained at a constant level throughout the test cycle and accurately measured. Samples of the dilution tunnel flow stream are extracted at a constant flow rate and drawn through high efficiency filters. The filters are dried and weighed before and after the test to determine the emissions collected and this value is multiplied by the ratio of tunnel flow to filter flow to determine the total particulate emissions produced in the test cycle.
