
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Standard Test Method for Determination of Particulate Matter Emissions Collected in a Dilution Tunnel

12.3 Sampling Equipment. Prepare the particulate emission sampling equipment as defined by ASTM E2515-11(IBR, see § 60.17). Upon request, four-inch filters may be used. Upon request, Teflon membrane filters or Teflon-coated glass fiber filters may be used.

12.4 Appliance Startup. The appliance shall be fired with wood fuel of any species, size and moisture content at the laboratories' discretion to bring it up to operating temperature. Operate the appliance until the water is heated to the upper operating control limit and has cycled at least two times. Then remove all unburned fuel, zero the scale and verify the scales accuracy using dead weights.

12.4.1 Pretest Burn Cycle. Reload appliance with oak wood and allow it to burn down to the specified coal bed weight. The pretest burn cycle fuel charge weight shall be within +/-10 percent of the test fuel charge weight. Piece size and length shall be selected such that charcoalization is achieved by the time the fuel charge has burned down to the required coal bed weight. Pieces with a maximum thickness of approximately 2 inches have been found to be suitable. Charcoalization is a general condition of the test fuel bed evidenced by an absence of large pieces of burning wood in the coal bed and the remaining fuel pieces being brittle enough to be broken into smaller charcoal pieces with a metal poker. Manipulations to the fuel bed prior to the start of the test run are to be done to achieve charcoalization while maintaining the desired heat output rate. During the pre-test burn cycle and at least one hour prior to starting the test run, adjust water flow to the heat exchanger to establish the target heat draw for the test. For the first test run the heat draw rate shall be equal to the manufacturer's rated heat output capacity.

12.4.1.1 Allowable Adjustments. Fuel addition or subtractions, and coal bed raking shall be kept to a minimum but are allowed up to 15 minutes prior to the start of the test run. For the purposes of this method, coal bed raking is the use of a metal tool (poker) to stir coals, break burning fuel into smaller pieces, dislodge fuel pieces from positions of poor combustion, and check for the condition of charcoalization. Record all adjustments to and additions or subtractions of fuel, and any other changes to the appliance operations that occur during pretest ignition period. During the 15-minute period prior to the start of the test run, the wood heater loading door shall not be open more than a total of 1 minute. Coal bed raking is the only adjustment allowed during this period.

12.4.2 Coal Bed Weight. The appliance is to be loaded with the test fuel charge when the coal bed weight is between 10 percent and 20 percent of the test fuel charge weight. Coals may be raked as necessary to level the coal bed but may only be raked and stirred once between 15 to 20 minutes prior to the addition of the test fuel charge.

12.5 Test Runs. For all test runs, the return water temperature to the hydronic heater must be equal to or greater than 120 &#xB0;F. Aquastat or other heater output control device settings that are adjustable shall be set using manufacturer specifications, either as factory set or in accordance with the owner's manual, and shall remain the same for all burn categories.

Complete a test run in each heat output rate category, as follows:

12.5.1 Test Run Start. Once the appliance is operating normally and the pretest coal bed weight has reached the target value per section 12.4.2, tare the scale and load the full test charge into the appliance. Time for loading shall not exceed 5 minutes. The actual weight of the test fuel charge shall be measured and recorded within 30 minutes prior to loading. Start all sampling systems.

12.5.1.1 Record all water temperatures, differential water temperatures and water flow rates at time intervals of one minute or less.

12.5.1.2 Record particulate emissions data per the requirements of ASTM E2515 (IBR, see § 60.17).

12.5.1.3 Record data needed to determine overall efficiency (SLM) per the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clauses 6.2.1, 6.2.2, 6.3, 8.5.7, 10.4.3 (a), 10.4.3(f), and 13.7.9.3

12.5.1.3.1 Measure and record the test room air temperature in accordance with the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clauses 6.2.1, 8.5.7 and 10.4.3 (g).

12.5.1.3.2 Measure and record the flue gas temperature in accordance with the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clauses 6.2.2, 8.5.7 and 10.4.3 (f).

12.5.1.3.3 Determine and record the carbon monoxide (CO) and carbon dioxide (CO) concentrations in the flue gas in accordance with CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clauses 6.3, 8.5.7 and 10.4.3 (i) and (j).

12.5.1.3.4 Measure and record the test fuel weight per the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clauses 8.5.7 and 10.4.3 (h).

12.5.1.3.5 Record the test run time per the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clauses 10.4.3 (a).

12.5.1.4 Monitor the average heat output rate on the load side of the heat exchanger. If the heat output rate gets close to the upper or lower limit of the target range (+/-5 percent) adjust the water flow through the heat exchanger to compensate. Make changes as infrequently as possible while maintaining the target heat output rate. The first test run shall be conducted at the Category IV heat output rate to validate that the appliance is capable of producing the manufacturer's rated heat output capacity.
