
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Standard Test Method for Determination of Particulate Matter Emissions Collected in a Dilution Tunnel

1.3 Particulate emissions are measured by the dilution tunnel method as specified in ASTM E2515-11(IBR, see ยง 60.17). Upon request, four-inch filters may be used. Upon request, Teflon membrane filters or Teflon-coated glass fiber filters may be used. Delivered efficiency is measured by determining the heat output through measurement of the flow rate and temperature change of water circulated through a heat exchanger external to the appliance and determining the input from the mass of dry wood fuel and its higher heating value. Delivered efficiency does not attempt to account for pipeline loss.

1.4 Products covered by this test method include both pressurized and non-pressurized heating appliances intended to be fired with wood. These products are wood-fired hydronic heating appliances that the manufacturer specifies for indoor or outdoor installation. They are often connected to a heat exchanger by insulated pipes and normally include a pump to circulate heated liquid. They are used to heat structures such as homes, barns and greenhouses and can heat domestic hot water, spas or swimming pools.

1.5 Distinguishing features of products covered by this standard include:

1.5.1 Manufacturer specifies for indoor or outdoor installation.

1.5.2 A firebox with an access door for hand loading of fuel.

1.5.3 Typically, an aquastat that controls combustion air supply to maintain the liquid in the appliance within a predetermined temperature range provided sufficient fuel is available in the firebox.

1.5.4 A chimney or vent that exhausts combustion products from the appliance.

1.6 The values stated are to be regarded as the standard whether in I-P or SI units. The values given in parentheses are for information only.

2.1 Particulate matter emissions are measured from a wood-fired hydronic heating appliance burning a prepared test fuel crib in a test facility maintained at a set of prescribed conditions. Procedures for determining burn rates, and particulate emissions rates and for reducing data are provided.

2.2 Referenced Documents

2.2.1 EPA Standards

2.2.1.1 Method 28 Certification and Auditing of Wood Heaters

2.2.2 Other Standards
