
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.

4.2 Efficiency. The efficiency test procedure takes advantage of the fact that this type of system delivers heat through circulation of the heated liquid (water) from the system to a remote heat exchanger (baseboard radiators in a room) and back to the system. Measurements of the cooling water temperature difference as it enters and exits the test system heat exchanger along with the measured flow rate allow for an accurate determination of the useful heat output of the appliance. Also included in the heat output is the change in the energy content in the storage system during a test run. Energy input to the appliance during the test run is determined by weight of the test fuel charge, adjusted for moisture content, multiplied by the higher heating value. Additional measurements of the appliance weight and temperature at the beginning and end of a test cycle are used to correct for heat stored in the appliance. Overall efficiency (SLM) is determined using the CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17) stack loss method for data quality assurance purposes.

4.3 Operation. Four test categories are defined for use in this method. These are:

4.3.1 Category I: A heat output of 15 percent or less of manufacturer's rated heat output capacity.

4.3.2 Category II: A heat output of 16 percent to 24 percent of manufacturer's rated heat output capacity.

4.3.3 Category III: A heat output of 25 percent to 50 percent of manufacturer's rated heat output capacity.

4.3.4 Category IV: Manufacturer's Rated Heat Output Capacity. These heat output categories refer to the output from the system by way of the load heat exchanger installed for the test. The output from just the boiler/heater part of the system may be higher for all or part of a test, as part of this boiler/heater output goes to storage.

For the Category III and IV runs, appliance operation is conducted on a hot-to-hot test cycle meaning that the appliance is brought to operating temperature and a coal bed is established prior to the addition of the test fuel charge and measurements are made for each test fuel charge cycle. The measurements are made under constant heat draw conditions within pre-determined ranges. No attempt is made to modulate the heat demand to simulate an indoor thermostat cycling on and off in response to changes in the indoor environment.

For the Category I and II runs, the unit is tested with a "cold start." At the manufacturer's option, the Category II and III runs may be waived and it may be assumed that the particulate emission values and efficiency values determined in the startup, steady-state, and end phases of Category I are applicable in Categories II and III for the purpose of determining the annual averages in lb/mmBtu and g/MJ (See section 13). For the annual average in g/hr, the length of time for stored heat to be drawn from thermal storage shall be determined for the test load requirements of the respective category.

All test operations and measurements shall be conducted by personnel of the laboratory responsible for the submission of the test report.

5.1 The measurement of particulate matter emission and CO rates is an important test method widely used in the practice of air pollution control.

5.1.1 These measurements, when approved by state or federal agencies, are often required for the purpose of determining compliance with regulations and statutes.

5.1.2 The measurements made before and after design modifications are necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of design changes in reducing emissions and make this standard an important tool in manufacturers' research and development programs.

5.2 Measurement of heating efficiency provides a uniform basis for comparison of product performance that is useful to the consumer. It is also required to relate emissions produced to the useful heat production.

5.3 This is a laboratory method and is not intended to be fully representative of all actual field use. It is recognized that users of hand-fired, wood-burning equipment have a great deal of influence over the performance of any wood-burning appliance. Some compromises in realism have been made in the interest of providing a reliable and repeatable test method.

6.1 Scale. A platform scale capable of weighing the boiler/heater under test and associated parts and accessories when completely filled with water to an accuracy of +/-1.0 pound (+/-0.5 kg) and a readout resolution of +/-0.2 pound (+/-0.1 kg).

6.2 Heat Exchanger. A water-to-water heat exchanger capable of dissipating the expected heat output from the system under test.

6.3 Water Temperature Difference Measurement. A Type-T 'special limits' thermopile with a minimum of 5 pairs of junctions shall be used to measure the temperature difference in water entering and leaving the heat exchanger. The temperature difference measurement uncertainty of this type of thermopile is equal to or less than +/-0.50 &#xB0;F (+/-0.25 &#xB0;C). Other temperature measurement methods may be used if the temperature difference measurement uncertainty is equal to or less than +/-0.50 &#xB0;F (+/-0.25 &#xB0;C). This measurement uncertainty shall include the temperature sensor, sensor well arrangement, piping arrangements, lead wire, and measurement/recording system. The response time of the temperature measurement system shall be less than half of the time interval at which temperature measurements are recorded.

6.4 Water Flow Meter. A water flow meter shall be installed in the inlet to the load side of the heat exchanger. The flow meter shall have an accuracy of +/-1 percent of measured flow.

6.4.1 Optional-Appliance Side Water Flow Meter. A water flow meter with an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the flow rate is recommended to monitor supply side water flow rate.

6.5 Optional Recirculation Pump. Circulating pump used during test to prevent stratification, in the boiler/heater, of liquid being heated.

6.6 Water Temperature Measurement. Thermocouples or other temperature sensors to measure the water temperature at the inlet and outlet of the load side of the heat exchanger must meet the calibration requirements specified in 10.1 of this method.

6.7 Lab Scale. For measuring the moisture content of wood slices as part of the overall wood moisture determination. Accuracy of +/-0.01 pounds.

6.8 Flue Gas Temperature Measurement. Must meet the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clause 6.2.2.

6.9 Test Room Temperature Measurement. Must meet the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clause 6.2.1.

6.10 Flue Gas Composition Measurement. Must meet the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clauses 6.3.1 through 6.3.3.

6.11 Dilution Tunnel CO Measurement. In parallel with the flue gas composition measurements, the CO concentration in the dilution tunnel shall also be measured and reported at time intervals not to exceed one minute. This analyzer shall meet the zero and span drift requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17). In addition the measurement repeatability shall be better than +/-15 ppm over the range of CO levels observed in the dilution tunnel.

7.1 These tests involve combustion of wood fuel and substantial release of heat and products of combustion. The heating system also produces large quantities of very hot water and the potential for steam production and system pressurization. Appropriate precautions must be taken to protect personnel from burn hazards and respiration of products of combustion.

8.1 Test specimens shall be supplied as complete appliances, as described in marketing materials, including all controls and accessories necessary for installation in the test facility. A full set of specifications, installation and operating instructions, and design and assembly drawings shall be provided when the product is to be placed under certification of a third-party agency. The manufacturer's written installation and operating instructions are to be used as a guide in the set-up and testing of the appliance and shall be part of the test record.

8.2 The size, connection arrangement, and control arrangement for the thermal storage shall be as specified in the manufacturer's documentation. It is not necessary to use the specific storage system that the boiler/heater will be marketed with. However, the capacity of the system used in the test cannot be greater than that specified as the minimum allowable for the boiler/heater.

8.3 All system control settings shall be the as-shipped, default settings. These default settings shall be the same as those communicated in a document to the installer or end user. These control settings and the documentation of the control settings as to be provided to the installer or end user shall be part of the test record.

8.4 Where the manufacturer defines several alternatives for the connection and loading arrangement, one shall be defined in the appliance documentation as the default or standard installation. It is expected that this will be the configuration for use with a simple baseboard heating system. This is the configuration to be followed for these tests. The manufacturer's documentation shall define the other arrangements as optional or alternative arrangements.

9.1 The appliance is to be placed on a scale capable of weighing the appliance fully loaded with a resolution of +/-0.2 lb (0.1 kg).

9.2 The appliance shall be fitted with the type of chimney recommended or provided by the manufacturer and extending to 15 +/-0.5 feet (4.6 +/-0.15 m) from the upper surface of the scale. If no flue or chimney system is recommended or provided by the manufacturer, connect the appliance to a flue of a diameter equal to the flue outlet of the appliance. The flue section from the appliance flue collar to 8 +/-0.5 feet above the scale shall be single wall stove pipe and the remainder of the flue shall be double wall insulated class A chimney.

9.3 Optional Equipment Use

9.3.1 A recirculation pump may be installed between connections at the top and bottom of the appliance to minimize thermal stratification if specified by the manufacturer. The pump shall not be installed in such a way as to change or affect the flow rate between the appliance and the heat exchanger.

9.3.2 If the manufacturer specifies that a thermal control valve or other device be installed and set to control the return water temperature to a specific set point, the valve or other device shall be installed and set per the manufacturer's written instructions.

9.4 Prior to filling the boiler/heater with water, weigh and record the appliance mass.

9.5 Heat Exchanger

9.5.1 Plumb the unit to a water-to-water heat exchanger with sufficient capacity to draw off heat at the maximum rate anticipated. Route hoses and electrical cables and instrument wires in a manner that does not influence the weighing accuracy of the scale as indicated by placing dead weights on the platform and verifying the scale's accuracy.

9.5.2 Locate thermocouples to measure the water temperature at the inlet and outlet of the load side of the heat exchanger.

9.5.3 Install a thermopile (or equivalent instrumentation) meeting the requirements of section 6.3 to measure the water temperature difference between the inlet and outlet of the load side of the heat exchanger

9.5.4 Install a calibrated water flow meter in the heat exchanger load side supply line. The water flow meter is to be installed on the cooling water inlet side of the heat exchanger so that it will operate at the temperature at which it is calibrated.

9.5.5 Place the heat exchanger in a box with 2 in. (50 mm) of expanded polystyrene (EPS) foam insulation surrounding it to minimize heat losses from the heat exchanger.

9.5.6 The reported efficiency and heat output rate shall be based on measurements made on the load side of the heat exchanger.
