
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Standard Test Method for Determination of Particulate Matter Emissions Collected in a Dilution Tunnel

1.3 Particulate emissions are measured by the dilution tunnel method as specified in ASTM E2515-11(IBR, see ยง 60.17). Upon request, four-inch filters may be used. Upon request, Teflon membrane filters or Teflon-coated glass fiber filters may be used.

2.1 This method incorporates the provisions of ASTM E2780-10 (IBR, see ยง 60.17) except as follows:

2.1.1 The burn rate categories, low burn rate requirement, and weightings in Method 28 shall be used.

2.1.2 The startup procedures shall be the same as in Method 28.

2.1.3 Manufacturers shall not specify a smaller volume of the firebox for testing than the full usable firebox.

2.1.4 Prior to testing, the heater must be operated for a minimum of 50 hours using a medium burn rate. The conditioning may be at the manufacturer's facility prior to the certification test. If the conditioning is at the certification test laboratory, the pre-burn for the first test can be included as part of the conditioning requirement.

2.2 Manufacturers may use ASTM E871-82 (reapproved 2013) (IBR, see ยง 60.17) as an alternative to the procedures in Method 5H or Method 28 for determining total weight basis moisture in the analysis sample of particulate wood fuel.

1.1 This test method applies to wood-fired hydronic heating appliances. The units typically transfer heat through circulation of a liquid heat exchange media such as water or a water-antifreeze mixture.

1.2 The test method measures particulate emissions and delivered heating efficiency at specified heat output rates based on the appliance's rated heating capacity.
