
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### i.e.,

12.4.2.2 Firebox Condition at Test Start. Prior to the start of this test remove all ash and charcoal from the combustion chamber(s). The loading of the test fuel and kindling should follow the manufacturer's recommendations, subject to the following constraints: Up to 10 percent kindling and paper may be used which is in addition to the fuel load. Further, up to 10 percent of the fuel load (included in the 10 lb/ft) may be smaller than the main fuel. This startup fuel shall still be larger than 2 inches.

12.4.2.3 Storage. The Category I and II test runs shall be done with thermal storage. The initial temperature of the storage must be 125 &#xB0;F or greater at the start of the test. The storage may be heated during the pre-test burn cycle or it may be heated by external means. Prior to the start of the test run, the storage tank destratification pump, shown in Figure 1, shall be operated until the total volume pumped exceeds 1.5 times the tank volume and the difference between the temperature at the top and bottom of the storage tank (TSand TS) is less than 1 &#xB0;F. These two temperatures shall then be recorded to determine the starting average tank temperature. The total volume pumped may be based on the nominal flow rate of the destratification pump (See section 9.6).

12.5 Test Runs. For all test runs, the return water temperature to the hydronic heater must be equal to or greater than 120 &#xB0;F (this is lower than the initial tank temperature to allow for any pipeline losses). Where the storage system is used, flow of water from the boiler/heater shall be divided between the storage tank and the heat exchanger such that the temperature change of the circulating water across the heat exchanger shall be 30 +/-5 &#xB0;F, averaged over the entire test run. This is typically adjusted using the system valves.

Complete a test run in each heat output rate category, as follows:

12.5.1 Test Run Start. For Category III and IV runs: Once the appliance is operating normally and the pretest coal bed weight has reached the target value per section 12.4.1, tare the scale and load the full test charge into the appliance. Time for loading shall not exceed 5 minutes. The actual weight of the test fuel charge shall be measured and recorded within 30 minutes prior to loading. Start all sampling systems.

For Category I and II runs: Once the appliance has reached the starting temperature, tare the scale and load the full test charge, including kindling into the appliance. The actual weight of the test fuel charge shall be measured and recorded within 30 minutes prior to loading. Light the fire following the manufacturer's written normal startup procedure. Start all sampling systems.

12.5.1.1 Record all water temperatures, differential water temperatures and water flow rates at time intervals of one minute or less.

12.5.1.2 Record particulate emissions data per the requirements of EPA Method 28WHH and the standards referenced therein.

12.5.1.3 Record data needed to determine overall efficiency (SLM) per the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17) clauses 6.2.1, 6.2.2, 6.3, 8.5.7, 10.4.3(a), 10.4.3(f), and 13.7.9.3

12.5.1.3.1 Measure and record the test room air temperature in accordance with the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clauses 6.2.1, 8.5.7 and 10.4.3(g).

12.5.1.3.2 Measure and record the flue gas temperature in accordance with the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clauses 6.2.2, 8.5.7 and 10.4.3(f).

12.5.1.3.3 Determine and record the carbon monoxide (CO) and carbon dioxide (CO) concentrations in the flue gas in accordance with CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clauses 6.3, 8.5.7 and 10.4.3(i) and (j).

12.5.1.3.4 Measure and record the test fuel weight per the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clauses 8.5.7 and 10.4.3(h).

12.5.1.3.5 Record the test run time per the requirements of CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clause 10.4.3(a).

12.5.1.3.6 Record and document all settings and adjustments, if any, made to the boiler/heater as recommended/required by manufacturer's instruction manual for different combustion conditions or heat loads. These may include temperature setpoints, under and over-fire air adjustment, or other adjustments that could be made by an operator to optimize or alter combustion. All such settings shall be included in the report for each test run.

12.5.1.4 Monitor the average heat output rate on the load side of the heat exchanger based on water temperatures and flow. If the heat output rate over a 10 minute averaging period gets close to the upper or lower limit of the target range (+/-5 percent), adjust the water flow through the heat exchanger to compensate. Make changes as infrequently as possible while maintaining the target heat output rate. The first test run shall be conducted at the Category IV heat output rate to validate that the appliance is capable of producing the manufacturer's rated heat output capacity.
