
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### W,W

(a) The remaining weight of the test fuel charge is less than 1 percent of the total test fuel weight (> 0.99 &#xB7;);

(b) The automatic control system on the boiler/heater switches to an off mode. In this case, the boiler/heater fan (if used) is typically stopped and all air flow dampers are closed by the control system. Note that this off mode cannot be an "overheat" or emergency shutdown which typically requires a manual reset; or

(c) If the boiler/heater does not have an automatic off mode: After 90 percent of the fuel load has been consumed and the scale has indicated a rate of change of the test fuel charge of less than 1.0 lb/hr for a period of 10 minutes or longer. Note-this is not considered "stopped fuel combustion," See section 12.5.6.1.

12.5.3.1 At the end of the test run, stop the particulate sampling train and overall efficiency (SLM) measurements, and record the run time, and all final measurement values.

12.5.3.2 At the end of the test run, continue to operate the storage tank destratification pump until the total volume pumped exceeds 1.5 times the tank volume. The maximum average of the top and bottom temperatures measured after this time may be taken as the average tank temperature at the end of the tests (TFSavg, See section 13.1). The total volume pumped may be based on the nominal flow rate of the destratification pump (See section 9.6).

12.5.3.3 For the Category I and II test runs, there is a need to determine the energy content of the unburned fuel remaining in the chamber if the remaining mass in the chamber is greater than 1 percent of the test fuel weight. Following the completion of the test, as soon as safely practical, this remaining fuel is removed from the chamber, separated from the remaining ash and weighed. This separation could be implemented with a slotted "scoop" or similar tool. Ainch opening size in the separation tool shall be used to separate the ash and charcoal. This separated char is assigned a heating value of 12,500 Btu/lb.

12.5.4 Heat Output Capacity Validation. The first test run must produce a heat output rate that is within 10 percent of the manufacturer's rated heat output capacity (Category IV) throughout the test run and an average heat output rate within 5 percent of the manufacturer's rated heat output capacity. If the appliance is not capable of producing a heat output within these limits, the manufacturer's rated heat output capacity is considered not validated and testing is to be terminated. In such cases, the tests may be restarted using a lower heat output capacity if requested by the manufacturer. Alternatively, during the Category IV run, if the rated output cannot be maintained for a 15 minute interval, the manufacturer may elect to reduce the rated output to match the test and complete the Category IV run on this basis. The target outputs for Categories I, II, and III shall then be recalculated based on this change in rated output capacity.

12.5.5 Additional Test Runs. Using the manufacturer's rated heat output capacity as a basis, conduct a test for additional heat output categories as specified in section 4.3. It is not required to run these tests in any particular order.

12.5.6 Alternative Heat Output Rate for Category I. If an appliance cannot be operated in the Category I heat output range due to stopped combustion, two test runs shall be conducted at heat output rates within Category II. When this is the case, the weightings for the weighted averages indicated in section 14.1.15 shall be the average of the Category I and II weighting's and shall be applied to both Category II results. Appliances that are not capable of operation within Category II (<25 percent of maximum) cannot be evaluated by this test method.

12.5.6.1 Stopped Fuel Combustion. Evidence that an appliance cannot be operated at a Category I heat output rate due to stopped fuel combustion shall include documentation of two or more attempts to operate the appliance in heat output rate Category I and fuel combustion has stopped prior to complete consumption of the test fuel charge. Stopped fuel combustion is evidenced when an elapsed time of 60 minutes or more has occurred without a measurable (1 lb or 0.5 kg) weight change in the test fuel charge while the appliance operating control is in the demand mode. Report the evidence and the reasoning used to determine that a test in heat output rate Category I cannot be achieved. For example, two unsuccessful attempts to operate at an output rate of 10 percent of the rated output capacity are not sufficient evidence that heat output rate Category I cannot be achieved.

12.5.7 Appliance Overheating. Appliances with their associated thermal storage shall be capable of operating in all heat output categories without overheating to be rated by this test method. Appliance overheating occurs when the rate of heat withdrawal from the appliance is lower than the rate of heat production when the unit control is in the idle mode. This condition results in the water in the appliance continuing to increase in temperature well above the upper limit setting of the operating control. Evidence of overheating includes: 1 hour or more of appliance water temperature increase above the upper temperature set-point of the operating control, exceeding the temperature limit of a safety control device (independent from the operating control-typically requires manual reset), boiling water in a non-pressurized system or activation of a pressure or temperature relief valve in a pressurized system.

12.5.8 Option to Eliminate Tests in Category II and III. Following successful completion of a test run in Category I, the manufacturer may eliminate the Category II and III tests. For the purpose of calculating the annual averages for particulates and efficiency, the values obtained in the Category I run shall be assumed to apply also to Category II and Category III. It is envisioned that this option would be applicable to systems which have sufficient thermal storage such that the fuel load in the Category I test can be completely consumed without the system reaching its upper operating temperature limit. In this case, the boiler/heater would likely be operating at maximum thermal output during the entire test and this output rate may be higher than the manufacturer's rated heat output capacity. The Category II and III runs would then be the same as the Category I run. It may be assumed that the particulate emission values and efficiency values determined in the startup, steady-state, and end phases of Category I are applicable in Categories II and III, for the purpose of determining the annual averages in lb/mmBtu and g/MJ (See section 13). For the annual average in g/hr, the length of time for stored heat to be drawn from thermal storage shall be determined for the test load requirements of the respective category.

12.5.9 Modification to Measurement Procedure in EPA Method 28WHH to Determine Emissions Separately During the Startup, Steady-State and End Phases. With one of the two particulate sampling trains used, filter changes shall be made at the end of the startup phase and the steady-state phase (See section 3.0). This shall be done to determine the particulate emission rate and particulate emission index for the startup, steady-state, and end phases individually. For this one train, the particulates measured during each of these three phases shall be added together to also determine the particulate emissions for the whole run.

12.5.10 Modification to Measurement Procedure in EPA Method 28WHH and the Standards Referenced therein on Averaging Period for Determination of Efficiency by the Stack Loss Method. The methods currently defined in Method 28WHH allow averaging over 10-minute time periods for flue gas temperature, flue gas CO, and flue gas CO for the determination of the efficiency with the stack loss method. However, under some cycling conditions the "on" period may be short relative to this 10-minute period. For this reason, during cycling operation the averaging period for these parameters may not be longer than the burner on period divided by 10. The averaging period need not be shorter than one minute. During the off period, under cycling operation, averaging periods as specified in EPA Method 28WHH and the standards referenced therein, may be used. Where short averaging times are used, however, the averaging period for fuel consumption may still be at 10 minutes. This average wood consumption rate shall be applied to all of the smaller time intervals included.

12.6 Additional Test Runs. The testing laboratory may conduct more than one test run in each of the heat output categories specified in section 4.3. If more than one test run is conducted at a specified heat output rate, the results from at least two-thirds of the test runs in that heat output rate category shall be used in calculating the weighted average emission rate. The measurement data and results of all test runs shall be reported regardless of which values are used in calculating the weighted average emission rate.

13.2 After the test is completed, determine the particulate emissions Ein accordance with EPA Method 28WHH and the standards referenced therein.

13.3 Determination of the weight of fuel that has been burned at an arbitrary time.

For the purpose of tracking the consumption of the test fuel load during a test run the following may be used to calculate the weight of fuel that burned since the start of the test:

13.5.1 Correction to Qfor the Category I and II tests, where there is greater than 1 percent of the test fuel charge in the chamber at the end of the test period.

13.6 Determine Heat Output, Efficiency, and Emissions.

13.6.1 Determine heat output as:

Q= Σ [Heat output determined for each sampling time interval] + Change in heat stored in the appliance + Change in heat in storage tank.

13.6.2 Determine Heat Output Rate Over Burn Period (Θ+ Θ+ Θ) as:

13.6.3 Determine Emission Rates and Emission Factors as:

If thermal storage is not used in a Category III or IV run, then Θ= 0.

E= E/(W/(1 + MC/100)), g/dry kg.

E= E/(W/(1 + MC/100)), g/dry kg.

E= E/(W/(1 + MC/100)), g/dry kg.

E= E/Θ, g/hr.

E= E/Θ, g/hr.

E= E/Θ, g/hr.

13.6.4 Determine delivered efficiency as:

13.6.5 Determine &#x3B7;-Overall Efficiency, also known as Stack Loss Efficiency, using stack loss method (SLM).

For determination of the average overall thermal efficiency (&#x3B7;) for the test run, use the data collected over the full test run and the calculations in accordance with CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17), clause 13.7 except for 13.7.2(e), (f), (g), and (h), use the following average fuel properties for oak: %C = 50.0, %H = 6.6, %O = 43.2, %Ash = 0.2.

13.6.5.1 Whenever the CSA B415.1-10 (IBR, see § 60.17) overall efficiency is found to be lower than the overall efficiency based on load side measurements, as determined by Eq. 22 of this method, section 14.1.7 of the test report must include a discussion of the reasons for this result. For a test where the CSA B415.1-10 overall efficiency SLM is less than 2 percentage points lower than the overall efficiency based on load side measurements, the efficiency based on load side measurements shall be considered invalid. [Note on the rationale for the 2 percentage points limit. The SLM method does not include boiler/heater jacket losses and, for this reason, should provide an efficiency which is actually higher than the efficiency based on the energy input and output measurements or "delivered efficiency." A delivered efficiency that is higher than the efficiency based on the SLM could be considered suspect. A delivered efficiency greater than 2 percentage points higher than the efficiency based on the SLM, then, clearly indicates a measurement error.]

13.6.6 Carbon Monoxide Emissions

For each minute of the test period, the carbon monoxide emission rate shall be calculated as:

Total CO emissions for each of the three test periods (CO, CO, CO) shall be calculated as the sum of the emission rates for each of the 1-minute intervals. Total CO emission for the test run, CO, shall be calculated as the sum of CO, CO, and CO.

13.7 Weighted Average Emissions and Efficiency.

13.7.1 Determine the weighted average emission rate and delivered efficiency from the individual tests in the specified heat output categories. The weighting factors (F) are derived from an analysis of ASHRAE bin data which provides details of normal building heating requirements in terms of percent of design capacity and time in a particular capacity range-or "bin"-over the course of a heating season. The values used in this method represent an average of data from several cities located in the northern United States.

If, as discussed in section 12.5.8, the option to eliminate tests in Category II and III is elected, the values of efficiency and particulate emission rate as measured in Category I, shall be assigned also to Category II and III for the purpose of determining the annual averages.

14.1.1 The report shall include the following:

14.1.2 Name and location of the laboratory conducting the test.

14.1.3 A description of the appliance tested and its condition, date of receipt and dates of tests.

14.1.4 A description of the minimum amount of external thermal storage that is required for use with this system. This shall be specified both in terms of volume in gallons and stored energy content in Btu with a storage temperature ranging from 125 &#xB0;F to the manufacturer's specified setpoint temperature.

14.1.5 A statement that the test results apply only to the specific appliance tested.

14.1.6 A statement that the test report shall not be reproduced except in full, without the written approval of the laboratory.

14.1.7 A description of the test procedures and test equipment including a schematic or other drawing showing the location of all required test equipment. Also, a description of test fuel sourcing, handling and storage practices shall be included.

14.1.8 Details of deviations from, additions to or exclusions from the test method, and their data quality implications on the test results (if any), as well as information on specific test conditions, such as environmental conditions.

14.1.9 A list of participants and their roles and observers present for the tests.

14.1.10 Data and drawings indicating the fire box size and location of the fuel charge.

14.1.11 Drawings and calculations used to determine firebox volume.

14.1.12 Information for each test run fuel charge including piece size, moisture content and weight.

14.1.13 All required data and applicable blanks for each test run shall be provided in spreadsheet format both in the printed report and in a computer file such that the data can be easily analyzed and calculations easily verified. Formulas used for all calculations shall be accessible for review.

14.1.14 For each test run, Θ,Θ, Θ, the total CO and particulate emission for each of these three periods, and Θ.

14.1.15 Calculated results for delivered efficiency at each heat output rate and the weighted average emissions reported as total emissions in grams, pounds per mm Btu of delivered heat, grams per MJ of delivered heat, grams per kilogram of dry fuel and grams per hour. Results shall be reported for each heat output category and the weighted average.

14.1.16 Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 1D, 1E and Table 2 must be used for presentation of results in test reports.

14.1.17 A statement of the estimated uncertainty of measurement of the emissions and efficiency test results.

14.1.18 A plot of CO emission rate in grams/minute vs. time, based on 1 minute averages, for the entire test period, for each run.

14.1.19 A plot of estimated boiler/heater energy release rate in Btu/hr based on 10 minute averages, for the entire test period, for each run. This will be calculated from the fuel used, the wood heating value and moisture content, and the SLM efficiency during each 10 minute period.

14.1.20 Raw data, calibration records, and other relevant documentation shall be retained by the laboratory for a minimum of 7 years.

15.1 Precision-It is not possible to specify the precision of the procedure in this test method because the appliance operation and fueling protocols and the appliances themselves produce variable amounts of emissions and cannot be used to determine reproducibility or repeatability of this test method.

15.2 Bias-No definitive information can be presented on the bias of the procedure in this test method for measuring solid fuel burning hydronic heater emissions because no material having an accepted reference value is available.

16.1 Solid fuel, hydronic heating appliances, wood-burning hydronic heaters, partial thermal storage.

















1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable to the determination of metals emissions from stationary sources. This method may be used to determine particulate emissions in addition to the metals emissions if the prescribed procedures and precautions are followed.

1.2.1 Hg emissions can be measured, alternatively, using EPA Method 101A of Appendix B, 40 CFR Part 61. Method 101-A measures only Hg but it can be of special interest to sources which need to measure both Hg and Mn emissions.

2.1 Principle. A stack sample is withdrawn isokinetically from the source, particulate emissions are collected in the probe and on a heated filter, and gaseous emissions are then collected in an aqueous acidic solution of hydrogen peroxide (analyzed for all metals including Hg) and an aqueous acidic solution of potassium permanganate (analyzed only for Hg). The recovered samples are digested, and appropriate fractions are analyzed for Hg by cold vapor atomic absorption spectroscopy (CVAAS) and for Sb, As, Ba, Be, Cd, Cr, Co, Cu, Pb, Mn, Ni, P, Se, Ag, Tl, and Zn by inductively coupled argon plasma emission spectroscopy (ICAP) or atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS). Graphite furnace atomic absorption spectroscopy (GFAAS) is used for analysis of Sb, As, Cd, Co, Pb, Se, and Tl if these elements require greater analytical sensitivity than can be obtained by ICAP. If one so chooses, AAS may be used for analysis of all listed metals if the resulting in-stack method detection limits meet the goal of the testing program. Similarly, inductively coupled plasma-mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS) may be used for analysis of Sb, As, Ba, Be, Cd, Cr, Co, Cu, Pb, Mn, Ni, Ag, Tl and Zn.

4.1 Iron (Fe) can be a spectral interference during the analysis of As, Cr, and Cd by ICAP. Aluminum (Al) can be a spectral interference during the analysis of As and Pb by ICAP. Generally, these interferences can be reduced by diluting the analytical sample, but such dilution raises the in-stack detection limits. Background and overlap corrections may be used to adjust for spectral interferences. Refer to Method 6010 of Reference 2 in section 16.0 or the other analytical methods used for details on potential interferences to this method. For all GFAAS analyses, use matrix modifiers to limit interferences, and matrix match all standards.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burn as thermal burn.

5.2.1 Nitric Acid (HNO). Highly corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs. Vapors cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Reaction to inhalation may be delayed as long as 30 hours and still be fatal. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Strong oxidizer. Hazardous reaction may occur with organic materials such as solvents.

5.2.2 Sulfuric Acid (HSO). Rapidly destructive to body tissue. Will cause third degree burns. Eye damage may result in blindness. Inhalation may be fatal from spasm of the larynx, usually within 30 minutes. May cause lung tissue damage with edema. 1 mg/mfor 8 hours will cause lung damage or, in higher concentrations, death. Provide ventilation to limit inhalation. Reacts violently with metals and organics.

5.2.3 Hydrochloric Acid (HC1). Highly corrosive liquid with toxic vapors. Vapors are highly irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs, causing severe damage. May cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Exposure to concentrations of 0.13 to 0.2 percent can be lethal to humans in a few minutes. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Reacts with metals, producing hydrogen gas.

5.2.4 Hydrofluoric Acid (HF). Highly corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, throat, and lungs. Reaction to exposure may be delayed by 24 hours or more. Provide ventilation to limit exposure.

5.2.5 Hydrogen Peroxide (HO). Irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs. 30% HOis a strong oxidizing agent. Avoid contact with skin, eyes, and combustible material. Wear gloves when handling.

5.2.6 Potassium Permanganate (KMnO). Caustic, strong oxidizer. Avoid bodily contact with.

5.2.7 Potassium Persulfate. Strong oxidizer. Avoid bodily contact with. Keep containers well closed and in a cool place.

5.3 Reaction Pressure. Due to the potential reaction of the potassium permanganate with the acid, there could be pressure buildup in the acidic KMnOabsorbing solution storage bottle. Therefore these bottles shall not be fully filled and shall be vented to relieve excess pressure and prevent explosion potentials. Venting is required, but not in a manner that will allow contamination of the solution. A No. 70-72 hole drilled in the container cap and Teflon liner has been used.

6.1 Sampling. A schematic of the sampling train is shown in Figure 29-1. It has general similarities to the Method 5 train.

6.1.1 Probe Nozzle (Probe Tip) and Borosilicate or Quartz Glass Probe Liner. Same as Method 5, sections 6.1.1.1 and 6.1.1.2, except that glass nozzles are required unless alternate tips are constructed of materials that are free from contamination and will not interfere with the sample. If a probe tip other than glass is used, no correction to the sample test results to compensate for the nozzle's effect on the sample is allowed. Probe fittings of plastic such as Teflon, polypropylene, etc. are recommended instead of metal fittings to prevent contamination. If one chooses to do so, a single glass piece consisting of a combined probe tip and probe liner may be used.

6.1.2 Pitot Tube and Differential Pressure Gauge. Same as Method 2, sections 6.1 and 6.2, respectively.

6.1.3 Filter Holder. Glass, same as Method 5, section 6.1.1.5, except use a Teflon filter support or other non-metallic, non-contaminating support in place of the glass frit.

6.1.4 Filter Heating System. Same as Method 5, section 6.1.1.6.

6.1.5 Condenser. Use the following system for condensing and collecting gaseous metals and determining the moisture content of the stack gas. The condensing system shall consist of four to seven impingers connected in series with leak-free ground glass fittings or other leak-free, non-contaminating fittings. Use the first impinger as a moisture trap. The second impinger (which is the first HNO/HOimpinger) shall be identical to the first impinger in Method 5. The third impinger (which is the second HNO/HOimpinger) shall be a Greenburg Smith impinger with the standard tip as described for the second impinger in Method 5, section 6.1.1.8. The fourth (empty) impinger and the fifth and sixth (both acidified KMnO) impingers are the same as the first impinger in Method 5. Place a temperature sensor capable of measuring to within 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F) at the outlet of the last impinger. If no Hg analysis is planned, then the fourth, fifth, and sixth impingers are not used.

6.1.6 Metering System, Barometer, and Gas Density Determination Equipment. Same as Method 5, sections 6.1.1.9, 6.1.2, and 6.1.3, respectively.

6.1.7 Teflon Tape. For capping openings and sealing connections, if necessary, on the sampling train.

6.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, sections 6.2.1 through 6.2.8 (Probe-Liner and Probe-Nozzle Brushes or Swabs, Wash Bottles, Sample Storage Containers, Petri Dishes, Glass Graduated Cylinder, Plastic Storage Containers, Funnel and Rubber Policeman, and Glass Funnel), respectively, with the following exceptions and additions:

6.2.1 Non-metallic Probe-Liner and Probe-Nozzle Brushes or Swabs. Use non-metallic probe-liner and probe-nozzle brushes or swabs for quantitative recovery of materials collected in the front-half of the sampling train.

6.2.2 Sample Storage Containers. Use glass bottles (see section 8.1 of this Method) with Teflon-lined caps that are non-reactive to the oxidizing solutions, with capacities of 1000- and 500-ml, for storage of acidified KMnO-containing samples and blanks. Glass or polyethylene bottles may be used for other sample types.

6.2.3 Graduated Cylinder. Glass or equivalent.

6.2.4 Funnel. Glass or equivalent.

6.2.5 Labels. For identifying samples.

6.2.6 Polypropylene Tweezers and/or Plastic Gloves. For recovery of the filter from the sampling train filter holder.

6.3 Sample Preparation and Analysis.

6.3.1 Volumetric Flasks, 100-ml, 250-ml, and 1000-ml. For preparation of standards and sample dilutions.

6.3.2 Graduated Cylinders. For preparation of reagents.

6.3.3 Parr Bombs or Microwave Pressure Relief Vessels with Capping Station (CEM Corporation model or equivalent). For sample digestion.

6.3.4 Beakers and Watch Glasses. 250-ml beakers, with watch glass covers, for sample digestion.

6.3.5 Ring Stands and Clamps. For securing equipment such as filtration apparatus.

6.3.6 Filter Funnels. For holding filter paper.

6.3.7 Disposable Pasteur Pipets and Bulbs.

6.3.8 Volumetric Pipets.

6.3.9 Analytical Balance. Accurate to within 0.1 mg.

6.3.10 Microwave or Conventional Oven. For heating samples at fixed power levels or temperatures, respectively.

6.3.11 Hot Plates.

6.3.12 Atomic Absorption Spectrometer (AAS). Equipped with a background corrector.

6.3.12.1 Graphite Furnace Attachment. With Sb, As, Cd, Co, Pb, Se, and Tl hollow cathode lamps (HCLs) or electrodeless discharge lamps (EDLs). Same as Reference 2 in section 16.0. Methods 7041 (Sb), 7060 (As), 7131 (Cd), 7201 (Co), 7421 (Pb), 7740 (Se), and 7841 (Tl).

6.3.12.2 Cold Vapor Mercury Attachment. With a mercury HCL or EDL, an air recirculation pump, a quartz cell, an aerator apparatus, and a heat lamp or desiccator tube. The heat lamp shall be capable of raising the temperature at the quartz cell by 10 &#xB0;C above ambient, so that no condensation forms on the wall of the quartz cell. Same as Method 7470 in Reference 2 in section 16.0. See note 2: section 11.1.3 for other acceptable approaches for analysis of Hg in which analytical detection limits of 0.002 ng/ml were obtained.

6.3.13 Inductively Coupled Argon Plasma Spectrometer. With either a direct or sequential reader and an alumina torch. Same as EPA Method 6010 in Reference 2 in section 16.0.

6.3.14 Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometer.

Same as EPA Method 6020 in Reference 2 in section 16.0.

7.1 Unless otherwise indicated, it is intended that all reagents conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available. Otherwise, use the best available grade.

7.2 Sampling Reagents.

7.2.1 Sample Filters. Without organic binders. The filters shall contain less than 1.3 µg/in.of each of the metals to be measured. Analytical results provided by filter manufacturers stating metals content of the filters are acceptable. However, if no such results are available, analyze filter blanks for each target metal prior to emission testing. Quartz fiber filters meeting these requirements are recommended. However, if glass fiber filters become available which meet these requirements, they may be used. Filter efficiencies and unreactiveness to sulfur dioxide (SO) or sulfur trioxide (SO) shall be as described in section 7.1.1 of Method 5.

7.2.2 Water. To conform to ASTM Specification D1193-77 or 91, Type II (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17). If necessary, analyze the water for all target metals prior to field use. All target metals should be less than 1 ng/ml.

7.2.3 HNO, Concentrated. Baker Instra-analyzed or equivalent.

7.2.4 HCl, Concentrated. Baker Instra-analyzed or equivalent.

7.2.5 HO, 30 Percent (V/V).

7.2.6 KMnO.

7.2.7 HSO, Concentrated.

7.2.8 Silica Gel and Crushed Ice. Same as Method 5, sections 7.1.2 and 7.1.4, respectively.

7.3 Pretest Preparation of Sampling Reagents.

7.3.1 HNO/HOAbsorbing Solution, 5 Percent HNO/10 Percent HO. Add carefully with stirring 50 ml of concentrated HNOto a 1000-ml volumetric flask containing approximately 500 ml of water, and then add carefully with stirring 333 ml of 30 percent HO. Dilute to volume with water. Mix well. This reagent shall contain less than 2 ng/ml of each target metal.

7.3.2 Acidic KMnOAbsorbing Solution, 4 Percent KMnO(W/V), 10 Percent HSO(V/V). Prepare fresh daily. Mix carefully, with stirring, 100 ml of concentrated HSOinto approximately 800 ml of water, and add water with stirring to make a volume of 1 liter: this solution is 10 percent HSO(V/V). Dissolve, with stirring, 40 g of KMnOinto 10 percent HSO(V/V) and add 10 percent HSO(V/V) with stirring to make a volume of 1 liter. Prepare and store in glass bottles to prevent degradation. This reagent shall contain less than 2 ng/ml of Hg.
