
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### both permanganate impingers combined.

8.2.9.3 Wash the two permanganate impingers with 25 ml of 8 N HCl, and place the wash in a separate sample container labeled No. 5C containing 200 ml of water. First, place 200 ml of water in the container. Then wash the impinger walls and stem with the 8 N HCl by turning the impinger on its side and rotating it so that the HCl contacts all inside surfaces. Use a total of only 25 ml of 8 N HCl for rinsingRinse the first impinger, then pour the actual rinse used for the first impinger into the second impinger for its rinse. Finally, pour the 25 ml of 8 N HCl rinse carefully into the container with the 200 ml of water. Mark the height of the fluid level on the outside of the container in order to determine if leakage occurs during transport.

8.2.10 Container No. 6 (Silica Gel). Note the color of the indicating silica gel to determine whether it has been completely spent and make a notation of its condition. Transfer the silica gel from its impinger to its original container and seal it. The tester may use a funnel to pour the silica gel and a rubber policeman to remove the silica gel from the impinger. The small amount of particles that might adhere to the impinger wall need not be removed. Do not use water or other liquids to transfer the silica gel since weight gained in the silica gel impinger is used for moisture calculations. Alternatively, if a balance is available in the field, record the weight of the spent silica gel (or silica gel plus impinger) to the nearest 0.5 g.

8.2.11 Container No. 7 (Acetone Blank). If particulate emissions are to be determined, at least once during each field test, place a 100-ml portion of the acetone used in the sample recovery process into a container labeled No. 7. Seal the container.

8.2.12 Container No. 8A (0.1 N HNOBlank). At least once during each field test, place 300 ml of the 0.1 N HNOsolution used in the sample recovery process into a container labeled No. 8A. Seal the container.

8.2.13 Container No. 8B (Water Blank). At least once during each field test, place 100 ml of the water used in the sample recovery process into a container labeled No. 8B. Seal the container.

8.2.14 Container No. 9 (5 Percent HNO/10 Percent HOBlank). At least once during each field test, place 200 ml of the 5 Percent HNO/10 Percent HOsolution used as the nitric acid impinger reagent into a container labeled No. 9. Seal the container.
