
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Precaution:

To prevent autocatalytic decomposition of the permanganate solution, filter the solution through Whatman 541 filter paper.

7.3.3 HNO, 0.1 N. Add with stirring 6.3 ml of concentrated HNO(70 percent) to a flask containing approximately 900 ml of water. Dilute to 1000 ml with water. Mix well. This reagent shall contain less than 2 ng/ml of each target metal.

7.3.4 HCl, 8 N. Carefully add with stirring 690 ml of concentrated HCl to a flask containing 250 ml of water. Dilute to 1000 ml with water. Mix well. This reagent shall contain less than 2 ng/ml of Hg.

7.4 Glassware Cleaning Reagents.

7.4.1 HNO, Concentrated. Fisher ACS grade or equivalent.

7.4.2 Water. To conform to ASTM Specifications D1193, Type II.

7.4.3 HNO, 10 Percent (V/V). Add with stirring 500 ml of concentrated HNOto a flask containing approximately 4000 ml of water. Dilute to 5000 ml with water. Mix well. This reagent shall contain less than 2 ng/ml of each target metal.

7.5 Sample Digestion and Analysis Reagents. The metals standards, except Hg, may also be made from solid chemicals as described in Reference 3 in section 16.0. Refer to References 1, 2, or 5 in section 16.0 for additional information on Hg standards. The 1000 µg/ml Hg stock solution standard may be made according to section 7.2.7 of Method 101A.

7.5.1 HCl, Concentrated.

7.5.2 HF, Concentrated.

7.5.3 HNO, Concentrated. Baker Instra-analyzed or equivalent.

7.5.4 HNO, 50 Percent (V/V). Add with stirring 125 ml of concentrated HNOto 100 ml of water. Dilute to 250 ml with water. Mix well. This reagent shall contain less than 2 ng/ml of each target metal.

7.5.5 HNO, 5 Percent (V/V). Add with stirring 50 ml of concentrated HNOto 800 ml of water. Dilute to 1000 ml with water. Mix well. This reagent shall contain less than 2 ng/ml of each target metal.

7.5.6 Water. To conform to ASTM Specifications D1193, Type II.

7.5.7 Hydroxylamine Hydrochloride and Sodium Chloride Solution. See Reference 2 In section 16.0 for preparation.

7.5.8 Stannous Chloride. See Reference 2 in section 16.0 for preparation.

7.5.9 KMnO, 5 Percent (W/V). See Reference 2 in section 16.0 for preparation.

7.5.10 HSO, Concentrated.

7.5.11 Potassium Persulfate, 5 Percent (W/V). See Reference 2 in section 16.0 for preparation.

7.5.12 Nickel Nitrate, Ni(N0)6H0.

7.5.13 Lanthanum Oxide, La0.

7.5.14 Hg Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.15 Pb Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.16 As Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.17 Cd Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.18 Cr Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.19 Sb Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.20 Ba Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.21 Be Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.22 Co Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.23 Cu Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.24 Mn Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.25 Ni Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.26 P Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.27 Se Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.28 Ag Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.29 Tl Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.30 Zn Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.31 Al Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.32 Fe Standard (AAS Grade), 1000 µg/ml.

7.5.33 Hg Standards and Quality Control Samples. Prepare fresh weekly a 10 µg/ml intermediate Hg standard by adding 5 ml of 1000 µg/ml Hg stock solution prepared according to Method 101A to a 500-ml volumetric flask; dilute with stirring to 500 ml by first carefully adding 20 ml of 15 percent HNOand then adding water to the 500-ml volume. Mix well. Prepare a 200 ng/ml working Hg standard solution fresh daily: add 5 ml of the 10 µg/ml intermediate standard to a 250-ml volumetric flask, and dilute to 250 ml with 5 ml of 4 percent KMnO, 5 ml of 15 percent HNO, and then water. Mix well. Use at least five separate aliquots of the working Hg standard solution and a blank to prepare the standard curve. These aliquots and blank shall contain 0.0, 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, and 5.0 ml of the working standard solution containing 0, 200, 400, 600, 800, and 1000 ng Hg, respectively. Prepare quality control samples by making a separate 10 µg/ml standard and diluting until in the calibration range.

7.5.34 ICAP Standards and Quality Control Samples. Calibration standards for ICAP analysis can be combined into four different mixed standard solutions as follows:

Prepare these standards by combining and diluting the appropriate volumes of the 1000 µg/ml solutions with 5 percent HNO. A minimum of one standard and a blank can be used to form each calibration curve. However, prepare a separate quality control sample spiked with known amounts of the target metals in quantities in the mid-range of the calibration curve. Suggested standard levels are 25 µg/ml for Al, Cr and Pb, 15 µg/ml for Fe, and 10 µg/ml for the remaining elements. Prepare any standards containing less than 1 µg/ml of metal on a daily basis. Standards containing greater than 1 µg/ml of metal should be stable for a minimum of 1 to 2 weeks. For ICP-MS, follow Method 6020 in EPA Publication SW-846 Third Edition (November 1986) including updates I, II, IIA, IIB and III, as incorporated by reference in § 60.17(i).

7.5.35 GFAAS Standards. Sb, As, Cd, Co, Pb, Se, and Tl. Prepare a 10 µg/ml standard by adding 1 ml of 1000 µg/ml standard to a 100-ml volumetric flask. Dilute with stirring to 100 ml with 10 percent HNO. For GFAAS, matrix match the standards. Prepare a 100 ng/ml standard by adding 1 ml of the 10 µg/ml standard to a 100-ml volumetric flask, and dilute to 100 ml with the appropriate matrix solution. Prepare other standards by diluting the 100 ng/ml standards. Use at least five standards to make up the standard curve. Suggested levels are 0, 10, 50, 75, and 100 ng/ml. Prepare quality control samples by making a separate 10 µg/ml standard and diluting until it is in the range of the samples. Prepare any standards containing less than 1 µg/ml of metal on a daily basis. Standards containing greater than 1 µg/ml of metal should be stable for a minimum of 1 to 2 weeks.

7.5.36 Matrix Modifiers.

7.5.36.1 Nickel Nitrate, 1 Percent (V/V). Dissolve 4.956 g of Ni(N0)&#xB7;6H0 or other nickel compound suitable for preparation of this matrix modifier in approximately 50 ml of water in a 100-ml volumetric flask. Dilute to 100 ml with water.

7.5.36.2 Nickel Nitrate, 0.1 Percent (V/V). Dilute 10 ml of 1 percent nickel nitrate solution to 100 ml with water. Inject an equal amount of sample and this modifier into the graphite furnace during GFAAS analysis for As.

7.5.36.3 Lanthanum. Carefully dissolve 0.5864 g of La0in 10 ml of concentrated HN0, and dilute the solution by adding it with stirring to approximately 50 ml of water. Dilute to 100 ml with water, and mix well. Inject an equal amount of sample and this modifier into the graphite furnace during GFAAS analysis for Pb.

7.5.37 Whatman 40 and 541 Filter Papers (or equivalent). For filtration of digested samples.

8.1 Sampling. The complexity of this method is such that, to obtain reliable results, both testers and analysts must be trained and experienced with the test procedures, including source sampling; reagent preparation and handling; sample handling; safety equipment and procedures; analytical calculations; reporting; and the specific procedural descriptions throughout this method.

8.1.1 Pretest Preparation. Follow the same general procedure given in Method 5, section 8.1, except that, unless particulate emissions are to be determined, the filter need not be desiccated or weighed. First, rinse all sampling train glassware with hot tap water and then wash in hot soapy water. Next, rinse glassware three times with tap water, followed by three additional rinses with water. Then soak all glassware in a 10 percent (V/V) nitric acid solution for a minimum of 4 hours, rinse three times with water, rinse a final time with acetone, and allow to air dry. Cover all glassware openings where contamination can occur until the sampling train is assembled for sampling.

8.1.2 Preliminary Determinations. Same as Method 5, section 8.1.2.

8.1.3 Preparation of Sampling Train.

8.1.3.1 Set up the sampling train as shown in Figure 29-1. Follow the same general procedures given in Method 5, section 8.3, except place 100 ml of the HNO/HOsolution (Section 7.3.1 of this method) in each of the second and third impingers as shown in Figure 29-1. Place 100 ml of the acidic KMnOabsorbing solution (Section 7.3.2 of this method) in each of the fifth and sixth impingers as shown in Figure 29-1, and transfer approximately 200 to 300 g of pre-weighed silica gel from its container to the last impinger. Alternatively, the silica gel may be weighed directly in the impinger just prior to final train assembly.

8.1.3.2 Based on the specific source sampling conditions, the use of an empty first impinger can be eliminated if the moisture to be collected in the impingers will be less than approximately 100 ml.

8.1.3.3 If Hg analysis will not be performed, the fourth, fifth, and sixth impingers as shown in Figure 29-1 are not required.

8.1.3.4 To insure leak-free sampling train connections and to prevent possible sample contamination problems, use Teflon tape or other non-contaminating material instead of silicone grease.
