
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Precaution:

Exercise extreme care to prevent contamination within the train. Prevent the acidic KMnOfrom contacting any glassware that contains sample material to be analyzed for Mn. Prevent acidic HOfrom mixing with the acidic KMnO.

8.1.4 Leak-Check Procedures. Follow the leak-check procedures given in Method 5, section 8.4.2 (Pretest Leak-Check), section 8.4.3 (Leak-Checks During the Sample Run), and section 8.4.4 (Post-Test Leak-Checks).

8.1.5 Sampling Train Operation. Follow the procedures given in Method 5, section 8.5. When sampling for Hg, use a procedure analogous to that described in section 8.1 of Method 101A, 40 CFR Part 61, Appendix B, if necessary to maintain the desired color in the last acidified permanganate impinger. For each run, record the data required on a data sheet such as the one shown in Figure 5-3 of Method 5.

8.1.6 Calculation of Percent Isokinetic. Same as Method 5, section 12.11.

8.2 Sample Recovery.

8.2.1 Begin cleanup procedures as soon as the probe is removed from the stack at the end of a sampling period. The probe should be allowed to cool prior to sample recovery. When it can be safely handled, wipe off all external particulate matter near the tip of the probe nozzle and place a rinsed, non-contaminating cap over the probe nozzle to prevent losing or gaining particulate matter. Do not cap the probe tip tightly while the sampling train is cooling; a vacuum can form in the filter holder with the undesired result of drawing liquid from the impingers onto the filter.

8.2.2 Before moving the sampling train to the cleanup site, remove the probe from the sampling train and cap the open outlet. Be careful not to lose any condensate that might be present. Cap the filter inlet where the probe was fastened. Remove the umbilical cord from the last impinger and cap the impinger. Cap the filter holder outlet and impinger inlet. Use non-contaminating caps, whether ground-glass stoppers, plastic caps, serum caps, or Teflon &#xAE; tape to close these openings.

8.2.3 Alternatively, the following procedure may be used to disassemble the train before the probe and filter holder/oven are completely cooled: Initially disconnect the filter holder outlet/impinger inlet and loosely cap the open ends. Then disconnect the probe from the filter holder or cyclone inlet and loosely cap the open ends. Cap the probe tip and remove the umbilical cord as previously described.

8.2.4 Transfer the probe and filter-impinger assembly to a cleanup area that is clean and protected from the wind and other potential causes of contamination or loss of sample. Inspect the train before and during disassembly and note any abnormal conditions. Take special precautions to assure that all the items necessary for recovery do not contaminate the samples. The sample is recovered and treated as follows (see schematic in Figures 29-2a and 29-2b):

8.2.5 Container No. 1 (Sample Filter). Carefully remove the filter from the filter holder and place it in its labeled petri dish container. To handle the filter, use either acid-washed polypropylene or Teflon coated tweezers or clean, disposable surgical gloves rinsed with water and dried. If it is necessary to fold the filter, make certain the particulate cake is inside the fold. Carefully transfer the filter and any particulate matter or filter fibers that adhere to the filter holder gasket to the petri dish by using a dry (acid-cleaned) nylon bristle brush. Do not use any metal-containing materials when recovering this train. Seal the labeled petri dish.

8.2.6 Container No. 2 (Acetone Rinse). Perform this procedure only if a determination of particulate emissions is to be made. Quantitatively recover particulate matter and any condensate from the probe nozzle, probe fitting, probe liner, and front half of the filter holder by washing these components with a total of 100 ml of acetone, while simultaneously taking great care to see that no dust on the outside of the probe or other surfaces gets in the sample. The use of exactly 100 ml is necessary for the subsequent blank correction procedures. Distilled water may be used instead of acetone when approved by the Administrator and shall be used when specified by the Administrator; in these cases, save a water blank and follow the Administrator's directions on analysis.

8.2.6.1 Carefully remove the probe nozzle, and clean the inside surface by rinsing with acetone from a wash bottle while brushing with a non-metallic brush. Brush until the acetone rinse shows no visible particles, then make a final rinse of the inside surface with acetone.

8.2.6.2 Brush and rinse the sample exposed inside parts of the probe fitting with acetone in a similar way until no visible particles remain. Rinse the probe liner with acetone by tilting and rotating the probe while squirting acetone into its upper end so that all inside surfaces will be wetted with acetone. Allow the acetone to drain from the lower end into the sample container. A funnel may be used to aid in transferring liquid washings to the container. Follow the acetone rinse with a non-metallic probe brush. Hold the probe in an inclined position, squirt acetone into the upper end as the probe brush is being pushed with a twisting action three times through the probe. Hold a sample container underneath the lower end of the probe, and catch any acetone and particulate matter which is brushed through the probe until no visible particulate matter is carried out with the acetone or until none remains in the probe liner on visual inspection. Rinse the brush with acetone, and quantitatively collect these washings in the sample container. After the brushing, make a final acetone rinse of the probe as described above.

8.2.6.3 It is recommended that two people clean the probe to minimize sample losses. Between sampling runs, keep brushes clean and protected from contamination. Clean the inside of the front-half of the filter holder by rubbing the surfaces with a non-metallic brush and rinsing with acetone. Rinse each surface three times or more if needed to remove visible particulate. Make a final rinse of the brush and filter holder. After all acetone washings and particulate matter have been collected in the sample container, tighten the lid so that acetone will not leak out when shipped to the laboratory. Mark the height of the fluid level to determine whether or not leakage occurred during transport. Clearly label the container to identify its contents.

8.2.7 Container No. 3 (Probe Rinse). Keep the probe assembly clean and free from contamination during the probe rinse. Rinse the probe nozzle and fitting, probe liner, and front-half of the filter holder thoroughly with a total of 100 ml of 0.1 N HNO, and place the wash into a sample storage container. Perform the rinses as applicable and generally as described in Method 12, section 8.7.1. Record the volume of the rinses. Mark the height of the fluid level on the outside of the storage container and use this mark to determine if leakage occurs during transport. Seal the container, and clearly label the contents. Finally, rinse the nozzle, probe liner, and front-half of the filter holder with water followed by acetone, and discard these rinses.

8.2.8 Container No. 4 (Impingers 1 through 3, Moisture Knockout Impinger, when used, HNO/HOImpingers Contents and Rinses). Due to the potentially large quantity of liquid involved, the tester may place the impinger solutions from impingers 1 through 3 in more than one container, if necessary. Measure the liquid in the first three impingers to within 0.5 ml using a graduated cylinder. Record the volume. This information is required to calculate the moisture content of the sampled flue gas. Clean each of the first three impingers, the filter support, the back half of the filter housing, and connecting glassware by thoroughly rinsing with 100 ml of 0.1 N HNOusing the procedure as applicable in Method 12, section 8.7.3.

8.2.9 Container Nos. 5A (0.1 N HNO), 5B (KMnO/HSOabsorbing solution), and 5C (8 N HCl rinse and dilution).

8.2.9.1 When sampling for Hg, pour all the liquid from the impinger (normally impinger No. 4) that immediately preceded the two permanganate impingers into a graduated cylinder and measure the volume to within 0.5 ml. This information is required to calculate the moisture content of the sampled flue gas. Place the liquid in Container No. 5A. Rinse the impinger with exactly 100 ml of 0.1 N HNOand place this rinse in Container No. 5A.
