
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Standard Methods for Water and Wastewater

9.2.3 CVAAS Analysis for Hg. Analyze all samples in duplicate. Analyze a quality control sample to check the accuracy of the calibration standards (if not within 15 percent, repeat calibration). Perform a matrix spike on one sample (if not within 25 percent, analyze all samples by the Method of Standard Additions). Additional information on quality control can be obtained from Method 7470 in EPA Publication SW-846 Third Edition (November 1986) including updates I, II, IIA, IIB and III, as incorporated by reference in ยง 60.17(i), or inMethod 303F.

10.1 Sampling Train Calibration. Calibrate the sampling train components according to the indicated sections of Method 5: Probe Nozzle (Section 10.1); Pitot Tube (Section 10.2); Metering System (Section 10.3); Probe Heater (Section 10.4); Temperature Sensors (Section 10.5); Leak-Check of the Metering System (Section 8.4.1); and Barometer (Section 10.6).

10.2 Inductively Coupled Argon Plasma Spectrometer Calibration. Prepare standards as outlined in section 7.5. Profile and calibrate the instrument according to the manufacturer's recommended procedures using those standards. Check the calibration once per hour. If the instrument does not reproduce the standard concentrations within 10 percent, perform the complete calibration procedures. Perform ICP-MS analysis by following Method 6020 in EPA Publication SW-846 Third Edition (November 1986) including updates I, II, IIA, IIB and III, as incorporated by reference in ยง 60.17(i).
