
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Standard Methods for Water and Wastewater Analysis,

11.1.3 CVAAS Hg analysis. Analyze Analytical Fractions 1B, 2B, 3A, 3B, and 3C separately for Hg using CVAAS following the method outlined in Method 7470 in EPA Publication SW-846 Third Edition (November 1986) including updates I, II, IIA, IIB and III, as incorporated by reference in § 60.17(i), or in15th Edition, Method 303F, or, optionally using note no. 2 at the end of this section. Set up the calibration curve (zero to 1000 ng) as described in Method 7470 or similar to Method 303F using 300-ml BOD bottles instead of Erlenmeyers. Perform the following for each Hg analysis. From each original sample, select and record an aliquot in the size range from 1 ml to 10 ml. If no prior knowledge of the expected amount of Hg in the sample exists, a 5 ml aliquot is suggested for the first dilution to 100 ml (see note no. 1 at end of this section). The total amount of Hg in the aliquot shall be less than 1 µg and within the range (zero to 1000 ng) of the calibration curve. Place the sample aliquot into a separate 300-ml BOD bottle, and add enough water to make a total volume of 100 ml. Next add to it sequentially the sample digestion solutions and perform the sample preparation described in the procedures of Method 7470 or Method 303F. (See note no. 2 at the end of this section). If the maximum readings are off-scale (because Hg in the aliquot exceeded the calibration range; including the situation where only a 1-ml aliquot of the original sample was digested), then dilute the original sample (or a portion of it) with 0.15 percent HNO(1.5 ml concentrated HNOper liter aqueous solution) so that when a 1- to 10-ml aliquot of the "0.15 HNOpercent dilution of the original sample" is digested and analyzed by the procedures described above, it will yield an analysis within the range of the calibration curve.

12.1 Nomenclature.

V= Total volume, separately, of Analytical Fraction 3A, 3B, or 3C, ml.

12.2 Dry Gas Volume. Using the data from this test, calculate V, the dry gas sample volume at standard conditions as outlined in section 12.3 of Method 5.

12.3 Volume of Water Vapor and Moisture Content. Using the total volume of condensate collected during the source sampling, calculate the volume of water vapor Vand the moisture content Bof the stack gas. Use Equations 5-2 and 5-3 of Method 5.

12.4 Stack Gas Velocity. Using the data from this test and Equation 2-9 of Method 2, calculate the average stack gas velocity.

12.5 In-Stack Detection Limits. Calculate the in-stack method detection limits shown in Table 29-4 using the conditions described in section 13.3.1 as follows:

12.6 Metals (Except Hg) in Source Sample.

12.6.1 Analytical Fraction 1A, Front-Half, Metals (except Hg). Calculate separately the amount of each metal collected in Sample Fraction 1 of the sampling train using the following equation:

12.6.2 Analytical Fraction 2A, Back-Half, Metals (except Hg). Calculate separately the amount of each metal collected in Fraction 2 of the sampling train using the following equation:

12.6.3 Total Train, Metals (except Hg). Calculate the total amount of each of the quantified metals collected in the sampling train as follows:

12.7 Hg in Source Sample.

12.7.1 Analytical Fraction 1B; Front-Half Hg. Calculate the amount ofHg collected in the front-half, Sample Fraction 1, of the sampling train by using Equation 29-5:

12.7.2 Analytical Fractions 2B, 3A, 3B, and 3C; Back Half Hg.

12.7.2.1 Calculate the amount of Hg collected in Sample Fraction 2 by using Equation 29-6:

12.7.2.2 Calculate each of the back-half Hg values for Analytical Fractions 3A, 3B, and 3C by using Equation 29-7:

12.7.2.3 Calculate the total amount of Hg collected in the back-half of the sampling train by using Equation 29-8:

12.7.3 Total Train Hg Catch. Calculate the total amount of Hg collected in the sampling train by using Equation 29-9:

12.8 Individual Metal Concentrations in Stack Gas. Calculate the concentration of each metal in the stack gas (dry basis, adjusted to standard conditions) by using Equation 29-10:

12.9 Isokinetic Variation and Acceptable Results. Same as Method 5, sections 12.11 and 12.12, respectively.

13.1 Range. For the analysis described and for similar analyses, the ICAP response is linear over several orders of magnitude. Samples containing metal concentrations in the nanograms per ml (ng/ml) to micrograms per ml (µg/ml) range in the final analytical solution can be analyzed using this method. Samples containing greater than approximately 50 µg/ml As, Cr, or Pb should be diluted to that level or lower for final analysis. Samples containing greater than approximately 20 µg/ml of Cd should be diluted to that level before analysis.

13.2 Analytical Detection Limits.
