
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### vented

8.3.5 Container No. 5A (Impinger 4), Container Nos. 5B and 5C (Impingers 5 and 6). Keep the samples in Containers Nos. 5A, 5B, and 5C separate from each other. Measure and record the volume of 5A to within 0.5 ml. Label the contents of Container No. 5A to be Analytical Fraction 3A. To remove any brown MnOprecipitate from the contents of Container No. 5B, filter its contents through Whatman 40 filter paper into a 500 ml volumetric flask and dilute to volume with water. Save the filter for digestion of the brown MnOprecipitate. Label the 500 ml filtrate from Container No. 5B to be Analytical Fraction 3B. Analyze Analytical Fraction 3B for Hg within 48 hours of the filtration step. Place the saved filter, which was used to remove the brown MnOprecipitate, into an appropriately sizedcontainer, which will allow release of any gases including chlorine formed when the filter is digested. In a laboratory hood which will remove any gas produced by the digestion of the MnO, add 25 ml of 8 N HCl to the filter and allow to digest for a minimum of 24 hours at room temperature. Filter the contents of Container No. 5C through a Whatman 40 filter into a 500-ml volumetric flask. Then filter the result of the digestion of the brown MnOfrom Container No. 5B through a Whatman 40 filter into the same 500-ml volumetric flask, and dilute and mix well to volume with water. Discard the Whatman 40 filter. Mark this combined 500-ml dilute HCl solution as Analytical Fraction 3C.

8.3.6 Container No. 6 (Silica Gel). Weigh the spent silica gel (or silica gel plus impinger) to the nearest 0.5 g using a balance.

9.1 Field Reagent Blanks, if analyzed. Perform the digestion and analysis of the blanks in Container Nos. 7 through 12 that were produced in sections 8.2.11 through 8.2.17, respectively. For Hg field reagent blanks, use a 10 ml aliquot for digestion and analysis.

9.1.1 Digest and analyze one of the filters from Container No. 12 per section 8.3.1, 100 ml from Container No. 7 per section 8.3.2, and 100 ml from Container No. 8A per section 8.3.3. This step produces blanks for Analytical Fractions 1A and 1B.

9.1.2 Combine 100 ml of Container No. 8A with 200 ml from Container No. 9, and digest and analyze the resultant volume per section 8.3.4. This step produces blanks for Analytical Fractions 2A and 2B.

9.1.3 Digest and analyze a 100-ml portion of Container No. 8A to produce a blank for Analytical Fraction 3A.

9.1.4 Combine 100 ml from Container No. 10 with 33 ml from Container No. 8B to produce a blank for Analytical Fraction 3B. Filter the resultant 133 ml as described for Container No. 5B in section 8.3.5, except do not dilute the 133 ml. Analyze this blank for Hg within 48 hr of the filtration step, and use 400 ml as the blank volume when calculating the blank mass value. Use the actual volumes of the other analytical blanks when calculating their mass values.

9.1.5 Digest the filter that was used to remove any brown MnOprecipitate from the blank for Analytical Fraction 3B by the same procedure as described in section 8.3.5 for the similar sample filter. Filter the digestate and the contents of Container No. 11 through Whatman 40 paper into a 500-ml volumetric flask, and dilute to volume with water. These steps produce a blank for Analytical Fraction 3C.

9.1.6 Analyze the blanks for Analytical Fraction Blanks 1A and 2A per section 11.1.1 and/or section 11.1.2. Analyze the blanks for Analytical Fractions 1B, 2B, 3A, 3B, and 3C per section 11.1.3. Analysis of the blank for Analytical Fraction 1A produces the front-half reagent blank correction values for the desired metals except for Hg; Analysis of the blank for Analytical Fraction 1B produces the front-half reagent blank correction value for Hg. Analysis of the blank for Analytical Fraction 2A produces the back-half reagent blank correction values for all of the desired metals except for Hg, while separate analyses of the blanks for Analytical Fractions 2B, 3A, 3B, and 3C produce the back-half reagent blank correction value for Hg.

9.2 Quality Control Samples. Analyze the following quality control samples.

9.2.1 ICAP and ICP-MS Analysis. Follow the respective quality control descriptions in section 8 of Methods 6010 and 6020 in EPA Publication SW-846 Third Edition (November 1986) including updates I, II, IIA, IIB and III, as incorporated by reference in ยง 60.17(i). For the purposes of a source test that consists of three sample runs, modify those requirements to include the following: two instrument check standard runs, two calibration blank runs, one interference check sample at the beginning of the analysis (analyze by Method of Standard Additions unless within 25 percent), one quality control sample to check the accuracy of the calibration standards (required to be within 25 percent of calibration), and one duplicate analysis (required to be within 20 percent of average or repeat all analyses).

9.2.2 Direct Aspiration AAS and/or GFAAS Analysis for Sb, As, Ba, Be, Cd, Cu, Cr, Co, Pb, Ni, Mn, Hg, P, Se, Ag, Tl, and Zn. Analyze all samples in duplicate. Perform a matrix spike on at least one front-half sample and one back-half sample, or one combined sample. If recoveries of less than 75 percent or greater than 125 percent are obtained for the matrix spike, analyze each sample by the Method of Standard Additions. Analyze a quality control sample to check the accuracy of the calibration standards. If the results are not within 20 percent, repeat the calibration.
