
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### "Sample Fraction 1".,"Analytical Fraction 1".,"Analytical Fraction 1B".,"Analytical Fraction 1A".

8.3.3 Container No. 3 (Probe Rinse). Verify that the pH of this sample is 2 or lower. If it is not, acidify the sample by careful addition with stirring of concentrated HNOto pH 2. Use water to rinse the sample into a beaker, and cover the beaker with a ribbed watch glass. Reduce the sample volume to approximately 20 ml by heating on a hot plate at a temperature just below boiling. Digest the sample in microwave vessels or Parr Bombs by quantitatively transferring the sample to the vessel or bomb, carefully adding the 6 ml of concentrated HNO, 4 ml of concentrated HF, and then continuing to follow the procedures described in section 8.3.1.2. Then combine the resultant sample directly with the acid digested portions of the filter prepared previously in section 8.3.1.2. The resultant combined sample is referred to asFilter the combined sample using Whatman 541 filter paper. Dilute to 300 ml (or the appropriate volume for the expected metals concentration) with water. This diluted sample isMeasure and record the volume of Analytical Fraction 1 to within 0.1 ml. Quantitatively remove a 50-ml aliquot and label asLabel the remaining 250-ml portion asAnalytical Fraction 1A is used for ICAP or AAS analysis for all desired metals except Hg. Analytical Fraction 1B is used for the determination of front-half Hg.
