
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Standard Methods for Water and Wastewater

10.3 Atomic Absorption Spectrometer-Direct Aspiration AAS, GFAAS, and CVAAS analyses. Prepare the standards as outlined in section 7.5 and use them to calibrate the spectrometer. Calibration procedures are also outlined in the EPA methods referred to in Table 29-2 and in Method 7470 in EPA Publication SW-846 Third Edition (November 1986) including updates I, II, IIA, IIB and III, as incorporated by reference in ยง 60.17(i), or inMethod 303F (for Hg). Run each standard curve in duplicate and use the mean values to calculate the calibration line. Recalibrate the instrument approximately once every 10 to 12 samples.

10.4 Field Balance Calibration Check. Check the calibration of the balance used to weigh impingers with a weight that is at least 500g or within 50g of a loaded impinger. The weight must be ASTM E617-13 "Standard Specification for Laboratory Weights and Precision Mass Standards" (incorporated by reference-see 40 CFR 60.17) Class 6 (or better). Daily before use, the field balance must measure the weight within +/-0.5g of the certified mass. If the daily balance calibration check fails, perform corrective measures and repeat the check before using balance.

10.5 Analytical Balance Calibration. Perform a multipoint calibration (at least five points spanning the operational range) of the analytical balance before the first use, and semiannually thereafter. The calibration of the analytical balance must be conducted using ASTM E617-13 "Standard Specification for Laboratory Weights and Precision Mass Standards" (incorporated by reference-see 40 CFR 60.17) Class 2 (or better) tolerance weights. Audit the balance each day it is used for gravimetric measurements by weighing at least one ASTM E617-13 Class 2 tolerance (or better) calibration weight that corresponds to 50 to 150 percent of the weight of one filter or between 1g and 5g. If the scale cannot reproduce the value of the calibration weight to within 0.5 mg of the certified mass, perform corrective measures, and conduct the multipoint calibration before use.

11.1 Sample Analysis. For each sampling train sample run, seven individual analytical samples are generated; two for all desired metals except Hg, and five for Hg. A schematic identifying each sample container and the prescribed analytical preparation and analysis scheme is shown in Figure 29-3. The first two analytical samples, labeled Analytical Fractions 1A and 1B, consist of the digested samples from the front-half of the train. Analytical Fraction 1A is for ICAP, ICP-MS or AAS analysis as described in sections 11.1.1 and 11.1.2, respectively. Analytical Fraction 1B is for front-half Hg analysis as described in section 11.1.3. The contents of the back-half of the train are used to prepare the third through seventh analytical samples. The third and fourth analytical samples, labeled Analytical Fractions 2A and 2B, contain the samples from the moisture removal impinger No. 1, if used, and HNO/HOimpingers Nos. 2 and 3. Analytical Fraction 2A is for ICAP, ICP-MS or AAS analysis for target metals, except Hg. Analytical Fraction 2B is for analysis for Hg. The fifth through seventh analytical samples, labeled Analytical Fractions 3A, 3B, and 3C, consist of the impinger contents and rinses from the empty impinger No. 4 and the HSO/KMnOImpingers Nos. 5 and 6. These analytical samples are for analysis for Hg as described in section 11.1.3. The total back-half Hg catch is determined from the sum of Analytical Fractions 2B, 3A, 3B, and 3C. Analytical Fractions 1A and 2A can be combined proportionally prior to analysis.

11.1.1 ICAP and ICP-MS Analysis. Analyze Analytical Fractions 1A and 2A by ICAP using Method 6010 or Method 200.7 (40 CFR 136, Appendix C). Calibrate the ICAP, and set up an analysis program as described in Method 6010 or Method 200.7. Follow the quality control procedures described in section 9.2.1. Recommended wavelengths for analysis are as shown in Table 29-2. These wavelengths represent the best combination of specificity and potential detection limit. Other wavelengths may be substituted if they can provide the needed specificity and detection limit, and are treated with the same corrective techniques for spectral interference. Initially, analyze all samples for the target metals (except Hg) plus Fe and Al. If Fe and Al are present, the sample might have to be diluted so that each of these elements is at a concentration of less than 50 ppm so as to reduce their spectral interferences on As, Cd, Cr, and Pb. Perform ICP-MS analysis by following Method 6020 in EPA Publication SW-846 Third Edition (November 1986) including updates I, II, IIA, IIB and III, as incorporated by reference in ยง 60.17(i).

11.1.2 AAS by Direct Aspiration and/or GFAAS. If analysis of metals in Analytical Fractions 1A and 2A by using GFAAS or direct aspiration AAS is needed, use Table 29-3 to determine which techniques and procedures to apply for each target metal. Use Table 29-3, if necessary, to determine techniques for minimization of interferences. Calibrate the instrument according to section 10.3 and follow the quality control procedures specified in section 9.2.2.
