
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### "Sample Fraction 2".,"Analytical Fraction 2B".,"Sample Fraction 2A".,prior,"Analytical Fraction 2A".,after

8.3.4 Container No. 4 (Impingers 1-3). Measure and record the total volume of this sample to within 0.5 ml and label itRemove a 75- to 100-ml aliquot for Hg analysis and label the aliquotLabel the remaining portion of Container No. 4 asSample Fraction 2A defines the volume of Analytical Fraction 2Ato digestion. All of Sample Fraction 2A is digested to produceAnalytical Fraction 2A defines the volume of Sample Fraction 2Aits digestion and the volume of Analytical Fraction 2A is normally 150 ml. Analytical Fraction 2A is analyzed for all metals except Hg. Verify that the pH of Sample Fraction 2A is 2 or lower. If necessary, use concentrated HNOby careful addition and stirring to lower Sample Fraction 2A to pH 2. Use water to rinse Sample Fraction 2A into a beaker and then cover the beaker with a ribbed watchglass. Reduce Sample Fraction 2A to approximately 20 ml by heating on a hot plate at a temperature just below boiling. Then follow either of the digestion procedures described in sections 8.3.4.1 or 8.3.4.2.

8.3.4.1 Conventional Digestion Procedure. Add 30 ml of 50 percent HNO, and heat for 30 minutes on a hot plate to just below boiling. Add 10 ml of 3 percent HOand heat for 10 more minutes. Add 50 ml of hot water, and heat the sample for an additional 20 minutes. Cool, filter the sample, and dilute to 150 ml (or the appropriate volume for the expected metals concentrations) with water. This dilution produces Analytical Fraction 2A. Measure and record the volume to within 0.1 ml.
