
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Precaution

8.2.15 Container No. 10 (Acidified KMnOBlank). At least once during each field test, place 100 ml of the acidified KMnOsolution used as the impinger solution and in the sample recovery process into a container labeled No. 10. Prepare the container as described in section 8.2.9.2. Read the: in section 7.3.2 and read the note in section 8.2.9.2.

8.2.16 Container No. 11 (8 N HCl Blank). At least once during each field test, place 200 ml of water into a sample container labeled No. 11. Then carefully add with stirring 25 ml of 8 N HCl. Mix well and seal the container.

8.2.17 Container No. 12 (Sample Filter Blank). Once during each field test, place into a petri dish labeled No. 12 three unused blank filters from the same lot as the sampling filters. Seal the petri dish.

8.3 Sample Preparation. Note the level of the liquid in each of the containers and determine if any sample was lost during shipment. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, either void the sample or use methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to correct the final results. A diagram illustrating sample preparation and analysis procedures for each of the sample train components is shown in Figure 29-3.

8.3.1 Container No. 1 (Sample Filter).

8.3.1.1 If particulate emissions are being determined, first desiccate the filter and filter catch without added heat (do not heat the filters to speed the drying) and weigh to a constant weight as described in section 11.2.1 of Method 5.

8.3.1.2 Following this procedure, or initially, if particulate emissions are not being determined in addition to metals analysis, divide the filter with its filter catch into portions containing approximately 0.5 g each. Place the pieces in the analyst's choice of either individual microwave pressure relief vessels or Parr Bombs. Add 6 ml of concentrated HNOand 4 ml of concentrated HF to each vessel. For microwave heating, microwave the samples for approximately 12 to 15 minutes total heating time as follows: heat for 2 to 3 minutes, then turn off the microwave for 2 to 3 minutes, then heat for 2 to 3 minutes, etc., continue this alternation until the 12 to 15 minutes total heating time are completed (this procedure should comprise approximately 24 to 30 minutes at 600 watts). Microwave heating times are approximate and are dependent upon the number of samples being digested simultaneously. Sufficient heating is evidenced by sorbent reflux within the vessel. For conventional heating, heat the Parr Bombs at 140 &#xB0;C (285 &#xB0;F) for 6 hours. Then cool the samples to room temperature, and combine with the acid digested probe rinse as required in section 8.3.3.

8.3.1.3 If the sampling train includes an optional glass cyclone in front of the filter, prepare and digest the cyclone catch by the procedures described in section 8.3.1.2 and then combine the digestate with the digested filter sample.

8.3.2 Container No. 2 (Acetone Rinse). Note the level of liquid in the container and confirm on the analysis sheet whether or not leakage occurred during transport. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, either void the sample or use methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to correct the final results. Measure the liquid in this container either volumetrically within 1 ml or gravimetrically within 0.5 g. Transfer the contents to an acid-cleaned, tared 250-ml beaker and evaporate to dryness at ambient temperature and pressure. If particulate emissions are being determined, desiccate for 24 hours without added heat, weigh to a constant weight according to the procedures described in section 11.2.1 of Method 5, and report the results to the nearest 0.1 mg. Redissolve the residue with 10 ml of concentrated HNO. Quantitatively combine the resultant sample, including all liquid and any particulate matter, with Container No. 3 before beginning section 8.3.3.
