
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Hg only,

13.3.3 Actual in-stack method detection limits are based on actual source sampling parameters and analytical results as described above. If required, the method in-stack detection limits can be improved over those shown in Table 29-1 for a specific test by either increasing the sampled stack gas volume, reducing the total volume of the digested samples, improving the analytical detection limits, or any combination of the three. For extremely low levels ofthe aliquot size selected for digestion and analysis can be increased to as much as 10 ml, thus improving the in-stack detection limit by a factor of ten compared to a 1 ml aliquot size.

13.3.3.1 A nominal one hour sampling run will collect a stack gas sampling volume of about 1.25 m. If the sampling time is increased to four hours and 5 mare collected, the in-stack method detection limits would be improved by a factor of four compared to the values shown in Table 29-1.

13.3.3.2 The in-stack detection limits assume that all of the sample is digested and the final liquid volumes for analysis are the normal values of 300 ml for Analytical Fraction 1, and 150 ml for Analytical Fraction 2A. If the volume of Analytical Fraction 1 is reduced from 300 to 30 ml, the in-stack detection limits for that fraction of the sample would be improved by a factor of ten. If the volume of Analytical Fraction 2A is reduced from 150 to 25 ml, the in-stack detection limits for that fraction of the sample would be improved by a factor of six. Matrix effect checks are necessary on sample analyses and typically are of much greater significance for samples that have been concentrated to less than the normal original sample volume. Reduction of Analytical Fractions 1 and 2A to volumes of less than 30 and 25 ml, respectively, could interfere with the redissolving of the residue and could increase interference by other compounds to an intolerable level.

13.3.3.3 When both of the modifications described in sections 13.3.3.1 and 13.3.3.2 are used simultaneously on one sample, the resultant improvements are multiplicative. For example, an increase in stack gas volume by a factor of four and a reduction in the total liquid sample digested volume of both Analytical Fractions 1 and 2A by a factor of six would result in an improvement by a factor of twenty-four of the in-stack method detection limit.

13.4 Precision. The precision (relative standard deviation) for each metal detected in a method development test performed at a sewage sludge incinerator were found to be as follows:

16.1 Alternative Analyzer. Samples may also be analyzed by cold vapor atomic fluorescence spectrometry.

16.2 [Reserved]
