
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste: Physical/Chemical Methods.

2. EPA Methods 6010, 6020, 7000, 7041, 7060, 7131, 7421, 7470, 7740, and 7841,SW-846, Third Edition, November 1986, with updates I, II, IIA, IIB and III. Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response, U. S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC 20460.

3. EPA Method 200.7, Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40, Part 136, Appendix C. July 1, 1987.

4. EPA Methods 1 through 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40, Part 60, Appendix A, July 1, 1991.

5. EPA Method 101A, Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40, Part 61, Appendix B, July 1, 1991.

Method 30A is a procedure for measuring total vapor phase mercury (Hg) emissions from stationary sources using an instrumental analyzer. This method is particularly appropriate for performing emissions testing and for conducting relative accuracy test audits (RATAs) of mercury continuous emissions monitoring systems (Hg CEMS) and sorbent trap monitoring systems at coal-fired combustion sources. Quality assurance and quality control requirements are included to assure that you, the tester, collect data of known and acceptable quality for each testing site. This method does not completely describe all equipment, supplies, and sampling procedures and analytical procedures you will need but refers to other test methods for some of the details. Therefore, to obtain reliable results, you should also have a thorough knowledge of these additional methods which are also found in appendices A-1 and A-3 to this part:

(a) Method 1-Sample and Velocity Traverses for Stationary Sources.

(b) Method 4-Determination of Moisture Content in Stack Gases.

1.1 Analytes. What does this method determine? This method is designed to measure the mass concentration of total vapor phase Hg in flue gas, which represents the sum of elemental Hg (Hg) and oxidized forms of Hg (Hg), in mass concentration units of micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m).

1.2 Applicability. When is this method required? Method 30A is offered as a reference method for emission testing and for RATAs of Hg CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring systems at coal-fired boilers. Method 30A may also be specified for other source categories in the future, either by New Source Performance Standards (NSPS), National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP), emissions trading programs, State Implementation Plans (SIP), or operating permits that require measurement of Hg concentrations in stationary source emissions to determine compliance with an applicable emission standard or limit, or to conduct RATAs of Hg CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring systems.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives (DQO). How good must my collected data be? Method 30A has been designed to provide data of high and known quality for Hg emission testing and for relative accuracy testing of Hg monitoring systems including Hg CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring systems. In these and other applications, the principle objective is to ensure the accuracy of the data at the actual emission levels encountered. To meet this objective, calibration standards prepared according to an EPA traceability protocol must be used and measurement system performance tests are required.

In this method, a sample of the effluent gas is continuously extracted and conveyed to an analyzer capable of measuring the total vapor phase Hg concentration. Elemental and oxidized mercury (i.e., Hgand Hg) may be measured separately or simultaneously but, for purposes of this method, total vapor phase Hg is the sum of Hgand Hg. You must meet the performance requirements of this method (i.e., system calibration, interference testing, dynamic spiking, and system integrity/drift checks) to validate your data. The dynamic spiking requirement is deferred until January 1, 2009.
