
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### Wet Analysis

3.1means an analytical technique where the contents of the sorbent tube are first leached or digested to quantitatively transfer the captured Hg to liquid solution for subsequent analysis.

Interferences may result from the sorbent trap material used as well as from the measurement environment itself. The iodine present on some sorbent traps may impart a negative measurement bias. High levels of sulfur trioxide (SO) are also suspected to compromise the performance of sorbent trap Hg capture. These, and other, potential interferences are assessed by performing the analytical matrix interference, Hgand HgClanalytical bias and field recovery tests.

What safety measures should I consider when using this method? This method may require you to work with hazardous materials and in hazardous conditions. You are encouraged to establish safety procedures before using the method. Among other precautions, you should become familiar with the safety recommendations in the gas analyzer user's manual. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations concerning use of compressed gas cylinders and noxious gases may apply.

5.1 Site Hazards. Prior to applying these procedures/specifications in the field, the potential hazards at the test site should be considered; advance coordination with the site is critical to understand the conditions and applicable safety policies. At a minimum, portions of the sampling system will be hot, requiring appropriate gloves, long sleeves, and caution in handling this equipment.

5.2 Laboratory Safety. Policies should be in place to minimize risk of chemical exposure and to properly handle waste disposal in the laboratory. Personnel shall wear appropriate laboratory attire according to a Chemical Hygiene Plan established by the laboratory.

5.3 Reagent Toxicity/Carcinogenicity. The toxicity and carcinogenicity of any reagents used must be considered. Depending upon the sampling and analytical technologies selected, this measurement may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment and this method does not address all of the safety problems associated with implementing this approach. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicable regulatory limitations prior to performance. Any chemical should be regarded as a potential health hazard and exposure to these compounds should be minimized. Chemists should refer to the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for each chemical used.

5.4 Waste Disposal. Any waste generated by this procedure must be disposed of according to a hazardous materials management plan that details and tracks various waste streams and disposal procedures.

The following list is presented as an example of key equipment and supplies likely required to measure vapor-phase Hg using a sorbent trap sampling system. It is recognized that additional equipment and supplies may be needed. Collection of paired samples is required.

6.1 Sorbent Trap Sampling System. A typical sorbent trap sampling system is shown in Figure 30B-1 in section 17.0. The sorbent trap sampling system shall include the following components:

6.1.1 Sorbent Traps. The sorbent media used to collect Hg must be configured in a trap with at least two distinct segments or sections, connected in series, that are amenable to separate analyses. section 1 is designated for primary capture of gaseous Hg. section 2 is designated as a backup section for determination of vapor phase Hg breakthrough. Each sorbent trap must be inscribed or otherwise permanently marked with a unique identification number, for tracking purposes. The sorbent media may be any collection material (e.g., carbon, chemically-treated filter, etc.) capable of quantitatively capturing and recovering for subsequent analysis, all gaseous forms of Hg in the emissions from the intended application. Selection of the sorbent media shall be based on the material's ability to achieve the performance criteria contained in this method as well as the sorbent's vapor phase Hg capture efficiency for the emissions matrix and the expected sampling duration at the test site. The sorbent media must be obtained from a source that can demonstrate their quality assurance and quality control (see section 7.2). The paired sorbent traps are supported on a probe (or probes) and inserted directly into the flue gas stream.

6.1.2 Sampling Probe Assembly. Each probe assembly shall have a leak-free attachment to the sorbent trap(s). Each sorbent trap must be mounted at the entrance of or within the probe such that the gas sampled enters the trap directly. Each probe/sorbent trap assembly must be heated to a temperature sufficient to prevent liquid condensation in the sorbent trap(s). Auxiliary heating is required only where the stack temperature is too low to prevent condensation. Use a calibrated thermocouple to monitor the stack temperature. A single probe capable of operating the paired sorbent traps may be used. Alternatively, individual probe/sorbent trap assemblies may be used, provided that the individual sorbent traps are co-located to ensure representative Hg monitoring.

6.1.3 Moisture Removal Device. A moisture removal device or system shall be used to remove water vapor from the gas stream prior to entering dry gas flow metering devices.

6.1.4 Vacuum Pump. Use a leak-tight, vacuum pump capable of operating within the system's flow range.

6.1.5 Gas Flow Meter. A gas flow meter (such as a dry gas meter, thermal mass flow meter, or other suitable measurement device) shall be used to determine the total sample volume on a dry basis, in units of standard cubic meters. The meter must be sufficiently accurate to measure the total sample volume to within 2 percent and must be calibrated at selected flow rates across the range of sample flow rates at which the sampling train will be operated. The gas flow meter shall be equipped with any necessary auxiliary measurement devices (e.g., temperature sensors, pressure measurement devices) needed to correct the sample volume to standard conditions.

6.1.6 Sample Flow Rate Meter and Controller. Use a flow rate indicator and controller for maintaining necessary sampling flow rates.

6.1.7 Temperature Sensor. Same as section 6.1.1.7 of Method 5 in Appendix A-3 to this part.

6.1.8 Barometer. Same as section 6.1.2 of Method 5 in Appendix A-3 to this part.

6.1.9 Data Logger (optional). Device for recording associated and necessary ancillary information (e.g., temperatures, pressures, flow, time, etc.).
