
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### http://www.epa.gov/ttn/emc.

8.2.1.3 Example Analytical Matrix Interference Test. An example analytical matrix interference test is presented below. Additional information on the conduct of the analytical matrix interference test will be posted atDetermine the most sensitive working range for the analyzer to be used. This will be a narrow range of concentrations. Digest and prepare for analysis a representative mass of sorbent material (unsampled) according to your intended laboratory techniques for sample preparation and analysis. Prepare a calibration curve for the most sensitive analytical region, e.g., 0.0, 0.5, 1.0, 3.0, 5.0, 10 ppb. Using the highest calibration standard, e.g., 10.0 ppb, prepare a series of solutions by adding successively smaller increments of the digestate to a fixed volume of the calibration standard and bringing each solution to a final fixed volume with mercury-free deionized water (diHO). To 2.0 ml of the calibration standard add 18.0, 10.0, 4.0, 2.0, 1.0, 0.2, and 0.0 ml of the digestate. Bring the final volume of each solution to a total volume of 20 ml by adding 0.0, 8.0, 14.0, 16.0, 17.0, 17.8, and 18.0 ml of diHO. This will yield solutions with dilution ratios of 9:10, 1:2, 1:5, 1:10, 1:20, 1:100, and 0:10, respectively. Determine the Hg concentration of each solution. The dilution ratio of any solution having a concentration that is within +/-5 percent of the concentration of the solution containing 0.0 ml of digestate is an acceptable dilution ratio for analyzing field samples. If more than one solution meets this criterion, the one with the lowest dilution ratio is the minimum dilution required for analysis of field samples. If the 9:10 dilution meets this criterion, then no sample dilution is required.

8.2.2 Determination of Minimum Sample Mass. The minimum mass of Hg that must be collected per sample must be determined. This information is necessary in order to effectively perform the Hgand HgClAnalytical Bias Test, to estimate target sample volumes/sample times for test runs, and to ensure the quality of the measurements. The determination of minimum sample mass is a direct function of analytical technique, measurement sensitivity, dilutions, etc. This determination is required for all analytical techniques. Based on the analytical approach you employ, you should determine the most sensitive calibration range. Based on a calibration point within that range, you must consider all sample treatments (e.g., dilutions) to determine the mass of sample that needs to be collected to ensure that all sample analyses fall within your calibration curve.

8.2.2.1 Determination of Minimum Calibration Concentration or Mass. Based on your instrument's sensitivity and linearity, determine the calibration concentrations or masses that make up a representative low level calibration range. Verify that you are able to meet the multipoint calibration performance criteria in section 11.0 of this method. Select a calibration concentration or mass that is no less than 2 times the lowest concentration or mass in your calibration curve. The lowest point in your calibration curve must be at least 5, and preferably 10, times the Method Detection Limit (MDL), which is the minimum amount of the analyte that can be detected and reported. The MDL must be determined at least once for the analytical system using an MDL study such as that found in section 15.0 to Method 301 of appendix A to part 63 of this chapter.

8.2.2.2 Determination of Minimum Sample Mass. Based on your minimum calibration concentration or mass and other sample treatments including, but not limited to, final digestate volume and minimum sample dilution, determine the minimum sample mass. Consideration should also be given to the Hg levels expected to be measured in section 2 of the sorbent traps and to the breakthrough criteria presented in Table 9-1.

8.2.2.2.1 Example Determination of Minimum Sample Mass for Thermal Desorption Analysis. A thermal analysis system has been calibrated at five Hg mass levels: 10 ng, 20 ng, 50 ng, 100 ng, 200 ng, and shown to meet the calibration performance criteria in this method. Based on 2 times the lowest point in the calibration curve, 20 ng is selected as the minimum calibration mass. Because the entire sample is analyzed and there are no dilutions involved, the minimum sample mass is also 20 ng.

8.2.2.2.2 Example Determination of Minimum Sample Mass for Acid Leachate/Digestate Analysis. A cold vapor analysis system has been calibrated at four Hg concentration levels: 2 ng/L, 5 ng, 10 ng/L, 20 ng/L, and shown to meet the calibration performance criteria in this method. Based on 2 times the lowest point in the calibration curve, 4 ng/L was selected as the minimum calibration concentration. The final sample volume of a digestate is nominally 50 ml (0.05 L) and the minimum dilution necessary was determined to be 1:100 by the Analytical Matrix Interference Test of section 8.2.1. The following calculation would be used to determine the minimum sample mass.

8.2.3 Hgand HgClAnalytical Bias Test. Before analyzing any field samples, the laboratory must demonstrate the ability to recover and accurately quantify Hgand HgClfrom the chosen sorbent media by performing the following analytical bias test for sorbent traps spiked with Hgand HgCl. The analytical bias test is performed at a minimum of two distinct sorbent trap Hg loadings that will: (1) Represent the lower and upper bound of sample Hg loadings for application of the analytical technique to the field samples, and (2) be used for data validation.

8.2.3.1 Hgand HgClAnalytical Bias Test Procedures. Determine the lower and upper bound mass loadings. The minimum sample mass established in section 8.2.2.2 can be used for the lower bound Hg mass loading although lower Hg loading levels are acceptable. The upper bound Hg loading level should be an estimate of the greatest mass loading that may result as a function of stack concentration and volume sampled. As previously noted, this test defines the bounds that actual field samples must be within in order to be valid.

8.2.3.1.1 HgAnalytical Bias Test. Analyze the front section of three sorbent traps containing Hgat the lower bound mass loading level and the front section of three sorbent traps containing Hgat the upper bound mass loading level. In other words, analyze each mass loading level in triplicate. You may refer to section 6.2 for spiking guidance. Prepare and analyze each spiked trap, using the same techniques that will be used to prepare and analyze the field samples. The average recovery for the three traps at each mass loading level must be between 90 and 110 percent. If multiple types of sorbent media are to be analyzed, a separate analytical bias test is required for each sorbent material.

8.2.3.1.2 HgClAnalytical Bias Test. Analyze the front section of three sorbent traps containing HgClat the lower bound mass loading level and the front section of three traps containing HgClat the upper bound mass loading level. HgClcan be spiked as a gas, or as a liquid solution containing HgCl. However the liquid volume spiked must be <100 µL. Prepare and analyze each spiked trap, using the techniques that will be used to prepare and analyze the field samples. The average recovery for three traps at each spike concentration must be between 90 and 110 percent. Again, if multiple types of sorbent media are to be analyzed, a separate analytical bias test is required for each sorbent material.

8.2.4 Determination of Target Sample Volume. The target sample volume is an estimate of the sample volume needed to ensure that valid emissions data are collected (i.e., that sample mass Hg loadings fall within the analytical calibration curve and are within the upper and lower bounds set by the analytical bias tests). The target sample volume and minimum sample mass can also be determined by performing a diagnostic test run prior to initiation of formal testing.

8.2.5 Determination of Sample Run Time. Sample run time will be a function of minimum sample mass (see section 8.2.2), target sample volume and nominal equipment sample flow rate. The minimum sample run time for conducting relative accuracy test audits of Hg monitoring systems is 30 minutes and for emissions testing to characterize an emission source is 1 hour. The target sample run time can be calculated using the following example.

8.2.6 Field Recovery Test. The field recovery test provides a test program-specific verification of the performance of the combined sampling and analytical approach. Three sets of paired samples, one of each pair which is spiked with a known level of Hg, are collected and analyzed and the average recovery of the spiked samples is used to verify performance of the measurement system under field conditions during that test program. The conduct of this test requires an estimate or confirmation of the stack Hg concentrations at the time of testing.

8.2.6.1 Calculation of Pre-sampling Spiking Level. Determine the sorbent trap spiking level for the field recovery test using estimates of the stack Hg concentration, the target sample flow rate, and the planned sample duration. First, determine the Hg mass expected to be collected in section 1 of the sorbent trap. The pre-sampling spike must be within 50 to 150 percent of this expected mass.

A Hg spike of 60 to 180 ng (50-150% of 120 ng) would be appropriate.

8.2.6.2 Procedures. Set up two identical sampling trains. One of the sampling trains shall be designated the spiked train and the other the unspiked train. Spike Hgonto the front section of the sorbent trap in the spiked train before sampling. The mass of Hg spiked shall be 50 to 150 percent of the mass expected to be collected with the unspiked train. Sample the stack gas with the two trains simultaneously using the same procedures as for the field samples (see section 8.3). The total sample volume must be within +/-20 percent of the target sample volume for the field sample test runs. Analyze the sorbent traps from the two trains utilizing the same analytical procedures and instrumentation as for the field samples (see section 11.0). Determine the fraction of spiked Hg recovered (R) using the equations in section 12.7. Repeat this procedure for a total of three runs. Report the individual R values in the test report; the average of the three R values must be between 85 and 115 percent.

8.3 Sampling. This section describes the procedures and criteria for collecting the field samples for analysis. As noted in section 8.2.6, the field recovery test samples are also collected using these procedures.

8.3.1 Pre-test leak check. Perform a leak check of the sampling system with the sorbent traps in place. For each of the paired sampling trains, draw a vacuum in the train, and adjust the vacuum to ∼15&#x2033; Hg; and, using the gas flow meter, determine leak rate. The leak rate for an individual train must not exceed 4 percent of the target sampling rate. Once the leak check passes this criterion, carefully release the vacuum in the sample train, then seal the sorbent trap inlet until the probe is ready for insertion into the stack or duct.

8.3.2 Determination of Flue Gas Characteristics. Determine or measure the flue gas measurement environment characteristics (gas temperature, static pressure, gas velocity, stack moisture, etc.) in order to determine ancillary requirements such as probe heating requirements (if any), initial sampling rate, moisture management, etc.

8.3.3 Sample Collection

8.3.3.1 Remove the plug from the end of each sorbent trap and store each plug in a clean sorbent trap storage container. Remove the stack or duct port cap and insert the probe(s). Secure the probe(s) and ensure that no leakage occurs between the duct and environment.

8.3.3.2 Record initial data including the sorbent trap ID, date, and the run start time.

8.3.3.3 Record the initial gas flow meter reading, stack temperature, meter temperatures (if needed), and any other appropriate information, before beginning sampling. Begin sampling and target a sampling flow rate similar to that for the field recovery test. Then, at regular intervals (&#x2264;5 minutes) during the sampling period, record the date and time, the sample flow rate, the gas meter reading, the stack temperature, the flow meter temperatures (if using a dry gas meter), temperatures of heated equipment such as the vacuum lines and the probes (if heated), and the sampling system vacuum readings. Adjust the sampling flow rate as necessary to maintain the initial sample flow rate. Ensure that the total volume sampled for each run is within 20 percent of the total volume sampled for the field recovery test.

8.3.3.4 Data Recording. Obtain and record any essential operating data for the facility during the test period, e.g., the barometric pressure must be obtained for correcting sample volume to standard conditions when using a dry gas meter. At the end of the data collection period, record the final gas flow meter reading and the final values of all other essential parameters.

8.3.3.5 Post-Test Leak Check. When sampling is completed, turn off the sample pump, remove the probe(s) with sorbent traps from the port, and carefully seal the end of each sorbent trap. Perform another leak check of each sampling train with the sorbent trap in place, at the maximum vacuum reached during the sampling period. Record the leakage rates and vacuums. The leakage rate for each train must not exceed 4 percent of the average sampling rate for the data collection period. Following each leak check, carefully release the vacuum in the sample train.

8.3.3.6 Sample Recovery. Recover each sampled sorbent trap by removing it from the probe and sealing both ends. Wipe any deposited material from the outside of the sorbent trap. Place the sorbent trap into an appropriate sample storage container and store/preserve in appropriate manner (see section 8.3.3.8).

8.3.3.7 Stack Gas Moisture Determination. If the moisture basis of the measurements made with this method (dry) is different from the moisture basis of either: (1) the applicable emission limit; or (2) a Hg CEMS being evaluated for relative accuracy, you must determine the moisture content of the flue gas and correct for moisture using Method 4 in appendix A-3 to this part. If correction of the measured Hg concentrations for moisture is required, at least one Method 4 moisture determination shall be made during each test run.
