
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.,

8.3.3.8 Sample Handling, Preservation, Storage, and Transport. While the performance criteria of this approach provides for verification of appropriate sample handling, it is still important that the user consider, determine and plan for suitable sample preservation, storage, transport, and holding times for these measurements. Therefore, procedures in ASTM D6911-15 "Standard Guide for Packaging and Shipping Environmental Samples for Laboratory Analysis" (incorporated by reference-see 40 CFR 60.17) shall be followed for all samples, where appropriate. To avoid Hg contamination of the samples, special attention should be paid to cleanliness during transport, field handling, sampling, recovery, and laboratory analysis, as well as during preparation of the sorbent cartridges. Collection and analysis of blank samples (reagent, sorbent, field, etc.) is useful in verifying the absence or source of contaminant Hg.

8.3.3.9 Sample Custody. Proper procedures and documentation for sample chain of custody are critical to ensuring data integrity. The chain of custody procedures in ASTM D4840-99 "Standard Guide for Sampling Chain-of-Custody Procedures" shall be followed for all samples (including field samples and blanks).

Table 9-1 summarizes the QA/QC performance criteria that are used to validate the Hg emissions data from Method 30B sorbent trap measurement systems.

10.1 Only NIST-certified and NIST-traceable calibration standards (i.e., calibration gases, solutions, etc.) shall be used for the spiking and analytical procedures in this method.

10.2 Gas Flow Meter Calibration.

10.2.1 Preliminaries. The manufacturer or equipment supplier of the gas flow meter should perform all necessary set-up, testing, programming, etc., and should provide the end user with any necessary instructions, to ensure that the meter will give an accurate readout of dry gas volume in standard cubic meters for this method.
