
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### i.e.

11.3 Field Sample Analyses. Analyze the sorbent trap samples following the same procedures that were used for conducting the Hgand HgClanalytical bias tests. The individual sections of the sorbent trap and their respective components must be analyzed separately (, section 1 and its components, then section 2 and its components). All sorbent trap section 1 sample analyses must be within the calibrated range of the analytical system as specified in Table 9-1. For wet analyses, the sample can simply be diluted to fall within the calibrated range. However, for the destructive thermal analyses, samples that are not within the calibrated range cannot be re-analyzed. As a result, the sample cannot be validated, and another sample must be collected. It is strongly suggested that the analytical system be calibrated over multiple ranges so that thermally analyzed samples fall within the calibrated range. The total mass of Hg measured in each sorbent trap section 1 must also fall within the lower and upper mass limits established during the initial Hgand HgClanalytical bias test. If a sample is analyzed and found to fall outside of these limits, it is acceptable for an additional Hgand HgClanalytical bias test to be performed that now includes this level. However, some samples (e.g., the mass collected in trap section 2), may have Hg levels so low that it may not be possible to quantify them in the analytical system's calibrated range. Because a reliable estimate of these low-level Hg measurements is necessary to fully validate the emissions data, the MDL (see section 8.2.2.1 of this method) is used to establish the minimum amount that can be detected and reported. If the measured mass or concentration is below the lowest point in the calibration curve and above the MDL, the analyst must estimate the mass or concentration of the sample based on the analytical instrument response relative to an additional calibration standard at a concentration or mass between the MDL and the lowest point in the calibration curve. This is accomplished by establishing a response factor (e.g., area counts per Hg mass or concentration) and estimating the amount of Hg present in the sample based on the analytical response and this response factor.

11.4 Analysis of Continuing Calibration Verification Standard (CCVS). After no more than 10 samples and at the end of each set of analyses, a continuing calibration verification standard must be analyzed. The measured value of the continuing calibration standard must be within +/-10 percent of the expected value.

11.5 Blanks. The analysis of blanks is optional. The analysis of blanks is useful to verify the absence of, or an acceptable level of, Hg contamination. Blank levels should be considered when quantifying low Hg levels and their potential contribution to meeting the sorbent trap section 2 breakthrough requirements; however, correcting sorbent trap results for blank levels is prohibited.

You must follow the procedures for calculation and data analysis listed in this section.

12.1 Nomenclature. The terms used in the equations are defined as follows:

12.2 Calculation of Spike Recovery (Analytical Bias Test). Calculate the percent recovery of Hgand HgClusing Equation 30B-1.

12.3 Calculation of Breakthrough. Use Equation 30B-2 to calculate the percent breakthrough to the second section of the sorbent trap.

12.4 Calculation of Hg Concentration. Calculate the Hg concentration measured with sorbent trap "a", using Equation 30B-3.

For sorbent trap "b", replace "C" with "C" in Equation 30B-3. Report the average concentration, i.e.,(C+ C).

12.5 Moisture Correction. Use Equation 30B-4 if your measurements need to be corrected to a wet basis.

12.6 Calculation of Paired Trap Agreement. Calculate the relative deviation (RD) between the Hg concentrations measured with the paired sorbent traps using Equation 30B-5.

12.7 Calculation of Measured Spike Hg Concentration (Field Recovery Test). Calculate the measured spike concentration using Equation 30B-6.

Then calculate the spiked Hg recovery, R, using Equation 30B-7.

How do I validate my data? Measurement data are validated using initial, one-time laboratory tests coupled with test program-specific tests and procedures. The analytical matrix interference test and the Hgand HgClanalytical bias test described in section 8.2 are used to verify the appropriateness of the selected analytical approach(es) as well as define the valid working ranges for sample analysis. The field recovery test serves to verify the performance of the combined sampling and analysis as applied for each test program. Field test samples are validated by meeting the above requirements as well as meeting specific sampling requirements (i.e., leak checks, paired train agreement, total sample volume agreement with field recovery test samples) and analytical requirements (i.e., valid calibration curve, continuing calibration performance, sample results within calibration curve and bounds of Hgand HgClanalytical bias test). Complete data validation requirements are summarized in Table 9-1.
