
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### http://www.epa.gov/ttn/emc.

6.2 Gaseous HgSorbent Trap Spiking System. A known mass of gaseous Hgmust be either present on or spiked onto the first section of sorbent traps in order to perform the Hgand HgClanalytical bias test and the field recovery study. Any approach capable of quantitatively delivering known masses of Hgonto sorbent traps is acceptable. Several spiking technologies or devices are available to meet this objective. Their practicality is a function of Hg mass spike levels. For low levels, NIST-certified or NIST-traceable gas generators or tanks may be suitable. An alternative system, capable of delivering almost any mass required, makes use of NIST-certified or NIST-traceable Hg salt solutions (e.g., HgCl, Hg(NO)). With this system, an aliquot of known volume and concentration is added to a reaction vessel containing a reducing agent (e.g., stannous chloride); the Hg salt solution is reduced to Hgand purged onto the sorbent trap using an impinger sparging system. When available, information on example spiking systems will be posted at

6.3 Sample Analysis Equipment. Any analytical system capable of quantitatively recovering and quantifying total Hg from the sorbent media selected is acceptable provided that the analysis can meet the performance criteria described in this method. Example recovery techniques include acid leaching, digestion, and thermal desorption/direct combustion. Example analytical techniques include, but are not limited to, ultraviolet atomic fluorescence (UV AF), ultraviolet atomic absorption (UV AA) with and without gold trapping, and X-ray fluorescence (XRF) analysis.

6.3 Moisture Measurement System. If correction of the measured Hg emissions for moisture is required (see section 8.3.3.7), either Method 4 in Appendix A-3 to this part or other moisture measurement methods approved by the Administrator will be needed to measure stack gas moisture content.

7.1 Reagents and Standards. Only NIST-certified or NIST-traceable calibration standards, standard reference materials, and reagents shall be used for the tests and procedures required by this method.

7.2 Sorbent Trap Media. The sorbent trap media shall be prepared such that the material used for testing is of known and acceptable quality. Sorbent supplier quality assurance/quality control measures to ensure appropriate and consistent performance such as sorptive capacity, uniformity of preparation treatments, and background levels shall be considered.

This section presents the sample collection and handling procedures along with the pretest and on-site performance tests required by this method. Since you may choose different options to comply with certain performance criteria, each test report must identify the specific options selected and document the results with respect to the performance criteria of this method.

8.1 Selection of Sampling Sites and Sampling Points. What sampling site and sampling points do I select? Same as section 8.1 of Method 30A of this appendix.

8.2 Measurement System Performance Tests. What performance criteria must my measurement system meet? The following laboratory and field procedures and associated criteria of this section are designed to ensure (1) selection of a sorbent and analytical technique combination capable of quantitative collection and analysis of gaseous Hg, (2) collection of an adequate amount of Hg on each sorbent trap during field tests, and (3) adequate performance of the method for each test program: The primary objectives of these performance tests are to characterize and verify the performance of your intended analytical system and associated sampling and analytical procedures, and to define the minimum amount of Hg (as the sample collection target) that can be quantified reliably.

(a) Analytical Matrix Interference Test;

(b) Determination of Minimum Sample Mass;

(c) Hgand HgClAnalytical Bias Test;

(d) Determination of Nominal Sample Volume;

(e) Field Recovery Test.

8.2.1 Analytical Matrix Interference Test and Minimum Sample Dilution.

(a) The analytical matrix interference test is a laboratory procedure. It is required only if you elect to use a liquid digestion analytical approach and needs to be performed only once for each sorbent material used. The purpose of the test is to verify the presence or absence of known and potential analytical matrix interferences, including the potential negative bias associated with iodine common to many sorbent trap materials. The analytical matrix interference test determines the minimum dilution (if any) necessary to mitigate matrix effects on the sample digestate solutions.

(b) The result of the analytical matrix interference test, i.e., the minimum sample dilution required (if any) for all sample analyses, is used to establish the minimum sample mass needed for the Hgand HgClanalytical bias test and to determine the nominal sample volume for a test run. The analytical matrix interference test is sorbent material-specific and shall be performed for each sorbent material you intend to use for field sampling and analysis. The test shall be performed using a mass of sorbent material comparable to the sorbent mass typically used in the first section of the trap for sampling. Similar sorbent materials from different sources of supply are considered to be different materials and must be tested individually. You must conduct the analytical matrix interference test for each sorbent material prior to the analysis of field samples.

8.2.1.1 Analytical Matrix Interference Test Procedures. Digest and prepare for analysis a representative mass of sorbent material (unsampled) according to your intended laboratory techniques for field samples. Analyze the digestate according to your intended analytical conditions at the least diluted level you intend to use for sample analysis (e.g., undiluted, 1 in 10 dilution, etc.). Determine the Hg concentration of the undiluted digestate solution. Prepare a series of solutions with a fixed final volume containing graduated aliquots of the sample digestate and, a fixed aliquot of a calibration standard (with the balance being Hg-free reagent or H0) to establish solutions of varied digestate dilution ratio (e.g., 1:2, 1:5, 1:10, 1:100, etc.-see example in section 8.2.1.3, below). One of these solutions should contain only the aliquot of the calibration standard in Hg-free reagent or HO. This will result in a series of solutions where the amount of Hg is held relatively constant and only the volume of digestate diluted is varied. Analyze each of these solutions following intended sample analytical procedures and conditions, determining the concentration for each solution.

8.2.1.2 Analytical Matrix Interference Test Acceptance Criteria. Compare the measured concentration of each solution containing digestate to the measured concentration of the digestate-free solution. The lowest dilution ratio of any solution having a Hg concentration within +/-5 percent of the digestate-free solution is the minimum dilution ratio required for analysis of all samples. If you desire to measure the digestate without dilution, the +/-5 percent criterion must be met at a dilution ratio of at least 9:10 (i.e., ≥90% digestate).
