
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix A-8 to Part 60 - Test Methods 26 through 30B
###### e.g.

10.2.2 Initial Calibration. Prior to its initial use, a calibration of the gas flow meter shall be performed. The initial calibration may be done by the manufacturer, by the equipment supplier, or by the end user. If the flow meter is volumetric in nature (, a dry gas meter), the manufacturer or end user may perform a direct volumetric calibration using any gas. For a mass flow meter, the manufacturer, equipment supplier, or end user may calibrate the meter using either: (1) A bottled gas mixture containing 12 +/-0.5% CO, 7 +/-0.5% O, and balance N(when this method is applied to coal-fired boilers); (2) a bottled gas mixture containing CO, O, and Nin proportions representative of the expected stack gas composition; or (3) the actual stack gas.

10.2.2.1 Initial Calibration Procedures. Determine an average calibration factor (Y) for the gas flow meter by calibrating it at three sample flow rate settings covering the range of sample flow rates at which the sampling system will be operated. You may either follow the procedures in section 10.3.1 of Method 5 in appendix A-3 to this part or in section 16 of Method 5 in appendix A-3 to this part. If a dry gas meter is being calibrated, use at least five revolutions of the meter at each flow rate.

10.2.2.2 Alternative Initial Calibration Procedures. Alternatively, you may perform the initial calibration of the gas flow meter using a reference gas flow meter (RGFM). The RGFM may be: (1) A wet test meter calibrated according to section 10.3.1 of Method 5 in appendix A-3 to this part; (2) a gas flow metering device calibrated at multiple flow rates using the procedures in section 16 of Method 5 in appendix A-3 to this part; or (3) a NIST-traceable calibration device capable of measuring volumetric flow to an accuracy of 1 percent. To calibrate the gas flow meter using the RGFM, proceed as follows: While the Method 30B sampling system is sampling the actual stack gas or a compressed gas mixture that simulates the stack gas composition (as applicable), connect the RGFM to the discharge of the system. Care should be taken to minimize the dead volume between the gas flow meter being tested and the RGFM. Concurrently measure dry stack gas volume with the RGFM and the flow meter being calibrated for at least 10 minutes at each of three flow rates covering the typical range of operation of the sampling system. For each set of concurrent measurements, record the total sample volume, in units of dry standard cubic meters (dscm), measured by the RGFM and the gas flow meter being tested.

10.2.2.3 Initial Calibration Factor. Calculate an individual calibration factor Yat each tested flow rate from section 10.2.2.1 or 10.2.2.2 of this method (as applicable) by taking the ratio of the reference sample volume to the sample volume recorded by the gas flow meter. Average the three Yvalues, to determine Y, the calibration factor for the flow meter. Each of the three individual values of Ymust be within +/-0.02 of Y. Except as otherwise provided in sections 10.2.2.4 and 10.2.2.5 of this method, use the average Y value from the initial 3-point calibration to adjust subsequent gas volume measurements made with the gas flow meter.

10.2.2.4 Pretest On-Site Calibration Check (Optional). For a mass flow meter, if the most recent 3-point calibration of the flow meter was performed using a compressed gas mixture, you may want to conduct the following on-site calibration check prior to testing, to ensure that the flow meter will accurately measure the volume of the stack gas: While sampling stack gas, check the calibration of the flow meter at one intermediate flow rate setting representative of normal operation of the sampling system. If the pretest calibration check shows that the value of Y, the calibration factor at the tested flow rate, differs from the current value of Y by more than 5 percent, perform a full 3-point recalibration of the meter using stack gas to determine a new value of Y, and (except as otherwise provided in section 10.2.2.5 of this method) apply the new Y value to the data recorded during the field test.

10.2.2.5 Post-Test Calibration Check. Check the calibration of the gas flow meter following each field test at one intermediate flow rate setting, either at, or in close proximity to, the average sample flow rate during the field test. For dry gas meters, ensure at least three revolutions of the meter during the calibration check. For mass flow meters, this check must be performed before leaving the test site, while sampling stack gas. If a one-point calibration check shows that the value of Yat the tested flow rate differs by more than 5 percent from the current value of Y, repeat the full 3-point calibration procedure to determine a new value of Y, and apply the new Y value to the gas volume measurements made with the gas flow meter during the field test that was just completed. For mass flow meters, perform the 3-point recalibration while sampling stack gas.

10.3 Thermocouples and Other Temperature Sensors. Use the procedures and criteria in Section 10.3 of Method 2 in appendix A-1 to this part to calibrate in-stack temperature sensors and thermocouples. Dial thermometers shall be calibrated against mercury-in-glass thermometers or equivalent. Calibrations must be performed prior to initial use and before each field test thereafter. At each calibration point, the absolute temperature measured by the temperature sensor must agree to within +/-1.5 percent of the temperature measured with the reference sensor, otherwise the sensor may not continue to be used.

10.4 Barometer. Calibrate against a mercury barometer or other NIST-traceable barometer as per Section 10.6 of Method 5 in appendix A-3 to this part. Calibration must be performed prior to initial use and before each test program, and the absolute pressure measured by the barometer must agree to within +/-10 mm Hg of the pressure measured by the mercury or other NIST-traceable barometer, otherwise the barometer may not continue to be used.

10.5 Other Sensors and Gauges. Calibrate all other sensors and gauges according to the procedures specified by the instrument manufacturer(s).

10.6 Analytical System Calibration. See section 11.1 of this method.
