
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

(iii) Alternative Locations and Light Beam Paths. You may select locations and light beam paths, other than those cited above, if you demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Administrator or delegated agent, that the average opacity measured at the alternative location or path is equivalent to the opacity as measured at a location meeting the criteria of sections 8.1(2)(i) and 8.1(2)(ii). The opacity at the alternative location is considered equivalent if (1) the average opacity value measured at the alternative location is within +/-10 percent of the average opacity value measured at the location meeting the installation criteria, and (2) the difference between any two average opacity values is less than 2 percent opacity (absolute). You use the following procedure to conduct this demonstration: simultaneously measure the opacities at the two locations or paths for a minimum period of time (180-minutes) covering the range of normal operating conditions and compare the results. The opacities of the two locations or paths may be measured at different times, but must represent the same process operating conditions. You may use alternative procedures for determining acceptable locations if those procedures are approved by the Administrator.

(3) Field Audit Performance Tests. After you install the COMS, you must perform the following procedures and tests on the COMS.

(i) Optical Alignment Assessment. Verify and record that all alignment indicator devices show proper alignment. A clear indication of alignment is one that is objectively apparent relative to reference marks or conditions.

(ii) Calibration Error Check. Conduct a three-point calibration error test using three calibration attenuators that produce outlet pathlength corrected, single-pass opacity values shown in ASTM D6216-12, section 7.5. If your applicable limit is less than 10 percent opacity, use attenuators as described in ASTM D6216-12, section 7.5 for applicable standards of 10 to 19 percent opacity. Confirm the external audit device produces the proper zero value on the COMS data recorder. Separately, insert each calibration attenuators (low, mid, and high-level) into the external audit device. While inserting each attenuator, (1) ensure that the entire light beam passes through the attenuator, (2) minimize interference from reflected light, and (3) leave the attenuator in place for at least two times the shortest recording interval on the COMS data recorder. Make a total of five nonconsecutive readings for each attenuator. At the end of the test, correlate each attenuator insertion to the corresponding value from the data recorder. Subtract the single-pass calibration attenuator values corrected to the stack exit conditions from the COMS responses. Calculate the arithmetic mean difference, standard deviation, and confidence coefficient of the five measurements value using equations 1-3, 1-4, and 1-5. Calculate the calibration error as the sum of the absolute value of the mean difference and the 95 percent confidence coefficient for each of the three test attenuators using equation 1-6. Report the calibration error test results for each of the three attenuators.

(iii) System Response Time Check. Using a high-level calibration attenuator, alternately insert the filter five times and remove it from the external audit device. For each filter insertion and removal, measure the amount of time required for the COMS to display 95 percent of the step change in opacity on the COMS data recorder. For the upscale response time, measure the time from insertion to display of 95 percent of the final, steady upscale reading. For the downscale response time, measure the time from removal to display 5 percent of the initial upscale reading. Calculate the mean of the five upscale response time measurements and the mean of the five downscale response time measurements. Report both the upscale and downscale response times.

(iv) Averaging Period Calculation and Recording Check. After the calibration error check, conduct a check of the averaging period calculation (e.g., 6-minute integrated average). Consecutively insert each of the calibration error check attenuators (low, mid, and high-level) into the external audit device for a period of two times the averaging period plus 1 minute (e.g., 13 minutes for a 6-minute averaging period). Compare the path length corrected opacity value of each attenuator to the valid average value calculated by the COMS data recording device for that attenuator.
