
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### i.e.,

(4) Operational Test Period. Before conducting the operational testing, you must have successfully completed the field audit tests described in sections 8.1(3)(i) through 8.1(3)(iv). Then, you operate the COMS for an initial 168-hour test period while the source is operating under normal operating conditions. If normal operations contain routine source shutdowns, include the source's down periods in the 168-hour operational test period. However, you must ensure that the following minimum source operating time is included in the operational test period: (1) For a batch operation, the operational test period must include at least one full cycle of batch operation during the 168-hour period unless the batch operation is longer than 168 hours or (2) for continuous operating processes, the unit must be operating for at least 50 percent of the 168-hour period. Except during times of instrument zero and upscale calibration drift checks, you must analyze the effluent gas for opacity and produce a permanent record of the COMS output. During this period, you may not perform unscheduled maintenance, repair, or adjustment to the COMS. Automatic zero and calibration adjustments (intrinsic adjustments), made by the COMS without operator intervention or initiation, are allowable at any time. At the end of the operational test period, verify and record that the COMS optical alignment is still correct. If the test period is interrupted because of COMS failure, record the time when the failure occurred. After the failure is corrected, you restart the 168-hour period and tests from the beginning (0-hour). During the operational test period, perform the following test procedures:

(i) Zero Calibration Drift Test. At the outset of the 168-hour operational test period and at each 24-hour interval, the automatic calibration check system must initiate the simulated zero device to allow the zero drift to be determined. Record the COMS response to the simulated zero device. After each 24-hour period, subtract the COMS zero reading from the nominal value of the simulated zero device to calculate the 24-hour zero drift (ZD). At the end of the 168-hour period, calculate the arithmetic mean, standard deviation, and confidence coefficient of the 24-hour ZDs using equations 1-3, 1-4, and 1-5. Calculate the sum of the absolute value of the mean and the absolute value of the confidence coefficient using equation 1-6, and report this value as the 24-hour ZD error.

(ii) Upscale Calibration Drift Test. At each 24-hour interval after the simulated zero device value has been checked, check and record the COMS response to the upscale calibration device. After each 24-hour period, subtract the COMS upscale reading from the nominal value of the upscale calibration device to calculate the 24-hour calibration drift (CD). At the end of the 168-hour period, calculate the arithmetic mean, standard deviation, and confidence coefficient of the 24-hour CD using equations 1-3, 1-4, and 1-5. Calculate the sum of the absolute value of the mean and the absolute value of the confidence coefficient using equation 1-6, and report this value as the 24-hour CD error.

(5) Retesting. If the COMS fails to meet the specifications for the tests conducted under the operational test period, make the necessary corrections and restart the operational test period. Depending on the opinion of the enforcing agency, you may have to repeat some or all of the field audit tests.

8.2 What are the responsibilities of the Opacity Monitor Manufacturer?

You, the manufacturer, must carry out the following activities:

(1) Conduct the verification procedures for design specifications in section 6 of ASTM D6216-12.

(2) Conduct the verification procedures for performance specifications in section 7 of ASTM D6216-12.

(3) Provide to the owner or operator, a report of the opacity monitor's conformance to the design and performance specifications required in sections 6 and 7 of ASTM D6216-12 in accordance with the reporting requirements of section 9 in ASTM D6216-12.

Opacity monitor manufacturers must initiate a quality program following the requirements of ASTM D6216-12, section 8. The quality program must include (1) a quality system and (2) a corrective action program.

12.1 Desired Attenuator Values. Calculate the desired attenuator value corrected to the emission outlet pathlength as follows:

12.2 Luminous Transmittance Value of a Filter. Calculate the luminous transmittance of a filter as follows:

12.3 Arithmetic Mean. Calculate the arithmetic mean of a data set as follows:

12.4 Standard Deviation. Calculate the standard deviation as follows:

12.5 Confidence Coefficient. Calculate the 2.5 percent error confidence coefficient (one-tailed) as follows:

12.6 Calibration Error. Calculate the error (calibration error, zero drift error, and calibration drift error) as follows:

12.7 Conversion of Opacity Values for Monitor Pathlength to Emission Outlet Pathlength. When the monitor pathlength is different from the emission outlet pathlength, use either of the following equations to convert from one basis to the other (this conversion may be automatically calculated by the monitoring system):



12.8 Mean Response Wavelength. Calculate the mean of the effective spectral response curve from the individual responses at the specified wavelength values as follows:

A COMS must meet the following design, manufacturer's performance, and field audit performance specifications:

If the initial certification of the opacity monitor occurred before November 14, 2018 using D6216-98, D6216-03, or D6216-07, it is not necessary to recertify using D6216-12.A. COMS must meet the following design, manufacturer's performance, and field audit performance specifications.

13.1 Design Specifications. The opacity monitoring equipment must comply with the design specifications of ASTM D6216-12.

13.2 Manufacturer's Performance Specifications. The opacity monitor must comply with the manufacturer's performance specifications of ASTM D6216-12.

13.3 Field Audit Performance Specifications. The installed COMS must comply with the following performance specifications:
