
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Span Value

3.11means the calibration portion of the measurement range as specified in the applicable regulation or other requirement. If the span is not specified in the applicable regulation or other requirement, then it must be a value approximately equivalent to two times the emission standard. For spans less than 500 ppm, the span value may either be rounded upward to the next highest multiple of 10 ppm, or to the next highest multiple of 100 ppm such that the equivalent emission concentration is not less than 30 percent of the selected span value.

The procedures required under this performance specification may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This performance specification may not address all of the safety problems associated with these procedures. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicable regulatory limitations prior to performing these procedures. The CEMS user's manual and materials recommended by the reference method should be consulted for specific precautions to be taken.

6.1 CEMS Equipment Specifications.

6.1.1 Data Recorder. The portion of the CEMS that provides a record of analyzer output. The data recorder may record other pertinent data such as effluent flow rates, various instrument temperatures or abnormal CEMS operation. The data recorder output range must include the full range of expected concentration values in the gas stream to be sampled including zero and span values.

6.1.2 The CEMS design should also allow the determination of calibration drift at the zero and span values. If this is not possible or practical, the design must allow these determinations to be conducted at a low-level value (zero to 20 percent of the span value) and at a value between 50 and 100 percent of the span value. In special cases, the Administrator may approve a single-point calibration drift determination.

6.2 Other equipment and supplies, as needed by the applicable reference method(s) (see section 8.4.2 of this Performance Specification), may be required.

7.1 Reference Gases, Gas Cells, or Optical Filters. As specified by the CEMS manufacturer for calibration of the CEMS (these need not be certified).

7.2 Reagents and Standards. May be required as needed by the applicable reference method(s) (see section 8.4.2 of this Performance Specification).

8.1 Installation and Measurement Location Specifications.

8.1.1 CEMS Installation. Install the CEMS at an accessible location where the pollutant concentration or emission rate measurements are directly representative or can be corrected so as to be representative of the total emissions from the affected facility or at the measurement location cross section. Then select representative measurement points or paths for monitoring in locations that the CEMS will pass the RA test (see section 8.4). If the cause of failure to meet the RA test is determined to be the measurement location and a satisfactory correction technique cannot be established, the Administrator may require the CEMS to be relocated. Suggested measurement locations and points or paths that are most likely to provide data that will meet the RA requirements are listed below.

8.1.2 CEMS Measurement Location. It is suggested that the measurement location be (1) at least two equivalent diameters downstream from the nearest control device, the point of pollutant generation, or other point at which a change in the pollutant concentration or emission rate may occur and (2) at least a half equivalent diameter upstream from the effluent exhaust or control device.

8.1.2.1 Point CEMS. It is suggested that the measurement point be (1) no less than 1.0 meter (3.3 ft) from the stack or duct wall or (2) within or centrally located over the centroidal area of the stack or duct cross section.

8.1.2.2 Path CEMS. It is suggested that the effective measurement path (1) be totally within the inner area bounded by a line 1.0 meter (3.3 ft) from the stack or duct wall, or (2) have at least 70 percent of the path within the inner 50 percent of the stack or duct cross-sectional area, or (3) be centrally located over any part of the centroidal area.

8.1.3 Reference Method Measurement Location and Traverse Points.
