
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### CD Test Period.

8.3.1While the affected facility is operating, determine the magnitude of the CD once each day (at 24-hour intervals) for 7 consecutive calendar days according to the procedure given in sections 8.3.2 through 8.3.4. Alternatively, the CD test may be conducted over 7 consecutive unit operating days.

8.3.2 The purpose of the CD measurement is to verify the ability of the CEMS to conform to the established CEMS calibration used for determining the emission concentration or emission rate. Therefore, if periodic automatic or manual adjustments are made to the CEMS zero and calibration settings, conduct the CD test immediately before these adjustments, or conduct it in such a way that the CD can be determined.

8.3.3 Conduct the CD test at the two points specified in section 6.1.2. Introduce to the CEMS the reference gases, gas cells, or optical filters (these need not be certified). Record the CEMS response and subtract this value from the reference value (see example data sheet in Figure 2-1).

8.4 Relative Accuracy Test Procedure.

8.4.1 RA Test Period. Conduct the RA test according to the procedure given in sections 8.4.2 through 8.4.6 while the affected facility is operating at more than 50 percent of normal load, or as specified in an applicable subpart. The RA test may be conducted during the CD test period.

8.4.2 Reference Methods. Unless otherwise specified in an applicable subpart of the regulations, Methods 3B, 4, 6, and 7, or their approved alternatives, are the reference methods for diluent (Oand CO), moisture, SO, and NO, respectively.

8.4.3 Sampling Strategy for RM Tests. Conduct the RM tests in such a way that they will yield results representative of the emissions from the source and can be correlated to the CEMS data. It is preferable to conduct the diluent (if applicable), moisture (if needed), and pollutant measurements simultaneously. However, diluent and moisture measurements that are taken within an hour of the pollutant measurements may be used to calculate dry pollutant concentration and emission rates. In order to correlate the CEMS and RM data properly, note the beginning and end of each RM test period of each run (including the exact time of day) on the CEMS chart recordings or other permanent record of output. Use the following strategies for the RM tests:
