
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### i.e.,

8.1.3.2 Select traverse points that assure acquisition of representative samples over the stack or duct cross section. The minimum requirements are as follows: Establish a "measurement line" that passes through the centroidal area and in the direction of any expected stratification. If this line interferes with the CEMS measurements, displace the line up to 30 cm (12 in.) (or 5 percent of the equivalent diameter of the cross section, whichever is less) from the centroidal area. Locate three traverse points at 16.7, 50.0, and 83.3 percent of the measurement line. If the measurement line is longer than 2.4 meters (7.8 ft) and pollutant stratification is not expected, the three traverse points may be located on the line at 0.4, 1.2, and 2.0 meters from the stack or duct wall. This option must not be used after wet scrubbers or at points where two streams with different pollutant concentrations are combined. If stratification is suspected, the following procedure is suggested. For rectangular ducts, locate at least nine sample points in the cross section such that sample points are the centroids of similarly-shaped, equal area divisions of the cross section. Measure the pollutant concentration, and, if applicable, the diluent concentration at each point using appropriate reference methods or other appropriate instrument methods that give responses relative to pollutant concentrations. Then calculate the mean value for all sample points. For circular ducts, conduct a 12-point traverse (six points on each of the two perpendicular diameters) locating the sample points as described in 40 CFR 60, Appendix A, Method 1. Perform the measurements and calculations as described above. Determine if the mean pollutant concentration is more than 10% different from any single point. If so, the cross section is considered to be stratified, and the tester may not use the alternative traverse point locations (...0.4, 1.2, and 2.0 meters from the stack or duct wall.) but must use the three traverse points at 16.7, 50.0, and 83.3 percent of the entire measurement line. Other traverse points may be selected, provided that they can be shown to the satisfaction of the Administrator to provide a representative sample over the stack or duct cross section. Conduct all necessary RM tests within 3 cm (1.2 in.) of the traverse points, but no closer than 3 cm (1.2 in.) to the stack or duct wall.

8.2 Pretest Preparation. Install the CEMS, prepare the RM test site according to the specifications in section 8.1, and prepare the CEMS for operation according to the manufacturer's written instructions.

8.3 Calibration Drift Test Procedure.
