
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

8.4.3.2 For grab samples (Method 7), take one sample at each traverse point, scheduling the grab samples so that they are taken simultaneously (within a 3-minute period) or at an equal interval of time apart over the span of time the CEM pollutant is measured. A test run for grab samples must be made up of at least three separate measurements.

8.4.4 Number of RM Tests. Conduct a minimum of nine sets of all necessary RM test runs.

8.4.5 Correlation of RM and CEMS Data. Correlate the CEMS and the RM test data as to the time and duration by first determining from the CEMS final output (the one used for reporting) the integrated average pollutant concentration or emission rate for each pollutant RM test period. Consider system response time, if important, and confirm that the pair of results are on a consistent moisture, temperature, and diluent concentration basis. Then, compare each integrated CEMS value against the corresponding average RM value. Use the following guidelines to make these comparisons.

8.4.5.1 If the RM has an integrated sampling technique, make a direct comparison of the RM results and CEMS integrated average value.

8.4.5.2 If the RM has a grab sampling technique, first average the results from all grab samples taken during the test run, and then compare this average value against the integrated value obtained from the CEMS chart recording or output during the run. If the pollutant concentration is varying with time over the run, the arithmetic average of the CEMS value recorded at the time of each grab sample may be used.

8.4.6 Calculate the mean difference between the RM and CEMS values in the units of the emission standard, the standard deviation, the confidence coefficient, and the relative accuracy according to the procedures in section 12.0.

8.5 Reporting. At a minimum (check with the appropriate regional office, State, or Local agency for additional requirements, if any), summarize in tabular form the results of the CD tests and the RA tests or alternative RA procedure, as appropriate. Include all data sheets, calculations, charts (records of CEMS responses), cylinder gas concentration certifications, and calibration cell response certifications (if applicable) necessary to confirm that the performance of the CEMS met the performance specifications.

Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this Performance Specification (see section 8.0). Refer to the RM for specific analytical procedures.

Summarize the results on a data sheet similar to that shown in Figure 2-2 (in section 18.0).

12.1 All data from the RM and CEMS must be on a consistent dry basis and, as applicable, on a consistent diluent basis and in the units of the emission standard. Correct the RM and CEMS data for moisture and diluent as follows:

12.1.1 Moisture Correction (as applicable). Correct each wet RM run for moisture with the corresponding Method 4 data; correct each wet CEMS run using the corresponding CEMS moisture monitor date using Equation 2-1.

12.1.2 Correction to Units of Standard (as applicable). Correct each dry RM run to the units of the emission standard with the corresponding Method 3B data; correct each dry CEMS run using the corresponding CEMS diluent monitor data as follows:

12.1.2.1 Correct to Diluent Basis. The following is an example of concentration (ppm) correction to 7% oxygen.

The following is an example of mass/gross calorific value (lbs/million Btu) correction.

12.2 Arithmetic Mean. Calculate the arithmetic mean of the difference, d, of a data set as follows:

12.3 Standard Deviation. Calculate the standard deviation, S, as follows:

12.4 Confidence Coefficient. Calculate the 2.5 percent error confidence coefficient (one-tailed), CC, as follows:

12.5 Relative Accuracy. Calculate the RA of a set of data as follows:

13.1 Calibration Drift Performance Specification. The CEMS calibration must not drift or deviate from the reference value of the gas cylinder, gas cell, or optical filter by more than 2.5 percent of the span value. If the CEMS includes pollutant and diluent monitors, the CD must be determined separately for each in terms of concentrations (See Performance Specification 3 for the diluent specifications), and none of the CDs may exceed the specification.

13.2 Relative Accuracy Performance Specification.

13.3 For instruments that use common components to measure more than one effluent gas constituent, all channels must simultaneously pass the RA requirement, unless it can be demonstrated that any adjustments made to one channel did not affect the others.

Paragraphs 60.13(j)(1) and (2) of 40 CFR part 60 contain criteria for which the reference method procedure for determining relative accuracy (see section 8.4 of this Performance Specification) may be waived and the following procedure substituted.

16.1 Conduct a complete CEMS status check following the manufacturer's written instructions. The check should include operation of the light source, signal receiver, timing mechanism functions, data acquisition and data reduction functions, data recorders, mechanically operated functions (mirror movements, zero pipe operation, calibration gas valve operations, etc.), sample filters, sample line heaters, moisture traps, and other related functions of the CEMS, as applicable. All parts of the CEMS shall be functioning properly before proceeding to the alternative RA procedure.

16.2 Alternative RA Procedure.

16.2.1 Challenge each monitor (both pollutant and diluent, if applicable) with cylinder gases of known concentrations or calibration cells that produce known responses at two measurement points within the ranges shown in Table 2-2 (Section 18).

16.2.2 Use a separate cylinder gas (for point CEMS only) or calibration cell (for path CEMS or where compressed gas cylinders can not be used) for measurement points 1 and 2. Challenge the CEMS and record the responses three times at each measurement point. The Administrator may allow dilution of cylinder gas using the performance criteria in Test Method 205, 40 CFR Part 51, Appendix M. Use the average of the three responses in determining relative accuracy.

16.2.3 Operate each monitor in its normal sampling mode as nearly as possible. When using cylinder gases, pass the cylinder gas through all filters, scrubbers, conditioners, and other monitor components used during normal sampling and as much of the sampling probe as practical. When using calibration cells, the CEMS components used in the normal sampling mode should not be by-passed during the RA determination. These include light sources, lenses, detectors, and reference cells. The CEMS should be challenged at each measurement point for a sufficient period of time to assure adsorption-desorption reactions on the CEMS surfaces have stabilized.

16.2.4 Use cylinder gases that have been certified by comparison to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) gaseous standard reference material (SRM) or NIST/EPA approved gas manufacturer's certified reference material (CRM) (See Reference 2 in section 17.0) following EPA Traceability Protocol Number 1 (See Reference 3 in section 17.0). As an alternative to Protocol Number 1 gases, CRM's may be used directly as alternative RA cylinder gases. A list of gas manufacturers that have prepared approved CRM's is available from EPA at the address shown in Reference 2. Procedures for preparation of CRM's are described in Reference 2.

16.2.5 Use calibration cells certified by the manufacturer to produce a known response in the CEMS. The cell certification procedure shall include determination of CEMS response produced by the calibration cell in direct comparison with measurement of gases of known concentration. This can be accomplished using SRM or CRM gases in a laboratory source simulator or through extended tests using reference methods at the CEMS location in the exhaust stack. These procedures are discussed in Reference 4 in section 17.0. The calibration cell certification procedure is subject to approval of the Administrator.

16.3 The differences between the known concentrations of the cylinder gases and the concentrations indicated by the CEMS are used to assess the accuracy of the CEMS. The calculations and limits of acceptable relative accuracy are as follows:

16.3.1 For pollutant CEMS:

16.3.2 For diluent CEMS:

1. Department of Commerce. Experimental Statistics. Handbook 91. Washington, D.C. p. 3-31, paragraphs 3-3.1.4.

2. "A Procedure for Establishing Traceability of Gas Mixtures to Certain National Bureau of Standards Standard Reference Materials." Joint publication by NBS and EPA. EPA 600/7-81-010. Available from U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Quality Assurance Division (MD-77), Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711.

3. "Traceability Protocol for Establishing True Concentrations of Gases Used for Calibration and Audits of Continuous Source Emission Monitors. (Protocol Number 1)." June 1978. Protocol Number 1 is included in the Quality Assurance Handbook for Air Pollution Measurement Systems, Volume III, Stationary Source Specific Methods. EPA-600/4-77-027b. August 1977.

4. "Gaseous Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems-Performance Specification Guidelines for SO, NO, CO, O, and TRS." EPA-450/3-82-026. Available from the U.S. EPA, Emission Measurement Center, Emission Monitoring and Data Analysis Division (MD-19), Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability.

1.2.1 This specification is for evaluating acceptability of Oand COcontinuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS) at the time of installation or soon after and whenever specified in an applicable subpart of the regulations. This specification applies to Oor COmonitors that are not included under Performance Specification 2 (PS 2).

1.2.2 This specification is not designed to evaluate the installed CEMS performance over an extended period of time, nor does it identify specific calibration techniques and other auxiliary procedures to assess the CEMS performance. The source owner or operator, is responsible to calibrate, maintain, and operate the CEMS properly. The Administrator may require, under section 114 of the Act, the operator to conduct CEMS performance evaluations at other times besides the initial test to evaluate the CEMS performance. See 40 CFR part 60, section 60.13(c).

1.2.3 The definitions, installation and measurement location specifications, calculations and data analysis, and references are the same as in PS 2, sections 3, 8.1, 12, and 17, respectively, and also apply to Oand COCEMS under this specification. The performance and equipment specifications and the relative accuracy (RA) test procedures for Oand COCEMS do not differ from those for SOand NOCEMS (see PS 2), except as noted below.

The RA and calibration drift (CD) tests are conducted to determine conformance of the CEMS to the specification.

Same as in section 3.0 of PS 2.

This performance specification may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This performance specification may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicable regulatory limitations prior to performing this performance specification. The CEMS users manual should be consulted for specific precautions to be taken with regard to the analytical procedures.

Same as section 6.0 of PS2.

Same as section 7.0 of PS2.

8.1 Relative Accuracy Test Procedure. Sampling Strategy for reference method (RM) Tests, Correlation of RM and CEMS Data, and Number of RM Tests. Same as PS 2, sections 8.4.3, 8.4.5, and 8.4.4, respectively.

8.2 Reference Method. Unless otherwise specified in an applicable subpart of the regulations, Method 3B or other approved alternative is the RM for Oor CO.

Sample collection and analyses are concurrent for this performance specification (see section 8). Refer to the RM for specific analytical procedures.

Calculate the RA using equations 3-1 and 3-2. Summarize the results on a data sheet similar to that shown in Figure 2.2 of PS2.

13.1 Calibration Drift Performance Specification. The CEMS calibration must not drift by more than 0.5 percent Oor COfrom the reference value of the gas, gas cell, or optical filter.

13.2 CEMS Relative Accuracy Performance Specification. The RA of the CEMS must be no greater than 20.0 percent of the mean value of the reference method (RM) data when calculated using equation 3-1. The results are also acceptable if the result of Equation 3-2 is less than or equal to 1.0 percent O(or CO).

Same as in section 17.0 of PS 2.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability.

1.2.1 This specification is for evaluating the acceptability of carbon monoxide (CO) continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS) at the time of installation or soon after and whenever specified in an applicable subpart of the regulations. This specification was developed primarily for CEMS having span values of 1,000 ppmv CO.

1.2.2 This specification is not designed to evaluate the installed CEMS performance over an extended period of time nor does it identify specific calibration techniques and other auxiliary procedures to assess CEMS performance. The source owner or operator, is responsible to calibrate, maintain, and operate the CEMS. The Administrator may require, under section 114 of the Act, the source owner or operator to conduct CEMS performance evaluations at other times besides the initial test to evaluate the CEMS performance. See 40 CFR part 60, section 60.13(c).

1.2.3 The definitions, performance specification test procedures, calculations, and data analysis procedures for determining calibration drift (CD) and relative accuracy (RA) of Performance Specification 2 (PS 2), sections 3, 8.0, and 12, respectively, apply to this specification.

The CD and RA tests are conducted to determine conformance of the CEMS to the specification.

Same as in section 3.0 of PS 2.

This performance specification may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This performance specification may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicable regulatory limitations prior to performing this performance specification. The CEMS users manual should be consulted for specific precautions to be taken with regard to the analytical procedures.

Same as section 6.0 of PS 2.

Same as section 7.0 of PS 2.

8.1 Relative Accuracy Test Procedure. Sampling Strategy for reference method (RM) Tests, Number of RM Tests, and Correlation of RM and CEMS Data are the same as PS 2, sections 8.4.3, 8.4.4, and 8.4.5, respectively.

8.2 Reference Methods. Unless otherwise specified in an applicable subpart of the regulation, Method 10, 10A, 10B or other approved alternative are the RM for this PS.

Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this performance specification (see section 8.0). Refer to the RM for specific analytical procedures.

Same as section 12.0 of PS 2.
