
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Stratification Test Procedure.

3.3Stratification is defined as the difference in excess of 10 percent between the average concentration in the duct or stack and the concentration at any point more than 1.0 meter from the duct or stack wall. To determine whether effluent stratification exists, a dual probe system should be used to determine the average effluent concentration while measurements at each traverse point are being made. One probe, located at the stack or duct centroid, is used as a stationary reference point to indicate change in the effluent concentration over time. The second probe is used for sampling at the traverse points specified in Method 1 (40 CFR part 60 appendix A). The monitoring system samples sequentially at the reference and traverse points throughout the testing period for five minutes at each point.

4.1 Data Recorder Scale. For O, same as specified in PS 3, except that the span must be 25 percent. The span of the Omay be higher if the Oconcentration at the sampling point can be greater than 25 percent. For CO, same as specified in PS 4A, except that the low-range span must be 200 ppm and the high range span must be 3000 ppm. In addition, the scale for both CEMS must record all readings within a measurement range with a resolution of 0.5 percent.
