
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Alternative RA Procedure.

7.3Under some operating conditions, it may not be possible to obtain meaningful results using the RA test procedure. This includes conditions where consistent, very low CO emission or low CO emissions interrupted periodically by short duration, high level spikes are observed. It may be appropriate in these circumstances to waive the RA test and substitute the following procedure.

Conduct a complete CEMS status check following the manufacturer's written instructions. The check should include operation of the light source, signal receiver, timing mechanism functions, data acquisition and data reduction functions, data recorders, mechanically operated functions, sample filters, sample line heaters, moisture traps, and other related functions of the CEMS, as applicable. All parts of the CEMS must be functioning properly before the RA requirement can be waived. The instrument must also successfully passed the CE and CD specifications. Substitution of the alternate procedure requires approval of the Regional Administrator.

8. Bibliography

1. 40 CFR Part 266, Appendix IX, section 2, "Performance Specifications for Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems."

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This specification is for evaluating the applicability of TRS continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS) at the time of installation or soon after and whenever specified in an applicable subpart of the regulations. The CEMS may include oxygen monitors which are subject to Performance Specification 3 (PS 3).

1.3 The definitions, performance specification, test procedures, calculations and data analysis procedures for determining calibration drifts (CD) and relative accuracy (RA) of PS 2, sections 3.0, 8.0, and 12.0, respectively, apply to this specification.

The CD and RA tests are conducted to determine conformance of the CEMS to the specification.

Same as in section 3.0 of PS 2.

This performance specification may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This performance specification may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicable regulatory limitations prior to performing this performance specification. The CEMS user's manual should be consulted for specific precautions to be taken with regard to the analytical procedures.

Same as section 6.0 of PS 2.

Same as section 7.0 of PS 2.

8.1 Relative Accuracy Test Procedure. Sampling Strategy for reference method (RM) Tests, Number of RM Tests, and Correlation of RM and CEMS Data are the same as PS 2, sections 8.4.3, 8.4.4, and 8.4.5, respectively.

8.2 Reference Methods. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable subpart of the regulations, Method 16, Method 16A, 16B or other approved alternative is the RM for TRS.

Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this performance specification (see section 8.0). Refer to the reference method for specific analytical procedures.

Same as section 12.0 of PS 2.

13.1 Calibration Drift. The CEMS detector calibration must not drift or deviate from the reference value of the calibration gas by more than 5 percent of the established span value for 6 out of 7 test days. This corresponds to 1.5 ppm drift for Subpart BB sources where the span value is 30 ppm. If the CEMS includes pollutant and diluent monitors, the CD must be determined separately for each in terms of concentrations (see PS 3 for the diluent specifications).

13.2 Relative Accuracy. The RA of the CEMS must be no greater than 20 percent when the average RM value is used to calculate RA or 10 percent when the applicable emission standard is used to calculate RA.

1. Department of Commerce. Experimental Statistics, National Bureau of Standards, Handbook 91. 1963. Paragraphs 3-3.1.4, p. 3-31.

2. A Guide to the Design, Maintenance and Operation of TRS Monitoring Systems. National Council for Air and Stream Improvement Technical Bulletin No. 89. September 1977.

3. Observation of Field Performance of TRS Monitors on a Kraft Recovery Furnace. National Council for Air and Stream Improvement Technical Bulletin No. 91. January 1978.

Same as section 18.0 of PS 2.

1.1 Applicability. This specification is used for evaluating the acceptability of continuous emission rate monitoring systems (CERMSs).

1.2 The installation and measurement location specifications, performance specification test procedure, calculations, and data analysis procedures, of Performance Specifications (PS 2), sections 8.0 and 12, respectively, apply to this specification.

The calibration drift (CD) and relative accuracy (RA) tests are conducted to determine conformance of the CERMS to the specification.

The definitions are the same as in section 3 of PS 2, except this specification refers to the continuous emission rate monitoring system rather than the continuous emission monitoring system. The following definitions are added:
