
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Flow Rate Sensor.,e.g.,

3.2That portion of the CERMS that senses the volumetric flow rate and generates an output proportional to that flow rate. The flow rate sensor shall have provisions to check the CD for each flow rate parameter that it measures individually (velocity, pressure).

This performance specification may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This performance specification may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicable regulatory limitations prior to performing this performance specification. The CERMS users manual should be consulted for specific precautions to be taken with regard to the analytical procedures.

Same as section 6.0 of PS 2.

Same as section 7.0 of PS 2.

8.1 Calibration Drift Test Procedure.

8.1.1 The CD measurements are to verify the ability of the CERMS to conform to the established CERMS calibrations used for determining the emission rate. Therefore, if periodic automatic or manual adjustments are made to the CERMS zero and calibration settings, conduct the CD tests immediately before these adjustments, or conduct them in such a way that CD can be determined.
