
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

8.1.2 Conduct the CD tests for pollutant concentration at the two values specified in section 6.1.2 of PS 2. For other parameters that are selectively measured by the CERMS (velocity, pressure, flow rate), use two analogous values (Low: 0-20% of full scale, High: 50-100% of full scale). Introduce to the CERMS the reference signals (these need not be certified). Record the CERMS response to each and subtract this value from the respective reference value (see example data sheet in Figure 6-1).

8.2 Relative Accuracy Test Procedure.

8.2.1 Sampling Strategy for reference method (RM) Tests, Correlation of RM and CERMS Data, and Number of RM Tests are the same as PS 2, sections 8.4.3, 8.4.5, and 8.4.4, respectively. Summarize the results on a data sheet. An example is shown in Figure 6-1. The RA test may be conducted during the CD test period.

8.2.2 Reference Methods. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable subpart of the regulations, the RM for the pollutant gas is the Appendix A method that is cited for compliance test purposes, or its approved alternatives. Methods 2, 2A, 2B, 2C, or 2D, as applicable, are the RMs for the determination of volumetric flow rate.

Same as section 11.0 of PS 2.

Same as section 12.0 of PS 2.
