
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

13.1 Calibration Drift. Since the CERMS includes analyzers for several measurements, the CD shall be determined separately for each analyzer in terms of its specific measurement. The calibration for each analyzer associated with the measurement of flow rate shall not drift or deviate from each reference value of flow rate by more than 3 percent of the respective high-level reference value over the CD test period (seven-day) associated with the pollutant analyzer. The CD specification for each analyzer for which other PSs have been established (PS 2 for SOand NO), shall be the same as in the applicable PS.

13.2 CERMS Relative Accuracy. Calculate the CERMS Relative Accuracy using Eq. 2-6 of section 12 of Performance Specification 2. The RA of the CERMS shall be no greater than 20 percent of the mean value of the RM's test data in terms of the units of the emission standard, or in cases where the average emissions for the test are less than 50 percent of the applicable standard, substitute the emission standard value in the denominator of Eq. 2-6 in place of the RM.

Same as in section 16.0 of PS 2.

1. Brooks, E.F., E.C. Beder, C.A. Flegal, D.J. Luciani, and R. Williams. Continuous Measurement of Total Gas Flow Rate from Stationary Sources. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. Publication No. EPA-650/2-75-020. February 1975. 248 p.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability.

1.2.1 This specification is to be used for evaluating the acceptability of hydrogen sulfide (HS) continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS) at the time of or soon after installation and whenever specified in an applicable subpart of the regulations.

1.2.2 This specification is not designed to evaluate the installed CEMS performance over an extended period of time nor does it identify specific calibration techniques and other auxiliary procedures to assess CEMS performance. The source owner or operator, however, is responsible to calibrate, maintain, and operate the CEMS. To evaluate CEMS performance, the Administrator may require, under section 114 of the Act, the source owner or operator to conduct CEMS performance evaluations at other times besides the initial test. See section 60.13(c).

Calibration drift (CD) and relative accuracy (RA) tests are conducted to determine that the CEMS conforms to the specification.

Same as section 3.0 of PS 2.

The procedures required under this performance specification may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This performance specification may not address all of the safety problems associated with these procedures. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety problems associated with these procedures. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the application regulatory limitations prior to performing these procedures. The CEMS user's manual and materials recommended by the reference method should be consulted for specific precautions to be taken.

6.1 Instrument Zero and Span. This specification is the same as section 6.1 of PS 2.

6.2 Calibration Drift. The CEMS calibration must not drift or deviate from the reference value of the calibration gas or reference source by more than 5 percent of the established span value for 6 out of 7 test days (e.g., the established span value is 300 ppm for Subpart J fuel gas combustion devices).

6.3 Relative Accuracy. The RA of the CEMS must be no greater than 20 percent when the average reference method (RM) value is used to calculate RA or 10 percent when the applicable emission standard is used to calculate RA.

Same as section 7.0 of PS 2.

8.1 Installation and Measurement Location Specification. Same as section 8.1 of PS 2.

8.2 Pretest Preparation. Same as section 8.2 of PS 2.

8.3 Calibration Drift Test Procedure. Same as section 8.3 of PS 2.

8.4 Relative Accuracy Test Procedure.

8.4.1 Sampling Strategy for RM Tests, Number of RM Tests, Correlation of RM and CEMS Data, and Calculations. These are the same as that in PS-2, Sections 8.4.3 (except as specified below), 8.4.4, 8.4.5, and 8.4.6, respectively.

8.4.2 Reference Methods. Unless otherwise specified in an applicable subpart of the regulation, Methods 11, 15, and 16 may be used for the RM for this PS.

8.4.2.1 Sampling Time Per Run-Method 11. A sampling run, when Method 11 (integrated sampling) is used, shall consist of a single measurement for at least 10 minutes and 0.010 dscm (0.35 dscf). Each sample shall be taken at approximately 30-minute intervals.

8.4.2.2 Sampling Time Per Run-Methods 15 and 16. The sampling run shall consist of two injections equally spaced over a 30-minute period following the procedures described in the particular method.Caution! Heater or non-approved electrical probes should not be used around explosive or flammable sources.

8.5 Reporting. Same as section 8.5 of PS 2.

Sample Collection and analysis are concurrent for this PS (see section 8.0). Refer to the RM for specific analytical procedures.

Same as section 12.0 of PS 2.

1. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources; Appendix B; Performance Specifications 2 and 3 for SO, NO, CO, and OContinuous Emission Monitoring Systems; Final Rule. 48 CFR 23608. Washington, D.C. U.S. Government Printing Office. May 25, 1983.

2. U.S. Government Printing Office. Gaseous Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems-Performance Specification Guidelines for SO, NO, CO, O, and TRS. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Washington, D.C. EPA-450/3-82-026. October 1982. 26 p.

3. Maines, G.D., W.C. Kelly (Scott Environmental Technology, Inc.), and J.B. Homolya. Evaluation of Monitors for Measuring HS in Refinery Gas. Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, N.C. Contract No. 68-02-2707. 1978. 60 p.

4. Ferguson, B.B., R.E. Lester (Harmon Engineering and Testing), and W.J. Mitchell. Field Evaluation of Carbon Monoxide and Hydrogen Sulfide Continuous Emission Monitors at an Oil Refinery. Prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, N.C. Publication No. EPA-600/4-82-054. August 1982. 100 p.

5. Letter to RAMCON Environmental Corp. from Robert Kellam, December 27, 1992.

Same as section 18.0 of PS 2.

1.1 Analytes. Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs).

1.2 Applicability.

1.2.1 This specification is to be used for evaluating a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) that measures a mixture of VOC's and generates a single combined response value. The VOC detection principle may be flame ionization (FI), photoionization (PI), non-dispersive infrared absorption (NDIR), or any other detection principle that is appropriate for the VOC species present in the emission gases and that meets this performance specification. The performance specification includes procedures to evaluate the acceptability of the CEMS at the time of or soon after its installation and whenever specified in emission regulations or permits. This specification is not designed to evaluate the installed CEMS performance over an extended period of time, nor does it identify specific calibration techniques and other auxiliary procedures to assess the CEMS performance. The source owner or operator, however, is responsible to calibrate, maintain, and operate the CEMS properly. To evaluate the CEMS performance, the Administrator may require, under section 114 of the Act, the operator to conduct CEMS performance evaluations in addition to the initial test. See section 60.13(c).

1.2.2 In most emission circumstances, most VOC monitors can provide only a relative measure of the total mass or volume concentration of a mixture of organic gases, rather than an accurate quantification. This problem is removed when an emission standard is based on a total VOC measurement as obtained with a particular detection principle. In those situations where a true mass or volume VOC concentration is needed, the problem can be mitigated by using the VOC CEMS as a relative indicator of total VOC concentration if statistical analysis indicates that a sufficient margin of compliance exists for this approach to be acceptable. Otherwise, consideration can be given to calibrating the CEMS with a mixture of the same VOC's in the same proportions as they actually occur in the measured source. In those circumstances where only one organic species is present in the source, or where equal incremental amounts of each of the organic species present generate equal CEMS responses, the latter choice can be more easily achieved.

2.1 Calibration drift and relative accuracy tests are conducted to determine adherence of the CEMS with specifications given for those items. The performance specifications include criteria for installation and measurement location, equipment and performance, and procedures for testing and data reduction.

Same as section 3.0 of PS 2.

The procedures required under this performance specification may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This performance specification may not address all of the safety problems associated with these procedures. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety problems associated with these procedures. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the application regulatory limitations prior to performing these procedures. The CEMS user's manual and materials recommended by the reference method should be consulted for specific precautions to be taken.

6.1 VOC CEMS Selection. When possible, select a VOC CEMS with the detection principle of the reference method specified in the regulation or permit (usually either FI, NDIR, or PI). Otherwise, use knowledge of the source process chemistry, previous emission studies, or gas chromatographic analysis of the source gas to select an appropriate VOC CEMS. Exercise extreme caution in choosing and installing any CEMS in an area with explosive hazard potential.

6.2 Data Recorder Scale. Same as section 6.1 of PS 2.

8.1 Installation and Measurement Location Specifications. Same as section 8.1 of PS 2.

8.2 Pretest Preparation. Same as section 8.2 of PS 2.

8.3 Calibration Drift Test Procedure. Same as section 8.3 of PS 2.

8.4 Reference Method (RM). Use the method specified in the applicable regulation or permit, or any approved alternative, as the RM.

8.5 Sampling Strategy for RM Tests, Correlation of RM and CEMS Data, and Number of RM Tests. Follow PS 2, sections 8.4.3, 8.4.5, and 8.4.4, respectively.

8.6 Reporting. Same as section 8.5 of PS 2.

Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this PS (see section 8.0). Refer to the RM for specific analytical procedures.

Same as section 12.0 of PS 2.

13.1 Calibration Drift. The CEMS calibration must not drift by more than 2.5 percent of the span value.

13.2 CEMS Relative Accuracy. Unless stated otherwise in the regulation or permit, the RA of the CEMS must not be greater than 20 percent of the mean value of the RM test data in terms of the units of the emission standard, or 10 percent of the applicable standard, whichever is greater.

Same as section 17.0 of PS 2.
