
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - State Water Pollution Control Revolving Funds
###### § 35.3150 Intended Use Plan (IUP).
####### Contents,List of projects.

(b)-(1)(i) The IUP must contain a list of publicly owned treatment works projects on the State's project priority list developed pursuant to section 216 of the Act, to be constructed with SRF assistance. This list must include: the name of the community; permit number or other applicable enforceable requirement, if available; the type of financial assistance; and the projected amount of eligible assistance.

(ii) The IUP must also contain a list of the nonpoint source and national estuary protection activities under sections 319 and 320 of the Act that the State expects to fund from its SRF.

(iii) The IUP must provide information in a format and manner that is consistent with the needs of the Regional Offices.

(2) Short and long term goals. The IUP must describe the long and short term goals and objectives of the State's water pollution control revolving fund.

(3) Information on the SRF activities to be supported. The IUP must include information on the types of activities including eligible categories of costs to receive assistance, types of assistance to be provided, and SRF policies on setting the terms for the various types of assistance provided by the fund.

(4) Assurances and specific proposals. The IUP must provide assurances and specific proposals on the manner by which the State intends to meet the requirements of the following sections of this part: §§ 35.3135(c); 35.3135(d); 35.3135(e); 35.3135(f); and 35.3140.

(5) Criteria and method for distribution of funds.

(i) The IUP must describe the criteria and method established for the distribution of the SRF funds and the distribution of the funds available to the SRF among the various types of assistance the State will offer.

(ii) The IUP must describe the criteria and method the State will use to select section 212 treatment work project priority list and projects or programs to be funded as eligible activities for nonpoint sources and estuary protection management programs.
