
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Calculations.

6.4.2Summarize the results on a data sheet. An example data sheet is shown in Figure 2. Average the differences between the instrument response and the certified cylinder gas value for each gas. Calculate three CE results according to Equation 1. No confidence coefficient is used in CE calculations.

Calibration Error. Calculate CE using Equation 1.

At a minimum, summarize in tabular form the results of the CD, response time, and CE test, as appropriate. Include all data sheets, calculations, CEMS data records, and cylinder gas or reference material certifications.

1. Measurement of Volatile Organic Compounds-Guideline Series. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, 27711, EPA-450/2-78-041, June 1978.

2. Traceability Protocol for Establishing True Concentrations of Gases Used for Calibration and Audits of Continuous Source Emission Monitors (Protocol No. 1). U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ORD/EMSL, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, 27711, June 1978.

3. Gasoline Vapor Emission Laboratory Evaluation-Part 2. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, OAQPS, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, 27711, EMB Report No. 76-GAS-6, August 1975.

1.1 Applicability. These requirements apply to continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMSs) that use gas chromatography (GC) to measure gaseous organic compound emissions. The requirements include procedures intended to evaluate the acceptability of the CEMS at the time of its installation and whenever specified in regulations or permits. Quality assurance procedures for calibrating, maintaining, and operating the CEMS properly at all times are also given in this procedure.

2.1 Calibration precision, calibration error, and performance audit tests are conducted to determine conformance of the CEMS with these specifications. Daily calibration and maintenance requirements are also specified.

3.1 Gas Chromatograph (GC). That portion of the system that separates and detects organic analytes and generates an output proportional to the gas concentration. The GC must be temperature controlled.

3.1.1 Column. Analytical column capable of separating the analytes of interest.

3.1.2 Detector. A detection system capable of detecting and quantifying all analytes of interest.

3.1.3 Integrator. That portion of the system that quantifies the area under a particular sample peak generated by the GC.

3.1.4 Data Recorder. A strip chart recorder, computer, or digital recorder capable of recording all readings within the instrument's calibration range.

3.2 Calibration Precision. The error between triplicate injections of each calibration standard.

The procedures required under this performance specification may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This performance specification does not purport to address all of the safety problems associated with these procedures. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety problems associated with these procedures. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the application regulatory limitations prior to performing these procedures. The CEMS user's manual and materials recommended by the reference method should be consulted for specific precautions to be taken.

6.1 Presurvey Sample Analysis and GC Selection. Determine the pollutants to be monitored from the applicable regulation or permit and determine the approximate concentration of each pollutant (this information can be based on past compliance test results). Select an appropriate GC configuration to measure the organic compounds. The GC components should include a heated sample injection loop (or other sample introduction systems), separatory column, temperature-controlled oven, and detector. If the source chooses dual column and/or dual detector configurations, each column/detector is considered a separate instrument for the purpose of this performance specification and thus the procedures in this performance specification shall be carried out on each system. If this method is applied in highly explosive areas, caution should be exercised in selecting the equipment and method of installation.
