
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

2.3 How are the correlation data handled? You must carefully review your manual reference method data and your PM CEMS responses to include only valid, high-quality data. For the correlation, you must convert the manual reference method data to measurement conditions (wet or dry basis) that are consistent with your PM CEMS. Then, you must correlate the manual method and PM CEMS data in terms of the output as received from the monitor (milliamps). At the appropriate PM CEMS response specified in section 13.2 of this performance specification, you must calculate the confidence interval half range and tolerance interval half range as a percentage of the applicable PM concentration emission limit and compare the confidence interval and tolerance interval percentages with the performance criteria. Also, you must calculate the correlation coefficient and compare the correlation coefficient with the applicable performance criterion specified in section 13.2 of this performance specification.

Situations may arise where you will need two or more correlations. If you need multiple correlations, you must collect sufficient data for each correlation, and each correlation must satisfy the performance criteria specified in section 13.2 of this performance specification.

2.4 How do I design my PM CEMS correlation program? When planning your PM CEMS correlation effort, you must address each of the items in paragraphs (1) through (7) of this section to enhance the probability of success. You will find each of these elements further described in this performance specification or in the applicable reference method procedure.

(1) What type of PM CEMS should I select? You should select a PM CEMS that is appropriate for your source with technical consideration for potential factors such as interferences, site-specific configurations, installation location, flue gas conditions, PM concentration range, and other PM characteristics. You can find guidance on which technology is best suited for specific situations in our report "Current Knowledge of Particulate Matter (PM) Continuous Emission Monitoring" (PM CEMS Knowledge Document, see section 16.5).

(2) Where should I install my PM CEMS? Your PM CEMS must be installed in a location that is most representative of PM emissions, as determined by the reference method, such that the correlation between PM CEMS response and emissions determined by the reference method will meet these performance specifications. Care must be taken in selecting a location and measurement point to minimize problems due to flow disturbances, cyclonic flow, and varying PM stratification.
