
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

6.2 Sampling System. The sampling system shall be heat traced and maintained at a minimum of 120 &#xB0;C with no cold spots. All system components shall be heated, including the probe, calibration valve, sample lines, sampling loop (or sample introduction system), GC oven, and the detector block (when appropriate for the type of detector being utilized,flame ionization detector).

7.1 Calibration Gases. Obtain three concentrations of calibration gases certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within 2 percent of the value on the label. A gas dilution system may be used to prepare the calibration gases from a high concentration certified standard if the gas dilution system meets the requirements specified in Test Method 205, 40 CFR Part 51, Appendix M. The performance test specified in Test Method 205 shall be repeated quarterly, and the results of the Method 205 test shall be included in the report. The calibration gas concentration of each target analyte shall be as follows (measured concentration is based on the presurvey concentration determined in section 6.1).

7.1.1 Low-level. 40-60 percent of measured concentration.

7.1.2 Mid-level. 90-110 percent of measured concentration.

7.1.3 High-level. 140-160 percent of measured concentration, or select highest expected concentration.

7.2 Performance Audit Gas. Performance Audit Gas is an independent cylinder gas or cylinder gas mixture. A certified EPA audit gas shall be used, when possible. A gas mixture containing all the target compounds within the calibration range and certified by EPA's Traceability Protocol for Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards may be used when EPA performance audit materials are not available. If a certified EPA audit gas or a traceability protocol gas is not available, use a gas manufacturer standard accurate to 2 percent.

8.1 Installation and Measurement Location Specifications. Install the CEMs in a location where the measurements are representative of the source emissions. Consider other factors, such as ease of access for calibration and maintenance purposes. The location should not be close to air in-leakages. The sampling location should be at least two equivalent duct diameters downstream from the nearest control device, point of pollutant generation, or other point at which a change in the pollutant concentration or emission rate occurs. The location should be at least 0.5 diameter upstream from the exhaust or control device. To calculate equivalent duct diameter, see section 12.2 of Method 1 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A). Sampling locations not conforming to the requirements in this section may be used if necessary upon approval of the Administrator.

8.2 Pretest Preparation Period. Using the procedures described in Method 18

8.3 Seven (7)-Day Calibration Error (CE) Test Period. At the beginning of each 24-hour period, set the initial instrument set points by conducting a multi-point calibration for each compound. The multi-point calibration shall meet the requirements in sections 13.1, 13.2, and 13.3. Throughout the 24-hour period, sample and analyze the stack gas at the sampling intervals prescribed in the regulation or permit. At the end of the 24-hour period, inject the calibration gases at three concentrations for each compound in triplicate and determine the average instrument response. Determine the CE for each pollutant at each concentration using Equation 9-2. Each CE shall be &#x2264;10 percent. Repeat this procedure six more times for a total of 7 consecutive days.

8.4 Performance Audit Test Periods. Conduct the performance audit once during the initial 7-day CE test and quarterly thereafter. Performance Audit Tests must be conducted through the entire sampling and analyzer system. Sample and analyze the EPA audit gas(es) (or the gas mixture) three times. Calculate the average instrument response. Results from the performance audit test must meet the requirements in sections 13.3 and 13.4.

8.5 Reporting. Follow the reporting requirements of the applicable regulation or permit. If the reporting requirements include the results of this performance specification, summarize in tabular form the results of the CE tests. Include all data sheets, calculations, CEMS data records, performance audit results, and calibration gas concentrations and certifications.

10.1 Multi-Point Calibration. After initial startup of the GC, after routine maintenance or repair, or at least once per month, conduct a multi-point calibration of the GC for each target analyte. Calibration is performed at the instrument independent of the sample transport system. The multi-point calibration for each analyte shall meet the requirements in sections 13.1, 13.2, and 13.3.

10.2 Daily Calibration. Once every 24 hours, analyze the mid-level calibration standard for each analyte in triplicate. Calibration is performed at the instrument independent of the sample transport system. Calculate the average instrument response for each analyte. The average instrument response shall not vary by more than 10 percent from the certified concentration value of the cylinder for each analyte. If the difference between the analyzer response and the cylinder concentration for any target compound is greater than 10 percent, immediately inspect the instrument making any necessary adjustments, and conduct an initial multi-point calibration as described in section 10.1.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Coefficient of Determination. Calculate rusing linear regression analysis and the average concentrations obtained at three calibration points as shown in Equation 9-1.

12.3 Calibration Error Determination. Determine the percent calibration error (CE) at each concentration for each pollutant using the following equation.

12.4 Sampling System Time Constant (T).

13.1 Calibration Error (CE). The CEMS must allow the determination of CE at all three calibration levels. The average CEMS calibration response must not differ by more than 10 percent of calibration gas value at each level after each 24-hour period and after any triplicate calibration response check.

13.2 Calibration Precision and Linearity. For each triplicate injection at each concentration level for each target analyte, any one injection shall not deviate more than 5 percent from the average concentration measured at that level. When the CEMS response is evaluated over three concentration levels, the linear regression curve for each organic compound shall be determined using Equation 9-1 and must have an r≥0.995.

13.3 Measurement Frequency. The sample to be analyzed shall flow continuously through the sampling system. The sampling system time constant shall be &#x2264;5 minutes or the sampling frequency specified in the applicable regulation, whichever is less. Use Equation 9-3 to determine T. The analytical system shall be capable of measuring the effluent stream at the frequency specified in the appropriate regulation or permit.

13.4 Audit Test Error. Determine the error for each average pollutant measurement using the Equation 9-2 in section 12.3. Each error shall be less than or equal to 10 percent of the cylinder gas certified value. Report the audit results including the average measured concentration, the error and the certified cylinder concentration of each pollutant as part of the reporting requirements in the appropriate regulation or permit.

The purpose of Performance Specification 11 (PS-11) is to establish the initial installation and performance procedures that are required for evaluating the acceptability of a particulate matter (PM) continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS); it is not to evaluate the ongoing performance of your PM CEMS over an extended period of time, nor to identify specific calibration techniques and auxiliary procedures to assess CEMS performance. You will find procedures for evaluating the ongoing performance of a PM CEMS in Procedure 2 of Appendix F-Quality Assurance Requirements for Particulate Matter Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems Used at Stationary Sources.

1.1 Under what conditions does PS-11 apply to my PM CEMS? The PS-11 applies to your PM CEMS if you are required by any provision of Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) to install and operate PM CEMS.

1.2 When must I comply with PS-11? You must comply with PS-11 when directed by the applicable rule that requires you to install and operate a PM CEMS.

1.3 What other monitoring must I perform? To report your PM emissions in units of the emission standard, you may need to monitor additional parameters to correct the PM concentration reported by your PM CEMS. Your CEMS may include the components listed in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this section:
