
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

(3) How should I record my CEMS data? You need to ensure that your PM CEMS and data logger are set up to collect and record all normal emission levels and excursions. You must ensure that your data logger and PM CEMS have been properly programmed to accept and transfer status signals of valid monitor operation (flags for internal calibration, suspect data, or maintenance periods).

(4) What CEMS data should I review? You must review drift data daily to document proper operation. You must also ensure that any audit material is appropriate for the typical operating range of your PM CEMS.

(5) How long should I operate my PM CEMS before conducting the initial correlation test? You should allow sufficient time for your PM CEMS to operate for you to become familiar with your PM CEMS.

(i) You should observe PM CEMS response over time during normal and varying process conditions. This will ensure that your PM CEMS has been properly set up to operate at a range that is compatible with the concentrations and characteristics of PM emissions for your source. You should use this information to establish the range of operating conditions necessary to determine the correlations of PM CEMS data to manual reference method measurements over a wide operating range.

(ii) You must determine the types of process changes that will influence, on a definable and repeatable basis, flue gas PM concentrations and the resulting PM CEMS responses. You may find this period useful to make adjustments to your planned approach for operating your PM CEMS at your source. For instance, you may change the measurement range or batch sampling period to something other than those you initially planned to use.

(6) How do I conduct the initial correlation test? When conducting the initial correlation test of your PM CEMS response to PM emissions determined by the reference method, you must pay close attention to accuracy and details. Your PM CEMS must be operating properly. You must perform the manual reference method testing accurately, with attention to eliminating site-specific systemic errors. You must coordinate the timing of the manual reference method testing with the sampling cycle of your PM CEMS. You must complete a minimum of 15 manual reference method tests. You must perform the manual reference method testing over the full range of PM CEMS responses that correspond to normal operating conditions for your source and control device and will result in the widest range of emission concentrations.

(7) How should I perform the manual reference method testing? You must perform the manual reference method testing in accordance with specific rule requirements, coordinated closely with PM CEMS and process operations. It is highly recommended that you use paired trains for the manual reference method testing. You must perform the manual reference method testing over a suitable PM concentration range that corresponds to the full range of normal process and control device operating conditions. Because the manual reference method testing for this correlation test is not for compliance reporting purposes, you may conduct the reference method test runs for less than the typical minimum test run duration of 1 hour.

(8) What do I do with the manual reference method data and PM CEMS data? You must complete each of the activities in paragraphs (8)(i) through (v) of this section.
