
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

3.6 "Correlation" means the primary mathematical relationship for correlating the output from your PM CEMS to a PM concentration, as determined by the PM reference method. The correlation is expressed in the measurement units that are consistent with the measurement conditions (mg/dscm, mg/acm) of your PM CEMS.

3.7 "Correlation Coefficient (r)" means a quantitative measure of the association between your PM CEMS outputs and the reference method measurements. Equations for calculating the r value are provided in section 12.3(1)(iv) for linear correlations and in section 12.3(2)(iv) for polynomial correlations.

3.8 "Cycle Time" means the time required to complete one sampling, measurement, and reporting cycle. For a batch sampling PM CEMS, the cycle time would start when sample gas is first extracted from the stack/duct and end when the measurement of that batch sample is complete and a new result for that batch sample is produced on the data recorder.

3.9 "Data Recorder" means the portion of your CEMS that provides a permanent record of the monitor output in terms of response and status (flags). The data recorder may also provide automatic data reduction and CEMS control capabilities (see section 6.6).

3.10 "Diluent Monitor and Other Auxiliary Data Monitor(s) (if applicable)" means the portion of your CEMS that provides the diluent gas concentration (such as Oor CO, as specified by the applicable regulations), temperature, pressure, and/or moisture content, and generates an output proportional to the diluent gas concentration or gas property.

3.11 "Drift Check" means a check of the difference between your PM CEMS output readings and the established reference value of a reference standard or procedure after a stated period of operation during which no unscheduled maintenance, repair, or adjustment took place. The procedures used to determine drift are specific to the operating principles of your specific PM CEMS. A drift check includes both a zero drift check and an upscale drift check.

3.12 "Exponential Correlation" means an exponential equation used to define the relationship between your PM CEMS output and the reference method PM concentration, as indicated by Equation 11-37.

3.13 "Flagged Data" means data marked by your CEMS indicating that the response value(s) from one or more CEMS subsystems is suspect or invalid or that your PM CEMS is not in source-measurement operating mode.

3.14 "Linear Correlation" means a first-order mathematical relationship between your PM CEMS output and the reference method PM concentration that is linear in form, as indicated by Equation 11-3.

3.15 "Logarithmic Correlation" means a first-order mathematical relationship between the natural logarithm of your PM CEMS output and the reference method PM concentration that is linear in form, as indicated by Equation 11-34.

3.16 "Low-Emitting Source" means a source that operated at no more than 50 percent of the emission limit during the most recent performance test, and, based on the PM CEMS correlation, the daily average emissions for the source, measured in the units of the applicable emission limit, have not exceeded 50 percent of the emission limit for any day since the most recent performance test.

3.17 "Paired Trains" means two reference method trains that are used to conduct simultaneous measurements of PM concentrations. Guidance on the use of paired sampling trains can be found in the PM CEMS Knowledge Document (see section 16.5).

3.18 "Polynomial Correlation" means a second-order equation used to define the relationship between your PM CEMS output and reference method PM concentration, as indicated by Equation 11-16.

3.19 "Power Correlation" means an equation used to define a power function relationship between your PM CEMS output and the reference method concentration, as indicated by Equation 11-42.

3.20 "Reference Method" means the method defined in the applicable regulations, but commonly refers to those methods collectively known as EPA Methods 5, 5I, and 17 (for particulate matter), found in Appendix A of 40 CFR 60. Only the front half and dry filter catch portions of the reference method can be correlated to your PM CEMS output.

3.21 "Reference Standard" means a reference material or procedure that produces a known and unchanging response when presented to the pollutant monitor portion of your CEMS. You must use these standards to evaluate the overall operation of your PM CEMS, but not to develop a PM CEMS correlation.

3.22 "Response Time" means the time interval between the start of a step change in the system input and the time when the pollutant monitor output reaches 95 percent of the final value (see sections 6.5 and 13.3 for procedures and acceptance criteria).

3.23 "Sample Interface" means the portion of your CEMS used for one or more of the following: sample acquisition, sample delivery, sample conditioning, or protection of the monitor from the effects of the stack effluent.

3.24 "Sample Volume Check" means a check of the difference between your PM CEMS sample volume reading and the sample volume reference value.

3.25 "Tolerance Interval half range (TI)" means one-half of the width of the tolerance interval with upper and lower limits, within which a specified percentage of the future data population is contained with a given level of confidence, as defined by the respective tolerance interval half range equations in section 12.3(1)(iii) for linear correlations and in section 12.3(2)(iii) for polynomial correlations. The TI as a percent of the emission limit value (TI%) is calculated at the appropriate PM CEMS response value specified in section 13.2(3).

3.26 "Upscale Check Value" means the expected response to a reference standard or procedure used to check the upscale response of your PM CEMS.

3.27 "Upscale Drift (UD) Check" means a check of the difference between your PM CEMS output reading and the upscale check value.

3.28 "Zero Check Value" means the expected response to a reference standard or procedure used to check the response of your PM CEMS to particulate-free or low-particulate concentration conditions.

3.29 "Zero Drift (ZD) Check" means a check of the difference between your PM CEMS output reading and the zero check value.

3.30 "Zero Point Correlation Value" means a value added to PM CEMS correlation data to represent low or near zero PM concentration data (see section 8.6 for rationale and procedures).
