
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

(2) If you plan to achieve higher emissions for correlation test purposes by adjusting the performance of the air pollution control device (per section 8.6(4)(i)), you must locate your PM CEMS and reference method sampling points well downstream of the control device (downstream of the induced draft fan), in order to minimize PM stratification that may be created in these cases.

8.3 How do I select the reference method measurement location and traverse points? You must follow EPA Method 1 for identifying manual reference method traverse points. Ideally, you should perform your manual reference method measurements at locations that satisfy the measurement site selection criteria specified in EPA Method 1 of at least eight duct diameters downstream and at least two duct diameters upstream of any flow disturbance. Where necessary, you may conduct testing at a location that is two diameters downstream and 0.5 diameters upstream of flow disturbances. If your location does not meet the minimum downstream and upstream requirements, you must obtain approval from us to test at your location.

8.4 What are my pretest preparation steps? You must install your CEMS and prepare the reference method test site according to the specifications in sections 8.2 and 8.3.

(1) After completing the initial field installation, we recommend that you operate your PM CEMS according to the manufacturer's instructions to familiarize yourself with its operation before you begin correlation testing.

(i) During this initial period of operation, we recommend that you conduct daily checks (zero and upscale drift and sample volume, as appropriate), and, when any check exceeds the daily specification (see section 13.1), make adjustments and perform any necessary maintenance to ensure reliable operation.

(2) When you are confident that your PM CEMS is operating properly, we recommend that you operate your CEMS over a correlation test planning period of sufficient duration to identify the full range of operating conditions and PM emissions to be used in your PM CEMS correlation test.

(i) During the correlation test planning period, you should operate the process and air pollution control equipment over the normal range of operating conditions, except when you attempt to produce higher emissions.

(ii) Your data recorder should record PM CEMS response during the full range of routine process operating conditions.

(iii) You should try to establish the relationships between operating conditions and PM CEMS response, especially those conditions that produce the highest PM CEMS response over 15-minute averaging periods, and the lowest PM CEMS response as well. The objective is to be able to reproduce the conditions for purposes of the actual correlation testing discussed in section 8.6.

(3) You must set the response range of your PM CEMS such that the instrument measures the full range of responses that correspond to the range of source operating conditions that you will implement during correlation testing.

(4) We recommend that you perform preliminary reference method testing after the correlation test planning period. During this preliminary testing, you should measure the PM emission concentration corresponding to the highest PM CEMS response observed during the full range of normal operation, when perturbing the control equipment, or as the result of PM spiking.

(5) Before performing correlation testing, you must perform a 7-day zero and upscale drift test (see section 8.5).

(6) You must not change the response range of the monitor once the response range has been set and the drift test successfully completed.

8.5 How do I perform the 7-day drift test? You must check the zero (or low-level value between 0 and 20 percent of the response range of the instrument) and upscale (between 50 and 100 percent of the instrument's response range) drift. You must perform this check at least once daily over 7 consecutive days. Your PM CEMS must quantify and record the zero and upscale measurements and the time of the measurements. If you make automatic or manual adjustments to your PM CEMS zero and upscale settings, you must conduct the drift test immediately before these adjustments, or conduct it in such a way that you can determine the amount of drift. You will find the calculation procedures for drift in section 12.1 and the acceptance criteria for allowable drift in section 13.1.

(1) What is the purpose of 7-day drift tests? The purpose of the 7-day drift test is to demonstrate that your system is capable of operating in a stable manner and maintaining its calibration for at least a 7-day period.

(2) How do I conduct the 7-day drift test? To conduct the 7-day drift test, you must determine the magnitude of the drift once each day, at 24-hour intervals, for 7 consecutive days while your source is operating normally.

(i) You must conduct the 7-day drift test at the two points specified in section 8.5. You may perform the 7-day drift tests automatically or manually by introducing to your PM CEMS suitable reference standards (these need not be certified) or by using other appropriate procedures.

(ii) You must record your PM CEMS zero and upscale response and evaluate them against the zero check value and upscale check value.

(3) When must I conduct the 7-day drift test? You must complete a valid 7-day drift test before attempting the correlation test.

8.6 How do I conduct my PM CEMS correlation test? You must conduct the correlation test according to the procedure given in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this section. If you need multiple correlations, you must conduct testing and collect at least 15 sets of reference method and PM CEMS data for calculating each separate correlation.
