
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

(iii) You must convert the reference method results to units consistent with the conditions of your PM CEMS measurements. For example, if your PM CEMS measures and reports PM emissions in the units of mass per actual volume of stack gas, you must convert your reference method results to those units (mg/acm). If your PM CEMS extracts and heats the sample gas to eliminate water droplets, then measures and reports PM emissions under those actual conditions, you must convert your reference method results to those same conditions (mg/acm at 160 &#xB0;C).

(2) During each test run, you must coordinate process operations, reference method sampling, and PM CEMS operations. For example, you must ensure that the process is operating at the targeted conditions, both reference method trains are sampling simultaneously (if paired sampling trains are being used), and your PM CEMS and data logger are operating properly.

(i) You must coordinate the start and stop times of each run between the reference method sampling and PM CEMS operation. For a batch sampling PM CEMS, you must start the reference method at the same time as your PM CEMS sampling.

(ii) You must note the times for port changes (and other periods when the reference method sampling may be suspended) on the data sheets so that you can adjust your PM CEMS data accordingly, if necessary.

(iii) You must properly align the time periods for your PM CEMS and your reference method measurements to account for your PM CEMS response time.

(3) You must conduct a minimum of 15 valid runs each consisting of simultaneous PM CEMS and reference method measurement sets.

(i) You may conduct more than 15 sets of CEMS and reference method measurements. If you choose this option, you may reject certain test results so long as the total number of valid test results you use to determine the correlation is greater than or equal to 15.

(ii) You must report all data, including the rejected data.

(iii) You may reject the results of up to five test runs without explanation.

(iv) If you reject the results of more than five test runs, the basis for rejecting the results of the additional test runs must be explicitly stated in the reference method, this performance specification, Procedure 2 of appendix F, or your quality assurance plan.

(4) Simultaneous PM CEMS and reference method measurements must be performed in a manner to ensure that the range of data that will be used to establish the correlation for your PM CEMS is maximized. You must first attempt to maximize your correlation range by following the procedures described in paragraphs (4)(i) through (iv) of this section. If you cannot obtain the three levels as described in paragraphs (i) through (iv), then you must use the procedure described in section 8.6(5).

(i) You must attempt to obtain the three different levels of PM mass concentration by varying process operating conditions, varying PM control device conditions, or by means of PM spiking.

(ii) The three PM concentration levels you use in the correlation tests must be distributed over the complete operating range experienced by your source.

(iii) At least 20 percent of the minimum 15 measured data points you use should be contained in each of the following levels:

- Level 1: From no PM (zero concentration) emissions to 50 percent of the maximum PM concentration;

- Level 2: 25 to 75 percent of the maximum PM concentration; and

- Level 3: 50 to 100 percent of the maximum PM concentration.

(iv) Although the above levels overlap, you may only apply individual run data to one level.

(5) If you cannot obtain three distinct levels of PM concentration as described, you must perform correlation testing over the maximum range of PM concentrations that is practical for your PM CEMS. To ensure that the range of data used to establish the correlation for your PM CEMS is maximized, you must follow one or more of the steps in paragraphs (5)(i) through (iv) of this section.
