
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### i.e.,

Yes, condensible water droplets or condensible acid gas aerosols (those with condensation temperatures above those specified by the reference method) at the measurement location can be interferences for your PM CEMS if the necessary precautions are not met.

4.1 Where are interferences likely to occur? Interferences may develop if your CEMS is installed downstream of a wet air pollution control system or any other conditions that produce flue gases, which, at your PM CEMS measurement point, normally or occasionally contain entrained water droplets or condensible salts before release to the atmosphere.

4.2 How do I deal with interferences? We recommend that you use a PM CEMS that extracts and heats representative samples of the flue gas for measurement to simulate results produced by the reference method for conditions such as those described in section 4.1. Independent of your PM CEMS measurement technology and extractive technique, you should have a configuration simulating the reference method to ensure that:

(1) No formation of new PM or deposition of PM occurs in sample delivery from the stack or duct; and

(2) No condensate accumulates in the sample flow measurement apparatus.

4.3 What PM CEMS measurement technologies should I use? You should use a PM CEMS measurement technology that is free of interferences from any condensible constituent in the flue gas.

People using the procedures required under PS-11 may be exposed to hazardous materials, operations, site conditions, and equipment. This performance specification does not purport to address all of the safety issues associated with its use. It is your responsibility to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicable regulatory limitations before performing these procedures. You must consult your CEMS user's manual and other reference materials recommended by the reference method for specific precautions to be taken.

Different types of PM CEMS use different operating principles. You should select an appropriate PM CEMS based on your site-specific configurations, flue gas conditions, and PM characteristics.

(1) Your PM CEMS must sample the stack effluent continuously or, for batch sampling PM CEMS, intermittently.

(2) You must ensure that the averaging time, the number of measurements in an average, the minimum data availability, and the averaging procedure for your CEMS conform with those specified in the applicable emission regulation.

(3) Your PM CEMS must include, as a minimum, the equipment described in sections 6.1 through 6.7.

6.1 What equipment is needed for my PM CEMS's sample interface? Your PM CEMS's sample interface must be capable of delivering a representative sample of the flue gas to your PM CEMS. This subsystem may be required to heat the sample gas to avoid PM deposition or moisture condensation, provide dilution air, perform other gas conditioning to prepare the sample for analysis, or measure the sample volume or flow rate.

(1) If your PM CEMS is installed downstream of a wet air pollution control system such that the flue gases normally or occasionally contain entrained water droplets, we recommend that you select a sampling system that includes equipment to extract and heat a representative sample of the flue gas for measurement so that the pollutant monitor portion of your CEMS measures only dry PM. Heating should be sufficient to raise the temperature of the extracted flue gas above the water condensation temperature and should be maintained at all times and at all points in the sample line from where the flue gas is extracted, including the pollutant monitor and any sample flow measurement devices.

(2) You must consider the measured conditions of the sample gas stream to ensure that manual reference method test data are converted to units of PM concentration that are appropriate for the correlation calculations. Additionally, you must identify what, if any, additional auxiliary data from other monitoring and handling systems are necessary to convert your PM CEMS response into the units of the PM standard.

(3) If your PM CEMS is an extractive type and your source's flue gas volumetric flow rate varies by more than 10 percent from nominal, your PM CEMS should maintain an isokinetic sampling rate (within 10 percent of true isokinetic). If your extractive-type PM CEMS does not maintain an isokinetic sampling rate, you must use actual site-specific data or data from a similar installation to prove to us, the State, and/or local enforcement agency that isokinetic sampling is not necessary.

6.2 What type of equipment is needed for my PM CEMS? Your PM CEMS must be capable of providing an electronic output that can be correlated to the PM concentration.

(1) Your PM CEMS must be able to perform zero and upscale drift checks. You may perform these checks manually, but performing these checks automatically is preferred.

(2) We recommend that you select a PM CEMS that is capable of performing automatic diagnostic checks and sending instrument status signals (flags) to the data recorder.

(3) If your PM CEMS is an extractive type that measures the sample volume and uses the measured sample volume as part of calculating the output value, your PM CEMS must be able to perform a check of the sample volume to verify the accuracy of the sample volume measuring equipment. The sample volume check must be conducted daily and at the normal sampling rate of your PM CEMS.

6.3 What is the appropriate measurement range for my PM CEMS? Initially, your PM CEMS must be set up to measure over the expected range of your source's PM emission concentrations during routine operations. You may change the measurement range to a more appropriate range prior to correlation testing.

6.4 What if my PM CEMS does automatic range switching? Your PM CEMS may be equipped to perform automatic range switching so that it is operating in a range most sensitive to the detected concentrations. If your PM CEMS does automatic range switching, you must configure the data recorder to handle the recording of data values in multiple ranges during range-switching intervals.

6.5 What averaging time and sample intervals should be used? Your CEMS must sample the stack effluent such that the averaging time, the number of measurements in an average, the minimum sampling time, and the averaging procedure for reporting and determining compliance conform with those specified in the applicable regulation. Your PM CEMS must be designed to meet the specified response time and cycle time established in this performance specification (see section 13.3).

6.6 What type of equipment is needed for my data recorder? Your CEMS data recorder must be able to accept and record electronic signals from all the monitors associated with your PM CEMS.

(1) Your data recorder must record the signals from your PM CEMS that can be correlated to PM mass concentrations. If your PM CEMS uses multiple ranges, your data recorder must identify what range the measurement was made in and provide range-adjusted results.

(2) Your data recorder must accept and record monitor status signals (flagged data).

(3) Your data recorder must accept signals from auxiliary data monitors, as appropriate.

6.7 What other equipment and supplies might I need? You may need other supporting equipment as defined by the applicable reference method(s) (see section 7) or as specified by your CEMS manufacturer.

You will need reference standards or procedures to perform the zero drift check, the upscale drift check, and the sample volume check.

7.1 What is the reference standard value for the zero drift check? You must use a zero check value that is no greater than 20 percent of the PM CEMS's response range. You must obtain documentation on the zero check value from your PM CEMS manufacturer.

7.2 What is the reference standard value for the upscale drift check? You must use an upscale check value that produces a response between 50 and 100 percent of the PM CEMS's response range. For a PM CEMS that produces output over a range of 4 mA to 20 mA, the upscale check value must produce a response in the range of 12 mA to 20 mA. You must obtain documentation on the upscale check value from your PM CEMS manufacturer.

7.3 What is the reference standard value for the sample volume check? You must use a reference standard value or procedure that produces a sample volume value equivalent to the normal sampling rate. You must obtain documentation on the sample volume value from your PM CEMS manufacturer.

You must complete each of the activities in sections 8.1 through 8.8 for your performance specification test.

8.1 How should I select and set up my equipment? You should select a PM CEMS that is appropriate for your source, giving consideration to potential factors such as flue gas conditions, interferences, site-specific configuration, installation location, PM concentration range, and other PM characteristics. Your PM CEMS must meet the equipment specifications in sections 6.1 and 6.2.

(1) You should select a PM CEMS that is appropriate for the flue gas conditions at your source. If your source's flue gas contains entrained water droplets, we recommend that your PM CEMS include a sample delivery and conditioning system that is capable of extracting and heating a representative sample.

(i) Your PM CEMS must maintain the sample at a temperature sufficient to prevent moisture condensation in the sample line before analysis of PM.

(ii) If condensible PM is an issue, we recommend that you operate your PM CEMS to maintain the sample gas temperature at the same temperature as the reference method filter.

(iii) Your PM CEMS must avoid condensation in the sample flow rate measurement lines.

(2) Some PM CEMS do not have a wide measurement range capability. Therefore, you must select a PM CEMS that is capable of measuring the full range of PM concentrations expected from your source from normal levels through the emission limit concentration.

(3) Some PM CEMS are sensitive to particle size changes, water droplets in the gas stream, particle charge, stack gas velocity changes, or other factors. Therefore, you should select a PM CEMS appropriate for the emission characteristics of your source.

(4) We recommend that you consult your PM CEMS vendor to obtain basic recommendations on the instrument capabilities and setup configuration. You are ultimately responsible for setup and operation of your PM CEMS.

8.2 Where do I install my PM CEMS? You must install your PM CEMS at an accessible location downstream of all pollution control equipment. You must perform your PM CEMS concentration measurements from a location considered representative or be able to provide data that can be corrected to be representative of the total PM emissions as determined by the manual reference method.

(1) You must select a measurement location that minimizes problems due to flow disturbances, cyclonic flow, and varying PM stratification (refer to Method 1 for guidance).
