
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

(iii) Convert the manual reference method test data into measurement units (mg/acm) consistent with the measurement conditions of your PM CEMS.

(iv) Calculate the correlation equation(s) as specified in section 12.3.

(v) Calculate the correlation coefficient, confidence interval half range, and tolerance interval half range for the complete set of PM CEMS and reference method correlation data for comparison with the correlation performance criteria specified in section 13.2.

2.5 What other procedures must I perform? Before conducting the initial correlation test, you must successfully complete a 7-day drift test (See section 8.5).

3.1 "Appropriate Measurement Range of your PM CEMS" means a measurement range that is capable of recording readings over the complete range of your source's PM emission concentrations during routine operations. The appropriate range is determined during the pretest preparations as specified in section 8.4.

3.2 "Appropriate Data Range for PM CEMS Correlation" means the data range that reflects the full range of your source's PM emission concentrations recorded by your PM CEMS during the correlation test planning period or other normal operations as defined in the applicable regulations.

3.3 "Batch Sampling" means that gas is sampled on an intermittent basis and concentrated on a collection medium before intermittent analysis and follow-up reporting. Beta gauge PM CEMS are an example of batch sampling devices.

3.4 "Confidence Interval Half Range (CI)" is a statistical term and means one-half of the width of the 95 percent confidence interval around the predicted mean PM concentration (y value) calculated at the PM CEMS response value (x value) where the confidence interval is narrowest. Procedures for calculating CI are specified in section 12.3. The CI as a percent of the emission limit value (CI%) is calculated at the appropriate PM CEMS response value and must satisfy the criteria specified in section 13.2 (2).

3.5 "Continuous Emission Monitoring System (CEMS)" means all of the equipment required for determination of PM mass concentration in units of the emission standard. The sample interface, pollutant monitor, diluent monitor, other auxiliary data monitor(s), and data recorder are the major subsystems of your CEMS.
