
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### i.e.,

(i) If your sample gas contains entrained water droplets and your PM CEMS is an extractive system that measures at actual conditions (wet basis), you must use the measured moisture content determined from the impinger analysis when converting your reference method PM data to PM CEMS conditions; do not use the moisture content calculated from a psychrometric chart based on saturated conditions.

12.3 How do I determine my PM CEMS correlation? To predict PM concentrations from PM CEMS responses, you must use the calculation method of least squares presented in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this section. When performing the calculations, each reference method PM concentration measurement must be treated as a discrete data point; if using paired sampling trains, do not average reference method data pairs for any test run.

This performance specification describes procedures for evaluating five types of correlation models: linear, polynomial, logarithmic, exponential, and power. Procedures for selecting the most appropriate correlation model are presented in section 12.4 of this specification.

(1) How do I evaluate a linear correlation for my correlation test data? To evaluate a linear correlation, follow the procedures described in paragraphs (1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Calculate the linear correlation equation, which gives the predicted PM concentration () as a function of the PM CEMS response (x), as indicated by Equation 11-3:

Calculate the y intercept (b) of the correlation curve using Equation 11-4:

Calculate the slope (b) of the correlation curve using Equation 11-6:

(ii) Calculate the half range of the 95 percent confidence interval (CI) for the predicted PM concentration () at the mean value of x, using Equation 11-8:

(iii) Calculate the half range of the tolerance interval (TI) for the predicted PM concentration () at the mean x value using Equation 11-11:

Calculate the half range of the tolerance interval for the predicted PM concentration () at the mean x value as a percentage of the emission limit (TI%) using Equation 11-13:

(iv) Calculate the linear correlation coefficient (r) using Equation 11-14:

(2) How do I evaluate a polynomial correlation for my correlation test data? To evaluate a polynomial correlation, follow the procedures described in paragraphs (2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Calculate the polynomial correlation equation, which is indicated by Equation 11-16, using Equations 11-17 through 11-22:
