
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

(i) Your source generates 24 consecutive hourly average PM CEMS responses that are greater than 125 percent of the highest PM CEMS response (mA reading) used for the correlation curve, or

(ii) The cumulative hourly average PM CEMS responses generated by your source are greater than 125 percent of the highest PM CEMS response used for the correlation curve for more than 5 percent of your PM CEMS operating hours for the previous 30-day period.

(3) If additional correlation testing is required, you must conduct at least three additional test runs under the conditions that caused the higher PM CEMS response.

(i) You must complete the additional testing and use the resulting new data along with the previous data to calculate a revised correlation equation within 60 days after the occurrence of the event that requires additional testing, as specified in paragraphs 8.8(1) and (2).

(4) If your source generates consecutive PM CEMS hourly responses that are greater than 125 percent of the highest PM CEMS response used to develop the correlation curve for 24 hours or for a cumulative period that amounts to more than 5 percent of the PM CEMS operating hours for the previous 30-day period, you must report the reason for the higher PM CEMS responses.

Quality control measures for PM CEMS are specified in 40 CFR 60, Appendix F, Procedure 2.

Specific analytical procedures are outlined in the applicable reference method(s).

You must determine the primary relationship for correlating the output from your PM CEMS to a PM concentration, typically in units of mg/acm or mg/dscm of flue gas, using the calculations and data analysis process in sections 12.2 and 12.3. You develop the correlation by performing an appropriate regression analysis between your PM CEMS response and your reference method data.

12.1 How do I calculate upscale drift and zero drift? You must determine the difference in your PM CEMS output readings from the established reference values (zero and upscale check values) after a stated period of operation during which you performed no unscheduled maintenance, repair or adjustment.

(1) Calculate the upscale drift (UD) using Equation 11-1:

(2) Calculate the zero drift (ZD) using Equation 11-2:

(3) Summarize the results on a data sheet similar to that shown in Table 2 (see section 17).

12.2 How do I perform the regression analysis? You must couple each reference method PM concentration measurement, y, in the appropriate units, with an average PM CEMS response, x, over corresponding time periods. You must complete your PM CEMS correlation calculations using data deemed acceptable by quality control procedures identified in 40 CFR 60, Appendix F, Procedure 2.

(1) You must evaluate all flagged or suspect data produced during measurement periods and determine whether they should be excluded from your PM CEMS's average.

(2) You must assure that the reference method and PM CEMS results are on a consistent moisture, temperature, and diluent basis. You must convert the reference method PM concentration measurements (dry standard conditions) to the units of your PM CEMS measurement conditions. The conditions of your PM CEMS measurement are monitor-specific. You must obtain from your PM CEMS vendor or instrument manufacturer the conditions and units of measurement for your PM CEMS.
