
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

(iv) If none of the steps in paragraphs (5)(i) through (iii) of this section are possible, you must estimate the monitor response when no PM is in the flue gas (4 mA = 0 mg/acm).

8.7 What do I do with the initial correlation test data for my PM CEMS? You must calculate and report the results of the correlation testing, including the correlation coefficient, confidence interval, and tolerance interval for the PM CEMS response and reference method correlation data that are use to establish the correlation, as specified in section 12. You must include all data sheets, calculations, charts (records of PM CEMS responses), process data records including PM control equipment operating parameters, and reference media certifications necessary to confirm that your PM CEMS met the requirements of this performance specification. In addition, you must:

(1) Determine the integrated (arithmetic average) PM CEMS output over each reference method test period;

(2) Adjust your PM CEMS outputs and reference method test data to the same clock time (considering response time of your PM CEMS);

(3) Confirm that the reference method results are consistent with your PM CEMS response in terms of, where applicable, moisture, temperature, pressure, and diluent concentrations; and

(4) Determine whether any of the reference method test results do not meet the test method criteria.

8.8 What is the limitation on the range of my PM CEMS correlation? Although the data you collect during the correlation testing should be representative of the full range of normal operating conditions at your source, you must conduct additional correlation testing if either of the conditions specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this section occurs.

(1) If your source is a low-emitting source, as defined in section 3.16 of this specification, you must conduct additional correlation testing if either of the events specified in paragraphs (1)(i) or (ii) of this section occurs while your source is operating under normal conditions.
