
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

13.4 What PM compliance monitoring must I do? You must report your CEMS measurements in the units of the standard expressed in the regulations (mg/dscm @ 7 percent oxygen, pounds per million Btu (lb/mmBtu), etc.). You may need to install auxiliary data monitoring equipment to convert the units reported by your PM CEMS into units of the PM emission standard.

16.1 Technical Guidance Document: Compliance Assurance Monitoring. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards Emission Measurement Center. August 1998.

16.2 40 CFR 60, Appendix B, "Performance Specification 2-Specifications and Test Procedures for SO, and NO, Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems in Stationary Sources."

16.3 40 CFR 60, Appendix B, "Performance Specification 1-Specification and Test Procedures for Opacity Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems in Stationary Sources."

16.4 40 CFR 60, Appendix A, "Method 1-Sample and Velocity Traverses for Stationary Sources."

16.5 "Current Knowledge of Particulate Matter (PM) Continuous Emission Monitoring." EPA-454/R-00-039. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. September 2000.

16.6 40 CFR 266, Appendix IX, section 2, "Performance Specifications for Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems."

16.7 ISO 10155, "Stationary Source Emissions-Automated Monitoring of Mass Concentrations of Particles: Performance Characteristics, Test Procedures, and Specifications." American National Standards Institute, New York City. 1995.

16.8 Snedecor, George W. and Cochran, William G. (1989), Statistical Methods, Eighth Edition, Iowa State University Press.

16.9 Wallis, W. A. (1951) "Tolerance Intervals for Linear Regression," in Second Berkeley Symposium on Mathematical Statistics and Probability, ed. J. Neyman, Berkeley: University of California Press, pp. 43-51.

Use the information in Table 1 for determining the confidence and tolerance interval half ranges. Use Table 2 to record your 7-day drift test data.

1.1 Analyte. The analyte measured by these procedures and specifications is total vapor phase mercury (Hg) in the flue gas, which represents the sum of elemental Hg (Hg&#xB0;, CAS Number 7439-97-6) and oxidized forms of gaseous Hg (Hg), in concentration units of micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m).

1.2 Applicability.

1.2.1 This specification is for evaluating the acceptability of total vapor phase Hg continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS) installed at stationary sources at the time of or soon after installation and whenever specified in the regulations. The Hg CEMS must be capable of measuring the total concentration in µg/mof vapor phase Hg, regardless of speciation, and recording that concentration at standard conditions on a wet or dry basis. These specifications do not address measurement of particle bound Hg.
