
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

13.2 What performance criteria must my PM CEMS correlation satisfy? Your PM CEMS correlation must meet each of the minimum specifications in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this section. Before confidence and tolerance interval half range percentage calculations are made, you must convert the emission limit to the appropriate units of your PM CEMS measurement conditions using the average of emissions gas property values (diluent concentration, temperature, pressure, and moisture) measured during the correlation test.

(1) The correlation coefficient must satisfy the criterion specified in paragraph (1)(i) or (ii), whichever applies.

(i) If your source is not a low-emitting source, as defined in section 3.16 of this specification, the correlation coefficient (r) must be greater than or equal to 0.85.

(ii) If your source is a low-emitting source, as defined in section 3.16 of this specification, the correlation coefficient (r) must be greater than or equal to 0.75.

(2) The confidence interval half range must satisfy the applicable criterion specified in paragraph (2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, based on the type of correlation model.

(i) For linear or logarithmic correlations, the 95 percent confidence interval half range at the mean PM CEMS response value from the correlation test must be within 10 percent of the PM emission limit value specified in the applicable regulation. Therefore, the CI% calculated using Equation 11-10 must be less than or equal to 10 percent.

(ii) For polynomial correlations, the 95 percent confidence interval half range at the PM CEMS response value from the correlation test that corresponds to the minimum value for Δ must be within 10 percent of the PM emission limit value specified in the applicable regulation. Therefore, the CI% calculated using Equation 11-28 must be less than or equal to 10 percent.

(iii) For exponential or power correlations, the 95 percent confidence interval half range at the mean of the logarithm of the PM CEMS response values from the correlation test must be within 10 percent of the PM emission limit value specified in the applicable regulation. Therefore, the CI% calculated using Equation 11-10 must be less than or equal to 10 percent.

(3) The tolerance interval half range must satisfy the applicable criterion specified in paragraph (3)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, based on the type of correlation model.

(i) For linear or logarithmic correlations, the half range tolerance interval with 95 percent confidence and 75 percent coverage at the mean PM CEMS response value from the correlation test must be within 25 percent of the PM emission limit value specified in the applicable regulation. Therefore, the TI% calculated using Equation 11-13 must be less than or equal to 25 percent.

(ii) For polynomial correlations, the half range tolerance interval with 95 percent confidence and 75 percent coverage at the PM CEMS response value from the correlation test that corresponds to the minimum value for Δ must be within 25 percent of the PM emission limit value specified in the applicable regulation. Therefore, the TI% calculated using Equation 11-32 must be less than or equal to 25 percent.

(iii) For exponential or power correlations, the half range tolerance interval with 95 percent confidence and 75 percent coverage at the mean of the logarithm of the PM CEMS response values from the correlation test must be within 25 percent of the PM emission limit value specified in the applicable regulation. Therefore, the TI% calculated using Equation 11-13 must be less than or equal to 25 percent.

13.3 What are the sampling periods and cycle/response time? You must document and maintain the response time and any changes in the response time following installation.

(1) If you have a batch sampling PM CEMS, you must evaluate the limits presented in paragraphs (1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The response time of your PM CEMS, which is equivalent to the cycle time, must be no longer than 15 minutes. In addition, the delay between the end of the sampling time and reporting of the sample analysis must be no greater than 3 minutes. You must document any changes in the response time following installation.

(ii) The sampling time of your PM CEMS must be no less than 30 percent of the cycle time. If you have a batch sampling PM CEMS, sampling must be continuous except during pauses when the collected pollutant on the capture media is being analyzed and the next capture medium starts collecting a new sample.
