
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Note:

PS-11 does not address the application of correlation equations to calculate PM emission concentrations using PM CEMS response data during normal operations of a PM CEMS. However, we will provide guidance on the use of specific correlation models (i.e., logarithmic, exponential, and power models) to calculate PM concentrations in an operating PM CEMS in situations when the PM CEMS response values are equal to or less than zero, and the correlation model is undefined.

12.4 Which correlation model should I use? Follow the procedures described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this section to determine which correlation model you should use.

(1) For each correlation model that you develop using the procedures described in section 12.3 of this specification, compare the confidence interval half range percentage, tolerance interval half range percentage, and correlation coefficient to the performance criteria specified in section 13.2 of this specification. You can use the linear, logarithmic, exponential, or power correlation model if the model satisfies all of the performance criteria specified in section 13.2 of this specification. However, to use the polynomial model you first must check that the polynomial correlation curve satisfies the criteria for minimum and maximum values specified in paragraph (3) of this section.

(2) If you develop more than one correlation curve that satisfy the performance criteria specified in section 13.2 of this specification, you should use the correlation curve with the greatest correlation coefficient. If the polynomial model has the greatest correlation coefficient, you first must check that the polynomial correlation curve satisfies the criteria for minimum and maximum values specified in paragraph (3) of this section.

(3) You can use the polynomial model that you develop using the procedures described in section 12.3(2) if the model satisfies the performance criteria specified in section 13.2 of this specification, and the minimum or maximum value of the polynomial correlation curve does not occur within the expanded data range. The minimum or maximum value of the polynomial correlation curve is the point where the slope of the curve equals zero. To determine if the minimum or maximum value occurs within the expanded data range, follow the procedure described in paragraphs (3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Determine if your polynomial correlation curve has a minimum or maximum point by comparing the polynomial coefficient bto zero. If bis less than zero, the curve has a maximum value. If bis greater than zero, the curve has a minimum value. (Note: If bequals zero, the correlation curve is linear.)

(ii) Calculate the minimum value using Equation 11-48.

(iii) If your polynomial correlation curve has a minimum point, you must compare the minimum value to the minimum PM CEMS response used to develop the correlation curve. If the correlation curve minimum value is less than or equal to the minimum PM CEMS response value, you can use the polynomial correlation curve, provided the correlation curve also satisfies all of the performance criteria specified in section 13.2 of this specification. If the correlation curve minimum value is greater than the minimum PM CEMS response value, you cannot use the polynomial correlation curve to predict PM concentrations.

(iv) If your polynomial correlation curve has a maximum, the maximum value must be greater than the allowable extrapolation limit. If your source is not a low-emitting source, as defined in section 3.16 of this specification, the allowable extrapolation limit is 125 percent of the highest PM CEMS response used to develop the correlation curve. If your source is a low-emitting source, the allowable extrapolation limit is 125 percent of the highest PM CEMS response used to develop the correlation curve or the PM CEMS response that corresponds to 50 percent of the emission limit, whichever is greater. If the polynomial correlation curve maximum value is greater than the extrapolation limit, and the correlation curve satisfies all of the performance criteria specified in section 13.2 of this specification, you can use the polynomial correlation curve to predict PM concentrations. If the correlation curve maximum value is less than the extrapolation limit, you cannot use the polynomial correlation curve to predict PM concentrations.

(4) You may petition the Administrator for alternative solutions or sampling recommendations if the correlation models described in section 12.3 of this specification do not satisfy the performance criteria specified in section 13.2 of this specification.

You must evaluate your PM CEMS based on the 7-day drift check, the accuracy of the correlation, and the sampling periods and cycle/response time.

13.1 What is the 7-day drift check performance specification? Your daily PM CEMS internal drift checks must demonstrate that the daily drift of your PM CEMS does not deviate from the value of the reference light, optical filter, Beta attenuation signal, or other technology-suitable reference standard by more than 2 percent of the response range. If your CEMS includes diluent and/or auxiliary monitors (for temperature, pressure, and/or moisture) that are employed as a necessary part of this performance specification, you must determine the calibration drift separately for each ancillary monitor in terms of its respective output (see the appropriate performance specification for the diluent CEMS specification). None of the calibration drifts may exceed their individual specification.
