
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - State Water Pollution Control Revolving Funds
###### § 35.3155 Payments.
####### General payment and cash draw rules.

(d)(1) Except as described in §§ 35.3160(e) and 35.3160(g), payments will be based on the State's schedule of binding commitments.

(2) The SRF or assistance recipient must first incur a cost, but not necessarily disburse funds for that cost, on an activity for which the State has entered into a binding commitment, in order to draw cash.

(3) Cash draws will be available only up to the amount of payments made.

(4) For loans or for refinancing or purchasing of municipal debt, planning, design and associated pre-building costs that are within the scope of a project built after March 7, 1985, may be included in the assistance agreement regardless of when they were incurred, provided these costs are in conformity with title VI of the Act. The State may draw cash for these incurred pre-building costs immediately upon executing an assistance agreement.

(5) A State may draw cash from the LOC equal to the proportional Federal share at which time the State will provide its proportional share. The Federal proportional share will be 83percent of incurred costs and the State's proportional share will be 16percent of the incurred costs, except as described below.

(i) Where the State provides funds in excess of the required 20 percent match, the proportional Federal share drawn from the LOC will be the ratio of Federal funds in the capitalization grant to the sum of the capitalization grant and the State funds. Alternatively, the State may identify a group of activities approximately equal to 120 percent of the grant amount, and draw cash from the LOC for 83percent of the incurred costs of the identified activities.

(ii) The Federal proportional share may exceed 83percent where a State is given credit for its match amount as a result of funding activities in prior years (but after March 7, 1985), or for banking excess match in the SRF in prior years and disbursing these amounts prior to drawing cash. If the entire amount of the State's required match has been disbursed in advance, the Federal proportional share would be 100 percent.
