
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### See

7.2 Reference gas standards may also be required for the reference methods.section 8.6.2.

8.1 Installation and Measurement Location Specifications.

8.1.1 CEMS Installation. Install the CEMS at an accessible location downstream of all pollution control equipment. Place the probe outlet or other sampling interface at a point or location in the stack (or vent) representative of the stack gas concentration of Hg. Since the Hg CEMS sample system normally extracts gas from a single point in the stack, a location that has been shown to be free of stratification for Hg or, alternatively, SOis recommended. If the cause of failure to meet the RA test requirement is determined to be the measurement location and a satisfactory correction technique cannot be established, the Administrator may require the CEMS to be relocated. Measurement locations and points or paths that are most likely to provide data that will meet the RA requirements are described in sections 8.1.2 and 8.1.3 below.

8.1.2 Measurement Location. The measurement location should be (1) at least two equivalent diameters downstream of the nearest control device, point of pollutant generation or other point at which a change of pollutant concentration may occur, and (2) at least half an equivalent diameter upstream from the effluent exhaust. The equivalent duct diameter is calculated according to Method 1 in appendix A-1 to this part.

8.1.3 Hg CEMS Sample Extraction Point. Use a sample extraction point either (1) no less than 1.0 meter from the stack or duct wall, or (2) within the centroidal velocity traverse area of the stack or duct cross section. This does not apply to cross-stack, in-situ measurement systems.
