
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Relative Accuracy (RA)

3.1means the absolute mean difference between the pollutant concentrations determined by the CEMS and the values determined by the RM plus the 2.5 percent error confidence coefficient of a series of tests divided by the mean of the RM tests. Alternatively, for sources with an average RM concentration less than 5.0 micrograms per standard cubic meter (µg/scm), the RA may be expressed as the absolute value of the difference between the mean CEMS and RM values.

The procedures required under this performance specification may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This performance specification may not address all of the safety problems associated with these procedures. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicable regulatory limitations prior to performing these procedures. The CEMS user's manual and materials recommended by the RM should be consulted for specific precautions to be taken.

6.1 CEMS Equipment Specifications.

6.1.1 Data Recorder Scale. The Hg CEMS data recorder output range must include the full range of expected Hg concentration values in the gas stream to be sampled including zero and the span value.

6.1.2 The Hg CEMS design should also provide for the determination of CD and ME at a zero value (zero to 20 percent of the span value) and at upscale values (between 50 and 100 percent of the span value). The Hg CEMS must be constructed to permit the introduction of known concentrations of Hg and HgClseparately into the sampling system of the CEMS immediately preceding the sample extraction filtration system such that the entire CEMS can be challenged.

6.2 Reference Gas Delivery System. The reference gas delivery system must be designed so that the flowrate exceeds the sampling system flow requirements of the CEMS and that the gas is delivered to the CEMS at atmospheric pressure.
