
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### d

12.2 Arithmetic Mean. Calculate, the arithmetic mean of the differences (d) of a data set as follows:

12.3 Standard Deviation. Calculate the standard deviation, S, as follows:

12.3 Confidence Coefficient (CC). Calculate the 2.5 percent error confidence coefficient (one-tailed), CC, as follows:

12.4 Relative Accuracy. Calculate the RA of a set of data as follows:

13.1 Measurement Error (ME). For Hg, the ME must not exceed 5 percent of the span value at the zero-, mid-, and high-level reference gas concentrations. For HgCl, the ME must not exceed 10 percent of the span value at the zero-, mid-, and high-level reference gas concentrations.

13.2 Calibration Drift (CD). The CD must not exceed 5 percent of the span value on any of the 7 days of the CD test.

13.3 Relative Accuracy (RA). The RA of the CEMS must be no greater than 20 percent of the mean value of the RM test data in terms of units of µg/scm. Alternatively, if the mean RM is less than 5.0 µg/scm, the results are acceptable if the absolute value of the difference between the mean RM and CEMS values does not exceed 1.0 µg/scm.

17.1 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, "Performance Specification 2-Specifications and Test Procedures for SOand NOContinuous Emission Monitoring Systems in Stationary Sources."

17.2 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, "Method 29-Determination of Metals Emissions from Stationary Sources."

17.3 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, "Method 30A-Determination of Total Vapor Phase Mercury Emissions From Stationary Sources (Instrumental Analyzer Procedure).

17.4 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, "Method 30B-Determination of Total Vapor Phase Mercury Emissions From Coal-Fired Combustion Sources Using Carbon Sorbent Traps."

17.5 ASTM Method D6784-02, "Standard Test Method for Elemental, Oxidized, Particle-Bound and Total Mercury in Flue Gas Generated from Coal-Fired Stationary Sources (Ontario Hydro Method)."

The purpose of Performance Specification 12B (PS 12B) is to establish performance benchmarks for, and to evaluate the acceptability of, sorbent trap monitoring systems used to monitor total vapor-phase mercury (Hg) emissions in stationary source flue gas streams. These monitoring systems involve continuous repetitive in-stack sampling using paired sorbent media traps with periodic analysis of the time-integrated samples. Persons using PS 12B should have a thorough working knowledge of Methods 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 30B in appendices A-1 through A-3 and A-8 to this part.
