
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### see

8.4.2 Reference Methods (RM). Unless otherwise specified in an applicable subpart of the regulations, use Method 29, Method 30A, or Method 30B in appendix A-8 to this part or American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) Method D6784-02 (incorporated by reference,§ 60.17) as the RM for Hg concentration. For Method 29 and ASTM Method D6784-02 only, the filterable portion of the sample need not be included when making comparisons to the CEMS results. When Method 29, Method 30B, or ASTM D6784-02 is used, conduct the RM test runs with paired or duplicate sampling systems and use the average of the vapor phase Hg concentrations measured by the two trains. When Method 30A is used, paired sampling systems are not required. If the RM and CEMS measure on a different moisture basis, data derived with Method 4 in appendix A-3 to this part must also be obtained during the RA test.

8.4.3 Sampling Strategy for RM Tests. Conduct the RM tests in such a way that they will yield results representative of the emissions from the source and can be compared to the CEMS data. The RM and CEMS locations need not be immediately adjacent. Locate the RM measurement points in accordance with section 8.1.3 of Performance Specification 2 (PS 2) in this appendix. It is preferable to conduct moisture measurements (if needed) and Hg measurements simultaneously, although moisture measurements that are taken within an hour of the Hg measurements may be used to adjust the Hg concentrations to a consistent moisture basis. In order to correlate the CEMS and RM data properly, note the beginning and end of each RM test period for each paired RM run (including the exact time of day) on the CEMS chart recordings or other permanent record of output.

8.4.4 Number and Length of RM Test Runs. Conduct a minimum of nine RM test runs. When Method 29, Method 30B, or ASTM D6784-02 is used, only test runs for which the paired RM trains meet the relative deviation criteria (RD) of this PS must be used in the RA calculations. In addition, for Method 29 and ASTM D6784-02, use a minimum sample time of 2 hours and for Methods 30A and 30B use a minimum sample time of 30 minutes.

8.4.5 Correlation of RM and CEMS Data. Correlate the CEMS and the RM test data as to the time and duration by first determining from the CEMS final output (the one used for reporting) the integrated average pollutant concentration for each RM test period. Consider system response time, if important, and confirm that the results are on a consistent moisture basis with the RM test. Then, compare each integrated CEMS value against the corresponding RM value. When Method 29, Method 30B, or ASTM D6784-02 is used, compare each CEMS value against the corresponding average of the paired RM values.

8.4.6 Paired RM Outliers.

8.4.6.1 When Method 29, Method 30B, or ASTM D6784-02 is used, outliers are identified through the determination of relative deviation (RD) of the paired RM tests. Data that do not meet the RD criteria must be flagged as a data quality problem and may not be used in the calculation of RA. The primary reason for performing paired RM sampling is to ensure the quality of the RM data. The percent RD of paired data is the parameter used to quantify data quality. Determine RD for paired data points as follows:

8.4.6.2 The minimum performance criteria for RM Hg data is that RD for any data pair must be &#x2264;10 percent as long as the mean Hg concentration is greater than 1.0 µg/m. If the mean Hg concentration is less than or equal to 1.0 µg/m, the RD must be &#x2264;20 percent or &#x2264;0.2 µg/mabsolute difference. Pairs of RM data exceeding these RD criteria should be eliminated from the data set used to develop a Hg CEMS correlation or to assess CEMS RA.

8.4.7 Calculate the mean difference between the RM and CEMS values in the units of micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m), the standard deviation, the confidence coefficient, and the RA according to the procedures in section 12.0.

8.5 Reporting. At a minimum (check with the appropriate EPA Regional Office, State or local Agency for additional requirements, if any), summarize in tabular form the results of the CD tests, the linearity tests, and the RA test or alternative RA procedure, as appropriate. Include all data sheets, calculations, charts (records of CEMS responses), reference gas concentration certifications, and any other information necessary to confirm that the CEMS meets the performance criteria.

For Method 30A, sample collection and analysis are concurrent. For the other RM, post-run sample analyses are performed. Refer to the RM employed for specific analytical procedures.

Calculate and summarize the RA test results on a data sheet similar to Figure 12A-3.

12.1 Consistent Basis. All data from the RM and CEMS must be compared in units of micrograms per standard cubic meter (µg/scm), on a consistent and identified moisture basis. The values must be standardized to 20 &#xB0;C, 760 mm Hg.

12.1.1 Moisture Correction (as applicable). If the RM and CEMS measure Hg on a different moisture basis, they will need to be corrected to a consistent basis. Use Equation 12A-4a to correct data from a wet basis to a dry basis.

Use Equation 12A-4b to correct data from a dry basis to a wet basis.
