
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### see

8.2 Measurement Error (ME) Test Procedure. Sequentially inject each of at least three elemental Hg reference gases (zero, mid-level, and high level, as defined in section 7.1), three times each for a total of nine injections. Inject the gases in such a manner that the entire CEMS is challenged. Do not inject the same gas concentration twice in succession. At each reference gas concentration, determine the average of the three CEMS responses and subtract the average response from the reference gas value. Calculate the measurement error (ME) using Equation 12-1 by expressing the absolute value of the difference between the average CEMS response (A) and the reference gas value (R) as a percentage of the span (example data sheet in Figure 12A-1). For each elemental Hg reference gas, the absolute value of the difference between the CEMS response and the reference value must not exceed 5 percent of the span value. If this specification is not met, identify and correct the problem before proceeding. Repeat the measurement error test procedure using oxidized Hg reference gases. For each oxidized Hg reference gas, the absolute value of the difference between the CEMS response and the reference value shall not exceed 10 percent of the span value. If this specification is not met, identify and correct the problem before proceeding.

8.3 Seven-Day Calibration Drift (CD) Test Procedure.

8.3.1 CD Test Period. While the affected facility is operating normally, or as specified in an applicable regulation, determine the magnitude of the CD once each day (at 24-hour intervals, to the extent practicable) for 7 consecutive unit operating days according to the procedures in sections 8.3.2 and 8.3.3. The 7 consecutive unit operating days need not be 7 consecutive calendar days. Use either Hg&#xB0; or HgClstandards for this test.

8.3.2 The purpose of the CD measurement is to verify the ability of the CEMS to conform to the established CEMS response used for determining emission concentrations or emission rates. Therefore, if periodic automatic or manual adjustments are made to the CEMS zero and upscale response settings, conduct the CD test immediately before these adjustments, or conduct it in such a way that the CD can be determined.
