
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### See

1.2.2 This specification contains routine procedures and specifications designed to evaluate an installed sorbent trap monitoring system's performance over time; Procedure 5 of appendix F to this part contains additional procedures and specifications which may be required for long term operation. In addition, the source owner or operator is responsible to calibrate, maintain, and operate the monitoring system properly. The Administrator may require the owner or operator, under section 114 of the Clean Air Act, to conduct performance evaluations at other times besides the initial test to evaluate the CEMS performance.ยง 60.13(c) and 63.8(e)(1).

Known volumes of flue gas are continuously extracted from a stack or duct through paired, in-stack, pre-spiked sorbent media traps at appropriate nominal flow rates. The sorbent traps in the sampling system are periodically exchanged with new ones, prepared for analysis as needed, and analyzed by any technique that can meet the performance criteria. For quality-assurance purposes, a section of each sorbent trap is spiked with Hgprior to sampling. Following sampling, this section is analyzed separately and a specified minimum percentage of the spike must be recovered. Paired train sampling is required to determine method precision.
