
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Confidentiality of Business Information
###### ยง 2.306 Special rules governing certain information obtained under the Toxic Substances Control Act.
####### Disclosure of information when necessary to protect health or the environment against an unreasonable risk of injury.

(k)(1) Under section 14(a)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C 2613(a)(3)), any information to which this section applies may be disclosed by EPA when disclosure is necessary to protect health or the environment against an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. However, any disclosure shall be made in a manner that preserves the confidentiality of the information to the extent not inconsistent with protecting health or the environment against the unreasonable risk of injury. Disclosure of information to which this section applies because of the need to protect health or the environment against an unreasonable risk of injury shall be made only in accordance with this paragraph (k).

(2) If any EPA office determines that there is an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment and that to protect health or the environment against the unreasonable risk of injury it is necessary to disclose information to which this section applies that otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart, the EPA office shall notify the General Counsel in writing of the nature of the unreasonable risk of injury, the extent of the disclosure proposed, how the proposed disclosure will serve to protect health or the environment against the unreasonable risk of injury, and the proposed date of disclosure. Such notification shall be made as soon as practicable after discovery of the unreasonable risk of injury. If the EPA office determines that the risk of injury is so imminent that it is impracticable to furnish written notification to the General Counsel, the EPA office shall notify the General Counsel orally.

(3) Upon receipt of notification under paragraph (k)(2) of this section, the General Counsel shall make a determination in writing whether disclosure of information to which this section applies that otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment is necessary to protect health or the environment against an unreasonable risk of injury. The General Counsel shall also determine the extent of disclosure necessary to protect against the unreasonable risk of injury as well as when the disclosure must be made to protect against the unreasonable risk of injury.

(4) If the General Counsel determines that disclosure of information to which this section applies that otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment is necessary to protect health or the environment against an unreasonable risk of injury, the General Counsel shall furnish notice to each affected business of the contemplated disclosure and of the General Counsel's determination. Such notice shall be made in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, at least 15 days before the disclosure is to be made. The notice shall state the date upon which disclosure will be made. However, if the General Counsel determines that the risk of injury is so imminent that it is impracticable to furnish such notice 15 days before the proposed date of disclosure, the General Counsel may provide notice by means that will provide receipt of the notice by the affected business at least 24 hours before the disclosure is to be made. This may be done by telegram, telephone, or other reasonably rapid means.
