
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### etc.

Only NIST-certified or NIST-traceable calibration gas standards and reagents must be used for the tests and procedures required under this performance specification. The sorbent media may be any collection material (e.g., carbon, chemically treated filter,) capable of quantitatively capturing and recovering for subsequent analysis, all gaseous forms of Hg in the emissions from the intended application. Selection of the sorbent media must be based on the material's ability to achieve the performance criteria contained in this method as well as the sorbent's vapor phase Hg capture efficiency for the emissions matrix and the expected sampling duration at the test site.

8.1 Installation and Measurement Location Specifications.

8.1.1 Selection of Monitoring Site. Sampling site information should be obtained in accordance with Method 1 in appendix A-1 to this part. Place the probe inlet at a point or location in the stack (or vent) downstream of all pollution control equipment and representative of the stack gas concentration of Hg. A location that has been shown to be free of stratification for Hg or, alternatively, SOis recommended. An estimation of the expected stack Hg concentration is required to establish a target sample flow rate, total gas sample volume, and the mass of Hgto be spiked onto section 3 of each sorbent trap.
