
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Spike Recovery

3.5means the mass of Hg recovered from the spiked trap section, expressed as a percentage of the amount spiked. Spike recovery is used to assess sample matrix interference.

The procedures required under this performance specification may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This performance specification may not address all of the safety problems associated with these procedures. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicable regulatory limitations prior to performing these procedures.

6.1 Sorbent Trap Monitoring System Equipment Specifications.

6.1.1 Monitoring System. The equipment described in Method 30B in appendix A-8 to this part must be used to continuously sample for Hg emissions, with the substitution of three-section traps in place of two-section traps, as described below. A typical sorbent trap monitoring system is shown in Figure 12B-1.

6.1.2 Three-Section Sorbent Traps. The sorbent media used to collect Hg must be configured in traps with three distinct and identical segments or sections, connected in series, to be separately analyzed. section 1 is designated for primary capture of gaseous Hg. section 2 is designated as a backup section for determination of vapor-phase Hg breakthrough. section 3 is designated for quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) purposes. section 3 must be spiked with a known amount of gaseous Hgprior to sampling and later analyzed to determine the spike (and hence sample) recovery efficiency.

6.1.3 Gaseous HgSorbent Trap Spiking System. A known mass of gaseous Hgmust be spiked onto section 3 of each sorbent trap prior to sampling. Any approach capable of quantitatively delivering known masses of Hgonto sorbent traps is acceptable. Several technologies or devices are available to meet this objective. Their practicality is a function of Hg mass spike levels. For low levels, NIST-certified or NIST-traceable gas generators or tanks may be suitable, but will likely require long preparation times. A more practical, alternative system, capable of delivering almost any mass required, employs NIST-certified or NIST-traceable Hg salt solutions (e.g., Hg(NO)). With this system, an aliquot of known volume and concentration is added to a reaction vessel containing a reducing agent (e.g., stannous chloride); the Hg salt solution is reduced to Hgand purged onto section 3 of the sorbent trap by using an impinger sparging system.

6.1.4 Sample Analysis Equipment. Any analytical system capable of quantitatively recovering and quantifying total gaseous Hg from sorbent media is acceptable provided that the analysis can meet the performance criteria in Table 12B-1 in section 9 of this performance specification. Candidate recovery techniques include leaching, digestion, and thermal desorption. Candidate analytical techniques include ultraviolet atomic fluorescence (UV AF); ultraviolet atomic absorption (UV AA), with and without gold trapping; and in-situ X-ray fluorescence (XRF).
