
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### i.e.,,see

8.2.2 Flow Rate Control. Set the initial sample flow rate at the target value from section 8.1.1 of this performance specification. Then, for every operating hour during the sampling period, record the date and time, the sample flow rate, the gas flow meter reading, the stack temperature (if needed), the flow meter temperatures (if needed), temperatures of heated equipment such as the vacuum lines and the probes (if heated), and the sampling system vacuum readings. Also, record the stack gas flow rate and the ratio of the stack gas flow rate to the sample flow rate. Adjust the sampling flow rate to maintain proportional sampling,keep the ratio of the stack gas flow rate to sample flow rate within +/-25 percent of the reference ratio from the first hour of the data collection period (section 12.2 of this performance specification). The sample flow rate through a sorbent trap monitoring system during any hour (or portion of an hour) that the unit is not operating must be zero.

8.2.3 Stack Gas Moisture Determination. If data from the sorbent trap monitoring system will be used to calculate Hg mass emissions, determine the stack gas moisture content using a continuous moisture monitoring system or other means acceptable to the Administrator, such as the ones described in § 75.11(b) of this chapter. Alternatively, for combustion of coal, wood, or natural gas in boilers only, a default moisture percentage from § 75.11(b) of this chapter may be used.

8.2.4 Essential Operating Data. Obtain and record any essential operating data for the facility during the test period, e.g., the barometric pressure for correcting the sample volume measured by a dry gas meter to standard conditions. At the end of the data collection period, record the final gas flow meter reading and the final values of all other essential parameters.

8.2.5 Post-monitoring Leak Check. When the monitoring period is completed, turn off the sample pump, remove the probe/sorbent trap from the port and carefully re-plug the end of each sorbent trap. Perform a leak check with the sorbent traps in place, at the maximum vacuum reached during the monitoring period. Use the same general approach described in section 8.1.3 of this performance specification. Record the leakage rate and vacuum. The leakage rate must not exceed 4 percent of the average sampling rate for the monitoring period. Following the leak check, carefully release the vacuum in the sample train.

8.2.6 Sample Recovery. Recover each sampled sorbent trap by removing it from the probe and seal both ends. Wipe any deposited material from the outside of the sorbent trap. Place the sorbent trap into an appropriate sample storage container and store/preserve it in an appropriate manner.

8.2.7 Sample Preservation, Storage, and Transport. While the performance criteria of this approach provide for verification of appropriate sample handling, it is still important that the user consider, determine, and plan for suitable sample preservation, storage, transport, and holding times for these measurements. Therefore, procedures in recognized voluntary consensus standards such as those in ASTM D6911-03 "Standard Guide for Packaging and Shipping Environmental Samples for Laboratory Analysis" should be followed for all samples.

8.2.8 Sample Custody. Proper procedures and documentation for sample chain of custody are critical to ensuring data integrity. Chain of custody procedures in recognized voluntary consensus standards such as those in ASTM D4840-99 "Standard Guide for Sample Chain-of-Custody Procedures" should be followed for all samples (including field samples and blanks).

8.3 Relative Accuracy (RA) Test Procedure

8.3.1 For the initial certification of a sorbent trap monitoring system, a RA Test is required. Follow the basic RA test procedures and calculation methodology described in sections 8.4.1 through 8.4.7 and 12.4 of PS 12A in this appendix, replacing the term "CEMS" with "sorbent trap monitoring system".

8.3.2 Special Considerations. The type of sorbent material used in the traps must be the same as that used for daily operation of the monitoring system; however, the size of the traps used for the RA test may be smaller than the traps used for daily operation of the system. Spike the third section of each sorbent trap with elemental Hg, as described in section 8.1.2 of this performance specification. Install a new pair of sorbent traps prior to each test run. For each run, the sorbent trap data must be validated according to the quality assurance criteria in Table 12B-1 in section 9.0, below.

8.3.3 Acceptance Criteria. The RA of the sorbent trap monitoring system must be no greater than 20 percent of the mean value of the RM test data in terms of units of µg/scm. Alternatively, if the RM concentration is less than or equal to 5.0 µg/scm, then the RA results are acceptable if the absolute difference between the means of the RM and sorbent trap monitoring system values does not exceed 1.0 µg/scm.

Table 12B-1 summarizes the QA/QC performance criteria that are used to validate the Hg emissions data from a sorbent trap monitoring system. Failure to achieve these performance criteria will result in invalidation of Hg emissions data, except where otherwise noted.
