
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### i.e.,

12.8.4 Whenever the data from a pair of sorbent traps must be invalidated and no quality-assured data from a certified backup Hg monitoring system or Hg reference method are available to cover the hours in the data collection period, treat those hours in the manner specified in the applicable regulation (use missing data substitution procedures or count the hours as monitoring system down time, as appropriate).

These monitoring criteria and procedures have been successfully applied to coal-fired utility boilers (including units with post-combustion emission controls), having vapor-phase Hg concentrations ranging from 0.03 µg/dscm to approximately 100 µg/dscm.

17.1 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix B, "Performance Specification 2-Specifications and Test Procedures for SOand NOContinuous Emission Monitoring Systems in Stationary Sources."

17.2 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix B, "Performance Specification 12A-Specifications and Test Procedures for Total Vapor Phase Mercury Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems in Stationary Sources."

1.1 Analytes. This performance specification is applicable for measuring all hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) which absorb in the infrared region and can be quantified using Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR), as long as the performance criteria of this performance specification are met. This specification is to be used for evaluating FTIR continuous emission monitoring systems for measuring HAPs regulated under Title III of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments. This specification also applies to the use of FTIR CEMs for measuring other volatile organic or inorganic species.

1.2 Applicability. A source which can demonstrate that the extractive FTIR system meets the criteria of this performance specification for each regulated pollutant may use the FTIR system to continuously monitor for the regulated pollutants.
