
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### i.e.,

11.4 Field Sample Analyses. Analyze the sorbent trap samples following the same procedures that were used for conducting the spike recovery study. The three sections of each sorbent trap must be analyzed separately (section 1, then section 2, then section 3). Quantify the total mass of Hg for each section based on analytical system response and the calibration curve from section 11.1 of this performance specification. Determine the spike recovery from sorbent trap section 3. The spike recovery must be no less than 75 percent and no greater than 125 percent. To report the final Hg mass for each trap, add together the Hg masses collected in trap sections 1 and 2.

12.1 Calculation of Pre-Sampling Spiking Level. Determine sorbent trap section 3 spiking level using estimates of the stack Hg concentration, the target sample flow rate, and the expected monitoring period. Calculate M, the expected Hg mass that will be collected in section 1 of the trap, using Equation 12B-1. The pre-sampling spike must be within +/-50 percent of this mass.

A pre-sampling spike of 10.8 µg +/-50 percent is, therefore, appropriate.

12.2 Calculations for Flow-Proportional Sampling. For the first hour of the data collection period, determine the reference ratio of the stack gas volumetric flow rate to the sample flow rate, as follows:

Then, for each subsequent hour of the data collection period, calculate ratio of the stack gas flow rate to the sample flow rate using Equation 12B-3:

Maintain the value of Rwithin +/-25 percent of Rthroughout the data collection period.

12.3 Calculation of Spike Recovery. Calculate the percent recovery of each section 3 spike, as follows:

12.4 Calculation of Breakthrough. Calculate the percent breakthrough to the second section of the sorbent trap, as follows:

12.5 Calculation of Hg Concentration. Calculate the Hg concentration for each sorbent trap, using the following equation:

12.6 Calculation of Paired Trap Agreement. Calculate the relative deviation (RD) between the Hg concentrations measured with the paired sorbent traps:

12.7 Calculation of Relative Accuracy. Calculate the relative accuracy as described in section 12.4 of PS 12A in this appendix.

12.8 Data Reduction. Typical monitoring periods for normal, day-to-day operation of a sorbent trap monitoring system range from about 24 hours to 168 hours. For the required RA tests of the system, smaller sorbent traps are often used, and the "monitoring period" or time per run is considerably shorter (e.g., 1 hour or less). Generally speaking, to validate sorbent trap monitoring system data, the acceptance criteria for the following five QC specifications in Table 12B-1 above must be met for both traps: (a) the post-monitoring leak check; (b) the ratio of stack gas flow rate to sample flow rate; (c) section 2 breakthrough; (d) paired trap agreement; and (e) section 3 spike recovery.

12.8.1 For routine day-to-day operation of a sorbent trap monitoring system, when both traps meet the acceptance criteria for all five QC specifications, the two measured Hg concentrations must be averaged arithmetically and the average value must be applied to each hour of the data collection period.

12.8.2 To validate a RA test run, both traps must meet the acceptance criteria for all five QC specifications. However, as specified in section 12.8.3 below, for routine day-to-day operation of the monitoring system, a monitoring period may, in certain instances, be validated based on the results from one trap.

12.8.3 For the routine, day-to-day operation of the monitoring system, when one of the two sorbent trap samples or sampling systems either: (a) Fails the post-monitoring leak check; or (b) has excessive section 2 breakthrough; or (c) fails to maintain the proper stack flow-to-sample flow ratio; or (d) fails to achieve the required section 3 spike recovery; or (e) is lost, broken, or damaged, provided that the other trap meets the acceptance criteria for all four of these QC specifications, the Hg concentration measured by the valid trap may be multiplied by a factor of 1.111 and then used for reporting purposes. Further, if both traps meet the acceptance criteria for all four of these QC specifications, but the acceptance criterion for paired trap agreement is not met, the owner or operator may report the higher of the two Hg concentrations measured by the traps, in lieu of invalidating the data from the paired traps.
