
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - State Water Pollution Control Revolving Funds
###### ยง 35.3160 Cash draw rules.
####### Guarantees and security for bonds.

(d)(1) Cash draw in the event of default. In the event of an imminent default in debt service payments on the guaranteed/secured debt, the State can draw cash immediately up to the total amount of the LOC committed to the guarantee/security. If a balance remains in the guarantee portion of the LOC reserve after the default is covered, the State must negotiate a revised schedule for the remaining amount of the guarantee/security.

(2) Cash draw in the absence of default. (i) The State can draw cash up to the amount of the LOC dedicated for the guarantee or security in accordance with a schedule based on the national title II annual outlay rate (Yr 1: 7%; Yr 2: 35%; Yr 3: 26%; Yr 4: 20%; Yr 5: 12%), or actual construction cost. In the latter case, the amount of the cash draw would be the actual construction costs multiplied by the Federal share of the reserve multiplied by the ratio of the reserve to either the amount guaranteed or the proceeds of the bond issue.

(ii) In addition, in the case of a security the State can identify a group of projects whose value equals approximately the total of that portion of the LOC and the State match dedicated as a security. The State can then draw cash based on the incurred construction costs of the selected projects only, multiplied by the ratio of the Federal portion of the security to the entire security.
