
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Run.

3.19A single Run consists of spectra (one spectrum each) of at least 10 independent samples over a minimum of one hour. The concentration results from the spectra can be averaged together to give a run average for each analyte measured in the test run.

Several compounds, including water, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide, are known interferences in the infrared region in which the FTIR instrument operates. Follow the procedures in the FTIR protocol for subtracting or otherwise dealing with these and other interferences.

The procedures required under this performance specification may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This performance specification may not address all of the safety problems associated with these procedures. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicable regulatory limitations prior to performing these procedures. The CEMS users manual and materials recommended by this performance specification should be consulted for specific precautions to be taken.

6.1 Installation of sampling equipment should follow requirements of FTIR test Methods such as references 1 and 3 and the EPA FTIR Protocol (reference 2). Select test points where the gas stream composition is representative of the process emissions. If comparing to a reference method, the probe tips for the FTIR CEM and the RM should be positioned close together using the same sample port if possible.

6.2 FTIR Specifications. The FTIR CEM must be equipped with reference spectra bracketing the range of path length-concentrations (absorbance intensities) to be measured for each analyte. The effective concentration range of the analyzer can be adjusted by changing the path length of the gas cell or by diluting the sample. The optical configuration of the FTIR system must be such that maximum absorbance of any target analyte is no greater than 1.0 and the minimum absorbance of any target analyte is at least 10 times the RMSD noise in the analytical region. For example, if the measured RMSD in an analytical region is equal to 10, then the peak analyte absorbance is required to be at least 0.01. Adequate measurement of all of the target analytes may require changing path lengths during a run, conducting separate runs for different analytes, diluting the sample, or using more than one gas cell.

6.3 Data Storage Requirements. The system must have sufficient capacity to store all data collected in one week of routine sampling. Data must be stored to a write-protected medium, such as write-once-read-many (WORM) optical storage medium or to a password protected remote storage location. A back-up copy of all data can be temporarily saved to the computer hard drive. The following items must be stored during testing.

- At least one sample interferogram per sampling Run or one interferogram per hour, whichever is greater. This assumes that no sampling or analytical conditions have changed during the run.

- All sample absorbance spectra (about 12 per hr, 288 per day).

- All background spectra and interferograms (variable, but about 5 per day).

- All CTS spectra and interferograms (at least 2 each 24 hour period).

- Documentation showing a record of resolution, path length, apodization, sampling time, sampling conditions, and test conditions for all sample, CTS, calibration, and background spectra.

Using a resolution of 0.5 cm, with analytical range of 3500 cm, assuming about 65 Kbytes per spectrum and 130 Kb per interferogram, the storage requirement is about 164 Mb for one week of continuous sampling. Lower spectral resolution requires less storage capacity. All of the above data must be stored for at least two weeks. After two weeks, storage requirements include: (1) all analytical results (calculated concentrations), (2) at least 1 sample spectrum with corresponding background and sample interferograms for each test condition, (3) CTS and calibration spectra with at least one interferogram for CTS and all interferograms for calibrations, (4) a record of analytical input used to produce results, and (5) all other documentation. These data must be stored according to the requirements of the applicable regulation.

These procedures shall be used for periodic quarterly or semiannual QA/QC checks on the operation of the FTIR CEM. Some procedures test only the analytical program and are not intended as a test of the sampling system.

9.1 Audit Sample. This can serve as a check on both the sampling system and the analytical program.

9.1.1 Sample Requirements. The audit sample can be a mixture or a single component. It must contain target analyte(s) at approximately the expected flue gas concentration(s). If possible, each mixture component concentration should be NIST traceable (+/-2 percent accuracy). If a cylinder mixture standard(s) cannot be obtained, then, alternatively, a gas phase standard can be generated from a condensed phase analyte sample. Audit sample contents and concentrations are not revealed to the FTIR CEM operator until after successful completion of procedures in 5.3.2.
