
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Is other testing required after certification?

1.1.2After you initially certify your PEMS, you must pass additional periodic performance checks to ensure the long-term quality of data. These periodic checks are listed in the table in section 9. You are always responsible for properly maintaining and operating your PEMS.

The following performance tests are required in addition to other equipment and measurement location requirements.

2.1 Initial PEMS Certification.

2.1.1 Excess Emissions PEMS. For a PEMS that is used for excess emission reporting, the owner or operator must perform a minimum 9-run, 3-level (3 runs at each level) RA test (see section 8.2).

2.1.2 Compliance PEMS. For a PEMS that is used for continual compliance standards, the owner or operator must perform a minimum 27-run, 3-level (9 runs at each level) RA test (see section 8.2). Additionally, the data must be evaluated for bias and by F-test and correlation analysis.

2.2 Periodic Quality Assurance (QA) Assessments. Owners and operators of all PEMS are required to conduct quarterly relative accuracy audits (RAA) and yearly relative accuracy test audits (RATA) to assess ongoing PEMS operation. The frequency of these periodic assessments may be shortened by successful operation during a prior year.

The following definitions apply:
