
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### i.e.,

9.1.2 Test Procedure. Spike the audit sample using the analyte spike procedure in section 11. The audit sample is measured directly by the FTIR system (undiluted) and then spiked into the effluent at a known dilution ratio. Measure a series of spiked and unspiked samples using the same procedures as those used to analyze the stack gas. Analyze the results using sections 12.1 and 12.2. The measured concentration of each analyte must be within +/-5 percent of the expected concentration (plus the uncertainty),the calculated correction factor must be within 0.93 and 1.07 for an audit with an analyte uncertainty of +/-2 percent.

9.2 Audit Spectra. Audit spectra can be used to test the analytical program of the FTIR CEM, but provide no test of the sampling system.

9.2.1 Definition and Requirements. Audit spectra are absorbance spectra that; (1) have been well characterized, and (2) contain absorbance bands of target analyte(s) and potential interferants at intensities equivalent to what is expected in the source effluent. Audit spectra are provided by the administrator without identifying information. Methods of preparing Audit spectra include; (1) mathematically adding sample spectra or adding reference and interferant spectra, (2) obtaining sample spectra of mixtures prepared in the laboratory, or (3) they may be sample spectra collected previously at a similar source. In the last case it must be demonstrated that the analytical results are correct and reproducible. A record associated with each Audit spectrum documents its method of preparation. The documentation must be sufficient to enable an independent analyst to reproduce the Audit spectra.

9.2.2 Test Procedure. Audit spectra concentrations are measured using the FTIR CEM analytical program. Analytical results must be within +/-5 percent of the certified audit concentration for each analyte (plus the uncertainty in the audit concentration). If the condition is not met, demonstrate how the audit spectra are unrepresentative of the sample spectra. If the audit spectra are representative, modify the FTIR CEM analytical program until the test requirement is met. Use the new analytical program in subsequent FTIR CEM analyses of effluent samples.

9.3 Submit Spectra For Independent Analysis. This procedure tests only the analytical program and not the FTIR CEM sampling system. The analyst can submit FTIR CEM spectra for independent analysis by EPA. Requirements for submission include; (1) three representative absorbance spectra (and stored interferograms) for each test period to be reviewed, (2) corresponding CTS spectra, (3) corresponding background spectra and interferograms, (4) spectra of associated spiked samples if applicable, and (5) analytical results for these sample spectra. The analyst will also submit documentation of process times and conditions, sampling conditions associated with each spectrum, file names and sampling times, method of analysis and reference spectra used, optical configuration of FTIR CEM including cell path length and temperature, spectral resolution and apodization used for every spectrum. Independent analysis can also be performed on site in conjunction with the FTIR CEM sampling and analysis. Sample spectra are stored on the independent analytical system as they are collected by the FTIR CEM system. The FTIR CEM and the independent analyses are then performed separately. The two analyses will agree to within +/-120 percent for each analyte using the procedure in section 12.3. This assumes both analytical routines have properly accounted for differences in optical path length, resolution, and temperature between the sample spectra and the reference spectra.

10.1 Calibration Transfer Standards. For CTS requirements see section 4.5 of the FTIR Protocol. A well characterized absorbance band in the CTS gas is used to measure the path length and line resolution of the instrument. The CTS measurements made at the beginning of every 24 hour period must agree to within +/-5 percent after correction for differences in pressure.

Verify that the frequency response of the instrument and CTS absorbance intensity are correct by comparing to other CTS spectra or by referring to the literature.

10.2 Analyte Calibration. If EPA library reference spectra are not available, use calibration standards to prepare reference spectra according to section 6 of the FTIR Protocol. A suitable set of analyte reference data includes spectra of at least 2 independent samples at each of at least 2 different concentrations. The concentrations bracket a range that includes the expected analyte absorbance intensities. The linear fit of the reference analyte band areas must have a fractional calibration uncertainty (FCU in Appendix F of the FTIR Protocol) of no greater than 10 percent. For requirements of analyte standards refer to section 4.6 of the FTIR Protocol.

10.3 System Calibration. The calibration standard is introduced at a point on the sampling probe. The sampling system is purged with the calibration standard to verify that the absorbance measured in this way is equal to the absorbance in the analyte calibration. Note that the system calibration gives no indication of the ability of the sampling system to transport the target analyte(s) under the test conditions.

10.4 Analyte Spike. The target analyte(s) is spiked at the outlet of the sampling probe, upstream of the particulate filter, and combined with effluent at a ratio of about 1 part spike to 9 parts effluent. The measured absorbance of the spike is compared to the expected absorbance of the spike plus the analyte concentration already in the effluent. This measures sampling system bias, if any, as distinguished from analyzer bias. It is important that spiked sample pass through all of the sampling system components before analysis.

10.5 Signal-to-Noise Ratio (S/N). The measure of S/N in this performance specification is the root-mean-square (RMS) noise level as given in Appendix C of the FTIR Protocol. The RMS noise level of a contiguous segment of a spectrum is defined as the RMS difference (RMSD) between the n contiguous absorbance values (A) which form the segment and the mean value (A) of that segment.

10.6 Background Deviation. The 100 percent baseline must be between 95 and 105 percent transmittance (absorbance of 0.02 to -0.02) in every analytical region. When background deviation exceeds this range, a new background spectrum must be collected using nitrogen or other zero gas.

10.7 Detector Linearity. Measure the background and CTS at three instrument aperture settings; one at the aperture setting to be used in the testing, and one each at settings one half and twice the test aperture setting. Compare the three CTS spectra. CTS band areas should agree to within the uncertainty of the cylinder standard. If test aperture is the maximum aperture, collect CTS spectrum at maximum aperture, then close the aperture to reduce the IR through-put by half. Collect a second background and CTS at the smaller aperture setting and compare the spectra as above. Instead of changing the aperture neutral density filters can be used to attenuate the infrared beam. Set up the FTIR system as it will be used in the test measurements. Collect a CTS spectrum. Use a neutral density filter to attenuate the infrared beam (either immediately after the source or the interferometer) to approximatelyits original intensity. Collect a second CTS spectrum. Use another filter to attenuate the infrared beam to approximatelyits original intensity. Collect a third background and CTS spectrum. Compare the CTS spectra as above. Another check on linearity is to observe the single beam background in frequency regions where the optical configuration is known to have a zero response. Verify that the detector response is "flat" and equal to zero in these regions. If detector response is not linear, decrease aperture, or attenuate the infrared beam. Repeat the linearity check until system passes the requirement.

11.1 Initial Certification. First, perform the evaluation procedures in section 6.0 of the FTIR Protocol. The performance of an FTIR CEM can be certified upon installation using EPA Method 301 type validation (40 CFR, Part 63, Appendix A), or by comparison to a reference Method if one exists for the target analyte(s). Details of each procedure are given below. Validation testing is used for initial certification upon installation of a new system. Subsequent performance checks can be performed with more limited analyte spiking. Performance of the analytical program is checked initially, and periodically as required by EPA, by analyzing audit spectra or audit gases.

11.1.1 Validation. Use EPA Method 301 type sampling (reference 4, section 5.3 of Method 301) to validate the FTIR CEM for measuring the target analytes. The analyte spike procedure is as follows: (1) a known concentration of analyte is mixed with a known concentration of a non-reactive tracer gas, (2) the undiluted spike gas is sent directly to the FTIR cell and a spectrum of this sample is collected, (3) pre-heat the spiked gas to at least the sample line temperature, (4) introduce spike gas at the back of the sample probe upstream of the particulate filter, (5) spiked effluent is carried through all sampling components downstream of the probe, (6) spike at a ratio of roughly 1 part spike to 9 parts flue gas (or more dilute), (7) the spike-to-flue gas ratio is estimated by comparing the spike flow to the total sample flow, and (8) the spike ratio is verified by comparing the tracer concentration in spiked flue gas to the tracer concentration in undiluted spike gas. The analyte flue gas concentration is unimportant as long as the spiked component can be measured and the sample matrix (including interferences) is similar to its composition under test conditions. Validation can be performed using a single FTIR CEM analyzing sample spectra collected sequentially. Since flue gas analyte (unspiked) concentrations can vary, it is recommended that two separate sampling lines (and pumps) are used; one line to carry unspiked flue gas and the other line to carry spiked flue gas. Even with two sampling lines the variation in unspiked concentration may be fast compared to the interval between consecutive measurements. Alternatively, two FTIR CEMs can be operated side-by-side, one measuring spiked sample, the other unspiked sample. In this arrangement spiked and unspiked measurements can be synchronized to minimize the affect of temporal variation in the unspiked analyte concentration. In either sampling arrangement, the interval between measured concentrations used in the statistical analysis should be, at least, 5 cell volumes (5 * TC in equation 1). A validation run consists of, at least, 24 independent analytical results, 12 spiked and 12 unspiked samples. See section 3.17 for definition of an "independent" analytical result. The results are analyzed using sections 12.1 and 12.2 to determine if the measurements passed the validation requirements. Several analytes can be spiked and measured in the same sampling run, but a separate statistical analysis is performed for each analyte. In lieu of 24 independent measurements, averaged results can be used in the statistical analysis. In this procedure, a series of consecutive spiked measurements are combined over a sampling period to give a single average result. The related unspiked measurements are averaged in the same way. The minimum 12 spiked and 12 unspiked result averages are obtained by averaging measurements over subsequent sampling periods of equal duration. The averaged results are grouped together and statistically analyzed using section 12.2.

11.1.1.1 Validation with a Single Analyzer and Sampling Line. If one sampling line is used, connect the sampling system components and purge the entire sampling system and cell with at least 10 cell volumes of sample gas. Begin sampling by collecting spectra of 2 independent unspiked samples. Introduce the spike gas into the back of the probe, upstream of the particulate filter. Allow 10 cell volumes of spiked flue gas to purge the cell and sampling system. Collect spectra of 2 independent spiked samples. Turn off the spike flow and allow 10 cell volumes of unspiked flue gas to purge the FTIR cell and sampling system. Repeat this procedure 6 times until the 24 samples are collected. Spiked and unspiked samples can also be measured in groups of 4 instead of in pairs. Analyze the results using sections 12.1 and 12.2. If the statistical analysis passes the validation criteria, then the validation is completed. If the results do not pass the validation, the cause may be that temporal variations in the analyte sample gas concentration are fast relative to the interval between measurements. The difficulty may be avoided by: (1) Averaging the measurements over long sampling periods and using the averaged results in the statistical analysis, (2) modifying the sampling system to reduce TC by, for example, using a smaller volume cell or increasing the sample flow rate, (3) using two sample lines (4) use two analyzers to perform synchronized measurements. This performance specification permits modifications in the sampling system to minimize TC if the other requirements of the validation sampling procedure are met.

11.1.1.2 Validation With a Single Analyzer and Two Sampling Lines. An alternative sampling procedure uses two separate sample lines, one carrying spiked flue gas, the other carrying unspiked gas. A valve in the gas distribution manifold allows the operator to choose either sample. A short heated line connects the FTIR cell to the 3-way valve in the manifold. Both sampling lines are continuously purged. Each sample line has a rotameter and a bypass vent line after the rotameter, immediately upstream of the valve, so that the spike and unspiked sample flows can each be continuously monitored. Begin sampling by collecting spectra of 2 independent unspiked samples. Turn the sampling valve to close off the unspiked gas flow and allow the spiked flue gas to enter the FTIR cell. Isolate and evacuate the cell and fill with the spiked sample to ambient pressure. (While the evacuated cell is filling, prevent air leaks into the cell by making sure that the spike sample rotameter always indicates that a portion of the flow is directed out the by-pass vent.) Open the cell outlet valve to allow spiked sample to continuously flow through the cell. Measure spectra of 2 independent spiked samples. Repeat this procedure until at least 24 samples are collected.

11.1.1.3 Synchronized Measurements With Two Analyzers. Use two FTIR analyzers, each with its own cell, to perform synchronized spiked and unspiked measurements. If possible, use a similar optical configuration for both systems. The optical configurations are compared by measuring the same CTS gas with both analyzers. Each FTIR system uses its own sampling system including a separate sampling probe and sampling line. A common gas distribution manifold can be used if the samples are never mixed. One sampling system and analyzer measures spiked effluent. The other sampling system and analyzer measures unspiked flue gas. The two systems are synchronized so that each measures spectra at approximately the same times. The sample flow rates are also synchronized so that both sampling rates are approximately the same (TC∼ TCin equation 1). Start both systems at the same time. Collect spectra of at least 12 independent samples with each (spiked and unspiked) system to obtain the minimum 24 measurements. Analyze the analytical results using sections 12.1 and 12.2. Run averages can be used in the statistical analysis instead of individual measurements.

11.1.1.4 Compare to a Reference Method (RM). Obtain EPA approval that the method qualifies as an RM for the analyte(s) and the source to be tested. Follow the published procedures for the RM in preparing and setting up equipment and sampling system, performing measurements, and reporting results. Since FTIR CEMS have multicomponent capability, it is possible to perform more than one RM simultaneously, one for each target analyte. Conduct at least 9 runs where the FTIR CEM and the RM are sampling simultaneously. Each Run is at least 30 minutes long and consists of spectra of at least 5 independent FTIR CEM samples and the corresponding RM measurements. If more than 9 runs are conducted, the analyst may eliminate up to 3 runs from the analysis if at least 9 runs are used.

11.1.1.4.1 RMs Using Integrated Sampling. Perform the RM and FTIR CEM sampling simultaneously. The FTIR CEM can measure spectra as frequently as the analyst chooses (and should obtain measurements as frequently as possible) provided that the measurements include spectra of at least 5 independent measurements every 30 minutes. Concentration results from all of the FTIR CEM spectra within a run may be averaged for use in the statistical comparison even if all of the measurements are not independent. When averaging the FTIR CEM concentrations within a run, it is permitted to exclude some measurements from the average provided the minimum of 5 independent measurements every 30 minutes are included: The Run average of the FTIR CEM measurements depends on both the sample flow rate and the measurement frequency (MF). The run average of the RM using the integrated sampling method depends primarily on its sampling rate. If the target analyte concentration fluctuates significantly, the contribution to the run average of a large fluctuation depends on the sampling rate and measurement frequency, and on the duration and magnitude of the fluctuation. It is, therefore, important to carefully select the sampling rate for both the FTIR CEM and the RM and the measurement frequency for the FTIR CEM. The minimum of 9 run averages can be compared according to the relative accuracy test procedure in Performance Specification 2 for SOand NOCEMs (40 CFR, Part 60, App. B).

11.1.1.4.2 RMs Using a Grab Sampling Technique. Synchronize the RM and FTIR CEM measurements as closely as possible. For a grab sampling RM, record the volume collected and the exact sampling period for each sample. Synchronize the FTIR CEM so that the FTIR measures a spectrum of a similar cell volume at the same time as the RM grab sample was collected. Measure at least five independent samples with both the FTIR CEM and the RM for each of the minimum nine runs. Compare the run concentration averages by using the relative accuracy analysis procedure in Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of 40 CFR part 60.

11.1.1.4.3 Continuous Emission Monitors as RMs. If the RM is a CEM, synchronize the sampling flow rates of the RM and the FTIR CEM. Each run is at least 1 hour long and consists of at least 10 FTIR CEM measurements and the corresponding 10 RM measurements (or averages). For the statistical comparison, use the relative accuracy analysis procedure in Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of 40 CFR part 60. If the RM time constant is <the FTIR CEM time constant, brief fluctuations in analyte concentrations that are not adequately measured with the slower FTIR CEM time constant can be excluded from the run average along with the corresponding RM measurements. However, the FTIR CEM run average must still include at least 10 measurements over a 1-hour period.

12.1 Spike Dilution Ratio, Expected Concentration. The Method 301 bias is calculated as follows.

The CS is determined by comparing the SFtracer concentration in undiluted spike gas to the SFtracer concentrations in the spiked samples;

12.2 Statistical Analysis of Validation Measurements. Arrange the independent measurements (or measurement averages) as in Table 1. More than 12 pairs of measurements can be analyzed. The statistical analysis follows EPA Method 301, section 6.3. section 12.1 of this performance specification shows the calculations for the bias, expected spike concentration, and correction factor. This section shows the determination of the statistical significance of the bias. Determine the statistical significance of the bias at the 95 percent confidence level by calculating the t-value for the set of measurements. First, calculate the differences, d, for each pair of spiked and each pair of unspiked measurements. Then calculate the standard deviation of the spiked pairs of measurements.

1. Method 318, 40 CFR, Part 63, Appendix A (Draft), "Measurement of Gaseous Formaldehyde, Phenol and Methanol Emissions by FTIR Spectroscopy," EPA Contract No. 68D20163, Work Assignment 2-18, February, 1995.

2. "EPA Protocol for the Use of Extractive Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectrometry in Analyses of Gaseous Emissions from Stationary Industrial Sources," February, 1995.

3. "Measurement of Gaseous Organic and Inorganic Emissions by Extractive FTIR Spectroscopy," EPA Contract No. 68-D2-0165, Work Assignment 3-08.

4. "Method 301-Field Validation of Pollutant Measurement Methods from Various Waste Media," 40 CFR 63, App A.
