
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.

8.5 Reevaluating Your PEMS After a Failed Test, Change in Operations, or Change in Critical PEMS Parameter. After initial certification, if your PEMS fails to pass a quarterly RAA or yearly RATA, or if changes occur or are made that could result in a significant change in the emission rate (, turbine aging, process modification, new process operating modes, or changes to emission controls), your PEMS must be recertified using the tests and procedures in section 8.1. For example, if you initially developed your PEMS for the emissions unit operating at 80-100 percent of its range, you would have performed the initial test under these conditions. Later, if you wanted to operate the emission unit at 50-100 percent of its range, you must conduct another RA test and statistical tests, as applicable, to verify that the new conditions of 50-100 percent of range are functional. These tests must demonstrate that your PEMS provides acceptable data when operating in the new range or with the new critical PEMS parameter(s). The requirements of section 8.1 must be completed by the earlier of 60 unit operating days or 180 calendar days after the failed RATA or after the change that caused a significant change in emission rate.

You must incorporate a QA plan beyond the initial PEMS certification test to verify that your system is generating quality-assured data. The QA plan must include the components of this section.

9.1 QA/QC Summary. Conduct the applicable ongoing tests listed below.

9.2 Daily Sensor Evaluation Check. Your sensor evaluation system must check the integrity of each PEMS input at least daily.

9.3 Quarterly Relative Accuracy Audits. In the first year of operation after the initial certification, perform a RAA consisting of at least three 30-minute portable analyzer or RM determinations each quarter a RATA is not performed. To conduct a RAA, follow the procedures in Section 8.2 for the relative accuracy test, except that only three sets of measurement data are required, and the statistical tests are not required. The average of the three or more portable analyzer or RM determinations must not exceed the limits given in Section 13.5. Report the data from all sets of measurement data. If a PEMS passes all quarterly RAAs in the first year and also passes the subsequent yearly RATA in the second year, you may elect to perform a single mid-year RAA in the second year in place of the quarterly RAAs. This option may be repeated, but only until the PEMS fails either a mid-year RAA or a yearly RATA. When such a failure occurs, you must resume quarterly RAAs in the quarter following the failure and continue conducting quarterly RAAs until the PEMS successfully passes both a year of quarterly RAAs and a subsequent RATA.

9.4 Yearly Relative Accuracy Test. Perform a minimum 9-run RATA at the normal operating level on a yearly basis in the quarter that the RAA is not performed. The statistical tests in Section 8.3 are not required for the yearly RATA.

12.2 Relative Accuracy Calculations. Calculate the mean of the RM values. Calculate the differences between the pairs of observations for the RM and the PEMS output sets. Finally, calculate the mean of the differences, standard deviation, confidence coefficient, and PEMS RA, using Equations 16-1, 16-2, 16-3, and 16-4, respectively. For compliance PEMS, calculate the RA at each test level. The PEMS must pass the RA criterion at each test level.

12.2.1 Arithmetic Mean. Calculate the arithmetic mean of the differences between paired RM and PEMS observations using Equation 16-1.

12.2.2 Standard Deviation. Calculate the standard deviation of the differences using Equation 16-2 (positive square root).

12.2.3 Confidence Coefficient. Calculate the confidence coefficient using Equation 16-3 and Table 16-1 for n-1 degrees of freedom.

12.2.4 Relative Accuracy. Calculate the RA of your data using Equation 16-4.

12.3 Compliance PEMS Statistical Tests. If your PEMS will be used for continual compliance purposes, conduct the following tests using the information obtained during the RA tests. For the pollutant measurements at any one test level, if the mean value of the RM is less than either 10 ppm or 5 percent of the emission standard, all statistical tests are waived at that specific test level. For diluent measurements at any one test level, if the mean value of the RM is less than 3 percent of span, all statistical tests are waived for that specific test level.

12.3.1 Bias Test. Conduct a bias test to determine if your PEMS is biased relative to the RM. Determine the PEMS bias by comparing the confidence coefficient obtained from Equation 16-3 to the arithmetic mean of the differences determined in Equation 16-1. If the arithmetic mean of the differences (d) is greater than the absolute value of the confidence coefficient (cc), your PEMS must incorporate a bias factor to adjust future PEMS values as in Equation 16-5.

12.3.2 F-test. Conduct an F-test for each of the three RA data sets collected at different test levels. Calculate the variances of the PEMS and the RM using Equation 16-6.

12.3.3 Correlation Analysis. Calculate the correlation coefficient either manually using Eq. 16-8, on a graph, or by computer using all of the paired data points from all operating levels. Your PEMS correlation must be 0.8 or greater to be acceptable. If during the initial certification test, your PEMS data are determined to be auto-correlated according to the procedures in 40 CFR 75.41(b)(2), or if the signal-to-noise ratio of the data is less than 4, then the correlation analysis is permanently waived.

12.4 Relative Accuracy Audit. Calculate the quarterly RAA using Equation 16-9.

13.1 PEMS Relative Accuracy. The RA must not exceed 10 percent if the PEMS measurements are greater than 100 ppm or 0.2 lbs/mm Btu. The RA must not exceed 20 percent if the PEMS measurements are between 100 ppm (or 0.2 lb/mm Btu) and 10 ppm (or 0.05 lb/mm Btu). For measurements below 10 ppm, the absolute mean difference between the PEMS measurements and the RM measurements must not exceed 2 pppm. For diluent PEMS, an alternative criterion of +/-1 percent absolute difference between the PEMS and RM may be used if less stringent.

13.2 PEMS Bias. Your PEMS data is considered biased and must be adjusted if the arithmetic mean (d) is greater than the absolute value of the confidence coefficient (cc) in Equations 16.1 and 16.3. In such cases, a bias factor must be used to correct your PEMS data.

13.3 PEMS Variance. Your calculated F-value must not be greater than the critical F-value at the 95-percent confidence level for your PEMS to be acceptable.

13.4 PEMS Correlation. Your calculated r-value must be greater than or equal to 0.8 for your PEMS to be acceptable.

13.5 Relative Accuracy Audits. The average of the three portable analyzer or RM determinations must not differ from the simultaneous PEMS average value by more than 10 percent of the analyzer or RM for concentrations greater than 100 ppm or 20 percent for concentrations between 100 and 20 ppm, or the test is failed. For measurements at 20 ppm or less, this difference must not exceed 2 ppm for a pollutant PEMS and 1 percent absolute for a diluents PEMS.

1.1 Analyte. This performance specification (PS) is applicable for measuring gaseous concentrations of hydrogen chloride (HCl), CAS: 7647-01-0, on a continuous basis in the units of the applicable standard or in units that can be converted to units of the applicable standard(s).

1.2 Applicability.

1.2.1 This specification is used to evaluate the acceptability of HCl continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS) at the time of installation or soon after and whenever specified in the regulations. The specification includes requirements for initial acceptance including instrument accuracy and stability assessments and use of audit samples if they are available.

1.2.2 The Administrator may require the operator, under section 114 of the Clean Air Act, to conduct CEMS performance evaluations at other times besides the initial test to evaluate the CEMS performance. See 40 CFR part 60, §§ 60.13(c) and 63.8(e)(1).
