
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,e.g.

8.2.6 Relative Accuracy Procedure. Perform the number of RA tests at the levels required in sections 8.2.2 and 8.2.3. For integrated samples (, Method 3A or 7E), make a sample traverse of at least 21 minutes, sampling for 7 minutes at each traverse point. For grab samples (, Method 3 or 7), take one sample at each traverse point, scheduling the grab samples so that they are taken simultaneously (within a 3-minute period) or at an equal interval of time apart over a 21-minute period. A test run for grab samples must be made up of at least three separate measurements. Where multiple fuels are used in the monitored unit and the fuel type affects the predicted emissions, determine a RA for each fuel unless the effects of the alternative fuel on predicted emissions or diluent were addressed in the model training process. The unit may only use fuels that have been evaluated this way.

8.2.7 Correlation of RM and PEMS Data. Mark the beginning and end of each RM test run (including the exact time of day) on the permanent record of PEMS output. Correlate the PEMS and the RM test data by the time and duration using the following steps:

A. Determine the integrated pollutant concentration for the PEMS for each corresponding RM test period.

B. Consider system response time, if important, and confirm that the pair of results is on a consistent moisture, temperature, and diluent concentration basis.

C. Compare each average PEMS value to the corresponding average RM value. Use the following guidelines to make these comparisons.

Use the paired PEMS and RM data and the equations in section 12.2 to calculate the RA in the units of the applicable emission standard. For this 3-level RA test, calculate the RA at each operation level.

8.3 Statistical Tests for PEMS that are Used for Continual Compliance. In addition to the RA determination, evaluate the paired RA and PEMS data using the following statistical tests.

8.3.1 Bias Test. From the RA data taken at the mid-level, determine if a bias exists between the RM and PEMS. Use the equations in section 12.3.1.

8.3.2 F-test. Perform a separate F-test for the RA paired data from each operating level to determine if the RM and PEMS variances differ by more than might be expected from chance. Use the equations in section 12.3.2.

8.3.3 Correlation Analysis. Perform a correlation analysis using the RA paired data from all operating levels combined to determine how well the RM and PEMS correlate. Use the equations in section 12.3.3. The correlation is waived if the process cannot be varied to produce a concentration change sufficient for a successful correlation test because of its technical design. In such cases, should a subsequent RATA identify a variation in the RM measured values by more than 30 percent, the waiver will not apply, and a correlation analysis test must be performed at the next RATA.

8.4 Reporting. Summarize in tabular form the results of the RA and statistical tests. Include all data sheets, calculations, and charts (records of PEMS responses) necessary to verify that your PEMS meets the performance specifications. Include in the report the documentation used to establish your PEMS parameter envelopes.
