
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Sensors and Sensor Interface

3.15means the equipment that measures the process input signals and transports them to the emission prediction system.

6.1 PEMS Design. You must detail the design of your PEMS and make this available in reports and for on-site inspection. You must also establish the following, as applicable:

6.1.1 Number of Input Parameters. An acceptable PEMS will normally use three or more input parameters. You must obtain the Administrator's permission on a case-by-case basis if you desire to use a PEMS having fewer than three input parameters.

6.1.2 Parameter Operating Envelopes. Before you evaluate your PEMS through the certification test, you must specify the input parameters your PEMS uses, define their range of minimum and maximum values (operating envelope), and demonstrate the integrity of the parameter operating envelope using graphs and data from the PEMS development process, vendor information, or engineering calculations, as appropriate. If you operate the PEMS beyond these envelopes at any time after the certification test, the data generated during this condition will not be acceptable for use in demonstrating compliance with applicable requirements. If these parameter operating envelopes are not clearly defined and supported by development data, the PEMS operation will be limited to the range of parameter inputs encountered during the certification test until the PEMS has a new operating envelope established.

6.1.3 Source-Specific Operating Conditions. Identify any source-specific operating conditions, such as fuel type, that affect the output of your PEMS. You may only use the PEMS under the source-specific operating conditions it was certified for.

6.1.4 Ambient Conditions. You must explain whether and how ambient conditions and seasonal changes affect your PEMS. Some parameters such as absolute ambient humidity cannot be manipulated during a test. The effect of ambient conditions such as humidity on the pollutant concentration must be determined and this effect extrapolated to include future anticipated conditions. Seasonal changes and their effects on the PEMS must be evaluated unless you can show that such effects are negligible.

6.1.5 PEMS Principle of Operation. If your PEMS is developed on the basis of known physical principles, you must identify the specific physical assumptions or mathematical manipulations that support its operation. If your PEMS is developed on the basis of linear or nonlinear regression analysis, you must make available the paired data (preferably in graphic form) used to develop or train the model.

6.1.6 Data Recorder Scale. If you are not using a digital recorder, you must choose a recorder scale that accurately captures the desired range of potential emissions. The lower limit of your data recorder's range must be no greater than 20 percent of the applicable emission standard (if subject to an emission standard). The upper limit of your data recorder's range must be determined using the following table. If you obtain approval first, you may use other lower and upper recorder limits.

6.1.7 Sensor Location and Repair. We recommend you install sensors in an accessible location in order to perform repairs and replacements. Permanently-installed platforms or ladders may not be needed. If you install sensors in an area that is not accessible, you may be required to shut down the emissions unit to repair or replace a sensor. Conduct a new RATA after replacing a sensor that supplies a critical PEMS parameter if the new sensor provides a different output or scaling or changes the historical training dataset of the PEMS. Replacement of a non-critical sensor that does not cause an impact in the accuracy of the PEMS does not trigger a RATA. All sensors must be calibrated as often as needed but at least as often as recommended by the manufacturers.

6.1.8 Sensor Evaluation System. Your PEMS must be designed to perform automatic or manual determination of defective sensors on at least a daily basis. This sensor evaluation system may consist of a sensor validation sub-model, a comparison of redundant sensors, a spot check of sensor input readings at a reference value, operation, or emission level, or other procedure that detects faulty or failed sensors. Some sensor evaluation systems generate substitute values (reconciled data) that are used when a sensor is perceived to have failed. You must obtain prior approval before using reconciled data.

6.1.9 Parameter Envelope Exceedances. Your PEMS must include a plan to detect and notify the operator of parameter envelope exceedances. Emission data collected outside the ranges of the sensor envelopes will not be considered quality assured.

6.2 Recordkeeping. All valid data recorded by the PEMS must be used to calculate the emission value.

8.1 Initial Certification. Use the following procedure to certify your PEMS. Complete all PEMS training before the certification begins.

8.2 Relative Accuracy Test.

8.2.1 Reference Methods. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable regulations, you must use the test methods in appendix A of this part for the RM test. Conduct the RM tests at three operating levels. The RM tests shall be performed at a low-load (or production) level between the minimum safe, stable load and 50 percent of the maximum level load, at the mid-load level (an intermediary level between the low and high levels), and at a high-load level between 80 percent and the maximum load. Alternatively, if practicable, you may test at three levels of the key operating parameter (e.g. selected based on a covariance analysis between each parameter and the PEMS output) equally spaced within the normal range of the parameter.

8.2.2 Number of RM Tests for Excess Emission PEMS. For PEMS used for excess emission reporting, conduct at least the following number of RM tests at the following key parameter operating levels:

(1) Three at a low level.

(2) Three at a mid level.

(3) Three at a high level.

You may choose to perform more than nine total RM tests. If you perform more than nine tests, you may reject a maximum of three tests as long as the total number of test results used to determine the RA is nine or greater and each operating level has at least three tests. You must report all data, including the rejected data.

8.2.3 Number of RM Tests for Continual Compliance PEMS. For PEMS used to determine compliance, conduct at least the following number of RM tests at the following key parameter operating levels:

(1) Nine at a low level.

(2) Nine at a mid level.

(3) Nine at a high level.

You may choose to perform more than 9 RM runs at each operating level. If you perform more than 9 runs, you may reject a maximum of three runs per level as long as the total number of runs used to determine the RA at each operating level is 9 or greater.

8.2.4 Reference Method Measurement Location. Select an accessible measurement point for the RM that will ensure you measure emissions representatively. Ensure the location is at least two equivalent stack diameters downstream and half an equivalent diameter upstream from the nearest flow disturbance such as the control device, point of pollutant generation, or other place where the pollutant concentration or emission rate can change. You may use a half diameter downstream instead of the two diameters if you meet both of the following conditions:

(1) Changes in the pollutant concentration are caused solely by diluent leakage, such as leaks from air heaters.

(2) You measure pollutants and diluents simultaneously at the same locations.

8.2.5 Traverse Points. Select traverse points that ensure representative samples. Conduct all RM tests within 3 cm of each selected traverse point but no closer than 3 cm to the stack or duct wall. The minimum requirement for traverse points are as follows:

(1) Establish a measurement line across the stack that passes through the center and in the direction of any expected stratification.

(2) Locate a minimum of three traverse points on the line at 16.7, 50.0, and 83.3 percent of the stack inside diameter.

(3) Alternatively, if the stack inside diameter is greater than 2.4 meters, you may locate the three traverse points on the line at 0.4, 1.2, and 2.0 meters from the stack or duct wall. You may not use this alternative option after wet scrubbers or at points where two streams with different pollutant concentrations are combined. You may select different traverse points if you demonstrate and provide verification that it provides a representative sample. You may also use the traverse point specifications given the RM.
