
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### i.e.,

6.7 Moisture Measurement System. If correction of the measured HCl emissions for moisture is required, you must install, operate, maintain, and quality assure a continuous moisture monitoring system for measuring and recording the moisture content of the flue gases. The following continuous moisture monitoring systems are acceptable: An FTIR system validated according to Method 301 or section 13.0 of Method 320 in appendix A to part 63 of this chapter; a continuous moisture sensor; an oxygen analyzer (or analyzers) capable of measuring Oboth on a wet basis and on a dry basis; a stack temperature sensor and a moisture look-up table,a psychrometric chart (for saturated gas streams following wet scrubbers or other demonstrably saturated gas streams, only); or other continuous moisture measurement methods approved by the Administrator. Alternatively, for any type of fuel, you may determine an appropriate site-specific default moisture value (or values), using measurements made with Method 4-Determination of Moisture Content In Stack Gases, in appendix A-3 to of this part. If this option is selected, the site-specific moisture default value(s) must represent the fuel(s) or fuel blends that are combusted in the unit during normal, stable operation, and must account for any distinct difference(s) in the stack gas moisture content associated with different process operating conditions. At least nine Method 4 runs are required for determining each site-specific default moisture percentage. Calculate each site-specific default moisture value by taking the arithmetic average of the Method 4 runs. Each site-specific moisture default value shall be updated whenever the current value is non-representative, due to changes in unit or process operation, but in any event no less frequently than annually.
