
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,,see

7.1 Reference Gases. Reference gases (cylinder gases or liquid evaporative standards) used to meet the requirements of this PS must be NIST certified or NIST-traceable and vendor certified to +/-5.0 percent accuracy. HCl cylinder gases must be certified according to Reference 5 in section 16 of this PS through a documented unbroken chain of comparisons each contributing to the reported uncertainty. Liquid evaporative standards must be certified using the gravimetrically-based procedures of the latest version of the EPA Traceability Protocol for Qualification and Certification of Evaporative HCl Gas Standards and Humidification of HCl Gas Standards from Cylinders (EPA-HQ-OAR-2013-0696-0026.pdf).

7.2 Cylinder gas and/or liquid evaporative standards must be used within their certification periods.

7.3 High concentration cylinder gas or liquid evaporative HCl standards may be diluted for use in this specification. You must document the quantitative introduction of HCl standards into the system using Method 205, found in 40 CFR part 51, appendix M, or other procedure approved by the Administrator.

8.1 Prior to the start of your initial PS tests, you must ensure that the CEMS is installed according to the manufacturer's specifications and the requirements in this section. You may use either point or IP sampling technology.

8.2 CEMS Installation. Install the CEMS at an accessible location where the pollutant concentration or emission rate measurements are directly representative of the HCl emissions or can be corrected so as to be representative of the total emissions from the affected facility. The CEMS need not be installed at the same location as the relative accuracy test location. If you fail the RA requirements in this specification due to the CEMS measurement location and a satisfactory correction technique cannot be established, the Administrator may require the CEMS to be relocated.

8.2.1 Single point sample gas extraction should be (1) no less than 1.0 m (3.3 ft.) from the stack or duct wall or (2) within the centroidal area of the stack or duct cross section.

8.2.2 IP-CEMS measurements should (1) be conducted totally within the inner area bounded by a line 1.0 m (3.3 ft.) from the stack or duct wall, (2) have at least 70 percent of the path within the inner 50 percent of the stack or duct cross-sectional area, or (3) be located over any part of the centroidal area.

8.2.2.1 You must measure the IP-CEMS path length from the inner flange of the sampling ports or the inner end of the instrument insertion into the stack cavity using a laser tape measure, mechanical measurement tape, or similar device accurate to +/-1.5 mm (0.059 in).

8.2.2.2 You must ensure that any purge flow used to protect IP-CEMS instrument windows from stack gas does not alter the measurement path length. Purge flow of less than or equal to 10 percent of the gas velocity in the duct meets this requirement.

8.2.3 CEMS and Data Recorder Scale Check. After CEMS installation, record and document the measurement range of the HCl CEMS. The CEMS operating range and the range of the data recording device must encompass all potential and expected HCl concentrations, including the concentration equivalent to the applicable emission limit and the span value.

After completing the CEMS installation, setup and calibration, you must complete the PS test procedures in this section. You must perform the following procedures and meet the performance requirements for the initial demonstration of your CEMS:

a. Interference Test;

b. Beam Intensity Test (IP-CEMS only);

c. Temperature Verification Procedure (IP-CEMS only);

d. Pressure Verification Procedure (IP-CEMS only);

e. Level of Detection Determination;

f. Response Time Test;

g. Measurement Error Test;

h. Calibration Drift Test; and

i. Relative Accuracy Test.

11.1.1 Prior to its initial use in the field, you must demonstrate that your monitoring system meets the performance requirements of the interference test in section 13.5 to verify that the candidate system measures HCl accurately in the presence of common interferences in emission matrices.
