
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

11.1.2 Your interference test must be conducted in a controlled environment. The equipment you test for interference must include the combination of the analyzer, related analysis software, and any sample conditioning equipment (dilution module, moisture removal equipment or other interferent scrubber) used to control interferents.

11.1.3 If you own multiple measurement systems with components of the same make and model numbers, you need only perform this interference test on one analyzer and associated interference conditioning equipment combination. You may also rely on an interference test conducted by the manufacturer or a continuous measurement system integrator on a system having components of the same make and model(s) of the system that you use.

11.1.4 Perform the interference check using an HCl reference gas concentration of approximately five times the LOD.

11.1.5 Introduce the interference test gases listed in Table 1 in section 17.0 of this PS to the analyzer/conditioning system separately or in any combination. The interference test gases need not be of reference gas quality.

11.1.5.1 For extractive CEMS, the interference test gases may be introduced directly into the inlet to the analyzer/conditioning system after the probe extension coupling.

11.1.5.2 For IP-CEMS, the interference test gases may be added with the HCl in a calibration cell or separately in a temperature-controlled cell. The effective concentration of the gas in the cell must meet the requirements in Table 1 corrected for absolute pressure, temperature and the nominal stack sampling path length of the CEMS.

11.1.6 The interference test must be performed by combining an HCl reference gas with each interference test gas (or gas mixture). You must measure the baseline HCl response, followed by the response after adding the interference test gas(es) while maintaining a constant HCl concentration. You must perform each interference gas injection and evaluation in triplicate.

11.1.7 You should document the gas volume/rate, temperature, and pressure used to conduct the interference test. A gas blending system or manifold may be used.

11.1.8 Ensure the duration of each interference test is sufficient to condition the HCl measurement system surfaces before a stable measurement is obtained.

11.1.9 Measure the HCl response of the analyzer/sample conditioning system combination to the test gases in ppmv. Record the responses and determine the overall interference response using Table 2 in section 17.0.

11.1.10 For each interference gas (or mixture), calculate the mean difference (ΔMC) between the measurement system responses with and without the interference test gas(es) using Equation 1 in section 12.2. Summarize the results following the format contained in Table 2 in section 17.

11.1.11 Calculate the percent interference (I) for the gas runs using Equation 2 in section 12.2.
