
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

11.9.3.1 Measurement Location. Select, as appropriate, an accessible RM measurement location at least two equivalent diameters downstream from the nearest control device, point of pollutant generation, or other point at which a change in the pollutant concentration or emission rate may occur, and at least one half equivalent diameter upstream from the effluent exhaust or a control device. When pollutant concentration changes are due solely to diluent leakage (air heater leakages) and pollutants and diluents are simultaneously measured at the same location, a half diameter may be used in lieu of two equivalent diameters. The equivalent duct diameter is calculated according to Method 1 in appendix A-1 to this part. The CEMS and RM sampling locations need not be the same.

11.9.3.2 Traverse Point Selection. Select traverse points that assure acquisition of representative RM samples over the stack or duct cross section according to one of the following options: (a) sample at twelve traverse points located according to section 11.3 of Method 1 in appendix A-1 to this part, (b) sample at 6 Method 1 traverse points according to section 6.5.6(b)(1) of appendix A to part 75 of this chapter, or (c) sample at three points on a measurement line ("3-point long line") that passes through the centroidal area of the duct in the direction of any potential stratification. If this line interferes with the CEMS measurements, you may displace the line up to 20 cm (12 in.) or 5.0 percent of the equivalent diameter of the cross section, whichever is less, from the centroidal area. Locate the three traverse points at 16.7, 50.0, and 83.3 percent of the measurement line. Alternatively, you may conduct a stratification test following the procedures in sections 11.9.3.2.1 through 11.9.3.2.4 to justify sampling at a single point or three points located on the measurement line at 0.4, 1.2, and 2.0 m from the stack wall ("3-point short line"). Stratification testing must be conducted at the sampling location to be used for the RM measurements during the RA test and must be made during normal facility operating conditions. You must evaluate the stratification by measuring the gas on the same moisture basis as the HCl CEMS (wet or dry). Stratification testing must be repeated for each RA test program to justify single point or "3-point short line" sampling.

11.9.3.2.1 Use a probe of appropriate length to measure the HCl concentration or an alternative analyte, as described in this section, using 12 traverse points located according to section 11.3 of Method 1 in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60 for a circular stack or nine points at the centroids of similarly-shaped, equal area divisions of the cross section of a rectangular stack.

11.9.3.2.2 You may substitute a stratification test for SOfor the HCl stratification test. If you select this option, you must follow the test procedures in Method 6C of appendix A-4 to 40 CFR part 60 or Method 320 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 63.

11.9.3.2.3 Calculate the mean measured concentration for all sampling points (MN).

11.9.3.2.4 Calculate the percent stratification (S) of each traverse point using Equation 8 in section 12.5.

11.9.3.2.5 The gas stream is considered to be unstratified and you may perform the RA testing at a single point that most closely matches the mean if the concentration at each traverse point differs from the mean concentration for all traverse points by: (a) No more than 5.0 percent of the mean concentration; or (b) 0.2 ppm (for HCl) or 3 ppm (for SO) absolute, whichever is less restrictive.

11.9.3.2.6 If the criterion for single point sampling (5.0 percent, 0.2 ppm for HCl or 3 ppm for SOare not met, but the concentration at each traverse point differs from the mean concentration for all traverse points by no more than 10.0 percent of the mean, the gas stream is considered to be minimally stratified, and you may take RA samples using the "3-point short line". Alternatively, you may use the 3-point short line if each traverse point differs from the mean value by no more than 0.4 ppm (for HCl) or 5 ppm (for SO).

11.9.3.2.7 If the concentration at any traverse point differs from the mean concentration by more than 10 percent, the gas stream is considered stratified and you must sample using one of the options in section 11.9.3.2 above.

11.9.3.3 Conduct all necessary RM tests within 3 cm (1.2 in.) of the traverse points, but no closer than 3 cm (1.2 in.) to the stack or duct wall.

11.9.4 In order to correlate the CEMS and RM data properly, record the beginning and end of each RM run (including the time of day in hours, minutes, and seconds) using a clock synchronized with the CEM clock used to create a permanent time record with the CEMS output.

11.9.5 You must conduct the RATA during representative process and control operating conditions or as specified in an applicable regulation, permit or subpart.
