
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### NOTE:

11.9.6 Conduct a minimum of nine RM test runs.More than nine RM test runs may be performed. If this option is chosen, up to three test run results may be excluded so long as the total number of test run results used to determine the CEMS RA is greater than or equal to nine. However, all data must be reported including the excluded test runs.

11.9.7 Analyze the results from the RM test runs using Equations 9-14 in section 12.6. Calculate the RA between the CEMS results and the RM.

11.10.1 For systems that use a liquid evaporative standard generator to deliver HCl reference gas standards, record supporting data for these devices, including liquid feed calibrations, liquid standard concentration(s) and NIST-traceability, feed rate and gas flow calibrations for all diluent and HCl gas flows. All calibrations must include a stated uncertainty, and the combined uncertainty of the delivered HCl reference gas concentration must be calculated and reported.

11.10.2 Record the results of the CD test, the RT test, the ME test, the RA test, and for IP-CEMS, the results of the beam intensity, temperature and pressure verification procedures. Also keep records of the RM and CEMS field data, calculations, and reference gas certifications necessary to confirm that the performance of the CEMS met the performance specifications.

11.10.3 For systems that use Method 205 to prepare HCl reference gas standards, record results of Method 205 performance test field evaluation, reference gas certifications, and gas dilution system calibration.

11.10.4 Record the LOD for the CEMS. For extractive CEMS, record the LOD in ppmv. For IP-CEMS, record the LOD on a ppm-meter basis along with a calculation of the installation specific LOD in ppmv. For both CEMS types, you must also record the field verified SADL.

11.10.5 Record the results of the interference test.

11.10.6 Report the results of all certification tests to the appropriate regulatory agency (or agencies), in hardcopy and/or electronic format, as required by the applicable regulation or permit.
