
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Note:

The optical path used for IP-CEMS ME checks must include the native HCl measurement path. You must also collect native stack concentration HCl measurements before and after each HCl standard measurement. Bracketing HCl reference gas measurements with native stack HCl measurements must be used in the calculations in Equation 5 in section 12.4.2 to correct the upscale measurements for stack gas HCl concentration changes.

11.7.3.2 Introduce HCl reference gas into your calibration cell in a range of concentrations that produce responses equivalent to the source concentrations shown in Table 4 of this PS for your path length.

11.7.3.3 Make triplicate measurements for each reference gas standard for a total of nine measurements. Introduce different calibration concentrations in any order but do not introduce the same reference gas concentration twice in succession.

11.7.3.4 You must calculate the effective concentration (C) of the HCl reference gas equivalent to the stack concentration by correcting for calibration cell temperature, pressure, path length, line strength factor (LSF) and, if necessary, the native stack gas HCl concentration using Equation 4 in section 12.0.

11.7.3.5 You may use the LSF provided by your instrument manufacturer or determine an instrument-specific LSF as a function of temperature using a heated gas cell and equivalent concentrations (C) between 50 and 150 percent of the emission limit.

11.7.3.6 At each reference gas concentration, average the three independent CEMS measurement responses corrected for native HCl stack concentration. Calculate the ME using Equation 6A in section 12.4.3.

11.7.4 You may use Figure 1 in section 17.0 to record and report your ME test results.

11.7.5 If the ME specification in section 13.3 is not met for all three reference gas concentrations, take corrective action and repeat the test until an acceptable 3-level ME test is achieved.

11.8.1 The CD Test Period. Prior to the start of the RA tests, you must perform a seven-day CD test. The purpose of the seven-day CD test is to verify the ability of the CEMS to maintain calibration for each of seven consecutive unit operating days as specified in section 11.8.5 of this PS.

11.8.2 The CD tests must be performed using the zero gas and mid-level reference gas standards as defined in Table 4 of this PS.

11.8.3 Conduct the CD test on each day during continuous operation of the CEMS and normal facility operations following the procedures in section 11.7 of this PS, except that the zero gas and mid-level gas need only be introduced to the measurement system once each.

11.8.4 If periodic automatic or manual adjustments are made to the CEMS zero and upscale response factor settings, conduct the CD test immediately before these adjustments.

11.8.5 Determine the magnitude of the CD at approximately 24-hour intervals, for 7 consecutive unit operating days. The 7 consecutive unit operating days need not be 7 consecutive calendar days.

11.8.6 Record the CEMS response for single measurements of zero gas and mid-level reference gas. You may use Figure 2 in section 17 of this PS to record and report the results of your 7-day CD test.

11.8.6.1 For extractive CEMS, calculate the CD using Equation 3B in section 12.3. Report the absolute value of the differences as a percentage of the span value.

11.8.6.2 For IP-CEMS, you must include the source measurement optical path while performing the upscale CD measurement; you may exclude the source measurement optical path when determining the zero gas concentration. Calculate the CD for IP CEMS using equations 4, 5, 6B, and 7 in section 12.4.

11.8.7 The zero-level and mid-level CD for each day must be less than 5.0 percent of the span value as specified in section 13.2 of this PS. You must meet this criterion for 7 consecutive operating days.

11.8.8 Dynamic Spiking Option for Seven-Day CD Test. For extractive CEMS, you have the option to conduct a mid-level dynamic spiking procedure for each of the 7 days in lieu of the mid-level reference gas injection described in sections 11.8.2 and 11.8.3. If this option is selected, the daily zero CD check is still required.
