
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### RM

13.4 Relative Accuracy. Unless otherwise specified in an applicable regulation or permit, the RA of the CEMS, whether calculated in units of HCl concentration or in units of the emission standard, must be less than or equal to 20.0 percent of the RM whenis used in the denominator of Equation 14.

13.4.1 In cases where the RA is calculated on a concentration (ppmv) basis, if the average RM emission level for the test is less than 75 percent of the HCl concentration equivalent to the emission standard, you may substitute the HCl concentration equivalent to the standard in the denominator of Equation 14 in place of RM.

13.4.2 Similarly, if the RA is calculated in units of the emission standard and the HCl emission level measured by the RMs is less than 75 percent of the emission standard, you may substitute the emission standard in the denominator of Equation 14 in place of RM.

13.4.3 The alternative calculated RA in paragraph 13.4.1 or 13.4.2 must be less than or equal to 15.0 percent.

13.5 Interference Test.

13.5.1 The sum of the interference response(s) from Equation 2 must not be greater than 2.5 percent of the calibration span or +/-3.0 percent of the equivalent HCl concentration used for the interference test, whichever is less restrictive. The results are also acceptable if the sum of the interference response(s) does not exceed six times the LOD or 0.5 ppmv for a calibration span of 5 to 10 ppm, or 0.2 ppmv for a calibration span of less than 5 ppmv.

13.6 IP-CEMS Beam Intensity Test. For IP-CEMS, the percent difference between the measured concentration with and without attenuation of the light source must not exceed +/-3.0 percent.

13.7 IP-CEMS Temperature Measurement Verification. Your temperature sensor satisfies the accuracy required if the absolute relative difference between measured value of stack temperature (M) and the temperature value from the calibrated temperature reference device (V) is &#x2264;1.0 percent or if the absolute difference between Mand Vis &#x2264;2.8 &#xB0;C (5.0 &#xB0;F), whichever is less restrictive.

13.8 IP-CEMS Pressure Sensor Measurement Verification. Your pressure sensor satisfies the accuracy required if the absolute relative difference between the measured value of stack pressure (M) and the pressure value from the calibrated pressure reference device (V) is &#x2264;5.0 percent or if the absolute difference between Mand Vis &#x2264;0.12 kilopascals (0.5 inches of water column), whichever is less restrictive.

1. Method 318-Extractive FTIR Method for the Measurement of Emissions From the Mineral Wool and Wool Fiberglass Industries, 40 CFR, part 63, subpart HHHHHHH, appendix A.

2. "EPA Protocol for the Use of Extractive Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectrometry in Analyses of Gaseous Emissions from Stationary Industrial Sources," February, 1995.

3. "Measurement of Gaseous Organic and Inorganic Emissions by Extractive FTIR Spectroscopy," EPA Contract No. 68-D2-0165, Work Assignment 3-08.

4. "Method 301-Field Validation of Pollutant Measurement Methods from Various Waste Media," 40 CFR part 63, appendix A.

5. EPA Traceability Protocol for Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency office of Research and Development, EPA/600/R-12/531, May 2012.

1.1 This appendix to Performance Specification (PS) 18 describes the procedure and performance requirements for standard addition (SA) as a quality check for hydrogen chloride (HCl) continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS).

1.2 This appendix is applicable to quality checks of both extractive and integrated path (IP) technologies used to measure HCl emissions.

1.3 For extractive CEMS, this procedure must be used, as a level of detection (LOD) verification of all field-installed CEMS. Additionally, it is allowed by Procedure 6 in appendix F to this part as an alternative to upscale calibration drift (CD) tests, cylinder gas audits and relative accuracy audits (RAAs), and may be used for quality assurance purposes under other applicable regulations or permits that require HCl monitoring.

1.4 For IP-CEMS, this procedure must be used as a LOD verification of all field-installed CEMS.

As used here, SA is a gas phase method of standard additions (either static or dynamic) used to verify the accuracy of CEMS measurements in the presence of the sample matrix. For extractive CEMS, it consists of spiking a known quantity of HCl dynamically into the measurement system as an addition to the native HCl and the native source gas matrix. For IP-CEMS, this procedure consists of introducing a known quantity of HCl into the optical path that also includes the native source gas.
