
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

11.2.2 Insert one or more neutral density filter(s) or otherwise attenuate the beam intensity by a known percentage (90 percent of the beam intensity).

11.2.3 Perform a high-level HCl reference gas measurement.

11.2.4 Record and report the attenuated beam intensity, the measured HCl calibration gas concentration at full beam intensity, the measured HCl gas concentration with attenuated beam intensity, and the percent difference between the two HCl measurements with and without attenuation of the beam intensity. The percent difference must not exceed the criteria set forth in section 13.6 of this PS.

11.2.5 In the future, you may not operate your IP-CEMS at a beam intensity lower than that established based on the attenuation used during this test. However, you may repeat the test to establish a lower beam intensity limit or level.

11.3.1 Any measurement instrument or device that is used as a reference in verification of temperature measurement must have an accuracy that is traceable to NIST.

11.3.2 You must verify the temperature sensor used in IP-CEMS measurements on-site as part of the initial installation and verification procedures.

11.3.3 Comparison to Calibrated Temperature Measurement Device.

11.3.3.1 Place the sensor of a calibrated temperature reference device adjacent to the sensor used to measure stack temperature for your IP-CEMS. The calibrated temperature reference device must satisfy the accuracy requirements specified in Table 3 of this PS. The calibrated temperature reference device must also have a range equal to or greater than the range of your IP-CEMS temperature sensor.

11.3.3.2 Allow sufficient time for the response of the calibrated temperature reference device to reach equilibrium. With the process and control device operating under normal conditions, concurrently record the temperatures measured by your IP-CEMS system (M) and the calibrated temperature reference device (V). You must meet the accuracy requirements specified in section 13.7 of this PS.

11.3.3.3 If your IP-CEMS temperature sensor does not satisfy the accuracy requirement of this PS, check all system components and take any corrective action that is necessary to achieve the required minimum accuracy. Repeat this verification procedure until the accuracy requirement of this specification is satisfied.

11.4.1 For stack pressure measurement verification, you must select a NIST-traceable gauge or monitor that conforms to the design requirements of ASME B40.100-2010, "Pressure Gauges and Gauge Attachments," (incorporated by reference-see ยง 60.17) as a reference device.

11.4.2 As an alternative for a calibrated pressure reference device with NIST-traceable accuracy, you may use a water-in-glass U-tube manometer to verify your IP-CEMS pressure measurement equipment, provided there is also an accurate measurement of absolute atmospheric pressure at the manometer location.

11.4.3 Allow sufficient time for the response of the reference pressure measurement device to reach equilibrium. With the process and control device operating under normal conditions, concurrently record the pressures measured by your IP-CEMS system (M) and the pressure reference device (V). You must meet the accuracy requirements specified in section 13.8 of this PS.

11.4.4 If your IP-CEMS pressure sensor does not satisfy the accuracy requirement of this PS, check all system components and take any corrective action that is necessary to achieve the required minimum accuracy. Repeat this verification procedure until the accuracy requirement of this specification is satisfied.

11.5.1 You must determine the minimum amount of HCl that can be detected above the background in a representative gas matrix.

11.5.2 You must perform the LOD determination in a controlled environment such as a laboratory or manufacturer's facility.

11.5.3 You must add interference gases listed in Table 1 of this PS to a constant concentration of HCl reference gas.

11.5.3.1 You may not use an effective reference HCl gas concentration greater than five times the estimated instrument LOD.

11.5.3.2 For extractive CEMS, inject the HCl and interferents described in section 11.1.5 directly into the inlet to the analyzer.

11.5.3.3 For IP-CEMS, the HCl and interference test gases may be added to a calibration cell or separately in a temperature-controlled cell that is part of the measurement path. The effective concentration of the gas in the cell must meet the requirements in Table 1 corrected for absolute pressure, temperature and the nominal stack sampling path length of the CEMS.

11.5.4 Collect seven or more consecutive measurements separated by twice the RT (described in section 11.6) to determine the LOD.

11.5.5 Calculate the standard deviation of the measured values and define the LOD as three times the standard deviation of these measurements.

11.5.5.1 The LOD for extractive units must be determined and reported in ppmv.

11.5.5.2 The LOD for IP units must be determined and reported on a ppm-meter basis and the site- or installation-specific LOD must be calculated based on the actual measurement path length and gas density of the emissions at the specific site installation in ppmv.

11.5.6 You must verify the controlled environment LOD of section 11.5.2 of this PS for your CEMS during initial setup and field certification testing. You must use the SA procedure in appendix A of this PS with the following exceptions:

11.5.6.1 For the LOD verification in the field, you must make three independent SA measurements spiking the native source concentration by no more than three times the controlled environment LOD concentration determined in section 11.5.5.

11.5.6.2 For extractive CEMS, you must perform the SA as a dynamic spike by passing the spiked source gas sample through all filters, scrubbers, conditioners and other monitoring system components used during normal sampling, and as much of the sampling probe as practical. For IP-CEMS, you must perform the SA procedure by adding or passing a known concentration reference gas into a calibration cell in the optical path of the CEMS; you must also include the source measurement optical path while performing the SA measurement.

11.5.6.3 The amount detected, or standard addition response (SAR), is based on the average difference of the native HCl concentration in the stack or duct relative to the native stack concentration plus the SA. You must be able to detect the effective spike addition (ESA) above the native HCl present in the stack gas matrix. For extractive CEMS, the ESA is calculated using Equation A7 in appendix A of this PS. For IP-CEMS, the ESA is calculated as Cusing Equation 4 of this PS.

11.5.6.4 For extractive CEMS, calculate the SAR using Equation A4 in appendix A of this PS. For IP-CEMS, calculate the SAR using Equation A8.

11.5.6.5 If your system LOD field verification does not demonstrate a SAR greater than or equal to your initial controlled environment LOD, you must increase the SA concentration incrementally and repeat the field verification procedure until the SAR is equal to or greater than LOD. The site-specific standard addition detection level (SADL) is equal to the standard addition needed to achieve the acceptable SAR, and SADL replaces the controlled environment LOD. For extractive CEMS, the SADL is calculated as the ESA using Equation A7 in appendix A of this PS. For IP-CEMS, the SADL is the SA calculated using Equation A8 in appendix A of this PS. As described in section 13.1 of this PS, the LOD or the SADL that replaces an LOD must be less than 20 percent of the applicable emission limit.

11.6.1 For ME- or LOD-RT, start the upscale RT determination by injecting zero gas into the measurement system as required by the procedures in section 11.7 or 11.5, respectively. You may use humidified zero gas. For standard addition RT, start the upscale RT determination by measuring the native stack gas concentration of HCl.

11.6.1.1 For extractive CEMS measuring ME- or LOD-RT, the output has stabilized when there is no change greater than 1.0 percent of full scale for 30 seconds.

11.6.1.2 For standard addition RT that includes the stack gas matrix the final stable response may continue to vary by more than 1 percent, but may be considered stable if the variability is random and not continuously rising or falling.

11.6.2 When the CEMS output has stabilized, record the response in ppmv and introduce an upscale (high level) or spike reference gas as required by the relevant procedure.

11.6.3 Record the time (upscale RT) required to reach 95 percent of the change to the final stable value.

11.6.4 Next, for ME or LOD RT, reintroduce the zero gas and record the time required to reach 95 percent of the change to the stable instrument response at the zero gas reading. For SA RT, introduce zero gas to the IP-CEMS cell or stop the spike gas flow to the extractive CEMS as required by the specified procedure and record the time required to reach 95 percent of the change to the stable instrument response of the native gas reading. This time is the downscale RT.

(For CEMS that perform a series of operations (purge, blow back, sample integration, analyze, etc.), you must start adding reference or zero gas immediately after these procedures are complete.)

11.6.5 Repeat the entire procedure until you have three sets of data, then determine the mean upscale and mean downscale RTs for each relevant procedure. Report the greater of the average upscale or average downscale RTs as the RT for the system.

11.7.1 On the same day and as close in time as practicable to when the ME test is conducted, perform and meet requirements for a calibration drift (CD) test using a zero gas as used in the Seven-Day Drift Test (see section 11.8) and document and report the results. To meet this requirement, the ME test may be conducted during the Seven-Day CD Test.

11.7.2 Extractive CEMS ME Test.

11.7.2.1 Introduce reference gases to the CEMS probe, prior to the sample conditioning and filtration system.

11.7.2.2 Measure three upscale HCl reference gas concentrations in the range shown in Table 4 of this PS.

11.7.2.3 Introduce the gases into the sampling probe with sufficient flow rate to replace the entire source gas sample.

11.7.2.4 Continue to add the reference gas until the response is stable as evidenced when the difference between two consecutive measurements is less than the LOD or within five percent of each other.

11.7.2.5 Make triplicate measurements for each reference gas for a total of nine measurements. Introduce different reference gas concentrations in any order but do not introduce the same gas concentration twice in succession.

11.7.2.6 At each reference gas concentration, determine the average of the three CEMS responses (). Calculate the ME using Equation 3A in section 12.3.

11.7.2.7 If you desire to determine the system RT during this test, you must inject zero gas immediately before and after each injection of the high-level gas standard.

11.7.2.8 For non-dilution systems, you may adjust the system to maintain the correct flow rate at the analyzer during the test, but you may not make adjustments for any other purpose. For dilution systems, you must operate the measurement system at the appropriate dilution ratio during all system ME checks, and you may make only the adjustments necessary to maintain the proper ratio.

11.7.3 IP-CEMS ME Test.

11.7.3.1 Conduct a 3-level system ME test by individually adding the known concentrations of HCl reference gases into a calibration cell of known volume, temperature, pressure and path length.
