
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

8.1.1 You must inject HCl gas to create a measured concentration based on the requirements of the particular performance test (LOD verification, CD, DSA).

8.1.2 Each dynamic spike (DS) or standard addition (SA) replicate consists of a measurement of the source emissions concentration of HCl (native stack concentration) with and without the addition of HCl. With a single CEMS, you must alternate the measurement of the native and SA-elevated source gas so that each measurement of SA-elevated source gas is immediately preceded and followed by a measurement of native stack gas. Introduce the SA gases in such a manner that the entire CEMS is challenged. Alternatively, you may use an independent continuous HCl monitor to measure the native source concentration before and after each standard addition as described in section 8.1.4.

8.1.3 Unless specified otherwise by an applicable rule, your SA-elevated concentration may not exceed 100 percent of span when the SA and native HCl concentration are combined.

8.1.4 As an alternative to making background measurements pre- and post-SA, you may use an independent continuous HCl monitor as a temporary unit to measure native stack HCl concentration while simultaneously using the CEMS to measure the SA-elevated source concentration. If you use an independent continuous HCl monitor you must make one concurrent background or native HCl measurement using both the installed CEMS and the independent continuous HCl monitor, immediately before the SA procedure in section 8.2 or 8.3 begins, to confirm that the independent monitoring system measures the same background concentration as the CEMS being qualified with this PS.

8.2 SA Procedure for Extractive CEMS (Dynamic Spiking)

8.2.1 Your HCl spike addition must not alter the total volumetric sample system flow rate or basic dilution ratio of your CEMS (if applicable).

8.2.2 Your spike gas flow rate must not contribute more than 10 percent of the total volumetric flow rate through the CEMS.
