
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### e.g.,

8.2.3 You must determine a dilution factor (DF) or relative concentration of HCl for each dynamic spike. Calibrated, NIST-traceable flow meters accurate to within 2.0 percent or highly accurate tracer gas measurements are required to make the necessary DF determinations at the accuracy required for this PS. Calibrated, NIST-traceable flow meters (venturi, orifice) accurate to within 2.0 percent should be recertified against an NIST-traceable flow meter annually.Since the spiking mass balance calculation is directly dependent on the accuracy of the DF determination, the accuracy of measurements required to determine the total volumetric gas flow rate, spike gas flow rate, or tracer gas standard addition concentration is critical to your ability to accurately perform the DS procedure and calculate the results.

8.2.4 You must monitor and record the total sampling system flow rate and sample dilution factor (DF) for the spiking and stack gas sampling systems to ensure they are known and do not change during the spiking procedure. Record all data on a data sheet similar to Table A1 in section 13 of this appendix.

8.2.4.1 You may either measure the spike gas flow and the total flow with calibrated flow meters capable of NIST traceable accuracy to +/-2.0 percent or calculate the flow using a stable tracer gas included in your spike gas standard.

8.2.4.2 If you use flow measurements to determine the spike dilution, then use Equation A1 in section 11.2.1 of this appendix to calculate the DF. Determination of the spike dilution requires measurement of HCl spike flow (Q) and total flow through the CEM sampling system (Q).

8.2.4.3 If your CEMS is capable of measuring an independent stable tracer gas, you may use a spike gas that includes the tracer to determine the DF using Equation A2 or A3 (sections 11.2.2 and 11.2.3 of this appendix) depending on whether the tracer gas is also present in the native source emissions.

8.2.4.4 For extractive CEMS, you must correct the background measurements of HCl for the dilution caused by the addition of the spike gas standard. For spiking systems that alternate between addition of HCl and zero gas at a constant DF, the background measurements between spikes will not be equal to the native source concentration.

8.2.5 Begin by collecting unspiked sample measurements of HCl. You must use the average of two unspiked sample measurements as your pre-spike background.

8.2.5.1 Introduce the HCl gas spike into the permanent CEMS probe, upstream of the particulate filter or sample conditioning system and as close to the sampling inlet as practical.

8.2.5.2 Maintain the HCl gas spike for at least twice the DS response time of your CEMS or until the consecutive measurements agree within 5.0 percent. Collect two independent measurements of the native plus spiked HCl concentration.

8.2.5.3 Stop the flow of spike gas for at least twice the DS response time of your CEMS or until the consecutive measurements agree within 5.0 percent. Collect two independent measurements of the native HCl concentration.

8.2.6 Repeat the collection of sample measurements in section 8.2.5 until you have data for each spike concentration including a final set of unspiked sample measurements according to section 8.2.5.3.

8.2.7 Verify that the CEMS responded as expected for each spike gas injection, and that the data quality is not impacted by large shifts in the native source concentration. Discard and repeat any spike injections as necessary to generate a complete set of the required replicate spike measurements.

8.2.8 Calculate the standard addition response (SAR) for extractive CEMS, using Equation A4 in section 11.2, of this appendix.

8.2.9 If the DS results do not meet the specifications for the appropriate performance test in PS-18 or Procedure 6 of appendix F of this part, you must take corrective action and repeat the DS procedure.

8.3 SA Procedure for IP-CEMS (Static Spiking).

8.3.1 For IP-CEMS, you must make measurements of native source gas HCl concentration and an HCl standard addition using a calibration cell added to the optical measurement path.

8.3.2 Introduce zero gas into a calibration cell located in the optical measurement path of the instrument. Continue to flush the zero gas into the cell for at least the SA response time of your CEMS or until two consecutive measurements taken are within 5.0 percent, then collect two independent measurements. Alternatively you may measure native concentrations without the calibration cell in the optical path.

8.3.3 Introduce the HCl spike gas into the calibration cell. Continue to flush the spike gas into the cell for at least the SA response time of your CEMS or until two consecutive measurements taken are within 5.0 percent of one another. Then collect two independent measurements of the SA addition to the native concentration. Alternatively you may insert a sealed calibration cell, containing HCl at the appropriate concentration, into the optical path to measure the SA addition to the native concentration.

8.3.4 Repeat the collection of SA-elevated and native HCl measurements in sections 8.3.2 and 8.3.3 until you have data for each SA concentration. Then, make a final native HCl measurement. The measured concentrations must be corrected for calibration cell and stack temperature, pressure and stack measurement path length.

8.3.5 Calculate the standard addition response (SAR) for an IP-CEMS, using Equation A8 in section 11.3 of this appendix.

8.3.6 If the SA results do not meet the specifications for the appropriate performance test in PS-18 or Procedure 6 of appendix F of this part, you must take corrective action and repeat the SA procedure.
