
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix B to Part 60 - Performance Specifications
###### Calculations and Data Analysis.

11Calculate the SA response for each measurement and its associated native HCl measurement(s), using equations in this section. (For cases where the emission standard is expressed in units of lb/MMBtu or corrected to a specified Oor COconcentration, an absolute accuracy specification based on a span at stack conditions may be calculated using the average concentration and applicable conversion factors. The appropriate procedures for use in cases where a percent removal standard is more restrictive than the emission standard are the same as in 40 CFR part 60, PS-2, sections 12 and 13.)

11.1 Nomenclature.

11.2 Calculating Dynamic Spike Response and Error for Extractive CEMS.

11.2.1 If you determine your spike DF using spike gas and stack sample flow measurements, calculate the DF using equation A1:

11.2.2 If you determine your spike DF using an independent stable tracer gas that is not present in the native source emissions, calculate the DF for DS using equation A2:

11.2.3 If you determine your spike dilution factor using an independent stable tracer that is present in the native source emissions, calculate the dilution factor for dynamic spiking using equation A3:

11.2.4 Calculate the SA response using Equation A4:

11.2.5 Calculate the DS error using Equation A5.

11.2.6 Calculating CD using DS. When using the DS option for determining mid-level CD, calculate the CD as a percent of span using equation A6:

11.2.7 The effective spike addition (ESA) is the expected increase in the measured concentration as a result of injecting a spike. Calculate ESA using Equation A7:

11.3 Standard Addition Response for IP-CEMS. If you use an IP-CEMS and a calibration cell, calculate the SA response using Equation A8.
