
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### i.e.,,e.g.,,e.g.,

3.3 "PM CEMS Correlation" means the site-specific relationship (a regression equation) between the output from your PM CEMS (mA) and the particulate concentration, as determined by the reference method. The PM CEMS correlation is expressed in the same units as the PM concentration measured by your PM CEMS (mg/acm). You must derive this relation from PM CEMS response data and manual reference method data that were gathered simultaneously. These data must be representative of the full range of source and control device operating conditions that you expect to occur. You must develop the correlation by performing the steps presented in sections 12.2 and 12.3 of PS-11.

3.4 "Reference Method Sampling Location" means the location in your source's exhaust duct from which you collect manual reference method data for developing your PM CEMS correlation and for performing relative response audits (RRAs) and response correlation audits (RCAs).

3.5 "Response Correlation Audit (RCA)" means the series of tests specified in section 10.3(8) of this procedure that you conduct to ensure the continued validity of your PM CEMS correlation.

3.6 "Relative Response Audit (RRA)" means the brief series of tests specified in section 10.3(6) of this procedure that you conduct between consecutive RCAs to ensure the continued validity of your PM CEMS correlation.

3.7 "Sample Volume Audit (SVA)" means an evaluation of your PM CEMS measurement of sample volume if your PM CEMS determines PM concentration based on a measure of PM mass in an extracted sample volume and an independent determination of sample volume.

People using Procedure 2 may be exposed to hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. Procedure 2 does not purport to address all of the safety issues associated with its use. It is your responsibility to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicable regulatory limitations before performing this procedure. You must consult your CEMS user's manual for specific precautions to be taken with regard to your PM CEMS procedures.

You will need reference standards or procedures to perform the zero drift check, the upscale drift check, and the sample volume check.

7.1 What is the reference standard value for the zero drift check? You must use a zero check value that is no greater than 20 percent of the PM CEMS's response range. You must obtain documentation on the zero check value from your PM CEMS manufacturer.

7.2 What is the reference standard value for the upscale drift check? You must use an upscale check value that produces a response between 50 and 100 percent of the PM CEMS's response range. For a PM CEMS that produces output over a range of 4 mA to 20 mA, the upscale check value must produce a response in the range of 12 mA to 20 mA. You must obtain documentation on the upscale check value from your PM CEMS manufacturer.

7.3 What is the reference standard value for the sample volume check? You must use a reference standard value or procedure that produces a sample volume value equivalent to the normal sampling rate. You must obtain documentation on the sample volume value from your PM CEMS manufacturer.

You must develop and implement a QC program for your PM CEMS. Your QC program must, at a minimum, include written procedures that describe, in detail, complete step-by-step procedures and operations for the activities in paragraphs (1) through (8) of this section.

(1) Procedures for performing drift checks, including both zero drift and upscale drift and the sample volume check (see sections 10.2(1), (2), and (5)).

(2) Methods for adjustment of PM CEMS based on the results of drift checks, sample volume checks (if applicable), and the periodic audits specified in this procedure.

(3) Preventative maintenance of PM CEMS (including spare parts inventory and sampling probe integrity).

(4) Data recording, calculations, and reporting.

(5) RCA and RRA procedures, including sampling and analysis methods, sampling strategy, and structuring test conditions over the prescribed range of PM concentrations.

(6) Procedures for performing ACAs and SVAs and methods for adjusting your PM CEMS response based on ACA and SVA results.

(7) Program of corrective action for malfunctioning PM CEMS, including flagged data periods.

(8) For extractive PM CEMS, procedures for checking extractive system ducts for material accumulation.

9.1 What QA/QC documentation must I have? You are required to keep the written QA/QC procedures on record and available for inspection by us, the State, and/or local enforcement agency for the life of your CEMS or until you are no longer subject to the requirements of this procedure.
