
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### http://www.epa.gov/ttn/emc.

2. "EPA Traceability Protocol For Assay And Certification Of Gaseous Calibration Standards." EPA-600/R-97/121, September 1997. Available from EPA's Emission Measurement Center at

3. Method 205, "Verification of Gas Dilution Systems for Field Instrument Calibrations," 40 CFR 51, appendix M.

I. Accuracy assessment results (Complete A, B, or C below for each CEMS or for each pollutant and diluent analyzer, as applicable.) If the quarterly audit results show the CEMS to be out-of-control, report the results of both the quarterly audit and the audit following corrective action showing the CEMS to be operating properly.

A. Relative accuracy test audit (RATA) for ________ (e.g., SOin ng/J).

1. Date of audit ________.

2. Reference methods (RM's) used ________ (e.g., Methods 3 and 6).

3. Average RM value ________ (e.g., ng/J, mg/dsm, or percent volume).

4. Average CEMS value ________.

5. Absolute value of mean difference [d] ________.

6. Confidence coefficient [CC] ________.

7. Percent relative accuracy (RA) ________ percent.

8. EPA performance audit results:

a. Audit lot number (1) ________ (2) ________

b. Audit sample number (1) ________ (2) ________

c. Results (mg/dsm) (1) ________ (2) ________

d. Actual value (mg/dsm)* (1) ________ (2) ________

e. Relative error* (1) ________ (2) ________

B. Cylinder gas audit (CGA) for ________ (e.g., SOin ppm).

C. Relative accuracy audit (RAA) for ________ (e.g., SOin ng/J).

1. Date of audit ________.

2. Reference methods (RM's) used ________ (e.g., Methods 3 and 6).

3. Average RM value ________ (e.g., ng/J).

4. Average CEMS value ________.

5. Accuracy ________ percent.

6. EPA performance audit results:

a. Audit lot number (1) ________ (2) ________

b. Audit sample number (1) ________ (2) ________

c. Results (mg/dsm) (1) ________ (2) ________

d. Actual value (mg/dsm) *(1) ________ (2)

e. Relative error*(1) ________ (2) ________

D. Corrective action for excessive inaccuracy.

1. Out-of-control periods.

a. Date(s) ________.

b. Number of days ________.

3. Results of audit following corrective action. (Use format of A, B, or C above, as applicable.)

II. Calibration drift assessment.

A. Out-of-control periods.

1. Date(s) ________.

2. Number of days ________.
