
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### e.g.,

The purpose of Procedure 2 is to establish the minimum requirements for evaluating the effectiveness of quality control (QC) and quality assurance (QA) procedures and the quality of data produced by your particulate matter (PM) continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS). Procedure 2 applies to PM CEMS used for continuously determining compliance with emission standards or operating permit limits as specified in an applicable regulation or permit. Other QC procedures may apply to diluent (O) monitors and other auxiliary monitoring equipment included with your CEMS to facilitate PM measurement or determination of PM concentration in units specified in an applicable regulation.

1.1 What measurement parameter does Procedure 2 address? Procedure 2 covers the instrumental measurement of PM as defined by your source's applicable reference method (no Chemical Abstract Service number assigned).

1.2 For what types of devices must I comply with Procedure 2? You must comply with Procedure 2 for the total equipment that:

(1) We require you to install and operate on a continuous basis under the applicable regulation, and

(2) You use to monitor the PM mass concentration associated with the operation of a process or emission control device.

1.3 What are the data quality objectives (DQOs) of Procedure 2? The overall DQO of Procedure 2 is the generation of valid, representative data that can be transferred into useful information for determining PM CEMS concentrations averaged over a prescribed interval. Procedure 2 is also closely associated with Performance Specification 11 (PS-11).

(1) Procedure 2 specifies the minimum requirements for controlling and assessing the quality of PM CEMS data submitted to us or the delegated permitting authority.

(2) You must meet these minimum requirements if you are responsible for one or more PM CEMS used for compliance monitoring. We encourage you to develop and implement a more extensive QA program or to continue such programs where they already exist.

1.4 What is the intent of the QA/QC procedures specified in Procedure 2? Procedure 2 is intended to establish the minimum QA/QC requirements for PM CEMS and is presented in general terms to allow you to develop a program that is most effective for your circumstances. You may adopt QA/QC procedures that go beyond these minimum requirements to ensure compliance with applicable regulations.

1.5 When must I comply with Procedure 2? You must comply with the basic requirements of Procedure 2 immediately following successful completion of the initial correlation test of PS-11.

Procedure 2 requires you to perform periodic evaluations of PM CEMS performance and to develop and implement QA/QC programs to ensure that PM CEMS data quality is maintained.

2.1 What are the basic functions of Procedure 2?

(1) Assessment of the quality of your PM CEMS data by estimating measurement accuracy;

(2) Control and improvement of the quality of your PM CEMS data by implementing QC requirements and corrective actions until the data quality is acceptable; and

(3) Specification of requirements for daily instrument zero and upscale drift checks and daily sample volume checks, as well as routine response correlation audits, absolute correlation audits, sample volume audits, and relative response audits.

The definitions in Procedure 2 include those provided in PS-11 of Appendix B, with the following additions:
