
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix D to Part 60 - Required Emission Inventory Information

(a) Completed NEDS point source form(s) for the entire plant containing the designated facility, including information on the applicable criteria pollutants. If data concerning the plant are already in NEDS, only that information must be submitted which is necessary to update the existing NEDS record for that plant. Plant and point identification codes for NEDS records shall correspond to those previously assigned in NEDS; for plants not in NEDS, these codes shall be obtained from the appropriate Regional Office.

(b) Accompanying the basic NEDS information shall be the following information on each designated facility:

(1) The state and county identification codes, as well as the complete plant and point identification codes of the designated facility in NEDS. (The codes are needed to match these data with the NEDS data.)

(2) A description of the designated facility including, where appropriate:

(i) Process name.

(ii) Description and quantity of each product (maximum per hour and average per year).

(iii) Description and quantity of raw materials handled for each product (maximum per hour and average per year).

(iv) Types of fuels burned, quantities and characteristics (maximum and average quantities per hour, average per year).

(v) Description and quantity of solid wastes generated (per year) and method of disposal.

(3) A description of the air pollution control equipment in use or proposed to control the designated pollutant, including:

(i) Verbal description of equipment.

(ii) Optimum control efficiency, in percent. This shall be a combined efficiency when more than one device operates in series. The method of control efficiency determination shall be indicated (e.g., design efficiency, measured efficiency, estimated efficiency).

(iii) Annual average control efficiency, in percent, taking into account control equipment down time. This shall be a combined efficiency when more than one device operates in series.

(4) An estimate of the designated pollutant emissions from the designated facility (maximum per hour and average per year). The method of emission determination shall also be specified (e.g., stack test, material balance, emission factor).
