
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### e.g.,

(4) You must record data from your automatic drift-adjusting PM CEMS before any adjustment is made. If your PM CEMS automatically adjusts its response to the corrected calibration values (microprocessor control), you must program your PM CEMS to record the unadjusted concentration measured in the drift check before resetting the calibration. Alternately, you may program your PM CEMS to record the amount of adjustment.

(5) For extractive PM CEMS that measure the sample volume and use the measured sample volume as part of calculating the output value, you must check the sample volume on a daily basis to verify the accuracy of the sample volume measuring equipment. This sample volume check must be done at the normal sampling rate of your PM CEMS. You must adjust your PM CEMS sample volume measurement whenever the daily sample volume check error exceeds 10 percent.

10.3 What are the auditing requirements for my PM CEMS? You must subject your PM CEMS to an ACA and an SVA, as applicable, at least once each calendar quarter. Successive quarterly audits must occur no closer than 2 months apart. You must conduct an RCA and an RRA at the frequencies specified in the applicable regulation or facility operating permit. An RRA or RCA conducted during any calendar quarter can take the place of the ACA required for that calendar quarter. An RCA conducted during the period in which an RRA is required can take the place of the RRA for that period.

(1) When must I perform an ACA? You must perform an ACA each quarter unless you conduct an RRA or RCA during that same quarter.

(2) How do I perform an ACA? You perform an ACA according to the procedure specified in paragraphs (2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) You must challenge your PM CEMS with an audit standard or an equivalent audit reference to reproduce the PM CEMS's measurement at three points within the following ranges:

(ii) You must then challenge your PM CEMS three times at each audit point and use the average of the three responses in determining accuracy at each audit point. Use a separate audit standard for audit points 1, 2, and 3. Challenge the PM CEMS at each audit point for a sufficient period of time to ensure that your PM CEMS response has stabilized.

(iii) Operate your PM CEMS in the mode, manner, and range specified by the manufacturer.

(iv) Store, maintain, and use audit standards as recommended by the manufacturer.

(v) Use the difference between the actual known value of the audit standard and the response of your PM CEMS to assess the accuracy of your PM CEMS.
