
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### e.g.,

(iii) You may need to condense, collect, and measure moisture from the sample gas prior to the calibrated measurement device (dry gas meter) and correct the results for moisture content. In any case, the volumes measured by the calibrated device and your PM CEMS must be on a consistent temperature, pressure, and moisture basis.

(5) How often must I perform an RRA? You must perform an RRA at the frequency specified in the applicable regulation or facility operating permit. You may conduct an RCA instead of an RRA during the period when the RRA is required.

(6) How do I perform an RRA? You must perform the RRA according to the procedure specified in paragraphs (6)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You perform an RRA by collecting three simultaneous reference method PM concentration measurements and PM CEMS measurements at the as-found source operating conditions and PM concentration.

(ii) We recommend that you use paired trains for reference method sampling. Guidance on the use of paired sampling trains can be found in the PM CEMS Knowledge Document (see section 16.5 of PS-11).

(7) How often must I perform an RCA? You must perform an RCA at the frequency specified in the applicable regulation or facility operating permit.

(8) How do I perform an RCA? You must perform the RCA according to the procedures for the PM CEMS correlation test described in PS-11, section 8.6, except that the minimum number of runs required is 12 in the RCA instead of 15 as specified in PS-11.

(9) What other alternative audits can I use? You can use other alternative audit procedures as approved by us, the State, or local agency for the quarters when you would conduct ACAs.

10.4 What are my limits for excessive audit inaccuracy? Unless specified otherwise in the applicable subpart, the criteria for excessive audit inaccuracy are listed in paragraphs (1) through (6) of this section.

(1) What are the criteria for excessive zero or upscale drift? Your PM CEMS is out of control if the zero drift check or upscale drift check either exceeds 4 percent for five consecutive daily periods or exceeds 8 percent for any one day.

(2) What are the criteria for excessive sample volume measurement error? Your PM CEMS is out of control if sample volume check error exceeds 10 percent for five consecutive daily periods or exceeds 20 percent for any one day.

(3) What are the criteria for excessive ACA error? Your PM CEMS is out of control if the results of any ACA exceed +/-10 percent of the average audit value, as calculated using Equation 2-1a, or 7.5 percent of the applicable standard, as calculated using Equation 2-1b, whichever is greater.

(4) What is the criterion for excessive SVA error? Your PM CEMS is out of control if results exceed +/-5 percent of the average sample volume audit value.

(5) What are the criteria for passing a RCA? To pass a RCA, you must meet the criteria specified in paragraphs (5)(i) and (ii) of this section. If your PM CEMS fails to meet these RCA criteria, it is out of control.

(i) For all 12 data points, the PM CEMS response value can be no greater than the greatest PM CEMS response value used to develop your correlation curve.

(ii) At least 75 percent of a minimum number of 12 sets of PM CEMS and reference method measurements must fall within a specified area on a graph of the correlation regression line. The specified area on the graph of the correlation regression line is defined by two lines parallel to the correlation regression line, offset at a distance of +/-25 percent of the numerical emission limit value from the correlation regression line. If any of the PM CEMS response values resulting from your RCA are lower than the lowest PM CEMS response value of your existing correlation curve, you may extend your correlation regression line to the point corresponding to the lowest PM CEMS response value obtained during the RCA. This extended correlation regression line must then be used to determine if the RCA data meets this criterion.

(6) What are the criteria to pass a RRA? To pass a RRA, you must meet the criteria specified in paragraphs (6)(i) and (ii) of this section. If your PM CEMS fails to meet these RRA criteria, it is out of control.

(i) For all three data points, the PM CEMS response value can be no greater than the greatest PM CEMS response value used to develop your correlation curve.

(ii) At least two of the three sets of PM CEMS and reference method measurements must fall within the same specified area on a graph of the correlation regression line as required for the RCA and described in paragraph (5)(ii) of this section.

10.5 What do I do if my PM CEMS is out of control? If your PM CEMS is out of control, you must take the actions listed in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You must take necessary corrective action to eliminate the problem and perform tests, as appropriate, to ensure that the corrective action was successful.

(i) Following corrective action, you must repeat the previously failed audit to confirm that your PM CEMS is operating within the specifications.

(ii) If your PM CEMS failed an RRA, you must take corrective action until your PM CEMS passes the RRA criteria. If the RRA criteria cannot be achieved, you must perform an RCA.

(iii) If your PM CEMS failed an RCA, you must follow procedures specified in section 10.6 of this procedure.

(2) You must report both the audit showing your PM CEMS to be out of control and the results of the audit following corrective action showing your PM CEMS to be operating within specifications.

10.6 What do I do if my PM CEMS fails an RCA? After an RCA failure, you must take all applicable actions listed in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this section.
