
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### i.e.,

9.2 How do I know if I have acceptable QC procedures for my PM CEMS? Your QC procedures are inadequate or your PM CEMS is incapable of providing quality data if you fail two consecutive QC audits (out-of-control conditions resulting from the annual audits, quarterly audits, or daily checks). Therefore, if you fail the same two consecutive audits, you must revise your QC procedures or modify or replace your PM CEMS to correct the deficiencies causing the excessive inaccuracies (see section 10.4 for limits for excessive audit inaccuracy).

You must generate a site-specific correlation for each of your PM CEMS installation(s) relating response from your PM CEMS to results from simultaneous PM reference method testing. The PS-11 defines procedures for developing the correlation and defines a series of statistical parameters for assessing acceptability of the correlation. However, a critical component of your PM CEMS correlation process is ensuring the accuracy and precision of reference method data. The activities listed in sections 10.1 through 10.10 assure the quality of the correlation.

10.1 When should I use paired trains for reference method testing? Although not required, we recommend that you should use paired-train reference method testing to generate data used to develop your PM CEMS correlation and for RCA testing. Guidance on the use of paired sampling trains can be found in the PM CEMS Knowledge Document (see section 16.5 of PS-11).

10.2 What routine system checks must I perform on my PM CEMS? You must perform routine checks to ensure proper operation of system electronics and optics, light and radiation sources and detectors, and electric or electro-mechanical systems. Necessary components of the routine system checks will depend on design details of your PM CEMS. As a minimum, you must verify the system operating parameters listed in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this section on a daily basis. Some PM CEMS may perform one or more of these functions automatically or as an integral portion of unit operations; for other PM CEMS, you must initiate or perform one or more of these functions manually.

(1) You must check the zero drift to ensure stability of your PM CEMS response to the zero check value. You must determine system output on the most sensitive measurement range when the PM CEMS is challenged with a zero reference standard or procedure. You must, at a minimum, adjust your PM CEMS whenever the daily zero drift exceeds 4 percent.

(2) You must check the upscale drift to ensure stability of your PM CEMS response to the upscale check value. You must determine system output when the PM CEMS is challenged with a reference standard or procedure corresponding to the upscale check value. You must, at a minimum, adjust your PM CEMS whenever the daily upscale drift check exceeds 4 percent.

(3) For light-scattering and extinction-type PM CEMS, you must check the system optics to ensure that system response has not been altered by the condition of optical components, such as fogging of lens and performance of light monitoring devices.
