
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### i.e.,

(1) Combine RCA data with data from the active PM CEMS correlation and perform the mathematical evaluations defined in PS-11 for development of a PM CEMS correlation, including examination of alternate correlation models (linear, polynomial, logarithmic, exponential, and power). If the expanded data base and revised correlation meet PS-11 statistical criteria, use the revised correlation.

(2) If the criteria specified in paragraph (1) of this section are not achieved, you must develop a new PM CEMS correlation based on revised data. The revised data set must consist of the test results from only the RCA. The new data must meet all requirements of PS-11 to develop a revised PM CEMS correlation, except that the minimum number of sets of PM CEMS and reference method measurements is 12 instead of the minimum of 15 sets required by PS-11. Your PM CEMS is considered to be back in controlled status when the revised correlation meets all of the performance criteria specified in section 13.2 of PS-11.

(3) If the actions in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this section do not result in an acceptable correlation, you must evaluate the cause(s) and comply with the actions listed in paragraphs (3)(i) through (iv) of this section within 90 days after the completion of the failed RCA.

(i) Completely inspect your PM CEMS for mechanical or operational problems. If you find a mechanical or operational problem, repair your PM CEMS and repeat the RCA.

(ii) You may need to relocate your PM CEMS to a more appropriate measurement location. If you relocate your PM CEMS, you must perform a new correlation test according to the procedures specified in PS-11.

(iii) The characteristics of the PM or gas in your source's flue gas stream may have changed such that your PM CEMS measurement technology is no longer appropriate. If this is the case, you must install a PM CEMS with measurement technology that is appropriate for your source's flue gas characteristics. You must perform a new correlation test according to the procedures specified in PS-11.

(iv) If the corrective actions in paragraphs (3)(i) through (iii) of this section were not successful, you must petition us, the State, or local agency for approval of alternative criteria or an alternative for continuous PM monitoring.

10.7 When does the out-of-control period begin and end? The out-of-control period begins immediately after the last test run or check of an unsuccessful RCA, RRA, ACA, SVA, drift check, or sample volume check. The out-of-control period ends immediately after the last test run or check of the subsequent successful audit or drift check.

10.8 Can I use the data recorded by my PM CEMS during out-of-control periods? During any period when your PM CEMS is out of control, you may not use your PM CEMS data to calculate emission compliance or to meet minimum data availability requirements described in the applicable regulation.

10.9 What are the QA/QC reporting requirements for my PM CEMS? You must report the accuracy results for your PM CEMS, specified in section 10.4 of this procedure, at the interval specified in the applicable regulation. Report the drift and accuracy information as a Data Assessment Report (DAR), and include one copy of this DAR for each quarterly audit with the report of emissions required under the applicable regulation. An example DAR is provided in Procedure 1, Appendix F of this part.

10.10 What minimum information must I include in my DAR? As a minimum, you must include the information listed in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this section in the DAR:

(1) Your name and address.

(2) Identification and location of monitors in your CEMS.

(3) Manufacturer and model number of each monitor in your CEMS.

(4) Assessment of PM CEMS data accuracy/acceptability, and date of assessment, as determined by an RCA, RRA, ACA, or SVA described in section 10, including the acceptability determination for the RCA or RRA, the accuracy for the ACA or SVA, the reference method results, the audit standards, your PM CEMS responses, and the calculation results as defined in section 12. If the accuracy audit results show your PM CEMS to be out of control, you must report both the audit results showing your PM CEMS to be out of control and the results of the audit following corrective action showing your PM CEMS to be operating within specifications.

(5) Summary of all corrective actions you took when you determined your PM CEMS to be out of control, as described in section 10.5, or after failing on RCA, as described in section 10.6.

10.7 Where and how long must I retain the QA data that this procedure requires me to record for my PM CEMS? You must keep the records required by this procedure for your PM CEMS onsite and available for inspection by us, the State, and/or local enforcement agency for a period of 5 years.

Sample collection and analysis are concurrent for this procedure. You must refer to the appropriate reference method for the specific analytical procedures.

(1) How do I determine RCA and RRA acceptability? You must plot each of your PM CEMS and reference method data sets from an RCA or RRA on a graph based on your PM CEMS correlation line to determine if the criteria in paragraphs 10.4(5) or (6), respectively, are met.

(2) How do I calculate ACA accuracy? You must use either Equation 2-1a or 2-1b to calculate ACA accuracy for each of the three audit points. However, when calculating ACA accuracy for the first audit point (0 to 20 percent of measurement range), you must use Equation 2-1b to calculate ACA accuracy if the reference standard value (R) equals zero.

(3) How do I calculate daily upscale and zero drift? You must calculate the upscale drift using Equation 2-2 and the zero drift using Equation 2-3:

(4) How do I calculate SVA accuracy? You must use Equation 2-4 to calculate the accuracy, in percent, for each of the three SVA tests or the daily sample volume check:

The purpose of Procedure 3 is to establish quality assurance and quality control (QA/QC) procedures for continuous opacity monitoring systems (COMS). Procedure 3 applies to COMS used to demonstrate continuous compliance with opacity standards specified in new source performance standards (NSPS) promulgated by EPA pursuant to section 111(b) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7411(b)-Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources.
