
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### What are the quarterly auditing requirements for my COMS?

10.2At a minimum, the parameters listed in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this section must be included in the performance audit conducted on a quarterly basis as defined in section 10.0(2).

(1) For units with automatic zero compensation, you must determine the zero compensation for the COMS. The value of the zero compensation applied at the time of the audit must be calculated as equivalent opacity and corrected to stack exit conditions according to the procedures specified by the manufacturer. The compensation applied to the effluent by the monitor system must be recorded.

(2) You must conduct a three-point calibration error test of the COMS. Three calibration attenuators, either primary or secondary must meet the requirements of PS-1, with one exception. Instead of recalibrating the attenuators semi-annually, they must be recalibrated annually. If two annual calibrations agree within 0.5 percent opacity, the attenuators may then be calibrated once every five years. The three attenuators must be placed in the COMS light beam path for at least three nonconsecutive readings. All monitor responses must then be independently recorded from the COMS permanent data recorder. Additional guidance for conducting this test is included in section 8.1(3)(ii) of PS-1. The low-, mid-, and high-range calibration error results must be computed as the mean difference and 95 percent confidence interval for the difference between the expected and actual responses of the monitor as corrected to stack exit conditions. The equations necessary to perform the calculations are found in section 12.0 of PS-1. For the calibration error test method, you must use the external audit device. When the external audit device is installed, with no calibration attenuator inserted, the COMS measurement reading must be less than or equal to one percent opacity. You must also document procedures for properly handling and storing the external audit device and calibration attenuators within your written QC program.

(3) You must check the optical alignment of the COMS in accordance with the instrument manufacturer's recommendations. If the optical alignment varies with stack temperature, perform the optical alignment test when the unit is operating.
