
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### Quarterly and Annual Assessments.

(2)Whenever an annual zero alignment or quarterly performance audit fails to meet the criteria established in paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 10.4, the COMS is out-of-control. The beginning of the out-of-control period is the time corresponding to the completion of the performance audit indicating the failure to meet these established criteria. The end of the out-of-control period is the time corresponding to the completion of appropriate corrective actions and the subsequent successful audit (or, if applicable, partial audit).

Opacity cannot be measured accurately in the presence of condensed water vapor. Thus, COMS opacity compliance determinations cannot be made when condensed water vapor is present, such as downstream of a wet scrubber without a reheater or at other saturated flue gas locations. Therefore, COMS must be located where condensed water vapor is not present.

Those implementing Procedure 3 may be exposed to hazardous materials, operations and equipment. Procedure 3 does not purport to address all of the safety issues associated with its use. It is your responsibility to establish appropriate health and safety practices and determine the applicable regulatory limitations before performing this procedure. You should consult the COMS user's manual for specific precautions to take.

The equipment and supplies that you need are specified in PS-1. You are not required to purchase a new COMS if your existing COMS meets the requirements specified in Procedure 3.

The reagents and standards that you need are specified in PS-1. You are not required to purchase a new COMS if your existing COMS meets the requirements specified in Procedure 3.

You must develop and implement a QC program for your COMS. Your QC program must, at a minimum, include written procedures which describe in detail complete step-by-step procedures and operations for the activities in paragraphs (1) through (4):

(1) Procedures for performing drift checks, including both zero and upscale drift and the status indicators check,

(2) Procedures for performing quarterly performance audits,

(3) A means of checking the zero alignment of the COMS, and

(4) A program of corrective action for a malfunctioning COMS. The corrective action must include, at a minimum, the requirements specified in section 10.5.
