
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### What actions must I take if I fail QC audits?

9.2If you fail two consecutive annual audits, two consecutive quarterly audits, or five consecutive daily checks, you must either revise your QC procedures or determine if your COMS is malfunctioning. If you determine that your COMS is malfunctioning, you must take the necessary corrective action as specified in section 10.5. If you determine that your COMS requires extensive repairs, you may use a substitute COMS provided the substitute meets the requirements in section 10.6.

(1) You must perform daily system checks to ensure proper operation of system electronics and optics, light and radiation sources and detectors, electric or electro-mechanical systems, and general stability of the system calibration. Daily is defined as any portion of a calendar day in which a unit operates.

(2) You must subject your COMS to a performance audit to include checks of the individual COMS components and factors affecting the accuracy of the monitoring data at least once per QA operating quarter. A QA operating quarter is a calendar quarter in which a unit operates at least 168 hours.

(3) At least annually, you must perform a zero alignment by comparing the COMS simulated zero to the actual clear path zero. Annually is defined as a period wherein the unit is operating at least 28 days in a calendar year. The simulated zero device produces a simulated clear path condition or low-level opacity condition, where the energy reaching the detector is between 90 and 110 percent of the energy reaching the detector under actual clear path conditions.
