
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### i.e.,

Procedure 5 covers the measurement of Hg emissions as defined in Performance Specification 12A (PS 12A) and Performance Specification 12B (PS 12B) in appendix B to this part,total vapor phase Hg representing the sum of the elemental (Hg&#xB0;, CAS Number 7439-97-6) and oxidized (Hg) forms of gaseous Hg.

Procedure 5 specifies the minimum requirements for controlling and assessing the quality of Hg CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring system data submitted to EPA or a delegated permitting authority. You must meet these minimum requirements if you are responsible for one or more Hg CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring systems used for compliance monitoring. We encourage you to develop and implement a more extensive QA program or to continue such programs where they already exist.

You must comply with the basic requirements of Procedure 5 immediately following successful completion of the initial performance test described in PS 12A or PS 12B in appendix B to this part (as applicable).

1.2 Principle. The QA procedures consist of two distinct and equally important functions. One function is the assessment of the quality of the Hg CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system data by estimating accuracy. The other function is the control and improvement of the quality of the CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system data by implementing QC policies and corrective actions. These two functions form a control loop: When the assessment function indicates that the data quality is inadequate, the quality control effort must be increased until the data quality is acceptable. In order to provide uniformity in the assessment and reporting of data quality, this procedure explicitly specifies assessment methods for calibration drift, system integrity, and accuracy. Several of the procedures are based on those of PS 12A and PS 12B in appendix B to this part. Because the control and corrective action function encompasses a variety of policies, specifications, standards, and corrective measures, this procedure treats QC requirements in general terms to allow each source owner or operator to develop a QC system that is most effective and efficient for the circumstances.
