
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### i.e.,,see

5.3.4 Criteria for Acceptable QC Procedures. Repeated excessive inaccuracies (out-of-control conditions resulting from the quarterly audits) indicates the QC procedures are inadequate or that the CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system is incapable of providing quality data. Therefore, whenever excessive inaccuracies occur for two consecutive quarters, the source owner or operator must revise the QC procedures (section 3) or modify, repair, or replace the CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system.

6.1 Data Assessment Report. At the reporting interval specified in the applicable regulation or permit, report for each Hg CEMS and/or sorbent trap monitoring system the accuracy assessment results from section 5, above. For Hg CEMS, also report the CD assessment results from section 4, above. Report this information as a Data Assessment Report (DAR), and include the appropriate DAR(s) with the emissions report required under the applicable regulation or permit.

6.2 Contents of the DAR. At a minimum, the DAR must contain the following information:

6.2.1 Facility name and address including identification of source owner/operator.

6.2.2 Identification and location of each Hg CEMS and/or sorbent trap monitoring system.

6.2.3 Manufacturer, model, and serial number of each Hg CEMS and/or sorbent trap monitoring system.

6.2.4 CD Assessment for each Hg CEMS, including the identification of out-of-control periods.

6.2.5 System integrity check data for each Hg CEMS.

6.2.6 Accuracy assessment for each Hg CEMS and/or sorbent trap monitoring system, including the identification of out-of-control periods. The results of all required RATAs, QGAs, RAAs, and audits of auxiliary equipment must be reported. If an accuracy audit shows a CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system to be out-of-control, report both the audit results that caused the out-of-control period and the results of the retest following corrective action, showing the monitoring system to be operating within specifications.

6.2.7 Summary of all corrective actions taken when the Hg CEMS and/or sorbent trap monitoring system was determined to be out-of-control.

6.3 Data Retention. As required in 40 CFR 60.7(d) and 63.10(b), all measurements from CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring systems, including the quality assurance data required by this procedure, must be retained by the source owner for at least 5 years.

7.1 Calculation and Interpretation of Accuracy for Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems (CEMS). section 3.0.7 of the Quality Assurance Handbook for Air Pollution Measurement Systems, Volume III, Stationary Source Specific Methods. EPA-600/4-77-027b. August 1977. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Office of Research and Development Publications, 26 West St. Clair Street, Cincinnati, OH 45268.

1.1 Applicability. Procedure 6 is used to evaluate the effectiveness of quality control (QC) and quality assurance (QA) procedures and evaluate the quality of data produced by any hydrogen chloride (HCl) gas, CAS: 7647-01-0, continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) that is used for determining compliance with emission standards for HCl on a continuous basis as specified in an applicable permit or regulation.

1.1.1 This procedure specifies the minimum QA requirements necessary for the control and assessment of the quality of CEMS data submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or a delegated authority. If you are responsible for one or more CEMS used for HCl compliance monitoring you must meet these minimum requirements and you are encouraged to develop and implement a more extensive QA program or to continue such programs where they already exist.

1.1.2 Data collected as a result of QA and QC measures required in this procedure are to be submitted to the EPA or the delegated authority in accordance with the applicable regulation or permit. These data are to be used by both the delegated authority and you, as the CEMS operator, in assessing the effectiveness of the CEMS QC and QA procedures in the maintenance of acceptable CEMS operation and valid emission data.

1.2.1 The QA procedures consist of two distinct and equally important functions. One function is the assessment of the quality of the CEMS data by estimating accuracy. The other function is the control and improvement of the quality of the CEMS data by implementing QC policies and corrective actions. These two functions form an iterative control loop. When the assessment function indicates that the data quality is inadequate, the control effort must be increased until the data quality is acceptable. In order to provide uniformity in the assessment and reporting of data quality, this procedure specifies the assessment procedures to evaluate response drift and accuracy. The procedures specified are based on Performance Specification 18 (PS-18) in appendix B to this part.

(Because the control and corrective action function encompasses a variety of policies, specifications, standards and corrective measures, this procedure treats QC requirements in general terms to allow you, as source owner or operator to develop the most effective and efficient QC system for your circumstances.)

See PS-18 of this subpart for the primary definitions used in this Procedure.

3.1 You, as a source owner or operator, must develop and implement a QC program. At a minimum, each QC program must include written procedures and/or manufacturer's information which should describe in detail, complete, step-by-step procedures and operations for each of the following activities:

(a) Calibration Drift (CD) checks of CEMS;

(b) CD determination and adjustment of CEMS;

(c) Integrated Path (IP) CEMS temperature and pressure sensor accuracy checks;

(d) IP CEMS beam intensity checks;

(e) Routine and preventative maintenance of CEMS (including spare parts inventory);

(f) Data recording, calculations, and reporting;

(g) Accuracy audit procedures for CEMS including reference method(s); and

(h) Program of corrective action for malfunctioning CEMS.

3.2 These written procedures must be kept on site and available for inspection by the delegated authority. As described in section 5.4, whenever excessive inaccuracies occur for two consecutive quarters, you must revise the current written procedures, or modify or replace the CEMS to correct the deficiency causing the excessive inaccuracies.

4.1 CD Assessment. An upscale gas, used to meet a requirement in this section must be either a NIST-traceable reference gas or a gas certified by the gas vendor to +/-5.0 percent accuracy.
