
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### Quarterly Gas Audit (QGA)

2.9means an audit procedure in which the accuracy of the total vapor phase Hg concentrations measured by a CEMS is evaluated by challenging the CEMS with a zero and two upscale reference gases.

3.1 Each source owner or operator must develop and implement a QC program. At a minimum, each QC program must include written procedures which should describe in detail, complete, step-by-step procedures and operations for each of the following activities (as applicable):

(a) Calibration drift (CD) checks of Hg CEMS.

(b) CD determination and adjustment of Hg CEMS.

(c) Weekly system integrity check procedures for Hg CEMS.

(d) Routine operation, maintenance, and QA/QC procedures for sorbent trap monitoring systems.

(e) Routine and preventive maintenance procedures for Hg CEMS (including spare parts inventory).

(f) Data recording, calculations, and reporting.

(g) Accuracy audit procedures for Hg CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring systems including sampling and analysis methods.

(h) Program of corrective action for malfunctioning Hg CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring systems.

These written procedures must be kept on record and available for inspection by the responsible enforcement agency. Also, as noted in section 5.2.4, below, whenever excessive inaccuracies of a Hg CEMS occur for two consecutive quarters, the source owner or operator must revise the current written procedures or modify or replace the CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system to correct the deficiency causing the excessive inaccuracies.

4.1 CD Requirement. As described in 40 CFR 60.13(d) and 63.8(c), source owners and operators of Hg CEMS must check, record, and quantify the CD at two concentration values at least once daily (approximately 24 hours) in accordance with the method prescribed by the manufacturer. The Hg CEMS calibration must, as minimum, be adjusted whenever the daily zero (or low-level) CD or the daily high-level CD exceeds two times the limits of the applicable PS in appendix B of this part.

4.2 Recording Requirement for Automatic CD Adjusting CEMS. CEMS that automatically adjust the data to the corrected calibration values (e.g., microprocessor control) must either be programmed to record the unadjusted concentration measured in the CD prior to resetting the calibration, if performed, or to record the amount of adjustment.

4.3 Criteria for Excessive CD. If either the zero (or low-level) or high-level CD result exceeds twice the applicable drift specification in section 13.2 of PS 12A in appendix B to this part for five, consecutive, daily periods, the CEMS is out-of-control. If either the zero (or low-level) or high-level CD result exceeds four times the applicable drift specification in PS 12A during any CD check, the CEMS is out-of-control. If the CEMS is out-of-control, take necessary corrective action. Following corrective action, repeat the CD checks.
