
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### i.e.,

4.3.1 Out-Of-Control Period Definition. The beginning of the out-of-control period is the time corresponding to the completion of the fifth, consecutive, daily CD check with a CD in excess of two times the allowable limit, or the time corresponding to the completion of the daily CD check preceding the daily CD check that results in a CD in excess of four times the allowable limit. The end of the out-of-control period is the time corresponding to the completion of the CD check following corrective action that results in the CD's at both the zero (or low-level) and high-level measurement points being within the corresponding allowable CD limit (either two times or four times the allowable limit in the applicable PS in appendix B).

4.3.2 CEMS Data Status During Out-of-Control Period. During the period the CEMS is out-of-control, the CEMS data may not be used either to determine compliance with an emission limit or to meet a minimum data availability requirement specified in an applicable regulation or permit.

5.1 Hg CEMS Audit Requirements. For each Hg CEMS, an accuracy audit must be performed at least once each calendar quarter. Successive quarterly audits must, to the extent practicable, be performed no less than 2 months apart. The audits must be conducted as follows:

5.1.1 Relative Accuracy Test Audit (RATA). A RATA of the Hg CEMS must be conducted at least once every four calendar quarters, except as otherwise noted in section 5.1.4 of this appendix. Perform the RATA as described in section 8.5 of PS 12A in appendix B to this part. Calculate the results according to section 12.4 of PS 12A.

5.1.2 Quarterly Gas Audit. A quarterly gas audit (QGA) may be conducted in three of four calendar quarters, but in no more than three quarters in succession. To perform a QGA, challenge the CEMS with a zero-level and two upscale level audit gases of known concentrations, first of elemental Hg and then of oxidized Hg, within the following ranges:

Sequentially inject each of the three audit gases (zero and two upscale), three times each for a total of nine injections. Inject the gases in such a manner that the entire CEMS is challenged. Do not inject the same gas concentration twice in succession.

Use elemental Hg and oxidized Hg (mercuric chloride, HgCl) audit gases that are National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)-certified or NIST-traceable following an EPA Traceability Protocol. If audit gas cylinders are used, do not dilute gas when challenging the Hg CEMS. For each reference gas concentration, determine the average of the three CEMS responses and subtract the average response from the reference gas value. Calculate the measurement error at each gas level using Equation 12A-1 in section 8.2 of PS 12A.

5.1.3 Relative Accuracy Audit (RAA). As an alternative to the QGA, a RAA may be conducted in three of four calendar quarters, but in no more than three quarters in succession. To conduct a RAA, follow the RATA test procedures in section 8.5 of PS 12A in appendix B to this part, except that only three test runs are required.

5.1.4 Alternative Quarterly Audits. Alternative quarterly audit procedures may be used as approved by the Administrator for three of four calendar quarters. One RATA is required at least every four calendar quarters, except in the case where the affected facility is off-line (does not operate) in the fourth calendar quarter since the quarter of the previous RATA. In that case, the RATA must be performed in the quarter in which the unit recommences operation. Also, quarterly gas audits (or RAAs, if applicable) are not required for calendar quarters in which the affected facility does not operate.

5.2 Sorbent Trap Monitoring System Audit Requirements. For each sorbent trap monitoring system, a RATA must be conducted at least once every four calendar quarters, except as otherwise noted in section 5.1.4 of this appendix. Perform the RATA as described in section 8.3 of PS 12B in appendix B to this part. Calculate the results according to section 12.4 of PS 12A.

5.3 Excessive Audit Inaccuracy. If the results of a RATA, QGA, or RAA exceed the applicable criteria in section 5.3.3, the Hg CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system is out-of-control. If the Hg CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system is out-of-control, take necessary corrective action to eliminate the problem. Following corrective action, the source owner or operator must audit the CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system using the same type of test that failed to meet the accuracy criterion. For instance, a RATA must always be performed following an out-of-control period resulting from a failed RATA. Whenever audit results show the Hg CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system to be out-of-control, the owner or operator must report both the results of the failed test and the results of the retest following corrective action showing the CEMS to be operating within specifications.

5.3.1 Out-Of-Control Period Definition. The beginning of the out-of-control period is the hour immediately following the completion of a RATA, RAA, QGA or system integrity check that fails to meet the applicable performance criteria in section 5.3.3, below. The end of the out-of-control period is the time corresponding to the completion of a subsequent successful test of the same type.

5.3.2 Monitoring Data Status During Out-Of-Control Period. During the period the monitor is out-of-control, the monitoring data may not be used to determine compliance with an applicable emission limit or to meet a minimum data availability requirement in an applicable regulation or permit.

5.3.3 Criteria for Excessive Audit Inaccuracy. Unless specified otherwise in an applicable regulation or permit, the criteria for excessive inaccuracy are:

(a) For the RATA, the allowable RA in the applicable PS in appendix B (e.g., PS 12A or PS 12B).

(b) For the QGA, +/-15 percent of the average audit value or +/-0.5 µg/m, whichever is greater.

(c) For the RAA, +/-20 percent of the three run average or +/-10 percent of the applicable standard, whichever is greater.
