
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### i.e.,

5.4 Criteria for Acceptable QC Procedures. Repeated excessive inaccuracies (out-of-control conditions resulting from the quarterly or yearly audits) indicate that the QC procedures are inadequate or that the CEMS is incapable of providing quality data. Therefore, whenever excessive inaccuracies occur for two consecutive quarters, you must revise the QC procedures (see section 3.0) or modify or replace the CEMS.

5.5 Criteria for Optional QA Test Frequency. If all the quality criteria are met in sections 4 and 5 of this procedure, the CEMS is in-control.

5.5.1 Unless otherwise specified in an applicable rule or permit, if the CEMS is in-control and if your source emits &#x2264;75 percent of the HCl emission limit for each averaging period as specified in the relevant standard for eight consecutive quarters that include a minimum of two RATAs, you may revise your auditing procedures to use CGA, RAA or DSA each quarter for seven subsequent quarters following a RATA.

5.5.2 You must perform at least one RATA that meets the acceptance criteria every 2 years.

5.5.3 If you fail a RATA, RAA, CGA, or DSA, then the audit schedule in section 5.2 must be followed until the audit results meet the criteria in section 5.3.4 to start requalifying for the optional QA test frequency in section 5.5.

6.1 RATA RA Calculation. Follow Equations 9 through 14 in section 12 of PS-18 in appendix B to this part to calculate the RA for the RATA. The RATA must be calculated either in units of the applicable emission standard or in concentration units (ppmv).

6.2 RAA Accuracy Calculation. Use Equation 6-2 to calculate the accuracy for the RAA. The RA may be calculated in concentration units (ppmv) or in the units of the applicable emission standard.

6.3 CGA Accuracy Calculation. For each gas concentration, determine the average of the three CEMS responses and subtract the average response from the audit gas value. For extractive CEMS, calculate the ME at each gas level using Equation 3A in section 12.3 of PS-18 in appendix B to this part. For IP-CEMS, calculate the ME at each gas level using Equation 6A in section 12.4.3 of PS-18 in appendix B to this part.

6.4 DSA Accuracy Calculation. DSA accuracy is calculated as a percent of span. To calculate the DSA accuracy for each upscale spike concentration, first calculate the DSE using Equation A5 in appendix A of PS-18 in appendix B to this part. Then use Equation 6-3 to calculate the average DSA accuracy for each upscale spike concentration. To calculate DSA accuracy at the zero level, use equation 3A in section 12.3 of PS-18 in appendix B to this part.
