
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### i.e.,

At the reporting interval specified in the applicable regulation or permit, report for each CEMS the quarterly and annual accuracy audit results from section 6 and the daily assessment results from section 4. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable regulation or permit, include all data sheets, calculations, CEMS data records (charts, records of CEMS responses), reference gas certifications and reference method results necessary to confirm that the performance of the CEMS met the performance specifications.

7.1 Unless otherwise specified in the applicable regulations or permit, report the daily assessments (CD and beam intensity) and accuracy audit information at the interval for emissions reporting required under the applicable regulations or permits.

7.1.1 At a minimum, the daily assessments and accuracy audit information reporting must contain the following information:

a. Company name and address.

b. Identification and location of monitors in the CEMS.

c. Manufacturer and model number of each monitor in the CEMS.

d. Assessment of CEMS data accuracy and date of assessment as determined by a RATA, RAA, CGA or DSA described in section 5 including:

i. The RA for the RATA;

ii. The accuracy for the CGA, RAA, or DSA;

iiii. Temperature and pressure sensor audit results for IP-CEMS;

iv. The RM results, the reference gas certified values;

v. The CEMS responses;

vi. The calculation results as defined in section 6; and

vii. Results from the performance audit samples described in section 5 and the applicable RMs.

e. Summary of all out-of-control periods including corrective actions taken when CEMS was determined out-of-control, as described in sections 4 and 5.

7.1.2 If the accuracy audit results show the CEMS to be out-of-control, you must report both the audit results showing the CEMS to be out-of-control and the results of the audit following corrective action showing the CEMS to be operating within specifications.

1. EPA Traceability Protocol for Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency office of Research and Development, EPA/600/R-12/531, May 2012.

2. Method 205, "Verification of Gas Dilution Systems for Field Instrument Calibrations," 40 CFR part 51, appendix M.
