
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### e.g.,

5.3 Out of Control Criteria for Excessive Audit Inaccuracy. If the results of the RATA, RAA, CGA, or DSA do not meet the applicable performance criteria in section 5.3.4, the CEMS is out-of-control. If the CEMS is out-of-control, take necessary corrective action to eliminate the problem. Following corrective action, the CEMS must pass a test of the same type that resulted in the out-of-control period to determine if the CEMS is operating within the specifications (a RATA must always follow an out-of-control period resulting from a RATA).

5.3.1 If the audit results show the CEMS to be out-of-control, you must report both the results of the audit showing the CEMS to be out-of-control and the results of the audit following corrective action showing the CEMS to be operating within specifications.

5.3.2 Out-Of-Control Period Duration for Excessive Audit Inaccuracy. The beginning of the out-of-control period is the time corresponding to the completion of the sampling for the failed RATA, RAA, CGA or DSA. The end of the out-of-control period is the time corresponding to the completion of the sampling of the subsequent successful audit.

5.3.3 CEMS Data Status During Out-Of-Control Period. During the period the CEMS is out-of-control, the CEMS data may not be used in calculating emission compliance nor be counted towards meeting minimum data availability as required and described in the applicable regulation or permit.

5.3.4 Criteria for Excessive Quarterly and Yearly Audit Inaccuracy. Unless specified otherwise in the applicable regulation or permit, the criteria for excessive inaccuracy are:

5.3.4.1 For the RATA, the CEMS must meet the RA specifications in section 13.4 of PS-18 in appendix B to this part.

5.3.4.2 For the CGA, the accuracy must not exceed 5.0 percent of the span value at the zero gas and the mid- and high-level reference gas concentrations.

5.3.4.3 For the RAA, the RA must not exceed 20.0 percent of the RMas calculated using Equation 6-2 in section 6.2 of this procedure whether calculated in units of HCl concentration or in units of the emission standard. In cases where the RA is calculated on a concentration (ppmv) basis, if the average HCl concentration measured by the RM during the test is less than 75 percent of the HCl concentration equivalent to the applicable standard, you may substitute the equivalent emission standard value (in ppmvw) in the denominator of Equation 6-2 in the place of RMand the result of this alternative calculation of RA must not exceed 15.0 percent.

5.3.4.4 For DSA, the accuracy must not exceed 5.0 percent of the span value at the zero gas and the mid- and high-level reference gas concentrations or 20.0 percent of the applicable emission standard, whichever is greater.

5.3.4.5 For the gas temperature measurement audit, the CEMS must satisfy the requirements in section 13.7 in PS-18 of appendix B to this part.

5.3.4.6 For the gas pressure measurement audit, the CEMS must satisfy the requirements in section 13.8 in PS-18 of appendix B to this part.
