
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

4.1.1 CD Requirement. Consistent with 40 CFR 60.13(d) and 63.8(c), you, as source owners or operators of CEMS must check, record, and quantify the CD at two levels, using a zero gas and mid-level gas at least once daily (approximately every 24 hours). Perform the CD check in accordance with the procedure in applicable performance specification (section 11.8 of PS-18 in appendix B of this part). The daily zero- and mid-level CD must not exceed two times the drift limits specified in the applicable performance specification (section 13.2 of PS-18 in appendix B to this part.)

4.1.2 Recording Requirement for CD Corrective action. Corrective actions taken to bring a CEMS back in control after exceeding a CD limit must be recorded and reported with the associated CEMS data. Reporting corrective action must include the unadjusted concentration measured prior to resetting the calibration and the adjusted value after resetting the calibration to bring the CEMS back into control.

4.1.3 Dynamic Spiking Option for Mid-level CD. For extractive CEMS, you have the option to conduct a daily dynamic spiking procedure found in section 11.8.8 of PS-18 of appendix B of this part in lieu of the daily mid-level CD check. If this option is selected, the daily zero CD check is still required.

4.1.4 Out of Control Criteria for Excessive CD. As specified in ยง 63.8(c)(7)(i)(A), a CEMS is out of control if the zero or mid-level CD exceeds two times the applicable CD specification in the applicable PS or in the relevant standard. When a CEMS is out of control, you as owner or operator of the affected source must take the necessary corrective actions and repeat the tests that caused the system to go out of control (in this case, the failed CD check) until the applicable performance requirements are met.

4.1.5 Additional Quality Assurance for Data above Span. This procedure must be used when required by an applicable regulation and may be used when significant data above span are being collected. Furthermore, the terms of this procedure do not apply to the extent that alternate terms are otherwise specified in an applicable rule or permit.

4.1.5.1 Any time the average measured concentration of HCl exceeds 150 percent of the span value for two consecutive one-hour averages, conduct the following 'above span' CEMS response check.

4.1.5.1.1 Within a period of 24 hours (before or after) of the 'above span' period, introduce a higher, 'above span' HCl reference gas standard to the CEMS. Use 'above span' reference gas that meets the requirements of section 7.0 of PS-18 and target a concentration level between 75 and 125 percent of the highest hourly concentration measured during the period of measurements above span.

4.1.5.1.2 Introduce the reference gas at the probe for extractive CEMS or for IP-CEMS as an equivalent path length corrected concentration in the instrument calibration cell.

4.1.5.1.3 At no time may the 'above span' concentration exceed the analyzer full-scale range.

4.1.5.2 Record and report the results of this procedure as you would for a daily calibration. The 'above span' response check is successful if the value measured by the CEMS is within 20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas.

4.1.5.3 If the 'above span' response check is conducted during the period when measured emissions are above span and there is a failure to collect at least one data point in an hour due to the response check duration, then determine the emissions average for that missed hour as the average of hourly averages for the hour preceding the missed hour and the hour following the missed hour.
