
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix F to Part 60 - Quality Assurance Procedures
###### i.e.,

4.1.5.4 In the event that the 'above span' response check is not successful (the CEMS measured value is not within 20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas), then you must normalize the one-hour average stack gas values measured above the span during the 24-hour period preceding or following the 'above span' response check for reporting based on the CEMS response to the reference gas as shown in Eq. 6-1:

4.2.1 Beam Intensity Measurement. If you use a HCl IP-CEMS, you must quantify and record the beam intensity of the IP-CEMS in appropriate units at least once daily (approximately 24 hours apart) according to manufacturer's specifications and procedures.

4.2.2 Out of Control Criteria for Excessive Beam Intensity Loss. If the beam intensity falls below the level established for the operation range determined following the procedures in section 11.2 of PS-18 of this part, then your CEMS is out-of-control. This quality check is independent of whether the CEMS daily CD is acceptable. If your CEMS is out-of-control, take necessary corrective action. You have the option to repeat the beam intensity test procedures in section 11.2 of PS-18 to expand the acceptable range of acceptable beam intensity. Following corrective action, repeat the beam intensity check.
