
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix I to Part 60 - Owner's Manuals and Temporary Labels for Wood Heaters Subject to Subparts AAA and QQQQ of Part 60
###### Brand Z, Long Life Combustor.

"The combustor supplied with this heater is aConsult the catalytic combustor warranty also supplied with this wood heater. Warranty claims should be addressed to:

2.3.3.1 This section should also provide clear instructions on how to exercise the warranty (how to package parts for return shipment, etc.).

2.3.4 Fuel Selection

Owner's manuals must include:

(a) Instructions on acceptable fuels;

(b) Warning against inappropriate fuels; and

(c) How to determine seasoned wood compared to unseasoned wood, how to use moisture meters and other techniques and the importance of seasoned wood.

Exhibit 3-Example Text covering 2.3.4(a) and (b) of this appendix:

"This heater is designed to burn natural wood only. Higher efficiencies and lower emissions generally result when burning air dried seasoned hardwoods, as compared to softwoods or to green or freshly cut hardwoods. DO NOT BURN:

(1) Garbage;

(2) Lawn clippings or yard waste;

(3) Materials containing rubber, including tires;

(4) Materials containing plastic;

(5) Waste petroleum products, paints or paint thinners, or asphalt products;

(6) Materials containing asbestos;

(7) Construction or demolition debris;

(8) Railroad ties or pressure-treated wood;

(9) Manure or animal remains;

(10) Salt water driftwood or other previously salt water saturated materials;

(11) Unseasoned wood; or

(12) Paper products, cardboard, plywood, or particleboard. The prohibition against burning these materials does not prohibit the use of fire starters made from paper, cardboard, saw dust, wax and similar substances for the purpose of starting a fire in an affected wood heater.

Burning these materials may result in release of toxic fumes or render the heater ineffective and cause smoke."

Owner's manuals must describe in detail proper procedures for:

(a) Operation of catalyst bypass (stove specific);

(b) Achieving catalyst light-off from a cold start; and

(c) Achieving catalyst light-off when refueling.

2.3.5.1 No example text is supplied for describing operation of catalyst bypass mechanisms (Item 2.3.5(a) of this appendix) since these are typically stove-specific. Manufacturers must provide instructions specific to their model describing:

(1) Bypass position during startup;

(2) Bypass position during normal operation; and

(3) Bypass position during reloading.

Exhibit 4-Example Text for Item 2.3.5(b) of this appendix:
