
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix I to Part 60 - Owner's Manuals and Temporary Labels for Wood Heaters Subject to Subparts AAA and QQQQ of Part 60
###### or hybrid,500,1,000,500

- This catalytic () heater is equipped with a temperature probe to monitor catalyst operation. Properly functioning combustors typically maintain temperatures in excess of&#xB0;F, and often reach temperatures in excess of&#xB0;F. If catalyst temperatures are not in excess of&#xB0;F, refer to Catalyst Troubleshooting section of this owner's manual.

- You can get an indication of whether the catalyst is working by comparing the amount of smoke leaving the chimney when the smoke is going through the combustor and catalyst light-off has been achieved, to the amount of smoke leaving the chimney when the smoke is not routed through the combustor (bypass mode).

Step 1-Light stove in accordance with instructions in section 3.3.5.

Step 2-With smoke routed through the catalyst, go outside and observe the emissions leaving the chimney.

Step 3-Engage the bypass mechanism and again observe the emissions leaving the chimney.

Significantly more smoke will be seen when the exhaust is not routed through the combustor (bypass mode)."

The owner's manual must provide clear descriptions of symptoms and remedies to common combustor problems and importance. It is recommended that photographs of catalyst peeling, plugging, thermal cracking, mechanical cracking, and masking be included in the manual to aid the consumer in identifying problems and to provide direction for corrective action.

The owner's manual must provide clear step-by-step instructions on how to remove and replace the catalytic combustor. The section should include diagrams and/or photographs.

The owner's manual must provide clear descriptions of symptoms and remedies to common heater problems and importance. The owner's manual information must be adequate to enable consumers to achieve optimal emissions performance. Such information must be consistent with the operating instructions provided by the manufacturer to the approved test laboratory for operating the wood heater during certification testing, except for details of the certification test that would not be relevant to the user.

Owner's manual must include:

(a) Recommendations about building and maintaining a fire, especially for cold starts and the effectiveness of the top-down approach for starting fires;

(b) Instruction on proper use of air controls, including how to establish good combustion and how to ensure good combustion at the lowest burn rate for which the heater is warranted;

(c) Ash removal and disposal;

(d) Instruction replacement of gaskets, air tubes and other parts that are critical to the emissions performance of the unit, and other maintenance and repair instructions;

(e) Warning against overfiring; and

(f) Suggested monitoring and inspection techniques and importance of ensuring heater is operating properly, including ensuring visible emissions are minimized.

2.3.9.1 No example text is supplied for 2.3.9(a), (b), (d) and (f) of this appendix since these items are model specific. Manufacturers should provide detailed instructions on building and maintaining a fire including selection of fuel pieces, fuel quantity and stacking arrangement. Manufacturers should also provide instruction on proper air settings (both primary and secondary) for attaining minimum and maximum heat outputs and any special instructions for operating thermostatic controls. Step-by-step instructions on inspection and replacement of gaskets should also be included. Manufacturers should provide diagrams and/or photographs to assist the consumer. Gasket type and size should be specified.

Exhibit 7-Example Text for Item 2.3.9(c) of this appendix:
