
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 60 - STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE FOR NEW STATIONARY SOURCES
##### Appendix I to Part 60 - Owner's Manuals and Temporary Labels for Wood Heaters Subject to Subparts AAA and QQQQ of Part 60

The purpose of this appendix is to provide specific instructions and examples to manufacturers for compliance with the owner's manual provisions of subparts AAA and QQQQ of this part.

2.1 Introduction

Although the owner's manuals do not require premarket approval, EPA will monitor the contents to ensure that sufficient information is included to provide heater proper operation and maintenance information affecting emissions to consumers. The manufacturer must make current and historical owner's manuals available on the company Web site and upon request to the EPA. The purpose of this section is to provide instructions to manufacturers for compliance with the owner's manual provisions of ยง 60.536(g) of subpart AAA that applies to wood heaters and ยง 60.5478(f) of subpart QQQQ that applies to hydronic heaters and forced-air furnaces. A checklist of topics and illustrative language is provided as instructions. Owner's manuals should be tailored to specific wood heater models, as appropriate.

(a) Wood heater description and compliance status;

(b) Tamper warnings;

(c) Overall heater warranty information and catalyst information and warranty (if catalyst-equipped);

(d) Fuel selection;

(e) Achieving and maintaining catalyst light-off (if catalyst-equipped);

(f) Catalyst monitoring (if catalyst-equipped);

(g) Troubleshooting catalytic-equipped heaters (if catalyst-equipped);

(h) Catalyst replacement (if catalyst-equipped);

(i) Wood heater proper operation and maintenance, including minimizing visible emissions;

(j) Wood heater proper installation, including location, stack height and achieving proper draft;

(k) Use of smoke detectors and carbon monoxide monitors; and

(l) Efficiency.

(a) The following are example texts and/or further descriptions illustrating the topics identified above. Although the regulation requires manufacturers to address (where applicable) the 10 topics identified above, the exact language is not specified. Manuals should be written specific to the model and design of the wood heater. The following instructions are composed of generic descriptions and texts.

(b) If manufacturers choose to use the language provided in the example, the portion in italics should be revised as appropriate. Any manufacturer electing to use the EPA example language will be considered to be in compliance with owner's manual requirements provided that the particular language is printed in full with only such changes as are necessary to ensure accuracy.

Example language is not provided for certain topics, since these areas are generally heater specific. For these topics, manufacturers should develop text that is specific to the proper operation and maintenance of their particular products.

Owner's manuals must include:

(a) Manufacturer and model;

(b) Compliance status (2015 standard, 2016 standard, 2017 standard, 2020 standard, crib wood standard or cord wood alternative standard, last allowable sell date, etc.); and

(c) Heat output range.

Exhibit 1-Example Text covering 2.3.1(a), (b), and (c) of this appendix:
