
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 61.04 Address.

(a) All requests, reports, applications, submittals, and other communications to the Administrator pursuant to this part shall be submitted in duplicate to the appropriate Regional Office of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to the attention of the Director of the Division indicated in the following list of EPA Regional Offices.

(b) Section 112(d) of the Act directs the Administrator to delegate to each State, when appropriate, the authority to implement and enforce national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for stationary sources located in such State. If the authority to implement and enforce a standard under this part has been delegated to a State, all information required to be submitted to EPA under paragraph (a) of this section shall also be submitted to the appropriate State agency (provided, that each specific delegation may exempt sources from a certain Federal or State reporting requirement). The Administrator may permit all or some of the information to be submitted to the appropriate State agency only, instead of to EPA and the State agency. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, notifications and reports may be submitted on electronic media. The appropriate mailing address for those States whose delegation request has been approved is as follows:

(c) The following tables list, by Region, the specific Part 61, National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants that have been delegated to state and local agencies.

(1)(i) Inactive waste disposal sites not operated after July 9, 1981 within the state of New Hampshire must comply with the New Hampshire Regulations at Env-Sw 2100: Management and Control of Asbestos Disposal Sites Not Operated after July 9, 1981, effective February 16, 2010 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 61.18).

(ii) The remainder of the sources subject to the asbestos provisions in subpart M of this part, except for those listed under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, must comply with the New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules: Chapter Env-A 1800, Asbestos Management and Control, effective as of May 5, 2017 as incorporated by reference, see ยง 61.18.

(2)-(5) [Reserved]

(6) The following lists the specific Part 61 standards that have been delegated unchanged to the air pollution control agencies in Region 6.

(i) [Reserved]
