
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 61.10 Source reporting and waiver request.

(a) The owner or operator of each existing source or each new source which had an initial startup before the effective date shall provide the following information in writing to the Administrator within 90 days after the effective date:

(1) Name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The location of the source.

(3) The type of hazardous pollutants emitted by the stationary source.

(4) A brief description of the nature, size, design, and method of operation of the stationary source including the operating design capacity of the source. Identify each point of emission for each hazardous pollutant.

(5) The average weight per month of the hazardous materials being processed by the source, over the last 12 months preceding the date of the report.

(6) A description of the existing control equipment for each emission point including-

(i) Each control device for each hazardous pollutant; and

(ii) Estimated control efficiency (percent) for each control device.

(7) A statement by the owner or operator of the source as to whether the source can comply with the standards within 90 days after the effective date.

(b) The owner or operator of an existing source unable to comply with an applicable standard may request a waiver of compliance with that standard for a period not exceeding 2 years after the effective date. Any request shall be in writing and shall include the following information:

(1) A description of the controls to be installed to comply with the standard.

(2) A compliance schedule, including the date each step toward compliance will be reached. The list shall include as a minimum the following dates:

(i) Date by which contracts for emission control systems or process changes for emission control will be awarded, or date by which orders will be issued for the purchase of component parts to accomplish emission control or process changes;

(ii) Date of initiation of onsite construction or installation of emission control equipment or process change;

(iii) Date by which onsite construction or installation of emission control equipment or process change is to be completed; and

(iv) Date by which final compliance is to be achieved.

(3) A description of interim emission control steps which will be taken during the waiver period.

(c) Any change in the information provided under paragraph (a) of this section or § 61.07(b) shall be provided to the Administrator within 30 days after the change. However, if any change will result from modification of the source, §§ 61.07(c) and 61.08 apply.

(d) A possible format for reporting under this section is included as appendix A of this part. Advice on reporting the status of compliance may be obtained from the Administrator.

(e) For the purposes of this part, time periods specified in days shall be measured in calendar days, even if the word "calendar" is absent, unless otherwise specified in an applicable requirement.

(f) For the purposes of this part, if an explicit postmark deadline is not specified in an applicable requirement for the submittal of a notification, application, report, or other written communication to the Administrator, the owner or operator shall postmark the submittal on or before the number of days specified in the applicable requirement. For example, if a notification must be submitted 15 days before a particular event is scheduled to take place, the notification shall be postmarked on or before 15 days preceding the event; likewise, if a notification must be submitted 15 days after a particular event takes place, the notification shall be postmarked on or before 15 days following the end of the event. The use of reliable non-Government mail carriers that provide indications of verifiable delivery of information required to be submitted to the Administrator, similar to the postmark provided by the U.S. Postal Service, or alternative means of delivery agreed to by the permitting authority, is acceptable.

(g) Notwithstanding time periods or postmark deadlines specified in this part for the submittal of information to the Administrator by an owner or operator, or the review of such information by the Administrator, such time periods or deadlines may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator. Procedures governing the implementation of this provision are specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(h) If an owner or operator of a stationary source in a State with delegated authority is required to submit reports under this part to the State, and if the State has an established timeline for the submission of reports that is consistent with the reporting frequency(ies) specified for such source under this part, the owner or operator may change the dates by which reports under this part shall be submitted (without changing the frequency of reporting) to be consistent with the State's schedule by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the State. The allowance in the previous sentence applies in each State beginning 1 year after the source is required to be in compliance with the applicable subpart in this part. Procedures governing the implementation of this provision are specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(i) If an owner or operator supervises one or more stationary sources affected by standards set under this part and standards set under part 60, part 63, or both such parts of this chapter, he/she may arrange by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) a common schedule on which reports required by each applicable standard shall be submitted throughout the year. The allowance in the previous sentence applies in each State beginning 1 year after the source is required to be in compliance with the applicable subpart in this part, or 1 year after the source is required to be in compliance with the applicable part 60 or part 63 standard, whichever is latest. Procedures governing the implementation of this provision are specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(j)(1)(i) Until an adjustment of a time period or postmark deadline has been approved by the Administrator under paragraphs (j)(2) and (j)(3) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source remains strictly subject to the requirements of this part.

(ii) An owner or operator shall request the adjustment provided for in paragraphs (j)(2) and (j)(3) of this section each time he or she wishes to change an applicable time period or postmark deadline specified in this part.

(2) Notwithstanding time periods or postmark deadlines specified in this part for the submittal of information to the Administrator by an owner or operator, or the review of such information by the Administrator, such time periods or deadlines may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator. An owner or operator who wishes to request a change in a time period or postmark deadline for a particular requirement shall request the adjustment in writing as soon as practicable before the subject activity is required to take place. The owner or operator shall include in the request whatever information he or she considers useful to convince the Administrator that an adjustment is warranted.

(3) If, in the Administrator's judgment, an owner or operator's request for an adjustment to a particular time period or postmark deadline is warranted, the Administrator will approve the adjustment. The Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing of approval or disapproval of the request for an adjustment within 15 calendar days of receiving sufficient information to evaluate the request.

(4) If the Administrator is unable to meet a specified deadline, he or she will notify the owner or operator of any significant delay and inform the owner or operator of the amended schedule.
