
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 61.13 Emission tests and waiver of emission tests.
####### Circular A-119.,http://standards.gov/standards_gov/a119.cfm.,http://www.epa.gov/ttn/emc.

(iv) The technical criteria documents for the accredited sample providers and the accrediting body shall be developed through a public process guided by a voluntary consensus standards body (VCSB). The VCSB shall operate in accordance with the procedures and requirements in the Office of Management and BudgetA copy of Circular A-119 is available upon request by writing the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, 725 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20503, by calling (202) 395-6880 or downloading online atThe VCSB shall approve all accrediting bodies. The Administrator will review all technical criteria documents. If the technical criteria documents do not meet the minimum technical requirements in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section, the technical criteria documents are not acceptable and the proposed audit sample program is not capable of producing audit samples of sufficient quality to be used in a compliance test. All acceptable technical criteria documents shall be posted on the EPA Web site at the following URL,

(2) [Reserved]

(f) Unless otherwise specified in an applicable subpart, samples shall be analyzed and emissions determined within 30 days after each emission test has been completed. The owner or operator shall report the determinations of the emission test to the Administrator by a registered letter sent before the close of business on the 31st day following the completion of the emission test.

(g) The owner or operator shall retain at the source and make available, upon request, for inspection by the Administrator, for a minimum of 2 years, records of emission test results and other data needed to determine emissions.

(h)(1) Emission tests shall be conducted as set forth in this section, the applicable subpart and appendix B unless the Administrator-

(i) Specifies or approves the use of a reference method with minor changes in methodology; or

(ii) Approves the use of an alternative method; or

(iii) Waives the requirement for emission testing because the owner or operator of a source has demonstrated by other means to the Administrator's satisfaction that the source is in compliance with the standard.

(2) If the Administrator finds reasonable grounds to dispute the results obtained by an alternative method, he may require the use of a reference method. If the results of the reference and alternative methods do not agree, the results obtained by the reference method prevail.

(3) The owner or operator may request approval for the use of an alternative method at any time, except-

(i) For an existing source or a new source that had an initial startup before the effective date, any request for use of an alternative method during the initial emission test shall be submitted to the Administrator within 30 days after the effective date, or with the request for a waiver of compliance if one is submitted under § 60.10(b); or

(ii) For a new source that has an initial startup after the effective date, any request for use of an alternative method during the initial emission test shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than with the notification of anticipated startup required under § 60.09.

(i)(1) Emission tests may be waived upon written application to the Administrator if, in the Administrator's judgment, the source is meeting the standard, or the source is being operated under a waiver or compliance, or the owner or operator has requested a waiver of compliance and the Administrator is still considering that request.

(2) If application for waiver of the emission test is made, the application shall accompany the information required by § 61.10 or the notification of startup required by § 61.09, whichever is applicable. A possible format is contained in appendix A to this part.

(3) Approval of any waiver granted under this section shall not abrogate the Administrator's authority under the Act or in any way prohibit the Administrator from later cancelling the waiver. The cancellation will be made only after notice is given to the owner or operator of the source.
