
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart B - National Emission Standards for Radon Emissions From Underground Uranium Mines
###### ยง 61.24 Annual reporting requirements.

(a) The mine owner or operator shall annually calculate and report the results of the compliance calculations in ยง 61.23 and the input parameters used in making the calculations. This report shall cover the emissions of a calendar year and shall be sent to EPA by March 31 of the following year. Each report shall also include the following information:

(1) The name and location of the mine.

(2) The name of the person responsible for the operation of the facility and the name of the person preparing the report (if different).

(3) The results of the emissions testing conducted and the dose calculated using the procedures in ยง 61.23.

(4) A list of the stacks or vents or other points where radioactive materials are released to the atmosphere, including their location, diameter, flow rate, effluent temperature and release height.

(5) A description of the effluent controls that are used on each stack, vent, or other release point and the effluent controls used inside the mine, and an estimate of the efficiency of each control method or device.

(6) Distances from the points of release to the nearest residence, school, business or office and the nearest farms producing vegetables, milk, and meat.

(7) The values used for all other user-supplied input parameters for the computer models (e.g., meteorological data) and the source of these data.

(8) Each report shall be signed and dated by a corporate officer in charge of the facility and contain the following declaration immediately above the signature line: "I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted herein and based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information including the possibility of fine and imprisonment. See, 18 U.S.C. 1001."

(b) lf the facility is not in compliance with the emission standard of ยง 61.22 in the calendar year covered by the report, the facility must then commence reporting to the Administrator on a monthly basis the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section for the preceding month. These reports will start the month immediately following the submittal of the annual report for the year in noncompliance and will be due 30 days following the end of each month. This increased level of reporting will continue until the Administrator has determined that the monthly reports are no longer necessary. In addition to all the information required in paragraph (a) of this section, monthly reports shall also include the following information:

(1) All controls or other changes in operation of the facility that will be or are being installed to bring the facility into compliance.

(2) If the facility is under a judicial or administrative enforcement decree the report will describe the facilities performance under the terms of the decree.

(c) The first report will cover the emissions of calendar year 1990.
