
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart E - National Emission Standard for Mercury
###### ยง 61.53 Stack sampling.
####### Mercury ore processing facility.

(a)(1) Unless a waiver of emission testing is obtained under ยง 61.13, each owner or operator processing mercury ore shall test emissions from the source according to Method 101 of appendix B to this part. The emission test shall be performed-

(i) Within 90 days of the effective date in the case of an existing source or a new source which has an initial start-up date preceding the effective date; or

(ii) Within 90 days of startup in the case of a new source which did not have an initial startup date preceding the effective date.

(2) The Administrator shall be notified at least 30 days prior to an emission test, so that he may at his option observe the test.

(3) Samples shall be taken over such a period or periods as are necessary to accurately determine the maximum emissions which will occur in a 24-hour period. No changes in the operation shall be made, which would potentially increase emissions above that determined by the most recent source test, until the new emission level has been estimated by calculation and the results reported to the Administrator.

(4) All samples shall be analyzed and mercury emissions shall be determined within 30 days after the stack test. Each determination shall be reported to the Administrator by a registered letter dispatched within 15 calendar days following the date such determination is completed.

(5) Records of emission test results and other data needed to determine total emissions shall be retained at the source and made available, for inspection by the Administrator, for a minimum of 2 years.
