
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Headquarters
###### ยง 1.33 Office of Administration and Resources Management.
####### The Office of Human Resources Management.

(f)The Office of Human Resources Management (OHRM), under the supervision of a Director, designs strategies, plans, and policies aimedat developing and training all employees, revitalizing EPA organizations, and matching the right people with the right jobs. The Office is responsible for developing and assuring implementation of policies and practices necessary for EPA to meet its present and future workforce needs. This includes consideration of the interrelationships between the environmental protection workforce needs of EPA and State governments. For Senior Executive Service (SES) personnel, SES candidates, Presidential Executive Interchange Participants, and Management Interns, OHRM establishes policies; assesses and projects Agency executive needs and workforce capabilities; creates, establishes, and implements training and development strategies and programs; provides the full range of personnel functions; supports the Performance Review Board (PRB) and the Executive Resources Board (ERB); and reassigns SES personnel with the concurrence of the ERB. For the areas of workforce management and employee and organizational development, OHRM develops strategies, plans, and policies; coordinates Agencywide implementation of those strategies, plans, and policies; and provides technical assistance to operating personnel offices and States. OHRM, in cooperation with the Office of the Comptroller, evaluates problems with previous workyear use, monitors current workyear utilization, and projects future workyear needs in coordination with the Agency's budget process. The Office is the lead office for coordination of human resources management with the Agency's Strategic Planning and Management System. The Office develops methodologies and procedures for evaluations of Agency human resources management activities; conducts evaluations of human resources management activities Agencywide; and carries out human resources management projects of special interest to Agency management. The Office coordinates its efforts with the Office of Administration (specifically the Personnel Management Division and the Management and Organization Division), the Office of the Comptroller, the Office of Information Resources Management, and the Office of Policy, Planning and Evaluation.
