
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart E - National Emission Standard for Mercury
###### ยง 61.53 Stack sampling.
####### Mercury chlor-alkali plants-cell room ventilation system.

(c)(1) Stationary sources using mercury chlor-alkali cells may test cell room emissions in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section or demonstrate compliance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section and assume ventilation emissions of 1.3 kg/day (2.9 lb/day) of mercury.

(2) Unless a waiver of emission testing is obtained under ยง 61.13, each owner or operator shall pass all cell room air in force gas streams through stacks suitable for testing and shall test emissions from the source according to Method 101 in appendix B to this part. The emission test shall be performed-

(i) Within 90 days of the effective date in the case of an existing source or a new source which has an initial startup date preceding the effective date; or

(ii) Within 90 days of startup in the case of a new source which did not have an initial startup date preceding the effective date.

(3) The Administrator shall be notified at least 30 days prior to an emission test, so that he may at his option observe the test.

(4) An owner or operator may carry out approved design, maintenance, and housekeeping practices. A list of approved practices is provided in appendix A of "Review of National Emission Standards for Mercury," EPA-450/3-84-014a, December 1984. Copies are available from EPA's Central Docket Section, Docket item number A-84-41, III-B-1.
