
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart E - National Emission Standard for Mercury
###### ยง 61.53 Stack sampling.
####### Sludge incineration and drying plants.

(d)(1) Unless a waiver of emission testing is obtained under ยง 61.13, each owner or operator of a source subject to the standard in ยง 61.52(b) shall test emissions from that source. Such tests shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth either in paragraph (d) of this section or in ยง 61.54.

(2) Method 101A in appendix B or Method 29 in appendix A to part 60 shall be used to test emissions as follows:

(i) The test shall be performed by May 28, 2014 in the case of an existing source or a new source which has an initial startup date preceding February 27, 2014.

(ii) The test shall be performed within 90 days of startup in the case of a new source which did not have an initial startup date preceding February 27, 2014.

(3) The Administrator shall be notified at least 30 days prior to an emission test, so that he may at his option observe the test.

(4) Samples shall be taken over such a period or periods as are necessary to determine accurately the maximum emissions which will occur in a 24-hour period. No changes shall be made in the operation which would potentially increase emissions above the level determined by the most recent stack test, until the new emission level has been estimated by calculation and the results reported to the Administrator.

(5) All samples shall be analyzed and mercury emissions shall be determined within 30 days after the stack test. Each determination shall be reported to the Administrator by a registered letter dispatched within 15 calendar days following the date such determination is completed.

(6) Records of emission test results and other data needed to determine total emissions shall be retained at the source and shall be made available, for inspection by the Administrator, for a minimum of 2 years.
