
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart F - National Emission Standard for Vinyl Chloride
###### ยง 61.65 Emission standard for ethylene dichloride, vinyl chloride and polyvinyl chloride plants.
####### Leak detection and elimination.

(8)Vinyl chloride emissions due to leaks from equipment in vinyl chloride service are to be minimized as follows:

(i) A reliable and accurate vinyl chloride monitoring system shall be operated for detection of major leaks and identification of the general area of the plant where a leak is located. A vinyl chloride monitoring system means a device which obtains air samples from one or more points on a continuous sequential basis and analyzes the samples with gas chromatography or, if the owner or operator assumes that all hydrocarbons measured are vinyl chloride, with infrared spectrophotometry, flame ion detection, or an equivalent or alternative method. The vinyl chloride monitoring system shall be operated according to a program developed by the plant owner or operator. The owner or operator shall submit a description of the program to the Administrator within 45 days of the effective date of these regulations, unless a waiver of compliance is granted under ยง 61.11, or the program has been approved and the Administrator does not request a review of the program. Approval of a program will be granted by the Administrator provided he finds:

(A) The location and number of points to be monitored and the frequency of monitoring provided for in the program are acceptable when they are compared with the number of pieces of equipment in vinyl chloride service and size and physical layout of the plant.

(B) It contains a definition of leak which is acceptable when compared with the background concentrations of vinyl chloride in the areas of the plant to be monitored by the vinyl chloride monitoring system. Measurements of background concentrations of vinyl chloride in the areas of the plant to be monitored by the vinyl chloride monitoring system are to be included with the description of the program. The definition of leak for a given plant may vary among the different areas within the plant and is also to change over time as background concentrations in the plant are reduced.

(C) It contains an acceptable plan of action to be taken when a leak is detected.

(D) It provides for an acceptable calibration and maintenance schedule for the vinyl chloride monitoring system and portable hydrocarbon detector. For the vinyl chloride monitoring system, a daily span check is to be conducted with a concentration of vinyl chloride equal to the concentration defined as a leak according to paragraph (b)(8)(i)(B) of this section. The calibration is to be done with either:
