
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart F - National Emission Standard for Vinyl Chloride
###### § 61.68 Emission monitoring.

(a) A vinyl chloride monitoring system is to be used to monitor on a continuous basis the emissions from the sources for which emission limits are prescribed in §§ 61.62 (a) and (b), 61.63(a), and 61.64 (a)(1), (b), (c), and (d), and for any control system to which reactor emissions are required to be ducted in § 61.64(a)(2) or to which fugitive emissions are required to be ducted in § 61.65 (b)(1)(ii), and (b)(2), (b)(5), (b)(6) (ii), and (b)(9)(ii).

(b) The vinyl chloride monitoring system(s) used to meet the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section is to be a device which obtains representative samples from one or more applicable emission points on a continuous sequential basis and analyzes the samples with gas chromatography or, if the owner or operator assumes that all hydrocarbons measured are vinyl chloride, with infrared spectrophotometry, flame ion detection, or an alternative method. The vinyl chloride monitoring system used to meet the requirements in § 61.65(b)(8)(i) may be used to meet the requirements of this section.

(c) A daily span check is to be conducted for each vinyl chloride monitoring system used. For all of the emission sources listed in paragraph (a) of this section, except the one for which an emission limit is prescribed in § 61.62(b), the daily span check is to be conducted with a concentration of vinyl chloride equal to 10 ppm. For the emission source for which an emission limit is prescribed in § 61.62(b), the daily span check is to be conducted with a concentration of vinyl chloride which is determined to be equivalent to the emission limit for that source based on the emission test required by § 61.67. The calibration is to be done with either:

(1) A calibration gas mixture prepared from the gases specified in Sections 7.2.1 and 7.2.2 of Method 106 and in accordance with Section 10.1 of Method 106, or

(2) A calibration gas cylinder standard containing the appropriate concentration of vinyl chloride. The gas composition of the calibration gas cylinder standard is to have been certified by the manufacturer. The manufacturer must have recommended a maximum shelf life for each cylinder so that the concentration does not change greater than +/-5 percent from the certified value. The date of gas cylinder preparation, certified vinyl chloride concentration and recommended maximum shelf life must have been affixed to the cylinder before shipment from the manufacturer to the buyer. If a gas chromatograph is used as the vinyl chloride monitoring system, these gas mixtures may be directly used to prepare a chromatograph calibration curve as described in Sections 8.1 and 9.2 of Method 106. The requirements in Sections 7.2.3.1 and 7.2.3.2 of Method 106 for certification of cylinder standards and for establishment and verification of calibration standards are to be followed.

(d) When exhaust gas(es), having emission limits that are subject to the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, are emitted to the atmosphere without passing through the control system and required vinyl chloride monitoring system, the vinyl chloride content of the emission shall be calculated (in units of each applicable emission limit) by best practical engineering judgment based on the discharge duration and known VC concentrations in the affected equipment as determined in accordance with § 61.67(h) or other acceptable method.

(e) For each 3-hour period, the vinyl chloride content of emissions subject to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section shall be averaged (weighted according to the proportion of time that emissions were continuously monitored and that emissions bypassed the continuous monitor) for purposes of reporting excess emissions under § 61.70(c)(1).

(f) For each vinyl chloride emission to the atmosphere determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section to be in excess of the applicable emission limits, the owner or operator shall record the identity of the source(s), the date, time, and duration of the excess emission, the cause of the excess emission, and the approximate total vinyl chloride loss during the excess emission, and the method used for determining the vinyl chloride loss. This information shall be retained and made available for inspection by the Administrator as required by § 61.71(a).
