
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart F - National Emission Standard for Vinyl Chloride
###### § 61.65 Emission standard for ethylene dichloride, vinyl chloride and polyvinyl chloride plants.
####### 2

() A calibration gas cylinder standard containing the appropriate concentration of vinyl chloride. The gas composition of the calibration gas cylinder standard is to have been certified by the manufacturer. The manufacturer must have recommended a maximum shelf life for each cylinder so that the concentration does not change greater than +/-5 percent from the certified value. The date of gas cylinder preparation, certified vinyl chloride concentration, and recommended maximum shelf life must have been affixed to the cylinder before shipment from the manufacturer to the buyer. If a gas chromatograph is used as the vinyl chloride monitoring system, these gas mixtures may be directly used to prepare a chromatograph calibration curve as described in Sections 8.1 and 9.2 of Method 106. The requirements in Sections 7.2.3.1 and 7.2.3.2 of Method 106 for certification of cylinder standards and for establishment and verification of calibration standards are to be followed.

(ii) For each process unit subject to this subpart, a formal leak detection and repair program shall be implemented consistent with subpart V of this part, except as provided in paragraph (b)(8)(iii) of this section. This program is to be implemented within 90 days of the effective date of these regulations, unless a waiver of compliance is granted under § 61.11. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(E) of this section, an owner or operator shall be exempt from § 61.242-1(d), § 61.242-7 (a), (b), and (c), § 61.246, and § 61.247 of subpart V of this part for any process unit in which the percentage of leaking valves is demonstrated to be less than 2.0 percent, as determined in accordance with the following:

(A) A performance test as specified in paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(B) of this section shall be conducted initially within 90 days of the effective date of these regulations, annually, and at times requested by the Administrator.

(B) For each performance test, a minimum of 200 or 90 percent, whichever is less, of the total valves in VOC service (as defined in § 60.481 of subpart VV of part 60) within the process unit shall be randomly selected and monitored within 1 week by the methods specified in § 61.245(b) of this part. If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected. The leak percentage shall be determined by dividing the number of valves in VOC service for which leaks are detected by the number of tested valves in VOC service.

(C) If a leak is detected, it shall be repaired in accordance with § 61.242-7 (d) and (e) of subpart V of this part.

(D) The results of the performance test shall be submitted in writing to the Administrator in the first quarterly report following the performance test as part of the reporting requirements of § 61.70.

(E) Any process unit in which the percentage of leaking valves is found to be greater than 2.0 percent according to the performance test prescribed in paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(B) of this section must comply with all provisions of subpart V of this part within 90 days.

(iii) Open-ended valves or lines located on multiple service process lines which operate in vinyl chloride service less than 10 percent of the time are exempt from the requirements of § 61.242-6 of subpart V, provided the open-ended valves or lines are addressed in the monitoring system required by paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section. The Administrator may apply this exemption to other existing open-ended valves or lines that are demonstrated to require significant retrofit cost to comply with the requirements of § 61.242-6 of subpart V.
