
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart F - National Emission Standard for Vinyl Chloride
###### § 61.70 Reporting.

(a)(1) The owner or operator of any source to which this subpart applies shall submit to the Administrator on March 15, June 15, September 15, and December 15 of each year a report in writing containing the information required by this section. The first report is to be submitted following the first full 3-month reporting period after the initial report is submitted.

(2) In the case of an existing source, the approved reporting schedule shall be used. In addition, quarterly reports shall be submitted exactly 3 months following the current reporting dates.

(b)(1) In the case of an existing source or a new source which has an initial startup date preceding the effective date, the first report is to be submitted within 180 days of the effective date, unless a waiver of compliance is granted under § 61.11. If a waiver of compliance is granted, the first report is to be submitted on a date scheduled by the Administrator.

(2) In the case of a new source which did not have an initial startup date preceding the effective date, the first report is to be submitted within 180 days of the initial startup date.

(c) Unless otherwise specified, the owner or operator shall use the test methods in appendix B to this part to conduct emission tests as required by paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section, unless an alternative method has been approved by the Administrator. If the Administrator finds reasonable grounds to dispute the results obtained by an alternative method, he may require the use of a reference method. If the results of the reference and alternative methods do not agree, the results obtained by the reference method prevail, and the Administrator may notify the owner or operator that approval of the method previously considered to be alternative is withdrawn.

(1) The owner or operator shall include in the report a record of the vinyl chloride content of emissions for each 3-hour period during which average emissions are in excess of the emission limits in § 61.62(a) or (b), § 61.63(a), or § 61.64(a)(1), (b), (c), or (d), or during which average emissions are in excess of the emission limits specified for any control system to which reactor emissions are required to be ducted in § 61.64(a)(2) or to which fugitive emissions are required to be ducted in § 61.65(b)(I)(ii), (b)(2), (b)(5), (b)(6)(ii), or (b)(9)(ii). The number of 3-hour periods for which average emissions were determined during the reporting period shall be reported. If emissions in excess of the emission limits are not detected, the report shall contain a statement that no excess emissions have been detected. The emissions are to be determined in accordance with § 61.68(e).

(2) In polyvinyl chloride plants for which a stripping operation is used to attain the emission level prescribed in § 61.64(e), the owner or operator shall include in the report a record of the vinyl chloride content in the polyvinyl chloride resin.

(i) If batch stripping is used, one representative sample of polyvinyl chloride resin is to be taken from each batch of each grade of resin immediately following the completion of the stripping operation, and identified by resin type and grade and the date and time the batch is completed. The corresponding quantity of material processed in each stripper batch is to be recorded and identified by resin type and grade and the date and time the batch is completed.

(ii) If continuous stripping is used, one representative sample of polyvinyl chloride resin is to be taken for each grade of resin processed or at intervals of 8 hours for each grade of resin which is being processed, whichever is more frequent. The sample is to be taken as the resin flows out of the stripper and identified by resin type and grade and the date and time the sample was taken. The corresponding quantity of material processed by each stripper over the time period represented by the sample during the 8-hour period, is to be recorded and identified by resin type and grade and the date and time it represents.

(iii) The vinyl chloride content in each sample is to be determined by Method 107 as prescribed in § 61.67(g)(3).

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) The report to the Administrator by the owner or operator is to include a record of any 24-hour average resin vinyl chloride concentration, as determined in this paragraph, in excess of the limits prescribed in § 61.64(e). The vinyl chloride content found in each sample required by paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section shall be averaged separately for each type of resin, over each calendar day and weighted according to the quantity of each grade of resin processed by the stripper(s) that calendar day, according to the following equation:

The number of 24-hour average concentrations for each resin type determined during the reporting period shall be reported. If no 24-hour average resin vinyl chloride concentrations in excess of the limits prescribed in § 61.64(e) are measured, the report shall state that no excess resin vinyl chloride concentrations were measured.

(vi) The owner or operator shall retain at the source and make available for inspection by the Administrator for a minimum of 3 years records of all data needed to furnish the information required by paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section. The records are to contain the following information:

(A) The vinyl chloride content found in all the samples required in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section, identified by the resin type and grade and the time and date of the sample, and

(B) The corresponding quantity of polyvinyl chloride resin processed by the stripper(s), identified by the resin type and grade and the time and date it represents.

(3) The owner or operator shall include in the report a record of any emissions from each reactor opening in excess of the emission limits prescribed in § 61.64(a)(2). Emissions are to be determined in accordance with § 61.67(g)(5), except that emissions for each reactor are to be determined. The number of reactor openings during the reporting period shall be reported. If emissions in excess of the emission limits are not detected, the report shall include a statement that excess emissions have not been detected.

(4) In polyvinyl chloride plants for which stripping in the reactor is used to attain the emission level prescribed in § 61.64(f), the owner or operator shall include in the report a record of the vinyl chloride emissions from reactor opening loss and all sources following the reactor used as a stripper.

(i) One representative sample of polyvinyl chloride resin is to be taken from each batch of each grade of resin immediately following the completion of the stripping operation, and identified by resin type and grade and the date and time the batch is completed. The corresponding quantity of material processed in each stripper batch is to be recorded and identified by resin type and grade and the date and time the batch is completed.

(ii) The vinyl chloride content in each sample is to be determined by Method 107 as prescribed in § 61.67(g)(3).

(iii) The combined emissions from reactor opening loss and all sources following the reactor used as a stripper are to be determined for each batch stripped in a reactor according to the procedure prescribed in § 61.67(g)(6).

(iv) The report to the Administrator by the owner or operator is to include a record of any 24-hour average combined reactor opening loss and emissions from all sources following the reactor used as a stripper as determined in this paragraph, in excess of the limits prescribed in § 61.64(f). The combined reactor opening loss and emissions from all sources following the reactor used as a stripper associated with each batch are to be averaged separately for each type of resin, over each calendar day and weighted according to the quantity of each grade of resin stripped in reactors that calendar day as follows:

For each type of resin (suspension, dispersion, latex, bulk, other), the following calculation is to be performed:

The number of 24-hour average emissions determined during the reporting period shall be reported. If no 24-hour average combined reactor opening loss and emissions from all sources following the reactor used as a stripper in excess of the limits prescribed in § 61.64(f) are determined, the report shall state that no excess vinyl chloride emissions were determined.
