
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart F - National Emission Standard for Vinyl Chloride
###### § 61.65 Emission standard for ethylene dichloride, vinyl chloride and polyvinyl chloride plants.
####### Inprocess wastewater.

(9)Vinyl chloride emissions to the atmosphere from inprocess wastewater are to be reduced as follows:

(i) The concentration of vinyl chloride in each inprocess wastewater stream containing greater than 10 ppm vinyl chloride measured immediately as it leaves a piece of equipment and before being mixed with any other inprocess wastewater stream is to be reduced to no more than 10 ppm by weight before being mixed with any other inprocess wastewater stream which contains less than 10 ppm vinyl chloride; before being exposed to the atmosphere; before being discharged to a wastewater treatment process; or before being discharged untreated as a wastewater. This paragraph does apply to water which is used to displace vinyl chloride from equipment before it is opened to the atmosphere in accordance with § 61.64(a)(2) or paragraph (b)(6) of this section, but does not apply to water which is used to wash out equipment after the equipment has already been opened to the atmosphere in accordance with § 61.64(a)(2) or paragraph (b)(6) of this section.

(ii) Any vinyl chloride removed from the inprocess wastewater in accordance with paragraph (b)(9)(i) of this section is to be ducted through a control system from which the concentration of vinyl chloride in the exhaust gases does not exceed 10 ppm (average for 3-hour period); or equivalent as provided in § 61.66.

(c) The requirements in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(5), (b)(6), (b)(7) and (b)(8) of this section are to be incorporated into a standard operating procedure, and made available upon request for inspection by the Administrator. The standard operating procedure is to include provisions for measuring the vinyl chloride in equipment 4.75 m(1255 gal) in volume for which an emission limit is prescribed in § 61.65(b)(6)(i) after opening the equipment and using Method 106, a portable hydrocarbon detector, or an alternative method. The method of measurement is to meet the requirements in § 61.67(g)(5)(i)(A) or (g)(5)(i)(B).

(d) A RVD that is ducted to a control device that is continually operating while emissions from the release are present at the device is subject to the following requirements:

(1) A discharge from a control device other than a flare shall not exceed 10 ppm (average over a 3-hour period) as determined by the continuous emission monitor system required under § 61.68. Such a discharge is subject to the requirements of § 61.70.

(2) For a discharge routed to a flare, the flare shall comply with the requirements of § 60.18.

(i) Flare operations shall be monitored in accordance with the requirements of §§ 60.18(d) and 60.18(f)(2). For the purposes of § 60.18(d), the volume and component concentration of each relief valve discharge shall be estimated and calculation shall be made to verify ongoing compliance with the design and operating requirements of §§ 60.18 (c)(3) through (c)(6). If more than one relief valve is discharged simultaneously to a single flare, these calculations shall account for the cumulative effect of all such relief valve discharges. These calculations shall be made and reported quarterly for all discharges within the quarter. Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this paragraph will be a violation of § 61.65(d)(2). Monitoring for the presence of a flare pilot flame shall be conducted in accordance with § 60.18(f)(2). If the results of this monitoring or any other information shows that the pilot flame is not present 100 percent of the time during which a relief valve discharge is routed to the flare, the relief valve discharge is subject to the provisions of § 61.65(a).

(ii) A report describing the flare design shall be provided to the Administrator not later than 90 days after the adoption of this provision or within 30 days of the installation of a flare system for control of relief valve discharge whichever is later. The flare design report shall include calculations based upon expected relief valve discharge component concentrations and net heating values (for PVC this calculation shall be based on values expected if a release occurred at the instant the polymerization starts); and estimated maximum exit velocities based upon the design throat capacity of the gas in the relief valve.
