
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart H - National Emission Standards for Emissions of Radionuclides Other Than Radon From Department of Energy Facilities
###### ยง 61.94 Compliance and reporting.

(a) Compliance with this standard shall be determined by calculating the highest effective dose equivalent to any member of the public at any offsite point where there is a residence, school, business or office. The owners or operators of each facility shall submit an annual report to both EPA headquarters and the appropriate regional office by June 30 which includes the results of the monitoring as recorded in DOE's Effluent Information System and the dose calculations required by ยง 61.93(a) for the previous calendar year.

(b) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, an annual report shall include the following information:

(1) The name and location of the facility.

(2) A list of the radioactive materials used at the facility.

(3) A description of the handling and processing that the radioactive materials undergo at the facility.

(4) A list of the stacks or vents or other points where radioactive materials are released to the atmosphere.

(5) A description of the effluent controls that are used on each stack, vent, or other release point and an estimate of the efficiency of each control device.

(6) Distances from the points of release to the nearest residence, school, business or office and the nearest farms producing vegetables, milk, and meat.

(7) The values used for all other user-supplied input parameters for the computer models (e.g., meteorological data) and the source of these data.

(8) A brief description of all construction and modifications which were completed in the calendar year for which the report is prepared, but for which the requirement to apply for approval to construct or modify was waived under ยง 61.96 and associated documentation developed by DOE to support the waiver. EPA reserves the right to require that DOE send to EPA all the information that normally would be required in an application to construct or modify, following receipt of the description and supporting documentation.

(9) Each report shall be signed and dated by a corporate officer or public official in charge of the facility and contain the following declaration immediately above the signature line: "I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted herein and based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information including the possibility of fine and imprisonment. See, 18 U.S.C. 1001."

(c) If the facility is not in compliance with the emission limits of ยง 61.92 in the calendar year covered by the report, then the facility must commence reporting to the Administrator on a monthly basis the information listed in paragraph (b) of this section, for the preceding month. These reports will start the month immediately following the submittal of the annual report for the year in noncompliance and will be due 30 days following the end of each month. This increased level of reporting will continue until the Administrator has determined that the monthly reports are no longer necessary. In addition to all the information required in paragraph (b) of this section, monthly reports shall also include the following information:

(1) All controls or other changes in operation of the facility that will be or are being installed to bring the facility into compliance.

(2) If the facility is under a judicial or administrative enforcement decree, the report will describe the facilities performance under the terms of the decree.

(d) In those instances where the information requested is classified, such information will be made available to EPA separate from the report and will be handled and controlled according to applicable security and classification regulations and requirements.
