
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart I - National Emission Standards for Radionuclide Emissions From Federal Facilities Other Than Nuclear Regulatory Commission Licensees and Not Covered by Subpart H
###### § 61.104 Reporting requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of a facility subject to this subpart must submit an annual report to the EPA covering the emissions of a calendar year by March 31 of the following year.

(1) The report or application for approval to construct or modify as required by 40 CFR part 61, subpart A and § 61.106, must provide the following information:

(i) The name of the facility.

(ii) The name of the person responsible for the operation of the facility and the name of the person preparing the report (if different).

(iii) The location of the facility, including suite and/or building number, street, city, county, state, and zip code.

(iv) The mailing address of the facility, if different from item (iii).

(v) A list of the radioactive materials used at the facility.

(vi) A description of the handling and processing that the radioactive materials undergo at the facility.

(vii) A list of the stacks or vents or other points where radioactive materials are released to the atmosphere.

(viii) A description of the effluent controls that are used on each stack, vent, or other release point and an estimate of the efficiency of each device.

(ix) Distances from the point of release to the nearest residence, school, business or office and the nearest farms producing vegetables, milk, and meat.

(x) The effective dose equivalent calculated using the compliance procedures in § 61.103.

(xi) The physical form and quantity of each radionuclide emitted from each stack, vent or other release point, and the method(s) by which these quantities were determined.

(xii) The volumetric flow, diameter, effluent temperature, and release height for each stack, vent or other release point where radioactive materials are emitted, the method(s) by which these were determined.

(xiii) The height and width of each building from which radionuclides are emitted.

(xiv) The values used for all other user-supplied input parameters (e.g., meteorological data) and the source of these data.

(xv) A brief description of all construction and modifications which were completed in the calendar year for which the report is prepared, but for which the requirement to apply for approval to construct or modify was waived under § 61.106, and associated documentation developed by the licensee to support the waiver. EPA reserves the right to require that the licensee send to EPA all the information that normally would be required in an application to construct or modify, following receipt of the description and supporting documentation.

(xvi) Each report shall be signed and dated by a corporate officer or public official in charge of the facility and contain the following declaration immediately above the signature line: "I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted herein and based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information including the possibility of fine and imprisonment. See, 18 U.S.C. 1001."

(b) Facilities emitting radionuclides in an amount that would cause less than 10% of the dose standard in § 61.102, as determined by the compliance procedures from § 61.103(a), are exempt from the reporting requirements of § 61.104(a). Facilities shall annually make a new determination whether they are exempt from reporting.

(c) If the facility is not in compliance with the emission limits of § 61.102 in the calendar year covered by the report, the facility must report to the Administrator on a monthly basis the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section, for the preceding month. These reports will start the month immediately following the submittal of the annual report for the year in noncompliance and will be due 30 days following the end of each month. This increased level of reporting will continue until the Administrator has determined that the monthly reports are no longer necessary. In addition to all the information required in paragraph (a) of this section, monthly reports shall also include the following information:

(1) All controls or other changes in operation of the facility that will be or are being installed to bring the facility into compliance.

(2) If the facility is under a judicial or administrative enforcement decree the report will describe the facilities performance under the terms of the decree.

(d) The first report will cover the emissions of calendar year 1990.
