
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart L - National Emission Standard for Benzene Emissions from Coke By-Product Recovery Plants
###### ยง 61.132 Standard: Process vessels, storage tanks, and tar-intercepting sumps.

(a)(1) Each owner or operator of a furnace or a foundry coke byproduct recovery plant shall enclose and seal all openings on each process vessel, tar storage tank, and tar-intercepting sump.

(2) The owner or operator shall duct gases from each process vessel, tar storage tank, and tar-intercepting sump to the gas collection system, gas distribution system, or other enclosed point in the by-product recovery process where the benzene in the gas will be recovered or destroyed. This control system shall be designed and operated for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background and visual inspections, as determined by the methods specified in ยง 61.245(c). This system can be designed as a closed, positive pressure, gas blanketing system.

(i) Except, the owner or operator may elect to install, operate, and maintain a pressure relief device, vacuum relief device, an access hatch, and a sampling port on each process vessel, tar storage tank, and tar-intercepting sump. Each access hatch and sampling port must be equipped with a gasket and a cover, seal, or lid that must be kept in a closed position at all times, unless in actual use.

(ii) The owner or operator may elect to leave open to the atmosphere the portion of the liquid surface in each tar decanter necessary to permit operation of a sludge conveyor. If the owner or operator elects to maintain an opening on part of the liquid surface of the tar decanter, the owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain a water leg seal on the tar decanter roof near the sludge discharge chute to ensure enclosure of the major portion of liquid surface not necessary for the operation of the sludge conveyor.

(b) Following the installation of any control equipment used to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator shall monitor the connections and seals on each control system to determine if it is operating with no detectable emissions, using Method 21 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) and procedures specified in ยง 61.245(c), and shall visually inspect each source (including sealing materials) and the ductwork of the control system for evidence of visible defects such as gaps or tears. This monitoring and inspection shall be conducted on a semiannual basis and at any other time after the control system is repressurized with blanketing gas following removal of the cover or opening of the access hatch.

(1) If an instrument reading indicates an organic chemical concentration more than 500 ppm above a background concentration, as measured by Method 21, a leak is detected.

(2) If visible defects such as gaps in sealing materials are observed during a visual inspection, a leak is detected.

(3) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected.

(4) A first attempt at repair of any leak or visible defect shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.

(c) Following the installation of any control system used to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator shall conduct a maintenance inspection of the control system on an annual basis for evidence of system abnormalities, such as blocked or plugged lines, sticking valves, plugged condensate traps, and other maintenance defects that could result in abnormal system operation. The owner or operator shall make a first attempt at repair within 5 days, with repair within 15 days of detection.

(d) Each owner or operator of a furnace coke by-product recovery plant also shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)-(c) of this section for each benzene storage tank, BTX storage tank, light-oil storage tank, and excess ammonia-liquor storage tank.
