
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart L - National Emission Standard for Benzene Emissions from Coke By-Product Recovery Plants
###### § 61.135 Standard: Equipment leaks.

(a) Each owner or operator of equipment in benzene service shall comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, except as provided in this section.

(b) The provisions of § 61.242-3 and § 61.242-9 of subpart V do not apply to this subpart.

(c) Each piece of equipment in benzene service to which this subpart applies shall be marked in such a manner that it can be distinguished readily from other pieces of equipment in benzene service.

(d) Each exhauster shall be monitored quarterly to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 61.245(b) except as provided in § 61.136(d) and paragraphs (e)-(g) of this section.

(1) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.

(2) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 61.242-10 (a) and (b). A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.

(e) Each exhauster equipped with a seal system that includes a barrier fluid system and that prevents leakage of process fluids to the atmosphere is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section provided the following requirements are met:

(1) Each exhauster seal system is:

(i) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is greater than the exhauster stuffing box pressure; or

(ii) Equipped with a barrier fluid system that is connected by a closed vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 61.242-11; or

(iii) Equipped with a system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream with zero benzene emissions to the atmosphere.

(2) The barrier fluid is not in benzene service.

(3) Each barrier fluid system shall be equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, barrier fluid system, or both.

(4)(i) Each sensor as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section shall be checked daily or shall be equipped with an audible alarm.

(ii) The owner or operator shall determine, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.

(5) If the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier system, or both (based on the criterion determined under paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section), a leak is detected.

(6)(i) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 61.242-10.

(ii) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.

(f) An exhauster is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section if it is equipped with a closed vent system capable of capturing and transporting any leakage from the seal or seals to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 61.242-11 except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section.

(g) Any exhauster that is designated, as described in § 61.246(e) for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section if the exhauster:

(1) Is demonstrated to be operating with no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as measured by the methods specified in § 61.245(c); and

(2) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.

(h) Any exhauster that is in vacuum service is excluded from the requirements of this subpart if it is identified as required in § 61.246(e)(5).
