
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart L - National Emission Standard for Benzene Emissions from Coke By-Product Recovery Plants
###### § 61.138 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(a) The following information pertaining to the design of control equipment installed to comply with §§ 61.132 through 61.134 shall be recorded and kept in a readily accessible location:

(1) Detailed schematics, design specifications, and piping and instrumentation diagrams.

(2) The dates and descriptions of any changes in the design specifications.

(b) The following information pertaining to sources subject to § 61.132 and sources subject to § 61.133 shall be recorded and maintained for 2 years following each semiannual (and other) inspection and each annual maintenance inspection:

(1) The date of the inspection and the name of the inspector.

(2) A brief description of each visible defect in the source or control equipment and the method and date of repair of the defect.

(3) The presence of a leak, as measured using the method described in § 61.245(c). The record shall include the date of attempted and actual repair and method of repair of the leak.

(4) A brief description of any system abnormalities found during the annual maintenance inspection, the repairs made, the date of attempted repair, and the date of actual repair.

(c) Each owner or operator of a source subject to § 61.135 shall comply with § 61.246.

(d) For foundry coke by-product recovery plants, the annual coke production of both furnace and foundry coke shall be recorded and maintained for 2 years following each determination.

(e)(1) An owner or operator of any source to which this subpart applies shall submit a statement in writing notifying the Administrator that the requirements of this subpart and 40 CFR 61, subpart V, have been implemented.

(2) In the case of an existing source or a new source that has an initial startup date preceding the effective date, the statement is to be submitted within 90 days of the effective date, unless a waiver of compliance is granted under § 61.11, along with the information required under § 61.10. If a waiver of compliance is granted, the statement is to be submitted on a date scheduled by the Administrator.

(3) In the case of a new source that did not have an initial startup date preceding the effective date, the statement shall be submitted with the application for approval of construction, as described under § 61.07.

(4) The statement is to contain the following information for each source:

(i) Type of source (e.g., a light-oil sump or pump).

(ii) For equipment in benzene service, equipment identification number and process unit identification: percent by weight benzene in the fluid at the equipment; and process fluid state in the equipment (gas/vapor or liquid).

(iii) Method of compliance with the standard (e.g., "gas blanketing," "monthly leak detection and repair," or "equipped with dual mechanical seals"). This includes whether the plant plans to be a furnace or foundry coke by-product recovery plant for the purposes of § 61.132(d).

(f) A report shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually starting 6 months after the initial reports required in § 61.138(e) and § 61.10, which includes the following information:

(1) For sources subject to § 61.132 and sources subject to § 61.133,

(i) A brief description of any visible defect in the source or ductwork,

(ii) The number of leaks detected and repaired, and

(iii) A brief description of any system abnormalities found during each annual maintenance inspection that occurred in the reporting period and the repairs made.

(2) For equipment in benzene service subject to § 61.135(a), information required by § 61.247(b).

(3) For each exhauster subject to § 61.135 for each quarter during the semiannual reporting period,

(i) The number of exhausters for which leaks were detected as described in § 61.135 (d) and (e)(5),

(ii) The number of exhausters for which leaks were repaired as required in § 61.135 (d) and (e)(6),

(iii) The results of performance tests to determine compliance with § 61.135(g) conducted within the semiannual reporting period.

(4) A statement signed by the owner or operator stating whether all provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart L, have been fulfilled during the semiannual reporting period.

(5) For foundry coke by-product recovery plants, the annual coke production of both furnace and foundry coke, if determined during the reporting period.

(6) Revisions to items reported according to paragraph (e) of this section if changes have occurred since the initial report or subsequent revisions to the initial report.

(g) In the first report submitted as required in § 61.138(e), the report shall include a reporting schedule stating the months that semiannual reports shall be submitted. Subsequent reports shall be submitted according to that schedule unless a revised schedule has been submitted in a previous semiannual report.

(h) An owner or operator electing to comply with the provisions of §§ 61.243-1 and 61.243-2 shall notify the Administrator of the alternative standard selected 90 days before implementing either of the provisions.

(i) An application for approval of construction or modification, as required under §§ 61.05(a) and 61.07, will not be required for sources subject to 61.135 if:

(1) The new source complies with § 61.135, and

(2) In the next semiannual report required by § 61.138(f), the information described in § 61.138(e)(4) is reported.
