
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### ยง 61.145 Standard for demolition and renovation.
####### Notification requirements.

(b)Each owner or operator of a demolition or renovation activity to which this section applies shall:

(1) Provide the Administrator with written notice of intention to demolish or renovate. Delivery of the notice by U.S. Postal Service, commercial delivery service, or hand delivery is acceptable.

(2) Update notice, as necessary, including when the amount of asbestos affected changes by at least 20 percent.

(3) Postmark or deliver the notice as follows:

(i) At least 10 working days before asbestos stripping or removal work or any other activity begins (such as site preparation that would break up, dislodge or similarly disturb asbestos material), if the operation is described in paragraphs (a) (1) and (4) (except (a)(4)(iii) and (a)(4)(iv)) of this section. If the operation is as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, notification is required 10 working days before demolition begins.

(ii) At least 10 working days before the end of the calendar year preceding the year for which notice is being given for renovations described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section.

(iii) As early as possible before, but not later than, the following working day if the operation is a demolition ordered according to paragraph (a)(3) of this section or, if the operation is a renovation described in paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section.

(iv) For asbestos stripping or removal work in a demolition or renovation operation, described in paragraphs (a) (1) and (4) (except (a)(4)(iii) and (a)(4)(iv)) of this section, and for a demolition described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, that will begin on a date other than the one contained in the original notice, notice of the new start date must be provided to the Administrator as follows:

(A) When the asbestos stripping or removal operation or demolition operation covered by this paragraph will begin after the date contained in the notice,
