
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### ยง 61.145 Standard for demolition and renovation.
####### Procedures for asbestos emission control.

(c)Each owner or operator of a demolition or renovation activity to whom this paragraph applies, according to paragraph (a) of this section, shall comply with the following procedures:

(1) Remove all RACM from a facility being demolished or renovated before any activity begins that would break up, dislodge, or similarly disturb the material or preclude access to the material for subsequent removal. RACM need not be removed before demolition if:

(i) It is Category I nonfriable ACM that is not in poor condition and is not friable.

(ii) It is on a facility component that is encased in concrete or other similarly hard material and is adequately wet whenever exposed during demolition; or

(iii) It was not accessible for testing and was, therefore, not discovered until after demolition began and, as a result of the demolition, the material cannot be safely removed. If not removed for safety reasons, the exposed RACM and any asbestos-contaminated debris must be treated as asbestos-containing waste material and adequately wet at all times until disposed of.

(iv) They are Category II nonfriable ACM and the probability is low that the materials will become crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder during demolition.

(2) When a facility component that contains, is covered with, or is coated with RACM is being taken out of the facility as a unit or in sections:

(i) Adequately wet all RACM exposed during cutting or disjoining operations; and

(ii) Carefully lower each unit or section to the floor and to ground level, not dropping, throwing, sliding, or otherwise damaging or disturbing the RACM.

(3) When RACM is stripped from a facility component while it remains in place in the facility, adequately wet the RACM during the stripping operation.

(i) In renovation operations, wetting is not required if:

(A) The owner or operator has obtained prior written approval from the Administrator based on a written application that wetting to comply with this paragraph would unavoidably damage equipment or present a safety hazard; and

(B) The owner or operator uses of the following emission control methods:
