
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### ยง 61.145 Standard for demolition and renovation.
####### 3

(iv) RACM contained in leak-tight wrapping that has been removed in accordance with paragraphs (c)(4) and (c)(3)(i)(B)() of this section need not be wetted.

(7) When the temperature at the point of wetting is below 0 &#xB0;C (32 &#xB0;F):

(i) The owner or operator need not comply with paragraph (c)(2)(i) and the wetting provisions of paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(ii) The owner or operator shall remove facility components containing, coated with, or covered with RACM as units or in sections to the maximum extent possible.

(iii) During periods when wetting operations are suspended due to freezing temperatures, the owner or operator must record the temperature in the area containing the facility components at the beginning, middle, and end of each workday and keep daily temperature records available for inspection by the Administrator during normal business hours at the demolition or renovation site. The owner or operator shall retain the temperature records for at least 2 years.

(8) Effective 1 year after promulgation of this regulation, no RACM shall be stripped, removed, or otherwise handled or disturbed at a facility regulated by this section unless at least one on-site representative, such as a foreman or management-level person or other authorized representative, trained in the provisions of this regulation and the means of complying with them, is present. Every 2 years, the trained on-site individual shall receive refresher training in the provisions of this regulation. The required training shall include as a minimum: applicability; notifications; material identification; control procedures for removals including, at least, wetting, local exhaust ventilation, negative pressure enclosures, glove-bag procedures, and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; waste disposal work practices; reporting and recordkeeping; and asbestos hazards and worker protection. Evidence that the required training has been completed shall be posted and made available for inspection by the Administrator at the demolition or renovation site.

(9) For facilities described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, adequately wet the portion of the facility that contains RACM during the wrecking operation.

(10) If a facility is demolished by intentional burning, all RACM including Category I and Category II nonfriable ACM must be removed in accordance with the NESHAP before burning.
