
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### ยง 61.145 Standard for demolition and renovation.
####### 3

() Leak-tight wrapping to contain all RACM prior to dismantlement.

(ii) In renovation operations where wetting would result in equipment damage or a safety hazard, and the methods allowed in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section cannot be used, another method may be used after obtaining written approval from the Administrator based upon a determination that it is equivalent to wetting in controlling emissions or to the methods allowed in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.

(iii) A copy of the Administrator's written approval shall be kept at the worksite and made available for inspection.

(4) After a facility component covered with, coated with, or containing RACM has been taken out of the facility as a unit or in sections pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, it shall be stripped or contained in leak-tight wrapping, except as described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. If stripped, either:

(i) Adequately wet the RACM during stripping; or

(ii) Use a local exhaust ventilation and collection system designed and operated to capture the particulate asbestos material produced by the stripping. The system must exhibit no visible emissions to the outside air or be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements in ยง 61.152.

(5) For large facility components such as reactor vessels, large tanks, and steam generators, but not beams (which must be handled in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2), (3), and (4) of this section), the RACM is not required to be stripped if the following requirements are met:

(i) The component is removed, transported, stored, disposed of, or reused without disturbing or damaging the RACM.

(ii) The component is encased in a leak-tight wrapping.

(iii) The leak-tight wrapping is labeled according to ยง 61.149(d)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) during all loading and unloading operations and during storage.

(6) For all RACM, including material that has been removed or stripped:

(i) Adequately wet the material and ensure that it remains wet until collected and contained or treated in preparation for disposal in accordance with ยง 61.150; and

(ii) Carefully lower the material to the ground and floor, not dropping, throwing, sliding, or otherwise damaging or disturbing the material.

(iii) Transport the material to the ground via leak-tight chutes or containers if it has been removed or stripped more than 50 feet above ground level and was not removed as units or in sections.
