
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### § 61.146 Standard for spraying.

The owner or operator of an operation in which asbestos-containing materials are spray applied shall comply with the following requirements:

(a) For spray-on application on buildings, structures, pipes, and conduits, do not use material containing more than 1 percent asbestos as determined using the method specified in appendix E, subpart E, 40 CFR part 763, section 1, Polarized Light Microscopy, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) For spray-on application of materials that contain more than 1 percent asbestos as determined using the method specified in appendix E, subpart E, 40 CFR part 763, section 1, Polarized Light Microscopy, on equipment and machinery, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section:

(1) Notify the Administrator at least 20 days before beginning the spraying operation. Include the following information in the notice:

(i) Name and address of owner or operator.

(ii) Location of spraying operation.

(iii) Procedures to be followed to meet the requirements of this paragraph.

(2) Discharge no visible emissions to the outside air from spray-on application of the asbestos-containing material or use the methods specified by § 61.152 to clean emissions containing particulate asbestos material before they escape to, or are vented to, the outside air.

(c) The requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to the spray-on application of materials where the asbestos fibers in the materials are encapsulated with a bituminous or resinous binder during spraying and the materials are not friable after drying.

(d) Owners or operators of sources subject to this paragraph are exempt from the requirements of §§ 61.05(a), 61.07 and 61.09.
