
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### ยง 61.145 Standard for demolition and renovation.
####### 2

() For demolitions covered by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, provide the Administrator written notice of a new start date at least 10 working days before commencement of demolition. Delivery of updated notice by U.S. Postal Service, commercial delivery service, or hand delivery is acceptable.

(C) In no event shall an operation covered by this paragraph begin on a date other than the date contained in the written notice of the new start date.

(4) Include the following in the notice:

(i) An indication of whether the notice is the original or a revised notification.

(ii) Name, address, and telephone number of both the facility owner and operator and the asbestos removal contractor owner or operator.

(iii) Type of operation: demolition or renovation.

(iv) Description of the facility or affected part of the facility including the size (square meters [square feet] and number of floors), age, and present and prior use of the facility.

(v) Procedure, including analytical methods, employed to detect the presence of RACM and Category I and Category II nonfriable ACM.

(vi) Estimate of the approximate amount of RACM to be removed from the facility in terms of length of pipe in linear meters (linear feet), surface area in square meters (square feet) on other facility components, or volume in cubic meters (cubic feet) if off the facility components. Also, estimate the approximate amount of Category I and Category II nonfriable ACM in the affected part of the facility that will not be removed before demolition.

(vii) Location and street address (including building number or name and floor or room number, if appropriate), city, county, and state, of the facility being demolished or renovated.

(viii) Scheduled starting and completion dates of asbestos removal work (or any other activity, such as site preparation that would break up, dislodge, or similarly disturb asbestos material) in a demolition or renovation; planned renovation operations involving individual nonscheduled operations shall only include the beginning and ending dates of the report period as described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section.

(ix) Scheduled starting and completion dates of demolition or renovation.

(x) Description of planned demolition or renovation work to be performed and method(s) to be employed, including demolition or renovation techniques to be used and description of affected facility components.

(xi) Description of work practices and engineering controls to be used to comply with the requirements of this subpart, including asbestos removal and waste-handling emission control procedures.

(xii) Name and location of the waste disposal site where the asbestos-containing waste material will be deposited.

(xiii) A certification that at least one person trained as required by paragraph (c)(8) of this section will supervise the stripping and removal described by this notification. This requirement shall become effective 1 year after promulgation of this regulation.

(xiv) For facilities described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the name, title, and authority of the State or local government representative who has ordered the demolition, the date that the order was issued, and the date on which the demolition was ordered to begin. A copy of the order shall be attached to the notification.

(xv) For emergency renovations described in paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section, the date and hour that the emergency occurred, a description of the sudden, unexpected event, and an explanation of how the event caused an unsafe condition, or would cause equipment damage or an unreasonable financial burden.

(xvi) Description of procedures to be followed in the event that unexpected RACM is found or Category II nonfriable ACM becomes crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder.

(xvii) Name, address, and telephone number of the waste transporter.

(5) The information required in paragraph (b)(4) of this section must be reported using a form similiar to that shown in Figure 3.
