
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### § 61.153 Reporting.

(a) Any new source to which this subpart applies (with the exception of sources subject to §§ 61.143, 61.145, 61.146, and 61.148), which has an initial startup date preceding the effective date of this revision, shall provide the following information to the Administrator postmarked or delivered within 90 days of the effective date. In the case of a new source that does not have an initial startup date preceding the effective date, the information shall be provided, postmarked or delivered, within 90 days of the initial startup date. Any owner or operator of an existing source shall provide the following information to the Administrator within 90 days of the effective date of this subpart unless the owner or operator of the existing source has previously provided this information to the Administrator. Any changes in the information provided by any existing source shall be provided to the Administrator, postmarked or delivered, within 30 days after the change.

(1) A description of the emission control equipment used for each process; and

(i) If the fabric device uses a woven fabric, the airflow permeability in m/min/mand; if the fabric is synthetic, whether the fill yarn is spun or not spun; and

(ii) If the fabric filter device uses a felted fabric, the density in g/m, the minimum thickness in inches, and the airflow permeability in m/min/m.

(2) If a fabric filter device is used to control emissions,

(i) The airflow permeability in m/min/m(ft/min/ft) if the fabric filter device uses a woven fabric, and, if the fabric is synthetic, whether the fill yarn is spun or not spun; and

(ii) If the fabric filter device uses a felted fabric, the density in g/m(oz/yd), the minimum thickness in millimeters (inches), and the airflow permeability in m/min/m(ft/min/ft).

(3) If a HEPA filter is used to control emissions, the certified efficiency.

(4) For sources subject to §§ 61.149 and 61.150:

(i) A brief description of each process that generates asbestos-containing waste material; and

(ii) The average volume of asbestos-containing waste material disposed of, measured in m/day (yd/day); and

(iii) The emission control methods used in all stages of waste disposal; and

(iv) The type of disposal site or incineration site used for ultimate disposal, the name of the site operator, and the name and location of the disposal site.

(5) For sources subject to §§ 61.151 and 61.154:

(i) A brief description of the site; and

(ii) The method or methods used to comply with the standard, or alternative procedures to be used.

(b) The information required by paragraph (a) of this section must accompany the information required by § 61.10. Active waste disposal sites subject to § 61.154 shall also comply with this provision. Roadways, demolition and renovation, spraying, and insulating materials are exempted from the requirements of § 61.10(a). The information described in this section must be reported using the format of appendix A of this part as a guide.
