
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### § 61.155 Standard for operations that convert asbestos-containing waste material into nonasbestos (asbestos-free) material.
####### e.g.,

(1) A detailed description of the types and quantities of nonasbestos material, RACM, and asbestos-containing waste material processed,asbestos cement products, friable asbestos insulation, plaster, wood, plastic, wire, etc. Test feed is to include the full range of materials that will be encountered in actual operation of the process.

(2) Results of analyses, using polarized light microscopy, that document the asbestos content of the wastes processed.

(3) Results of analyses, using transmission electron microscopy, that document that the output materials are free of asbestos. Samples for analysis are to be collected as 8-hour composite samples (one 200-gram (7-ounce) sample per hour), beginning with the initial introduction of RACM or asbestos-containing waste material and continuing until the end of the performance test.

(4) A description of operating parameters, such as temperature and residence time, defining the full range over which the process is expected to operate to produce nonasbestos (asbestos-free) materials. Specify the limits for each operating parameter within which the process will produce nonasbestos (asbestos-free) materials.

(5) The length of the test.

(c) During the initial 90 days of operation,

(1) Continuously monitor and log the operating parameters identified during start-up performance tests that are intended to ensure the production of nonasbestos (asbestos-free) output material.

(2) Monitor input materials to ensure that they are consistent with the test feed materials described during start-up performance tests in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) Collect and analyze samples, taken as 10-day composite samples (one 200-gram (7-ounce) sample collected every 8 hours of operation) of all output material for the presence of asbestos. Composite samples may be for fewer than 10 days. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) shall be used to analyze the output material for the presence of asbestos. During the initial 90-day period, all output materials must be stored on-site until analysis shows the material to be asbestos-free or disposed of as asbestos-containing waste material according to § 61.150.

(d) After the initial 90 days of operation,

(1) Continuously monitor and record the operating parameters identified during start-up performance testing and any subsequent performance testing. Any output produced during a period of deviation from the range of operating conditions established to ensure the production of nonasbestos (asbestos-free) output materials shall be:

(i) Disposed of as asbestos-containing waste material according to § 61.150, or

(ii) Recycled as waste feed during process operation within the established range of operating conditions, or

(iii) Stored temporarily on-site in a leak-tight container until analyzed for asbestos content. Any product material that is not asbestos-free shall be either disposed of as asbestos-containing waste material or recycled as waste feed to the process.

(2) Collect and analyze monthly composite samples (one 200-gram (7-ounce) sample collected every 8 hours of operation) of the output material. Transmission electron microscopy shall be used to analyze the output material for the presence of asbestos.

(e) Discharge no visible emissions to the outside air from any part of the operation, or use the methods specified by § 61.152 to clean emissions containing particulate asbestos material before they escape to, or are vented to, the outside air.

(f) Maintain records on-site and include the following information:

(1) Results of start-up performance testing and all subsequent performance testing, including operating parameters, feed characteristic, and analyses of output materials.

(2) Results of the composite analyses required during the initial 90 days of operation under § 61.155(c).

(3) Results of the monthly composite analyses required under § 61.155(d).

(4) Results of continuous monitoring and logs of process operating parameters required under § 61.155 (c) and (d).

(5) The information on waste shipments received as required in § 61.154(e).

(6) For output materials where no analyses were performed to determine the presence of asbestos, record the name and location of the purchaser or disposal site to which the output materials were sold or deposited, and the date of sale or disposal.

(7) Retain records required by paragraph (f) of this section for at least 2 years.

(g) Submit the following reports to the Administrator:

(1) A report for each analysis of product composite samples performed during the initial 90 days of operation.

(2) A quarterly report, including the following information concerning activities during each consecutive 3-month period:

(i) Results of analyses of monthly product composite samples.

(ii) A description of any deviation from the operating parameters established during performance testing, the duration of the deviation, and steps taken to correct the deviation.

(iii) Disposition of any product produced during a period of deviation, including whether it was recycled, disposed of as asbestos-containing waste material, or stored temporarily on-site until analyzed for asbestos content.

(iv) The information on waste disposal activities as required in § 61.154(f).

(h) Nonasbestos (asbestos-free) output material is not subject to any of the provisions of this subpart. Output materials in which asbestos is detected, or output materials produced when the operating parameters deviated from those established during the start-up performance testing, unless shown by TEM analysis to be asbestos-free, shall be considered to be asbestos-containing waste and shall be handled and disposed of according to §§ 61.150 and 61.154 or reprocessed while all of the established operating parameters are being met.
