
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### § 61.150 Standard for waste disposal for manufacturing, fabricating, demolition, renovation, and spraying operations.

Each owner or operator of any source covered under the provisions of §§ 61.144, 61.145, 61.146, and 61.147 shall comply with the following provisions:

(a) Discharge no visible emissions to the outside air during the collection, processing (including incineration), packaging, or transporting of any asbestos-containing waste material generated by the source, or use one of the emission control and waste treatment methods specified in paragraphs (a) (1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Adequately wet asbestos-containing waste material as follows:

(i) Mix control device asbestos waste to form a slurry; adequately wet other asbestos-containing waste material; and

(ii) Discharge no visible emissions to the outside air from collection, mixing, wetting, and handling operations, or use the methods specified by § 61.152 to clean emissions containing particulate asbestos material before they escape to, or are vented to, the outside air; and

(iii) After wetting, seal all asbestos-containing waste material in leak-tight containers while wet; or, for materials that will not fit into containers without additional breaking, put materials into leak-tight wrapping; and

(iv) Label the containers or wrapped materials specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section using warning labels specified by Occupational Safety and Health Standards of the Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) under 29 CFR 1910.1001(j)(4) or 1926.1101(k)(8). The labels shall be printed in letters of sufficient size and contrast so as to be readily visible and legible.

(v) For asbestos-containing waste material to be transported off the facility site, label containers or wrapped materials with the name of the waste generator and the location at which the waste was generated.

(2) Process asbestos-containing waste material into nonfriable forms as follows:

(i) Form all asbestos-containing waste material into nonfriable pellets or other shapes;

(ii) Discharge no visible emissions to the outside air from collection and processing operations, including incineration, or use the method specified by § 61.152 to clean emissions containing particulate asbestos material before they escape to, or are vented to, the outside air.

(3) For facilities demolished where the RACM is not removed prior to demolition according to §§ 61.145(c)(1) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) or for facilities demolished according to § 61.145(c)(9), adequately wet asbestos-containing waste material at all times after demolition and keep wet during handling and loading for transport to a disposal site. Asbestos-containing waste materials covered by this paragraph do not have to be sealed in leak-tight containers or wrapping but may be transported and disposed of in bulk.

(4) Use an alternative emission control and waste treatment method that has received prior approval by the Administrator according to the procedure described in § 61.149(c)(2).

(5) As applied to demolition and renovation, the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to Category I nonfriable ACM waste and Category II nonfriable ACM waste that did not become crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder.

(b) All asbestos-containing waste material shall be deposited as soon as is practical by the waste generator at:

(1) A waste disposal site operated in accordance with the provisions of § 61.154, or

(2) An EPA-approved site that converts RACM and asbestos-containing waste material into nonasbestos (asbestos-free) material according to the provisions of § 61.155.

(3) The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section do not apply to Category I nonfriable ACM that is not RACM.

(c) Mark vehicles used to transport asbestos-containing waste material during the loading and unloading of waste so that the signs are visible. The markings must conform to the requirements of §§ 61.149(d)(1) (i), (ii), and (iii).

(d) For all asbestos-containing waste material transported off the facility site:

(1) Maintain waste shipment records, using a form similar to that shown in Figure 4, and include the following information:

(i) The name, address, and telephone number of the waste generator.

(ii) The name and address of the local, State, or EPA Regional office responsible for administering the asbestos NESHAP program.

(iii) The approximate quantity in cubic meters (cubic yards).

(iv) The name and telephone number of the disposal site operator.

(v) The name and physical site location of the disposal site.

(vi) The date transported.

(vii) The name, address, and telephone number of the transporter(s).

(viii) A certification that the contents of this consignment are fully and accurately described by proper shipping name and are classified, packed, marked, and labeled, and are in all respects in proper condition for transport by highway according to applicable international and government regulations.

(2) Provide a copy of the waste shipment record, described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, to the disposal site owners or operators at the same time as the asbestos-containing waste material is delivered to the disposal site.

(3) For waste shipments where a copy of the waste shipment record, signed by the owner or operator of the designated disposal site, is not received by the waste generator within 35 days of the date the waste was accepted by the initial transporter, contact the transporter and/or the owner or operator of the designated disposal site to determine the status of the waste shipment.

(4) Report in writing to the local, State, or EPA Regional office responsible for administering the asbestos NESHAP program for the waste generator if a copy of the waste shipment record, signed by the owner or operator of the designated waste disposal site, is not received by the waste generator within 45 days of the date the waste was accepted by the initial transporter. Include in the report the following information:

(i) A copy of the waste shipment record for which a confirmation of delivery was not received, and

(ii) A cover letter signed by the waste generator explaining the efforts taken to locate the asbestos waste shipment and the results of those efforts.

(5) Retain a copy of all waste shipment records, including a copy of the waste shipment record signed by the owner or operator of the designated waste disposal site, for at least 2 years.

(e) Furnish upon request, and make available for inspection by the Administrator, all records required under this section.
