
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### ยง 61.151 Standard for inactive waste disposal sites for asbestos mills and manufacturing and fabricating operations.

Each owner or operator of any inactive waste disposal site that was operated by sources covered under ยง 61.142, 61.144, or 61.147 and received deposits of asbestos-containing waste material generated by the sources, shall:

(a) Comply with one of the following:

(1) Either discharge no visible emissions to the outside air from an inactive waste disposal site subject to this paragraph; or

(2) Cover the asbestos-containing waste material with at least 15 centimeters (6 inches) of compacted nonasbestos-containing material, and grow and maintain a cover of vegetation on the area adequate to prevent exposure of the asbestos-containing waste material. In desert areas where vegetation would be difficult to maintain, at least 8 additional centimeters (3 inches) of well-graded, nonasbestos crushed rock may be placed on top of the final cover instead of vegetation and maintained to prevent emissions; or

(3) Cover the asbestos-containing waste material with at least 60 centimeters (2 feet) of compacted nonasbestos-containing material, and maintain it to prevent exposure of the asbestos-containing waste; or

(4) For inactive waste disposal sites for asbestos tailings, a resinous or petroleum-based dust suppression agent that effectively binds dust to control surface air emissions may be used instead of the methods in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section. Use the agent in the manner and frequency recommended for the particular asbestos tailings by the manufacturer of the dust suppression agent to achieve and maintain dust control. Obtain prior written approval of the Administrator to use other equally effective dust suppression agents. For purposes of this paragraph, any used, spent, or other waste oil is not considered a dust suppression agent.

(b) Unless a natural barrier adequately deters access by the general public, install and maintain warning signs and fencing as follows, or comply with paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section.

(1) Display warning signs at all entrances and at intervals of 100 m (328 ft) or less along the property line of the site or along the perimeter of the sections of the site where asbestos-containing waste material was deposited. The warning signs must:

(i) Be posted in such a manner and location that a person can easily read the legend; and

(ii) Conform to the requirements for 51 cm x 36 cm (20&#x2033; x 14&#x2033;) upright format signs specified in 29 CFR 1910.145(d)(4) and this paragraph; and

(iii) Display the following legend in the lower panel with letter sizes and styles of a visibility at least equal to those specified in this paragraph.

(2) Fence the perimeter of the site in a manner adequate to deter access by the general public.

(3) When requesting a determination on whether a natural barrier adequately deters public access, supply information enabling the Administrator to determine whether a fence or a natural barrier adequately deters access by the general public.

(c) The owner or operator may use an alternative control method that has received prior approval of the Administrator rather than comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(d) Notify the Administrator in writing at least 45 days prior to excavating or otherwise disturbing any asbestos-containing waste material that has been deposited at a waste disposal site under this section, and follow the procedures specified in the notification. If the excavation will begin on a date other than the one contained in the original notice, notice of the new start date must be provided to the Administrator at least 10 working days before excavation begins and in no event shall excavation begin earlier than the date specified in the original notification. Include the following information in the notice:

(1) Scheduled starting and completion dates.

(2) Reason for disturbing the waste.

(3) Procedures to be used to control emissions during the excavation, storage, transport, and ultimate disposal of the excavated asbestos-containing waste material. If deemed necessary, the Administrator may require changes in the emission control procedures to be used.

(4) Location of any temporary storage site and the final disposal site.

(e) Within 60 days of a site becoming inactive and after the effective date of this subpart, record, in accordance with State law, a notation on the deed to the facility property and on any other instrument that would normally be examined during a title search; this notation will in perpetuity notify any potential purchaser of the property that:

(1) The land has been used for the disposal of asbestos-containing waste material;

(2) The survey plot and record of the location and quantity of asbestos-containing waste disposed of within the disposal site required in ยง 61.154(f) have been filed with the Administrator; and

(3) The site is subject to 40 CFR part 61, subpart M.
