
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### Appendix A to Subpart M of Part 61 - Interpretive Rule Governing Roof Removal Operations
####### i.e.

3.C.5. It is EPA's interpretation that, provided the roofing material is not friable prior to the cutting operation, and provided the roofing material has not been made friable by the cutting operation, the appearance of rough, jagged or damaged edges on the remaining roofing material, due to the use of an RB roof cutter, does not require that such remaining roofing material be handled and disposed of as asbestos waste. In addition, it is also EPA's interpretation that if the sawdust or debris generated by the use of an RB roof cutter has been collected as discussed in paragraphs 3.C.3, 3.C.4 and 3.C.6, the presence of dust along the edge of the remaining roof material does not render such material "friable" for purposes of this interpretive rule or the NESHAP, provided the roofing material is not friable prior to the cutting operation, and provided that the remaining roofing material near the cutline has not been made friable by the cutting operation. Where roofing material near the cutline has been made friable by the use of the RB cutter (where such remaining roofing material near the cutline can be crumbled, pulverized or reduced to powder using hand pressure), it is EPA's interpretation that the use of an encapsulant will ensure that such friable material need not be treated or disposed of as asbestos containing waste material. The encapsulant may be applied to the friable material after the roofing material has been collected into stacks for subsequent disposal as nonasbestos waste. It is EPA's view that if the encapsulation procedure set forth in this paragraph is followed in operations where roofing material near the cutline has been rendered friable by the use of an RB roof cutter, and if the decontamination procedures set forth in paragraph 3.C.3 have been followed, the NESHAP's no visible emissions and adequately wet requirements would be met for the removal, handling and disposal of the remaining roofing material.

3.C.6. As one way to comply with the NESHAP, the dust and debris from cutting can be placed in leak-tight containers, such as plastic bags, and the containers labeled using warning labels required by OSHA (29 CFR 1926.58). In addition, the containers must have labels that identify the waste generator (such as the name of the roofing contractor, abatement contractor, and/or building owner or operator) and the location of the site at which the waste was generated.

4.A.1. Section 61.150(b) requires that, as soon as is practical, all collected dust and debris from cutting as well as any contaminated roofing squares, must be taken to a landfill that is operated in accordance with ยง 61.154 or to an EPA-approved site that converts asbestos waste to nonasbestos material in accordance with ยง 61.155. During the loading and unloading of affected waste, asbestos warning signs must be affixed to the vehicles.

4.B.1. For each load of asbestos waste that is regulated under the NESHAP, a waste shipment record (WSR) must be maintained in accordance with ยง 61.150(d). Information that must be maintained for each waste load includes the following:

- Name, address, and telephone number of the waste generator

- Name and address of the local, State, or EPA regional office responsible for administering the asbestos NESHAP program

- Quantity of waste in cubic meters (or cubic yards)

- Name and telephone number of the disposal site operator

- Name and physical site location of the disposal site

- Date transported

- Name, address, and telephone number of the transporter(s)

- Certification that the contents meet all government regulations for transport by highways.

4.B.2. The waste generator is responsible for ensuring that a copy of the WSR is delivered to the disposal site along with the waste shipment. If a copy of the WSR signed by the disposal site operator is not returned to the waste generator within 35 days, the waste generator must contact the transporter and/or the disposal site to determine the status of the waste shipment. 40 CFR 61.150(d)(3). If the signed WSR is not received within 45 days, the waste generator must report, in writing, to the responsible NESHAP program agency and send along a copy of the WSR. 40 CFR 61.150(d)(4). Copies of WSRs, including those signed by the disposal site operator, must be retained for at least 2 years. 40 CFR 61.150(d)(5).

5.1. For those roof removals that are subject to the NESHAP, at least one on-site supervisor trained in the provisions of the NESHAP must be present during the removal of the asbestos roofing material. 40 CFR 61.145(c)(8). In EPA's view, this person can be a job foreman, a hired consultant, or someone who can represent the building owner or contractor responsible for the removal. In addition to the initial training requirement, a refresher training course is required every 2 years. The NESHAP training requirements became effective on November 20, 1991.

5.2. Asbestos training courses developed specifically to address compliance with the NESHAP in roofing work, as well as courses developed for other purposes can satisfy this requirement of the NESHAP, as long as the course covers the areas specified in the regulation. EPA believes that Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act (AHERA) training courses will, for example, satisfy the NESHAP training requirements. However, nothing in this interpretive rule or in the NESHAP shall be deemed to require that roofing contractors or roofing workers performing operations covered by the NESHAP must be trained or accredited under AHERA, as amended by the Asbestos School Hazard Abatement Reauthorization Act (ASHARA). Likewise, state or local authorities may independently impose additional training, licensing, or accreditation requirements on roofing contractors performing operations covered by the NESHAP, but such additional training, licensing or accreditation is not called for by this interpretive rule or the federal NESHAP.

5.3. For removal of Category I asbestos containing roofing material where RB roof cutters or equipment that similarly damages the asbestos-containing roofing material are used, the NESHAP training requirements (ยง 61.145(c)(8)) apply as discussed in Section I above. It is EPA's intention that removal of Category I asbestos-containing roofing material using hatchets, axes, knives, and/or the use of spud bars, pry bars and shovels to lift the roofing material, or similar removal methods that slice, punch, or shear the roof membrane are not subject to the training requirements, since these methods do not cause the roof removal to be subject to the NESHAP. Likewise, it is EPA's intention that roof removal operations involving Category II nonfriable ACM are not subject to the training requirements where such operations are not subject to the NESHAP as discussed in section I above.
