
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### Appendix A to Subpart M of Part 61 - Interpretive Rule Governing Roof Removal Operations
####### i.e.

1.A.3. Only roofing material that meets the definition of ACM can qualify as RACM subject to the NESHAP. Therefore, to determine if a removal operation that meets or exceeds the coverage threshold is subject to the NESHAP, any suspect roofing material (roofing material that may be ACM) should be tested for asbestos. If any such roofing material contains more than one percent asbestos and if the removal operation is covered by the NESHAP, then EPA must be notified and the work practices in § 61.145(c) must be followed. In EPA's view, if a removal operation involves at least the threshold level of suspect material, a roofing contractor may choose not to test for asbestos if the contractor follows the notification and work practice requirements of the NESHAP.

1.B.1. A/C shingles, which are Category II nonfriable ACM, become regulated ACM if the material has a high probability of becoming or has become crumbled, pulverized or reduced to powder by the forces expected to act on the material in the course of demolition or renovation operations. 40 CFR 61.141. However, merely breaking an A/C shingle (or any other category II ACM) that is not friable may not necessarily cause the material to become RACM. A/C shingles are typically nailed to buildings on which they are attached. EPA believes that the extent of breakage that will normally result from carefully removing A/C shingles and lowering the shingles to the ground will not result in crumbling, pulverizing or reducing the shingles to powder. Conversely, the extent of breakage that will normally occur if the A/C shingles are dropped from a building or scraped off of a building with heavy machinery would cause the shingles to become RACM. EPA therefore construes the NESHAP to mean that the removal of A/C shingles that are not friable, using methods that do not crumble, pulverize, or reduce the A/C shingles to powder (such as pry bars, spud bars and shovels to carefully pry the material), is not subject to the NESHAP provided that the A/C shingles are properly handled during and after removal, as discussed in this paragraph and the asbestos NESHAP. This interpretation also applies to other Category II nonfriable asbestos-containing roofing materials.

1.C.1. Because of damage to the roofing material, and the potential for fiber release, roof removal operations using rotating blade (RB) roof cutters or other equipment that sand, grind, cut or abrade the roof material are subject to the NESHAP. As EPA interprets the NESHAP, the use of certain manual methods (using equipment such as axes, hatchets, or knives, spud bars, pry bars, and shovels, but not saws) or methods that slice, shear, or punch (using equipment such as a power slicer or power plow) does not constitute "cutting, sanding, grinding or abrading." This is because these methods do not destroy the structural matrix or integrity of the material such that the material is crumbled, pulverized or reduced to powder. Hence, it is EPA's interpretation that when such methods are used, assuming the roof material is not friable, the removal operation is not subject to the regulation.

1.C.2. Power removers or power tear-off machines are typically used to pry the roofing material up from the deck after the roof membrane has been cut. It is EPA's interpretation that when these machines are used to pry roofing material up, their use is not regulated by the NESHAP.

1.C.3. As noted previously, the NESHAP only applies to the removal of asbestos-containing roofing materials. Thus, the NESHAP does not apply to the use of RB cutters to remove non-asbestos built up roofing (BUR). On roofs containing some asbestos-containing and some non-asbestos-containing materials, coverage under the NESHAP depends on the methods used to remove each type of material in addition to other coverage thresholds specified above. For example, it is not uncommon for existing roofs to be made of non-asbestos BUR and base flashings that do contain asbestos. In that situation, EPA construes the NESHAP to be inapplicable to the removal of the non-asbestos BUR using an RB cutter so long as the RB cutter is not used to cut 5580 ftor more of the asbestos-containing base flashing or other asbestos-containing material into sections. In addition, the use of methods that slice, shear, punch or pry could then be used to remove the asbestos flashings and not trigger coverage under the NESHAP.

2.1. Notification for a demolition is always required under the NESHAP. However, EPA believes that few roof removal jobs constitute "demolitions" as defined in the NESHAP (§ 61.141). In particular, it is EPA's view that the removal of roofing systems (i.e., the roof membrane, insulation, surfacing, coatings, flashings, mastic, shingles, and felt underlayment), when such removal is not a part of a demolition project, constitutes a "renovation" under the NESHAP. If the operation is a renovation, and Category I roofing material is being removed using either manual methods or slicing, notification is not required by the NESHAP. If Category II material is not friable and will be removed without crumbling, pulverizing, or reducing it to powder, no notification is required. Also, if the renovation involves less than the threshold area for applicability as discussed above, then no notification is required. However, if a roof removal meets the applicability and threshold requirements under the NESHAP, then EPA (or the delegated agency) must be notified in advance of the removal in accordance with the requirements of § 61.145(b), as follows:

- Notification must be given in writing at least 10 working days in advance and must include the information in § 61.145(b)(4), except for emergency renovations as discussed below.

- The notice must be updated as necessary, including, for example, when the amount of asbestos-containing roofing material reported changes by 20 percent or more.

- EPA must be notified if the start date of the roof removal changes. If the start date of a roof removal project is changed to an earlier date, EPA must be provided with a written notice of the new start date at least 10 working days in advance. If the start date changes to a later date, EPA must be notified by telephone as soon as possible before the original start date and a written notice must be sent as soon as possible.

- For emergency renovations (as defined in § 61.141), where work must begin immediately to avoid safety or public health hazards, equipment damage, or unreasonable financial burden, the notification must be postmarked or delivered to EPA as soon as possible, but no later than the following work day.

3.A.1. The principal controls contained in the NESHAP for removal operations include requirements that the affected material be adequately wetted, and that asbestos waste be handled, collected, and disposed of properly. The requirements for disposal of waste materials are discussed separately in section IV below. The emission control requirements discussed in this section III apply only to roof removal operations that are covered by the NESHAP as set forth in Section I above.

3.A.2. For any operation subject to the NESHAP, the regulation (§§ 61.145(c)(2)(i), (3), (6)(i)) requires that RACM be adequately wet (as defined in § 61.141) during the operation that damages or disturbs the asbestos material until collected for disposal.

3.A.3. When using an RB roof cutter (or any other method that sands, grinds, cuts or abrades the roofing material) to remove Category I asbestos-containing roofing material, the emission control requirements of § 61.145(c) apply as discussed in Section I above. EPA will consider a roof removal project to be in compliance with the "adequately wet" and "discharge no visible emission" requirements of the NESHAP if the RB roof cutter is equipped and operated with the following: (1) a blade guard that completely encloses the blade and extends down close to the roof surface; and (2) a device for spraying a fine mist of water inside the blade guard, and which device is in operation during the cutting of the roof.

3.B.1. The NESHAP provides that, in certain instances, wetting may not be required during the cutting of Category I asbestos roofing material with an RB roof cutter. If EPA determines in accordance with § 61.145(c)(3)(i), that wetting will unavoidably damage the building, equipment inside the building, or will present a safety hazard while stripping the ACM from a facility component that remains in place, the roof removal operation will be exempted from the requirement to wet during cutting. EPA must have sufficient written information on which to base such a decision. Before proceeding with a dry removal, the contractor must have received EPA's written approval. Such exemptions will be made on a case-by-case basis.

3.B.2. It is EPA's view that, in most instances, exemptions from the wetting requirements are not necessary. Where EPA grants an exemption from wetting because of the potential for damage to the building, damage to equipment within the building or a safety hazard, the NESHAP specifies alternative control methods (§ 61.145(c)(3)(i)(B)). Alternative control methods include (a) the use of local exhaust ventilation systems that capture the dust, and do not produce visible emissions, or (b) methods that are designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 61.152, or (c) other methods that have received the written approval of EPA. EPA will consider an alternative emission control method in compliance with the NESHAP if the method has received written approval from EPA and the method is being implemented consistent with the approved procedures (§ 61.145(c)(3)(ii) or § 61.152(b)(3)).

3.B.3. An exemption from wetting is also allowed when the air or roof surface temperature at the point of wetting is below freezing, as specified in § 61.145(c)(7). If freezing temperatures are indicated as the reason for not wetting, records must be kept of the temperature at the beginning, middle and end of the day on which wetting is not performed and the records of temperature must be retained for at least 2 years. 42 CFR § 61.145(c)(7)(iii). It is EPA's interpretation that in such cases, no written application to, or written approval by the Administrator is needed for using emission control methods listed in § 61.145(c)(3)(i)(B), or alternative emission control methods that have been previously approved by the Administrator. However, such written application or approval is required for alternative emission control methods that have not been previously approved. Any dust and debris collected from cutting must still be kept wet and placed in containers. All of the other requirements for notification and waste disposal would continue to apply as described elsewhere in this notice and the Asbestos NESHAP.

3.C.1. It is EPA's interpretation that waste resulting from slicing and other methods that do not cut, grind, sand or abrade Category I nonfriable asbestos-containing roofing material is not subject to the NESHAP and can be disposed of as nonasbestos waste. EPA further construes the NESHAP to provide that if Category II roofing material (such as A/C shingles) is removed and disposed of without crumbling, pulverizing, or reducing it to powder, the waste from the removal is not subject to the NESHAP waste disposal requirements. EPA also interprets the NESHAP to be inapplicable to waste resulting from roof removal operations that do not meet or exceed the coverage thresholds described in section I above. Of course, other State, local, or Federal regulations may apply.
