
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Asbestos
###### Appendix A to Subpart M of Part 61 - Interpretive Rule Governing Roof Removal Operations

1.1. Asbestos-containing material (ACM) is material containing more than one percent asbestos as determined using the methods specified in appendix E, subpart E, 40 CFR part 763, section 1, Polarized Light Microscopy. The NESHAP classifies ACM as either "friable" or "nonfriable". Friable ACM is ACM that, when dry, can be crumbled, pulverized or reduced to powder by hand pressure. Nonfriable ACM is ACM that, when dry, cannot be crumbled, pulverized or reduced to powder by hand pressure.

1.2. Nonfriable ACM is further classified as either Category I ACM or Category II ACM. Category I ACM and Category II ACM are distinguished from each other by their potential to release fibers when damaged. Category I ACM includes asbestos-containing gaskets, packings, resilient floor coverings, resilient floor covering mastic, and asphalt roofing products containing more than one percent asbestos. Asphalt roofing products which may contain asbestos include built-up roofing; asphalt-containing single ply membrane systems; asphalt shingles; asphalt-containing underlayment felts; asphalt-containing roof coatings and mastics; and asphalt-containing base flashings. ACM roofing products that use other bituminous or resinous binders (such as coal tars or pitches) are also considered to be Category I ACM. Category II ACM includes all other nonfriable ACM, for example, asbestos-cement (A/C) shingles, A/C tiles, and transite boards or panels containing more than one percent asbestos. Generally speaking, Category II ACM is more likely to become friable when damaged than is Category I ACM. The applicability of the NESHAP to Category I and II ACM depends on: (1) the condition of the material at the time of demolition or renovation, (2) the nature of the operation to which the material will be subjected, (3) the amount of ACM involved.

1.3. Asbestos-containing material regulated under the NESHAP is referred to as "regulated asbestos-containing material" (RACM). RACM is defined in ยง 61.141 of the NESHAP and includes: (1) friable asbestos-containing material; (2) Category I nonfriable ACM that has become friable; (3) Category I nonfriable ACM that has been or will be sanded, ground, cut, or abraded; or (4) Category II nonfriable ACM that has already been or is likely to become crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder. If the coverage threshold for RACM is met or exceeded in a renovation or demolition operation, then all friable ACM in the operation, and in certain situations, nonfriable ACM in the operation, are subject to the NESHAP.

1.A.1. The NESHAP does not cover roofing projects on single family homes or on residential buildings containing four or fewer dwelling units. 40 CFR 61.141. For other roofing renovation projects, if the total asbestos-containing roof area undergoing renovation is less than 160 ft, the NESHAP does not apply, regardless of the removal method to be used, the type of material (Category I or II), or its condition (friable versus nonfriable). 40 CFR 61.145(a)(4). However, EPA would recommend the use of methods that damage asbestos-containing roofing material as little as possible. EPA has determined that where a rotating blade (RB) roof cutter or equipment that similarly damages the roofing material is used to remove Category I nonfriable asbestos-containing roofing material, the removal of 5580 ftof that material will create 160 ftof RACM. For the purposes of this interpretive rule, "RB roof cutter" means an engine-powered roof cutting machine with one or more rotating cutting blades the edges of which are blunt. (Equipment with blades having sharp or tapered edges, and/or which does not use a rotating blade, is used for "slicing" rather than "cutting" the roofing material; such equipment is not included in the term "RB roof cutter".) Therefore, it is EPA's interpretation that when an RB roof cutter or equipment that similarly damages the roofing material is used to remove Category I nonfriable asbestos-containing roofing material, any project that is 5580 ftor greater is subject to the NESHAP; conversely, it is EPA's interpretation that when an RB roof cutter or equipment that similarly damages the roofing material is used to remove Category I nonfriable asbestos-containing roofing material in a roof removal project that is less than 5580 ft, the project is not subject to the NESHAP, except that notification is always required for demolitions. EPA further construes the NESHAP to mean that if slicing or other methods that do not sand, grind, cut or abrade will be used on Category I nonfriable ACM, the NESHAP does not apply, regardless of the area of roof to be removed.
