
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart N - National Emission Standard for Inorganic Arsenic Emissions From Glass Manufacturing Plants
###### ยง 61.162 Emission limits.

(a) The owner or operator of an existing glass melting furnace subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section; except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) Uncontrolled total arsenic emissions from the glass melting furnace shall be less than 2.5 Mg (2.7 ton) per year, or

(2) Total arsenic emissions from the glass melting furnace shall be conveyed to a control device and reduced by at least 85 percent.

(b) The owner or operator of a new or modified glass melting furnace subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) Uncontrolled total arsenic emissions from the glass melting furnace shall be less than 0.4 Mg (0.44 ton) per year, or

(2) Total arsenic emissions from the glass melting furnace shall be conveyed to a control device and reduced by at least 85 percent.

(c) An owner or operator of a source subject to the requirements of this section may, after approval by the Administrator, bypass the control device to which arsenic emissions from the furnace are directed for a limited period of time for designated purposes such as maintenance of the control device, as specified in ยง 61.165(e).

(d) At all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, the owner or operator of a glass melting furnace subject to the provisions of this subpart shall operate and maintain the furnace and associated air pollution control equipment in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions of inorganic arsenic to the atmosphere to the maximum extent practicable. Determination of whether acceptable operating and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operating and maintenance procedures, inspection of the source, and review of other records.
