
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart N - National Emission Standard for Inorganic Arsenic Emissions From Glass Manufacturing Plants
###### § 61.163 Emission monitoring.

(a) An owner or operator of a glass melting furnace subject to the emission limit in § 61.162(a)(2) or § 61.162(b)(2) shall:

(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged into the atmosphere from the control device; and

(2) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the temperature of the gas entering the control device.

(b) All continuous monitoring systems and monitoring devices shall be installed and operational prior to performance of an emission test required by § 61.164(a). Verification of operational status shall, at a minimum, consist of an evaluation of the monitoring system in accordance with the requirements and procedures contained in Performance Specification 1 of appendix B of 40 CFR part 60.

(c) During the emission test required in § 61.164(a) each owner or operator subject to paragraph (a) of this section shall:

(1) Conduct continuous opacity monitoring from the beginning of the first test run until the completion of the third test run. Process and control equipment shall be operated in a manner that will minimize opacity of emissions, subject to the Administrator's approval.

(2) Calculate 6-minute opacity averages from 24 or more data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period during the test runs.

(3) Determine, based on the 6-minute opacity averages, the opacity value corresponding to the 99 percent upper confidence level of a normal or log-normal (whichever the owner or operator determines is more representative) distribution of the average opacity values.

(4) Conduct continuous monitoring of the temperature of the gas entering the control device from the beginning of the first test run until completion of the third test run.

(5) Calculate 15-minute averages of the temperature of the gas entering the control device during each test run.

(d) An owner or operator may redetermine the values described in paragraph (c) of this section during any emission test that demonstrates compliance with the emission limits in § 61.162(a)(2) or § 61.162(b)(2).

(e) The requirements of § 60.13(d) and § 60.13(f) shall apply to an owner or operator subject to paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) Except for system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments required under § 60.13(d), all continuous monitoring systems shall be in continuous operation and shall meet minimum frequency of operation requirements by completing a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.

(g) An owner or operator subject to paragraph (a) of this section shall:

(1) Reduce all opacity data to 6-minute averages. Six-minute averages shall be calculated from 24 or more data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period. Data recorded during periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments shall not be included in the data averages calculated under this paragraph, and

(2) Calculate 15-minute averages of the temperature of the gas entering the control device for each 15-minute operating period.

(h) After receipt and consideration of written application, the Administrator may approve alternative monitoring systems for the measurement of one or more process or operating parameters that is or are demonstrated to enable accurate and representative monitoring of a properly operating control device. Upon approval of an alternative monitoring system for an affected source, the Administrator will specify requirements to replace the requirements of paragraphs (a)-(g) of this section for that system.
