
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart O - National Emission Standard for Inorganic Arsenic Emissions From Primary Copper Smelters
###### ยง 61.172 Standard for new and existing sources.

(a) The provisions of paragraphs (b)-(f) of this section do not apply to any copper converter at a facility where the total arsenic charging rate for the copper converter department averaged over a 1-year period is less than 75 kg/hr (165 lb/hr), as determined under ยง 61.174(f).

(b) The owner or operator of each copper converter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall reduce inorganic arsenic emissions to the atmosphere by meeting the following design, equipment, work practice, and operational requirements:

(1) Install, operate, and maintain a secondary hood system on each copper converter. Each secondary hood system shall consist of a hood enclosure, air curtain fan(s), exhaust system fan(s), and ductwork that conveys the captured emissions to a control device, and shall meet the following specifications:

(i) The configuration and dimensions of the hood enclosure shall be such that the copper converter mouth, charging ladles, skimming ladles, and any other material transfer vessels used will be housed within the confines or influence of the hood enclosure during each mode of copper converter operation.

(ii) The back of the hood enclosure shall be fully enclosed and sealed against the primary hood. Portions of the side-walls in contact with the copper converter shall be sealed against the converter.

(iii) Openings in the top and front of the hood enclosure to allow for the entry and egress of ladles and crane appartus shall be minimized to the fullest extent practicable.

(iv) The hood enclosure shall be fabricated in such a manner and of materials of sufficient strength to withstand incidental contact with ladles and crane apparatus with no significant damage.

(v) One side-wall of the hood enclosure shall be equipped with a horizontal-slotted plenum along the top, and the opposite side-wall shall be equipped with an exhaust hood. The horizontal-slotted plenum shall be designed to allow the distance from the base to the top of the horizontal slot to be adjustable up to a dimension of 76 mm.

(vi) The horizontal-slotted plenum shall be connected to a fan. When activated, the fan shall push air through the horizontal slot, producing a horizontal air curtain above the copper converter that is directed to the exhaust hood. The fan power output installed shall be sufficient to overcome static pressure losses through the ductwork upstream of the horizontal-slotted plenum and across the plenum, and to deliver at least 22,370 watts (30 air horsepower) at the horizontal-slotted plenum discharge.

(vii) The exhaust hood shall be sized to completely intercept the airstream from the horizontal-slotted plenum combined with the additional airflow resulting from entrainment of the surrounding air. The exhaust hood shall be connected to a fan. When activated, the fan shall pull the combined airstream into the exhaust hood.

(viii) The entire secondary hood system shall be equipped with dampers and instrumentation, as appropriate, so that the desired air curtain and exhaust flow are maintained during each mode of copper converter operation.

(2) Optimize the capture of secondary inorganic arsenic emissions by operating the copper converter and secondary hood system at all times as follows:
