
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart O - National Emission Standard for Inorganic Arsenic Emissions From Primary Copper Smelters
###### § 61.175 Monitoring requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of a source that is subject to the emission limit specified in § 61.172(c) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged from the control device according to the following procedures:

(1) Ensure that each system is installed and operational no later than 90 days after the effective date of this subpart for a source that has an initial startup date preceding the effective date; and no later than 90 days after startup for other sources. Verification of the operational status shall, as a minimum, consist of an evaluation of the monitoring system in accordance with the requirements and procedures contained in Performance Specification 1 of appendix B of 40 CFR part 60.

(2) Comply with the provisions of § 60.13(d) of 40 CFR part 60.

(3) Except for system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero span adjustments, ensure that each continuous monitoring system is in continuous operation and meets frequency of operation requirements by completing a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analysis for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period. Each data point shall represent the opacity measured for one cycle of sampling and analysis and shall be expressed as percent opacity.

(b) Except as required in paragraph (c) of this section, calculate 1-hour opacity averages from 360 or more consecutive data points equally spaced over each 1-hour period. Data recorded during periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments shall not be included in the data averages computed under this paragraph.

(c) No later than 60 days after each continuous opacity monitoring system required in paragraph (a) of this section becomes operational, the owner or operator shall establish a reference opacity level for each monitored emission stream according to the following procedures:

(1) Conduct continuous opacity monitoring over a preplanned period of not less than 36 hours during which the processes and emission control equipment upstream of the monitoring system are operating under representative operating conditions subject to the Administrator's approval. This period shall include the time during which the emission test required by § 61.13 is conducted.

(2) Calculate 6-minute averages of the opacity readings using 36 or more consecutive data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period.

(3) Calculate 1-hour average opacity values using 10 successive 6-minute average opacity values (i.e., calculate a new 1-hour average opacity value every 6 minutes). Determine the highest 1-hour average opacity value observed during the 36-hour preplanned test period.

(4) Calculate the reference opacity level by adding 5 percent opacity to the highest 1-hour average opacity calculated in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(d) The owner or operator may redetermine the reference opacity level for the copper converter secondary emission stream at the time of each emission test that demonstrates compliance with the emission limit required in § 61.172(c) according to the provisions of paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section.

(e) With a minimum of 30 days prior notice, the Administrator may require the owner or operator to redetermine the reference opacity level for any monitored emission stream.

(f) Each owner or operator who is required to install the equipment specified in § 61.172(b)(1) for the capture of secondary copper converter emissions shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring device on each secondary hood system for the measurement of the air flow through the horizontal-slotted plenum and through the exhaust hood. Each device shall be installed and operational no later than 90 days after the effective date of this subpart for a source that has an initial startup preceding the effective date; and no later than 90 days after startup for other sources.

(g) Each owner or operator subject to the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section shall establish for each secondary hood system reference air flow rates for the horizontal-slotted plenum and exhaust hood for each mode of converter operation. The reference flow rates shall be established when the equipment is operating under the optimum operating conditions required in § 61.172(b)(2)(ii).

(h) Each owner or operator shall install the continuous monitoring systems and monitoring devices required in paragraphs (a) and (f) of this section in such a manner that representative measurements of emissions and process parameters are obtained.
