
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart O - National Emission Standard for Inorganic Arsenic Emissions From Primary Copper Smelters
###### ยง 61.172 Standard for new and existing sources.
####### 4

() The face velocity at the opening of the exhaust hood during each mode of converter operation.

(C) Operate the secondary hood system under the conditions listed in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.

(D) Notify the Administrator in writing within 30 days if there is any change in the operating conditions submitted pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) that will result in any reduction in the maximum capture of inorganic arsenic emissions.

(3) Comply with the following inspection and maintenance requirements after installing the secondary hood system required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section:

(i) At least once every month, visually inspect the components of the secondary hood system that are exposed to potential damage from crane and ladle operation, including the hood enclosure, side- and back-wall hood seals, and the horizontal slot.

(ii) Replace or repair any defective or damaged components of the secondary hood system within 30 days after discovering the defective or damaged components.

(c) No owner or operator of a copper converter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause or allow to be discharged into the atmosphere any copper converter secondary emissions that exit from a control device and contain particulate matter in excess of 11.6 mg/dscm (0.0051 gr/dscf).

(d) The owner or operator of a copper converter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit a description of a plan for control of inorganic arsenic emissions from the copper converter and associated air pollution control equipment. This plan shall be submitted within 90 days after the effective date of this subpart, unless a waiver of compliance is granted under ยง 61.11. If a waiver of compliance is granted, the plan shall be submitted on a date set by the Administrator. Approval of the plan will be granted by the Administrator provided he finds that:

(1) It includes a systematic procedure for identifying malfunctions and for reporting them immediately to smelter supervisory personnel.

(2) It specifies the procedures that will be followed to ensure that equipment or process breakdowns due entirely or in part to poor maintenance or other preventable conditions do not occur.

(3) It specifies the measures that will be taken to ensure compliance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(e) The owner or operator shall implement the plan required under paragraph (d) of this section unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.

(f) At all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, the owner or operator of a copper converter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall operate and maintain the converter and associated air pollution control equipment in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions of inorganic arsenic to the atmosphere to the maximum extent practicable. Determination of whether acceptable operating and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operating and maintenance procedures, inspection of the source, and review of other records.
