
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart O - National Emission Standard for Inorganic Arsenic Emissions From Primary Copper Smelters
###### § 61.177 Reporting requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of § 61.172(c) shall:

(1) Provide the Administrator 30 days prior notice of the emission test required in § 61.174(a) to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present; and

(2) Submit to the Administrator a written report of the results of the emission test required in § 61.174(a) within 60 days after conducting the test.

(b) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of § 61.175(a) shall provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of each reference opacity level determination required in § 61.175(c) to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.

(c) Each owner or opertor subject to the provisions of § 61.175(a) shall submit to the Administrator:

(1) Within 60 days after conducting the evaluation required in § 61.175(a)(1), a written report of the continuous monitoring system evaluation;

(2) Within 30 days after establishing the reference opacity level required in § 61.175(c), a written report of the reference opacity level. The report shall also include the opacity data used and the calculations performed to determine the reference opacity level, and sufficient documentation to show that process and emission control equipment were operating normally during the reference opacity level determination; and

(3) A written report each quarter of each occurrence of excess opacity during the quarter. For purposes of this paragraph, an occurrence of excess opacity is any 1-hour period during which the average opacity, as measured by the continuous monitoring system, exceeds the reference opacity level established under § 61.175(c).

(d) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of § 61.175(g) shall submit to the Administrator:

(1) A written report of the reference air flow rate within 30 days after establishing the reference air flow rates required in § 61.175(g);

(2) A written report each quarter of all air flow rates monitored during the preceding 3-month period that are less than 80 percent of the corresponding reference flow rate established for each converter operating mode; and

(3) A written report each quarter of any changes in the operating conditions of the emission capture system, emission control device, or the building housing the converters that might increase fugitive emissions.

(e) All quarterly reports shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each 3-month period and shall include the following information:

(1) The magnitude of each occurrence of excess opacity, any conversion factor(s) used, and the dates and times of commencement and completion of each occurrence of excess opacity, the cause of each exceedance of the reference opacity level, and the measures taken to minimize emissions.

(2) The magnitude of each occurrence of reduced flow rate and the date and time of commencement and completion of each occurrence of reduced flow rate, the cause of the reduced flow rate, and the associated converter operating mode.

(3) Specific identification of each occurrence of excess opacity or reduced flow rate that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the source.

(4) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous monitoring system or monitoring device was inoperative, except for zero and span checks, and the nature of the system repairs or adjustments.

(5) Specific identification of each change in operating conditions of the emission capture system or control device, or in the condition of the building housing the converters.

(f) Each owner or operator of a source subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit annually a written report to the Administrator that includes the monthly computations of the average annual converter arsenic charging rate as calculated under § 61.174(f)(4). The annual report shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each calendar year.
