
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart P - National Emission Standard for Inorganic Arsenic Emissions From Arsenic Trioxide and Metallic Arsenic Production Facilities
###### ยง 61.185 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of a source subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain at the source for a period of at least 2 years the following records: All measurements, including continuous monitoring for measurement of opacity; all continuous monitoring system performance evaluations, including calibration checks and adjustments; all periods during which the continuous monitoring system or monitoring device is inoperative; and all maintenance and repairs made to the continuous monitoring system or monitoring device.

(b) Each owner or operator shall maintain at the source for a period of at least 2 years a log for each plant department in which the operating status of process, conveying, and emission control equipment is described for each shift. For malfunctions and upsets, the following information shall be recorded in the log:

(1) The time of discovery.

(2) A description of the malfunction or upset.

(3) The time corrective action was initiated.

(4) A description of corrective action taken.

(5) The time corrective action was completed.

(6) A description of steps taken to reduce emissions of inorganic arsenic to the atmosphere between the time of discovery and the time corrective action was taken.

(c) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain for a period of a least 2 years records of 6-minute average opacity levels for each separate control device.

(d) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of ยง 61.186 shall maintain for a period of at least 2 years records of ambient inorganic arsenic concentrations at all sampling sites and other data needed to determine such concentrations.
