
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart P - National Emission Standard for Inorganic Arsenic Emissions From Arsenic Trioxide and Metallic Arsenic Production Facilities
###### ยง 61.182 Standard for new and existing sources.

(a) Within 30 days after the effective date of this subpart, the owner or operator of each source to which this subpart applies shall identify and submit to the Administrator a list of potential sources (equipment and operations) of inorganic arsenic emissions.

(b) The owner or operator shall submit a description of an inspection, maintenance, and housekeeping plan for control of inorganic arsenic emissions from the potential sources identified under paragraph (a) of this section. This plan shall be submitted within 90 days after the effective date of this subpart, unless a waiver of compliance is granted under ยง 61.11. If a waiver of compliance is granted, the plan shall be submitted on a date set by the Administrator. Approval of the plan will be granted by the Administrator provided he finds that:

(1) It achieves the following objectives in a manner that does not cause adverse impacts in other environmental media:

(i) Clean-up and proper disposal, wet-down, or chemical stabilization to the extent practicable (considering access and safety) of any dry, dusty material having an inorganic arsenic content greater than 2 percent that accumulates on any surface within the plant boundaries outside of a dust-tight enclosure.

(ii) Immediate clean-up and proper disposal, wet-down, or chemical stabilization of spills of all dry, dusty material having an inorganic arsenic content greater than 2 percent.

(iii) Minimization of emissions of inorganic arsenic to the atmosphere during removal of inorganic arsenic from the arsenic kitchen and from flue pulling operations by properly handling, wetting down, or chemically stabilizing all dusts and materials handled in these operations.

(2) It includes an inspection program that requires all process, conveying, and air pollution control equipment to be inspected at least once per shift to ensure that the equipment is being properly operated and maintained. The program will specify the evaluation criteria and will use a standardized checklist, which will be included as part of the plan required in paragraph (b) of this section, to document the inspection, maintenance, and housekeeping status of the equipment and that the objectives of paragraph (b)(1) of this section are being achieved.

(3) It includes a systematic procedure for identifying malfunctions and for reporting them immediately to supervisory personnel.

(4) It specifies the procedures that will be followed to ensure that equipment or process malfunctions due entirely or in part to poor maintenance or other preventable conditions do not occur.

(5) It includes a program for curtailing all operations necessary to minimize any increase in emissions of inorganic arsenic to the atmosphere resulting from a malfunction. The program will describe:

(i) The specific steps that will be taken to curtail each operation as soon as technically feasible after the malfunction is discovered.

(ii) The minimum time required to curtail each operation.

(iii) The procedures that will be used to ensure that the curtailment continues until after the malfunction is corrected.

(c) The owner or operator shall implement the plan required in paragraph (b) of this section until otherwise specified by the Administrator.

(d) At all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, the owner or operator of each source to which this subpart applies shall operate and maintain the source including associated air pollution control equipment in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions of inorganic arsenic to the atmosphere to the maximum extent practicable. Determination of whether acceptable operating and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operating and maintenance procedures, inspection of the source, and review of other records.
