
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart P - National Emission Standard for Inorganic Arsenic Emissions From Arsenic Trioxide and Metallic Arsenic Production Facilities
###### ยง 61.183 Emission monitoring.

(a) The owner or operator of each source subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of each arsenic trioxide and metallic arsenic process emission stream that exits from a control device.

(b) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each continuous monitoring system for the measurement of opacity required in paragraph (a) of this section according to the following procedures:

(1) Ensure that each system is installed and operational no later than 90 days after the effective date of this subpart for an existing source or a new source that has an initial startup date preceding the effective date. For a new source whose initial startup occurs after the effective date of this subpart, ensure that the system is installed and operational no later than 90 days after startup. Verification of the operational status shall, as a minimum, consist of an evaluation of the monitoring system in accordance with the requirements and procedures contained in Performance Specification 1 of appendix B of 40 CFR part 60.

(2) Comply with the provisions of ยง 60.13(d) of 40 CFR part 60.

(3) Except for system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments required under ยง 60.13(d), ensure that each continuous monitoring system is in continuous operation and meets frequency of operation requirements by completing a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analysis for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period. Each data point shall represent the opacity measured for one cycle of sampling and analysis and shall be expressed as percent opacity.

(c) The owner or operator shall calculate 6-minute opacity averages from 36 or more consecutive data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period. Data recorded during periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments shall not be included in the data averages computed under this paragraph.

(d) No later than 60 days after each continuous opacity monitoring system required in paragraph (a) of this section becomes operational, the owner or operator shall establish a reference opacity level for each monitored emission stream according to the following procedures:

(1) Conduct continuous opacity monitoring over a preplanned period of not less than 36 hours during which the processes and emission control equipment upstream of the monitoring system are operating in a manner that will minimize opacity under representative operating conditions subject to the Administrator's approval.

(2) Calculate 6-minute averages of the opacity readings using 36 or more consecutive data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period.

(3) Establish the reference opacity level by determining the highest 6-minute average opacity calculated under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(e) With a minimum of 30 days prior notice, the Administrator may require an owner or operator to redetermine the reference opacity level for any monitored emission stream.

(f) Each owner or operator shall install all continuous monitoring systems or monitoring devices required in paragraph (a) of this section in such a manner that representative measurements of emissions or process parameters are obtained.
