
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart P - National Emission Standard for Inorganic Arsenic Emissions From Arsenic Trioxide and Metallic Arsenic Production Facilities
###### § 61.186 Reporting requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of § 61.183(a) shall provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of each reference opacity level determination required in § 61.183(a) to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.

(b) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of § 61.183(a) shall submit to the Administrator:

(1) Within 60 days of conducting the evaluation required in § 61.183(b)(1), a written report of the continuous monitoring system evaluation;

(2) Within 30 days of establishing the reference opacity level required in § 61.183(d), a written report of the reference opacity level. The report shall also include the opacity data used and the calculations performed to determine the reference opacity level, and sufficient documentation to show that process and emission control equipment were operating normally during the reference opacity level determination; and

(3) A written report each quarter of each occurrence of excess opacity during the quarter. For the purposes of this paragraph, an occurrence of excess opacity is any 6-minute period during which the average opacity, as measured by the continuous monitoring system, exceeds the reference opacity level established under § 61.183(d).

(c) All quarterly reports of excess opacity shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each quarter and shall include the following information:

(1) The magnitude of excess opacity, any conversion factor(s) used, and the dates and times of commencement and completion of each occurrence of excess opacity, the cause of each exceedance of the reference opacity level, and the measures taken to minimize emissions.

(2) Specific identification of each period of excess opacity that occurred during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the source.

(3) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous monitoring system or monitoring device was inoperative, except for zero and span checks, and the nature of the system repairs or adjustments.

(d) Each owner or operator subject to this subpart shall submit a written report semiannually to the Administrator that describes the status and results, for the reporting period, of any pilot plant studies on alternative arsenic trioxide production processes. Conclusions and recommendations of the studies shall also be reported.

(e) All semiannual progress reports required in paragraph (d) of this section shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each 6-month period.

(f) Each owner or operator of a source to which this subpart applies shall submit a written report each quarter to the Administrator that includes the following information:

(1) All ambient inorganic arsenic concentrations measured at all monitoring sites in accordance with § 61.184.

(2) A description of any modifications to the sampling network, during the reporting period, including any major maintenance, site changes, calibrations, and quality assurance information including sampling and analytical precision and accuracy estimates.

(g) All quarterly reports required in paragraph (f) of this section shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each quarter.
