
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart R - National Emission Standards for Radon Emissions From Phosphogypsum Stacks
###### § 61.206 Distribution and use of phosphogypsum for other purposes.

(a) Phosphogypsum may not be lawfully removed from a stack and distributed or used for any purpose not expressly specified in § 61.204 or § 61.205 without prior EPA approval.

(b) A request that EPA approve distribution and/or use of phosphogypsum for any other purpose must be submitted in writing and must contain the following information:

(1) The name and address of the person(s) making the request.

(2) A description of the proposed use, including any handling and processing that the phosphogypsum will undergo.

(3) The location of each facility, including suite and/or building number, street, city, county, state, and zip code, where any use, handling, or processing of the phosphogypsum will take place.

(4) The mailing address of each facility where any use, handling, or processing of the phosphogypsum will take place, if different from paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(5) The quantity of phosphogypsum to be used by each facility.

(6) The average concentration of radium-226 in the phosphogypsum to be used.

(7) A description of any measures which will be taken to prevent the uncontrolled release of phosphogypsum into the environment.

(8) An estimate of the maximum individual risk, risk distribution, and incidence associated with the proposed use, including the ultimate disposition of the phosphogypsum or any product in which the phosphogypsum is incorporated.

(9) A description of the intended disposition of any unused phosphogypsum.

(10) Each request shall be signed and dated by a corporate officer or public official in charge of the facility.

(c) The Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation may decide to grant a request that EPA approve distribution and/or use of phosphogypsum if he determines that the proposed distribution and/or use is at lease as protective of public health, in both the short term and the long term, as disposal of phosphogypsum in a stack or a mine.

(d) If the Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation decides to grant a request that EPA approve distribution and/or use of phosphogypsum for a specified purpose, each of the following requirements shall be satisfied:

(1) The owner or operator of the stack from which the phosphogypsum is removed shall determine annually the average radium-226 concentration at the location in the stack from which the phosphogypsum will be removed, as provided by § 61.207.

(2) All phosphogypsum distributed in commerce by the owner or operator of a phosphogypsum stack, or by a distributor, retailer, or reseller, or purchased by the end-user, shall be accompanied at all times by certification documents which conform to the requirements § 61.208.

(3) The end-user of the phosphogypsum shall maintain records which conform to the requirements of § 61.209(c).

(e) If the Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation decides to grant a request that EPA approve distribution and/or use of phosphogypsum for a specified purpose, the Assistant Administrator may decide to impose additional terms or conditions governing such distribution or use. In appropriate circumstances, the Assistant Administrator may also decide to waive or modify the recordkeeping requirements established by § 61.209(c).
