
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart R - National Emission Standards for Radon Emissions From Phosphogypsum Stacks
###### § 61.205 Distribution and use of phosphogypsum for indoor research and development.

(a) Phosphogypsum may be lawfully removed from a stack and distributed in commerce for use in indoor research and development activities, provided that it is accompanied at all times by certification documents which conform to the requirements of § 61.208. In addition, before distributing phosphogypsum to any person for use in indoor research and development activities, the owner or operator of a phosphogypsum stack shall obtain from that person written confirmation that the research facility will comply with all of the limitations set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) Any person who purchases and uses phosphogypsum for indoor research and development purposes shall comply with all of the following limitations. Any use of phosphogypsum for indoor research and development purposes not consistent with the limitations set forth in this section shall be construed as unauthorized distribution of phosphogypsum.

(1) Each quantity of phosphogypsum purchased by a facility for a particular research and development activity shall be accompanied by certification documents which conform to the requirements of § 61.208.

(2) No facility shall purchase or possess more than 3182 kg (7,000 lb) of phosphogypsum for a particular indoor research and development activity. The total quantity of all phosphogypsum at a facility, as determined by summing the individual quantities purchased or possessed for each individual research and development activity conducted by that facility, may exceed 3182 kg (7,000 lb), provided that no single room in which research and development activities are conducted shall contain more than 3182 kg (7,000 lb).

(3) Containers of phosphogypsum used in indoor research and development activities shall be labeled with the following warning: Caution: Phosphogypsum Contains Elevated Levels of Naturally Occurring Radioactivity.

(4) For each indoor research and development activity in which phosphogypsum is used, the facility shall maintain records which conform to the requirements of § 61.209(c).

(5) Indoor research and development activities must be performed in a controlled laboratory setting which the general public cannot enter except on an infrequent basis for tours of the facility. Uses of phosphogypsum for outdoor agricultural research and development and agricultural field use must comply with § 61.204.

(c) Phosphogypsum not intended for distribution in commerce may be lawfully removed from a stack by an owner or operator to perform laboratory analyses required by this subpart or any other quality control or quality assurance analyses associated with wet acid phosphorus production.
