
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart R - National Emission Standards for Radon Emissions From Phosphogypsum Stacks
###### ยง 61.203 Radon monitoring and compliance procedures.

(a) Within sixty days following the date on which a stack becomes an inactive stack, or within ninety days after the date on which this subpart first took effect if a stack was already inactive on that date, each owner or operator of an inactive phosphogypsum stack shall test the stack for radon-222 flux in accordance with the procedures described in 40 CFR part 61, appendix B, Method 115. EPA shall be notified at least 30 days prior to each such emissions test so that EPA may, at its option, observe the test. If meteorological conditions are such that a test cannot be properly conducted, then the owner or operator shall notify EPA and test as soon as conditions permit.

(b)(1) Within ninety days after the testing is required, the owner or operator shall provide EPA with a report detailing the actions taken and the results of the radon-222 flux testing. Each report shall also include the following information:

(i) The name and location of the facility;

(ii) A list of the stacks at the facility including the size and dimensions of each stack;

(iii) The name of the person responsible for the operation of the facility and the name of the person preparing the report (if different);

(iv) A description of the control measures taken to decrease the radon flux from the source and any actions taken to insure the long term effectiveness of the control measures; and

(v) The results of the testing conducted, including the results of each measurement.

(2) Each report shall be signed and dated by a corporate officer in charge of the facility and contain the following declaration immediately above the signature line: "I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted herein and based on may inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information including the possibility of fine and imprisonment. See, 18 U.S.C. 1001."

(c) If the owner or operator of an inactive stack chooses to conduct measurements over a one year period as permitted by Method 115 in appendix B to part 61, within ninety days after the testing commences the owner or operator shall provide EPA with an initial report, including the results of the first measurement period and a schedule for all subsequent measurements. An additional report containing all the information in ยง 61.203(b) shall be submitted within ninety days after completion of the final measurements.

(d) If at any point an owner or operator of a stack once again uses an inactive stack for the disposal of phosphogypsum or for water management, the stack ceases to be in inactive status and the owner or operator must notify EPA in writing within 45 days. When the owner or operator ceases to use the stack for disposal of phosphogypsum or water management, the stack will once again become inactive and the owner or operator must satisfy again all testing and reporting requirements for inactive stacks.

(e) If an owner or operator removes phosphogypsum from an inactive stack, the owner shall test the stack in accordance with the procedures described in 40 CFR part 61, appendix B, Method 115. The stack shall be tested within ninety days of the date that the owner or operator first removes phosphogypsum from the stack, and the test shall be repeated at least once during each calendar year that the owner or operator removes additional phosphogypsum from the stack. EPA shall be notified at least 30 days prior to an emissions test so that EPA may, at its option, observe the test. If meteorological conditions are such that a test cannot be properly conducted, then the owner shall notify EPA and test as soon as conditions permit. Within ninety days after completion of a test, the owner or operator shall provide EPA with a report detailing the actions taken and the results of the radon-222 flux testing. Each such report shall include all of the information specified by ยง 61.203(b).
