
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart T - National Emission Standards for Radon Emissions From the Disposal of Uranium Mill Tailings
###### ยง 61.223 Compliance procedures.

(a) Sixty days following the completion of covering the pile to limit radon emissions but prior to the long term stabilization of the pile, the owners or operators of uranium mill tailings shall conduct testing for all piles within the facility in accordance with the procedures described in 40 CFR part 61, appendix B, Method 115, or other procedures for which EPA has granted prior approval.

(b) Ninety days after the testing is required, each facility shall provide EPA with a report detailing the actions taken and the results of the radon-222 flux testing. EPA shall be notified at least 30 days prior to an emission test so that EPA may, at its option, observe the test. If meteorological conditions are such that a test cannot be properly conducted, then the owner or operator shall notify EPA and test as soon as conditions permit. Each report shall also include the following information:

(1) The name and location of the facility.

(2) A list of the piles at the facility.

(3) A description of the control measures taken to decrease the radon flux from the source and any actions taken to insure the long term effectiveness of the control measures.

(4) The results of the testing conducted, including the results of each measurement.

(5) Each report shall be signed and dated by a public official in charge of the facility and contain the following declaration immediately above the signature line:

(c) If year long measurements are made in accordance with Method 115 of appendix B of part 61, this report shall include the results of the first measurement period and provide a schedule for the measurement frequency to be used. An additional report shall be submitted ninety days after completion of the final measurements.

(d) If long term stabilization has begun before the effective date of the rule then testing may be conducted at any time, up to 60 days after the long term stabilization is completed.

(e) If the testing demonstrates that the pile meets the requirement of ยง 61.222(a) and long term stabilization has been completed then the pile is considered disposed for purposes of this rule.
