
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart V - National Emission Standard for Equipment Leaks (Fugitive Emission Sources)
###### § 61.242-7 Standards: Valves.

(a) Each valve shall be monitored monthly to detect leaks by the method specified in § 61.245(b) and shall comply with paragraphs (b)-(e), except as provided in paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section, § 61.243-1 or § 61.243-2, and § 61.242-1(c).

(b) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.

(c)(1) Any valve for which a leak is not detected for 2 successive months may be monitored the first month of every quarter, beginning with the next quarter, until a leak is detected.

(2) If a leak is detected, the valve shall be monitored monthly until a leak is not detected for 2 successive months.

(d)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in § 61.242-10.

(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.

(e) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following best practices where practicable:

(1) Tightening of bonnet bolts;

(2) Replacement of bonnet bolts;

(3) Tightening of packing gland nuts; and

(4) Injection of lubricant into lubricated packing.

(f) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 61.246(e)(2), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) if the valve:

(1) Has no external actuating mechanism in contact with the process fluid;

(2) Is operated with emissions less than 500 ppm above background, as measured by the method specified in § 61.245(c); and

(3) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (f)(2) initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.

(g) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 61.246(f)(1), as an unsafe-to-monitor valve is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) if:

(1) The owner or operator of the valve demonstrates that the valve is unsafe to monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (a); and

(2) The owner or operator of the valve has a written plan that requires monitoring of the valve as frequent as practicable during safe-to-monitor times.

(h) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 61.246(f)(2), as a difficult-to-monitor valve is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) if:

(1) The owner or operator of the valve demonstrates that the valve cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface;

(2) The process unit within which the valve is located is an existing process unit; and

(3) The owner or operator of the valve follows a written plan that requires monitoring of the valve at least once per calendar year.
