
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart V - National Emission Standard for Equipment Leaks (Fugitive Emission Sources)
###### § 61.242-3 Standards: Compressors.

(a) Each compressor shall be equipped with a seal system that includes a barrier fluid system and that prevents leakage of process fluid to atmosphere, except as provided in § 61.242-1(c) and paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section.

(b) Each compressor seal system as required in paragraph (a) shall be:

(1) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is greater than the compressor stuffing box pressure; or

(2) Equipped with a barrier fluid system degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed-vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 61.242-11; or

(3) Equipped with a system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream with zero VHAP emissions to atmosphere.

(c) The barrier fluid shall not be in VHAP service and, if the compressor is covered by standards under 40 CFR part 60, shall not be in VOC service.

(d) Each barrier fluid system as described in paragraphs (a)-(c) of this section shall be equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, barrier fluid system, or both.

(e)(1) Each sensor as required in paragraph (d) of this section shall be checked daily or shall be equipped with an audible alarm unless the compressor is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site.

(2) The owner or operator shall determine, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.

(f) If the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both based on the criterion determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a leak is detected.

(g)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 61.242-10.

(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after eack leak is detected.

(h) A compressor is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section if it is equipped with a closed-vent system to capture and transport leakage from the compressor drive shaft back to a process or fuel gas system or to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 61.242-11, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.

(i) Any Compressor that is designated, as described in § 61.246(e)(2), for no detectable emission as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a)-(h) if the compressor:

(1) Is demonstrated to be operating with no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as measured by the method specified in § 61.245(c); and

(2) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (i)(1) initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
