
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart V - National Emission Standard for Equipment Leaks (Fugitive Emission Sources)
###### § 61.242-11 Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.

(a) Owners or operators of closed-vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall comply with the provisions of this section, except as provided in § 61.242-1(c).

(b) Vapor recovery systems (for example, condensers and absorbers) shall be designed and operated to recover the organic vapors vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, whichever is less stringent.

(c) Enclosed combustion devices shall be designed and operated to reduce the VHAP emissions vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, on a dry basis, corrected to 3 percent oxygen, whichever is less stringent, or to provide a minimum residence time of 0.50 seconds at a minimum temperature of 760 &#xB0;C.

(d) Flares shall used to comply with this subpart shall comply with the requirements of § 60.18.

(e) Owners or operators of control devices that are used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall monitor these control devices to ensure that they are operated and maintained in conformance with their design.

(f) Except as provided in paragraphs (i) through (k) of this section, each closed vent system shall be inspected according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.

(1) If the vapor collection system or closed vent system is constructed of hard-piping, the owner or operator shall comply with the following requirements:

(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in § 61.245(b); and

(ii) Conduct annual visual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.

(2) If the vapor collection system or closed vent system is constructed of ductwork, the owner or operator shall:

(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in § 61.245(b); and

(ii) Conduct annual inspections according to the procedures in § 61.245(b).

(g) Leaks, as indicated by an instrument reading greater than 500 parts per million by volume above background or by visual inspections, shall be repaired as soon as practicable except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.

(1) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.

(2) Repair shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected.

(h) Delay of repair of a closed vent system for which leaks have been detected is allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown, or if the owner or operator determines that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be complete by the end of the next process unit shutdown.

(i) If a vapor collection system or closed vent system is operated under a vacuum, it is exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (2) of this section.

(j) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section, as unsafe-to-inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (2) of this section if they comply with the following requirements:

(1) The owner or operator determines that the equipment is unsafe-to-inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (2) of this section; and

(2) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practicable during safe-to-inspect times.

(k) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in paragraph (l)(2) of this section, as difficult-to-inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (2) of this section if they comply with the following requirements:

(1) The owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface; and

(2) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 5 years. A closed vent system is exempt from inspection if it is operated under a vacuum.

(l) The owner or operator shall record the following information:

(1) Identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as unsafe-to-inspect, an explanation of why the equipment is unsafe-to-inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.

(2) Identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as difficult-to-inspect, an explanation of why the equipment is difficult-to-inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.

(3) For each inspection during which a leak is detected, a record of the information specified in § 61.246(c).

(4) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 61.245(b) during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.

(5) For each visual inspection conducted in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.

(m) Closed vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall be operated at all times when emissions may be vented to them.
