
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart V - National Emission Standard for Equipment Leaks (Fugitive Emission Sources)
###### § 61.247 Reporting requirements.

(a)(1) An owner or operator of any piece of equipment to which this subpart applies shall submit a statement in writing notifying the Administrator that the requirements of §§ 61.242, 61.245, 61.246, and 61.247 are being implemented.

(2) In the case of an existing source or a new source which has an initial startup date preceding the effective date, the statement is to be submitted within 90 days of the effective date, unless a waiver of compliance is granted under § 61.11, along with the information required under § 61.10. If a waiver of compliance is granted, the statement is to be submitted on a date scheduled by the Administrator.

(3) In the case of new sources which did not have an initial startup date preceding December 14, 2000, the statement required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be submitted with the application for approval of construction, as described in § 61.07.

(4) For owners and operators complying with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C or F, the statement required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall notify the Administrator that the requirements of 40 CFR part 65, subpart C or F, are being implemented.

(5) The statement is to contain the following information for each source:

(i) Equipment identification number and process unit identification.

(ii) Type of equipment (for example, a pump or pipeline valve).

(iii) Percent by weight VHAP in the fluid at the equipment.

(iv) Process fluid state at the equipment (gas/vapor or liquid).

(v) Method of compliance with the standard (for example, "monthly leak detection and repair" or "equipped with dual mechanical seals").

(b) A report shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually starting 6 months after the initial report required in paragraph (a) of this section, that includes the following information:

(1) Process unit identification.

(2) For each month during the semiannual reporting period,

(i) Number of valves for which leaks were detected as described in § 61.242-7(b) of § 61.243-2.

(ii) Number of valves for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 61.242-7(d).

(iii) Number of pumps for which leaks were detected as described in § 61.242-2 (b) and (d)(6).

(iv) Number of pumps for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 61.242-2 (c) and (d)(6).

(v) Number of compressors for which leaks were detected as described in § 61.242-3(f).

(vi) Number of compressors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 61.242-3(g).

(vii) The facts that explain any delay of repairs and, where appropriate, why a process unit shutdown was technically infeasible.

(3) Dates of process unit shutdowns which occurred within the semiannual reporting period.

(4) Revisions to items reported according to paragraph (a) if changes have occurred since the initial report or subsequent revisions to the initial report.

(5) The results of all performance tests and monitoring to determine compliance with no detectable emissions and with §§ 61.243-1 and 61.243-2 conducted within the semiannual reporting period.

(c) In the first report submitted as required in paragraph (a) of this section, the report shall include a reporting schedule stating the months that semiannual reports shall be submitted. Subsequent reports shall be submitted according to that schedule, unless a revised schedule has been submitted in a previous semiannual report.

(d) An owner or operator electing to comply with the provisions of §§ 61.243-1 and 61.243-2 shall notify the Administrator of the alternative standard selected 90 days before implementing either of the provisions.

(e) An application for approval of construction or modification, §§ 61.05(a) and 61.07, will not be required if-

(1) The new source complies with the standard, § 61.242;

(2) The new source is not part of the construction of a process unit; and

(3) In the next semiannual report required by paragraph (b) of this section, the information in paragraph (a)(5) of this section is reported.

(f) For owners or operators choosing to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C or F, an application for approval of construction or modification, as required under §§ 61.05 and 61.07 will not be required if:

(1) The new source complies with 40 CFR 65.106 through 65.115 and with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, for surge control vessels and bottoms receivers;

(2) The new source is not part of the construction of a process unit; and

(3) In the next semiannual report required by 40 CFR 65.120(b) and 65.48(b), the information in paragraph (a)(5) of this section is reported.
