
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standard for Benzene Emissions From Benzene Storage Vessels
###### § 61.272 Compliance provisions.

(a) For each vessel complying with § 61.271(a) (fixed roof and internal floating roof) each owner or operator shall:

(1) After installing the control equipment required to comply with § 61.271(a), visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, and the secondary seal (if one is in service), prior to filling the storage vessel with benzene. If there are holes, tears or other openings in the primary seal, the secondary seal, or the seal fabric, or defects in the internal floating roof, the owner or operator shall repair the items before filling the storage vessel.

(2) Visually inspect the internal floating roof and the primary seal or the secondary seal (if one is in service) through manholes and roof hatches on the fixed roof at least once every 12 months after initial fill, or at least once every 12 months after September 14, 1989, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section. If the internal floating roof is not resting on the surface of the benzene liquid inside the storage vessel, or there is liquid on the roof, or the seal is detached, or there are holes or tears in the seal fabric, the owner or operator shall repair the items or empty and remove the storage vessel from service within 45 days. If a failure that is detected during inspections required in this paragraph cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, an extension of up to 30 additional days may be requested from the Administrator in the inspection report required in § 61.275(a). Such a request for an extension must document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable and specify a schedule of actions the company will take that will ensure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel will be emptied as soon as possible.

(3) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, the secondary seal (if one is in service), gaskets, slotted membranes and sleeve seals (if any) each time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed. In no event shall inspections conducted in accordance with this provision occur at intervals greater than 10 years in the case of vessels conducting the annual visual inspections as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and at intervals greater than 5 years in the case of vessels specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section.

(i) For all the inspections required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in writing at least 30 days prior to the refilling of each storage vessel to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. If the inspection required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 days in advance of refilling the vessel, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling of the storage vessel. Notification shall be made by telephone immediately followed by written documentation demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned. Alternatively, the notification including the written documentation may be made in writing and sent by express mail so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 days prior to refilling.

(ii) If the internal floating roof has defects, the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, or the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, or the gaskets no longer close off the liquid surfaces from the atmosphere, or the slotted membrane has more than 10 percent open area, the owner or operator shall repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph exist before refilling the storage vessel with benzene.

(4) For vessels equipped with a double-seal system as specified in § 61.271(a)(2)(ii):

(i) Visually inspect the vessel as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section at least every 5 years; or

(ii) Visually inspect the vessel annually as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and at least every 10 years as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(b) For each vessel complying with § 61.271(b) (external floating roof) the owner or operator shall:

(1) Determine the gap areas and maximum gap widths between the primary seal and the wall of the storage vessel, and the secondary seal and the wall of the storage vessel according to the following frequency.

(i) For an external floating roof vessel equipped with primary and secondary seals, measurements of gaps between the vessel wall and the primary seal (seal gaps) shall be performed during the hydrostatic testing of the vessel or within 90 days of the initial fill with benzene or within 90 days of September 14, 1989, whichever occurs last, and at least once every 5 years thereafter, except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) For an external floating roof vessel equipped with a liquid-mounted primary seal and without a secondary seal as provided for in § 61.271(b)(5), measurement of gaps between the vessel wall and the primary seal (seal gaps) shall be performed within 90 days of September 14, 1989, and at least once per year thereafter. When a secondary seal is installed over the primary seal, measurement of primary seal gaps shall be performed within 90 days of installation and at least once every 5 years thereafter.

(iii) For an external floating roof vessel equipped with primary and secondary seals, measurements of gaps between the vessel wall and the secondary seal shall be performed within 90 days of the initial fill with benzene, within 90 days of installation of the secondary seal, or within 90 days after September 14, 1989, whichever occurs last, and at least once per year thereafter.

(iv) If any source ceases to store benzene for a period of 1 year or more, subsequent introduction of benzene into the vessel shall be considered an initial fill for the purposes of paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (b)(1)(ii), and (b)(1)(iii) of this section.

(2) Determine gap widths and areas in the primary and secondary seals individually by the following procedures:

(i) Measure seal gaps, if any, at one or more floating roof levels when the roof is floating off the roof leg supports.

(ii) Measure seal gaps around the entire circumference of the vessel in each place where a 0.32 centimeter (cm) (1/8 in) diameter uniform probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against the seal) between the seal and the wall of the storage vessel and measure the circumferential distance of each such location.

(iii) The total surface area of each gap described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section shall be determined by using probes of various widths to measure accurately the actual distance from the vessel wall to the seal and multiplying each such width by its respective circumferential distance.

(3) Add the gap surface area of each gap location for the primary seal and the secondary seal individually. Divide the sum for each seal by the nominal diameter of the vessel and compare each ratio to the respective standards in § 61.272(b)(4) and § 61.272(b)(5).

(4) Repair conditions that do not meet requirements listed in paragraph (b)(4) (i) and (ii) within 45 days of identification in any inspection or empty and remove the storage vessel from service within 45 days.

(i) The accumulated area of gaps between the vessel wall and the metallic shoe seal or the liquid-mounted primary seal shall not exceed 212 cmper meter of vessel diameter (10.0 inper foot of vessel diameter) and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 3.81 cm (1in).

(A) One end of the metallic shoe is to extend into the stored liquid and the other end is to extend a minimum vertical distance of 61 cm (24 in) above the stored liquid surface.

(B) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the shoe, seal fabric, or seal envelope.

(ii) The secondary seal is to meet the following requirements:

(A) The secondary seal is to be installed above the primary seal so that it completely covers the space between the roof edge and the vessel wall except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.

(B) The accumulated area of gaps between the vessel wall and the secondary seal shall not exceed 21.2 cmper meter of vessel diameter (1.0 inper foot of vessel diameter) or the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 1.27 cm (in). These seal gap requirements may be exceeded during the measurement of primary seal gaps as required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(C) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or seal fabric.

(iii) If a failure that is detected during inspections required in this paragraph cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, an extension of up to 30 additional days may be requested from the Administrator in the inspection report required in § 61.275(d). Such extension request must include a demonstration of unavailability of alternate storage capacity and a specification of a schedule that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel will be emptied as soon as possible.

(5) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator 30 days in advance of any gap measurements required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.

(6) Visually inspect the external floating roof, the primary seal, secondary seal, and fittings each time the vessel is emptied and degassed.

(i) If the external floating roof has defects, the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, or the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, the owner or operator shall repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph exist before filling or refilling the storage vessel with benzene.

(ii) For all the inspections required by paragraph (b)(6) of this section, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in writing at least 30 days prior to filling or refilling of each storage vessel to afford the Administrator the opportunity to inspect the storage vessel prior to refilling. If the inspection required by paragraph (b)(6) of this section is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 days in advance of refilling the vessel, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to refilling of the storage vessel. Notification shall be made by telephone immediately followed by written documentation demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned. Alternatively, this notification including the written documentation may be made in writing and sent by express mail so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling.

(c) The owner or operator of each source that is equipped with a closed vent system and control device as required in § 60.271(c), other than a flare, shall meet the following requirements.

(1) Within 90 days after initial fill or after September 14, 1989, whichever comes last, submit for approval by the Administrator, an operating plan containing the information listed below.

(i) Documentation demonstrating that the control device being used achieves the required control efficiency during reasonably expected maximum loading conditions. This documentation is to include a description of the gas stream which enters the control device, including flow and benzene content under varying liquid level conditions (dynamic and static) and manufacturer's design specifications for the control device. If the control device or the closed vent capture system receives vapors, gases or liquids, other than fuels, from sources that are not designated sources under this subpart, the efficiency demonstration is to include consideration of all vapors, gases and liquids received by the closed vent capture system and control device. If an enclosed combustion device with a minimum residence time of 0.75 seconds and a minimum temperature of 816 &#xB0;C (1,500 &#xB0;F) is used to meet the 95 percent requirement, documentation that those conditions exist is sufficient to meet the requirements of this paragraph.

(ii) A description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control device is operated and maintained in conformance with its design and an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters).

(iii) A maintenance plan for the system including the type of maintenance necessary, planned frequency of maintenance, and lengths of maintenance periods for those operations that would require the closed vent system or the control device to be out of compliance with § 61.271(c). The maintenance plan shall require that the system be out of compliance with § 61.271(c) for no more than 72 hours per year.

(2) Operate, monitor the parameters, and maintain the closed vent system and control device in accordance with the operating plan submitted to the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the plan was modified by the Administrator during the approval process. In this case, the modified plan applies.

(d) The owner or operator of each source that is equipped with a closed vent system and a flare to meet the requirements in § 61.271(c) shall meet the requirements as specified in the general control device requirements in 40 CFR 60.18 (e) and (f).
