
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standard for Benzene Emissions From Benzene Storage Vessels
###### ยง 61.270 Applicability and designation of sources.

(a) The source to which this subpart applies is each storage vessel that is storing benzene having a specific gravity within the range of specific gravities specified in ASTM D836-84 for Industrial Grade Benzene, ASTM D835-85 for Refined Benzene-485, ASTM D2359-85a or 93 for Refined Benzene-535, and ASTM D4734-87 or 96 for Refined Benzene-545. These specifications are incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 61.18. See ยง 61.18 for acceptable versions of these methods.

(b) Except for paragraph (b) in ยง 61.276, storage vessels with a design storage capacity less than 38 cubic meters (10,000 gallons) are exempt from the provisions of this subpart.

(c) This subpart does not apply to storage vessels used for storing benzene at coke by-product facilities.

(d) This subpart does not apply to vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, rail cars, barges, or ships.

(e) This subpart does not apply to pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kPa (29.72 psia) and without emissions to the atmosphere.

(f) A designated source subject to the provisions of this subpart that is also subject to applicable provisions of 40 CFR part 60 subparts K, Ka, and Kb shall be required to comply only with the subpart that contains the most stringent requirements for that source.
