
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standard for Benzene Emissions From Benzene Storage Vessels
###### § 61.274 Initial report.

(a) The owner or operator of each storage vessel to which this subpart applies and which has a design capacity greater than or equal to 38 cubic meters (10,000 gallons) shall submit an initial report describing the controls which will be applied to meet the equipment requirements of § 61.271 or § 61.270(g). For an existing storage vessel or a new storage vessel for which construction and operation commenced prior to September 14, 1989, this report shall be submitted within 90 days of September 14, 1989 and can be combined with the report required by § 61.10. For a new storage vessel for which construction or operation commenced on or after September 14, 1989, the report shall be combined with the report required by § 61.07 or 40 CFR 65.5(b). In the case where the owner or operator seeks to comply with § 61.271(c), with a control device other than a flare, this information may consist of the information required by § 61.272(c)(1).

(b) The owner or operator of each storage vessel seeking to comply with § 61.271(c) with a flare, shall submit a report containing the measurements required by 40 CFR 60.18(f) (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6). For the owner or operator of an existing storage vessel not seeking to obtain a waiver or a new storage vessel for which construction and operation commenced prior to September 14, 1989, this report shall be combined with the report required by paragraph (a) of this section. For the owner or operator of an existing storage vessel seeking to obtain a waiver, the reporting date will be established in the response to the waiver request. For the owner or operator of a new storage vessel for which construction or operation commenced after September 14, 1989, the report shall be submitted within 9O days of the date the vessel is initially filled (or partially filled) with benzene.
