
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standard for Benzene Emissions From Benzene Storage Vessels
###### § 61.275 Periodic report.

(a) The owner or operator of each storage vessel to which this subpart applies after installing control equipment in accordance with § 61.271(a) (fixed roof and internal floating roof) shall submit a report describing the results of each inspection conducted in accordance with § 61.272(a). For vessels for which annual inspections are required under § 61.272(a)(2), the first report is to be submitted no more than 12 months after the initial report submitted in accordance with § 61.274, and each report is to be submitted within 60 days of each annual inspection.

(1) Each report shall include the date of the inspection of each storage vessel and identify each storage vessel in which:

(i) The internal floating roof is not resting on the surface of the benzene liquid inside the storage vessel, or there is liquid on the roof, or the seal is detached from the internal floating roof, or there are holes, tears or other openings in the seal or seal fabric; or

(ii) There are visible gaps between the seal and the wall of the storage vessel.

(2) Where an annual report identifies any condition in paragraph (a)(1) of this section the annual report shall describe the nature of the defect, the date the storage vessel was emptied, and the nature of and date the repair was made, except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(3) If an extension is requested in an annual periodic report in accordance with § 61.272(a)(2), a supplemental periodic report shall be submitted within 15 days of repair. The supplemental periodic report shall identify the vessel and describe the date the storage vessel was emptied and the nature of and date the repair was made.

(b) The owner or operator of each storage vessel to which this subpart applies after installing control equipment in accordance with § 61.271(a) (fixed roof and internal floating roof) shall submit a report describing the results of each inspection conducted in accordance with § 61.272(a) (3) or (4).

(1) The report is to be submitted within 60 days of conducting each inspection required by § 61.272(a) (3) or (4).

(2) Each report shall identify each storage vessel in which the owner or operator finds that the internal floating roof has defects, the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, or the secondary seal (if one has been installed) has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, or the gaskets no longer close off the liquid surfaces from the atmosphere, or the slotted membrane has more than 10 percent open area. The report shall also describe the nature of the defect, the date the storage vessel was emptied, and the nature of and date the repair was made.

(c) Any owner or operator of an existing storage vessel which had an internal floating roof with a continuous seal as of July 28, 1988, and which seeks to comply with the requirements of § 61.271(a)(5) during the first time after September 14, 1989, when the vessel is emptied and degassed but no later than 10 years from September 14, 1989, shall notify the Administrator 30 days prior to the completion of the installation of such controls and the date of refilling of the vessel so the Administrator has an opportunity to have an observer present to inspect the storage vessel before it is refilled. This report can be combined with the one required by § 61.275(b).

(d) The owner or operator of each storage vessel to which this subpart applies after installing control equipment in accordance with § 61.271(b) (external floating roof) shall submit a report describing the results of each seal gap measurement made in accordance with § 61.272(b). The first report is to be submitted no more than 12 months after the initial report submitted in accordance with § 61.274(a), and each annual periodic report is to be submitted within 60 days of each annual inspection.

(1) Each report shall include the date of the measurement, the raw data obtained in the measurement, and the calculations described in § 61.272(b) (2) and (3), and shall identify each storage vessel which does not meet the gap specifications of § 61.272(b). Where an annual report identifies any vessel not meeting the seal gap specifications of § 61.272(b) the report shall describe the date the storage vessel was emptied, the measures used to correct the condition and the date the storage vessel was brought into compliance.

(2) If an extension is requested in an annual periodic report in accordance with § 61.272(b)(4)(iii), a supplemental periodic report shall be submitted within 15 days of repair. The supplemental periodic report shall identify the vessel and describe the date the vessel was emptied and the nature of and date the repair was made.

(e) Excess emission report.

(1) The owner or operator of each source seeking to comply with § 61.271(c) (vessels equipped with closed vent systems with control devices) shall submit a quarterly report informing the Administrator of each occurrence that results in excess emissions. Excess emissions are emissions that occur at any time when compliance with the specifications and requirements of § 61.271(c) are not achieved, as evidenced by the parameters being measured in accordance with § 61.272(c)(1)(ii) if a control device other than a flare is used, or by the measurements required in § 61.272(d) and the general control device requirements in 40 CFR 60.18(f) (1) and (2) if a flare is used.

(2) The owner or operator shall submit the following information as a minimum in the report required by (e)(1) of this section:

(i) Identify the stack and other emission points where the excess emissions occurred;

(ii) A statement of whether or not the owner or operator believes a control system malfunction has occurred.

(3) If the owner or operator states that a control system malfunction has occurred, the following information as a minimum is also to be included in the report required under paragraph (e)(1) of this section:

(i) Time and duration of the control system malfunction as determined by continuous monitoring data (if any), or the inspections or monitoring done in accordance with the operating plan required by § 61.272(c).

(ii) Cause of excess emissions.
