
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standard for Benzene Emissions From Benzene Storage Vessels
###### § 61.276 Recordkeeping.

(a) Each owner or operator with a storage vessel subject to this subpart shall keep copies of all the reports and records required by this subpart for at least 2 years, except as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c)(1) of this section.

(b) Each owner or operator with a storage vessel, including any vessel which has a design storage capacity less than 38 cubic meters (10,000 gallons), shall keep readily accessible records showing the dimensions of the storage vessel and an analysis showing the capacity of the storage vessel. This record shall be kept as long as the storage vessel is in operation. Each storage vessel with a design capacity of less than 38 cubic meters (10,000 gallons) is subject to no provisions of this subpart other than those required by this paragraph.

(c) The following information pertaining to closed vent system and control devices shall be kept in a readily accessible location.

(1) A copy of the operating plan. This record shall be kept as long as the closed vent system and control device is in use.

(2) A record of the measured values of the parameters monitored in accordance with § 61.272(c)(1)(ii) and § 61.272(c)(2).

(3) A record of the maintenance performed in accordance with § 61.272(c)(1)(iii) of the operating plan, including the following:

(i) The duration of each time the closed vent system and control device does not meet the specifications of § 61.271(c) due to maintenance, including the following:

(A) The first time of day and date the requirements of 61.271(c) were not met at the beginning of maintenance.

(B) The first time of day and date the requirements of § 61.271(c) were met at the conclusion of maintenance.

(C) A continuous record of the liquid level in each storage vessel that the closed vent system and control device receive vapors from during the interval between the times specified by (c)(3)(i)(A) and (c)(3)(i)(B). Pumping records (simultaneous input and output) may be substituted for records of the liquid level.
