
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart BB - National Emission Standard for Benzene Emissions From Benzene Transfer Operations
###### § 61.305 Reporting and recordkeeping.

(a) Each owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep an up-to-date, readily accessible record of the following data measured during each performance test, and also include the following data in the report of the initial performance test required under § 61.13. Where a steam generating unit or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 MW (150 x 10BTU/hr) or greater is used to comply with § 61.302(b), a report containing performance test data need not be submitted, but a report containing the information in § 61.305(a)(3)(i) is required.

(1) Where an owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart is complying with § 61.302(b) through use of an incinerator:

(i) The average firebox temperature of the incinerator (or the average temperature upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed), measured at least every 2 minutes during a loading cycle if the total time period of the loading cycle is less than 3 hours and every 15 minutes if the total time period of the loading cycle is equal to or greater than 3 hours. The measured temperature shall be averaged over the loading cycle.

(ii) The percent reduction of benzene determined as specified in § 61.304(a) achieved by the incinerator.

(iii) The duration of the loading cycle.

(2) Where an owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart is complying with § 61.302 (b) and (c) through use of a smokeless flare or other flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted or nonassisted), all visible emission readings, heat content determination, flow rate measurements, maximum permitted velocity calculations, and exit velocity determinations made during the performance test, continuous records of the flare pilot flame monitoring measured continuously during the loading cycle, duration of all loading cycles and records of all loading cycles during which the pilot flame is absent for each vent stream.

(3) Where an owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart is complying with § 61.302(b) through the use of a steam generating unit or process heater:

(i) A description of the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the steam generating unit or process heater.

(ii) The average combustion temperature of the steam generating unit or process heater with a design heat input capacity of less than 44 MW (150 x 10BTU/hr), measured with the following frequency: at least every 2 minutes during a loading cycle if the total time period of the loading cycle is less than 3 hours, and every 15 minutes if the total time period of the loading cycle is equal to or greater than 3 hours. The measured temperature shall be averaged over the loading cycle.

(iii) The duration of the loading cycle.

(4) Where an owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart is complying with § 61.302(b) through the use of a carbon adsorption system, the control efficiency, R, of the carbon adsorption system, and all supporting performance test data and calculations used to determine that value.

(5) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit with the initial performance test an engineering report describing in detail the vent system used to vent each affected vent stream to a control device. This report shall include all valves and vent pipes that could vent the stream to the atmosphere, thereby bypassing the control device, and identify which valves are car-sealed opened and which valves are car-sealed closed.

(b) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 61.303 (a), (c), and (d) as well as up-to-date, readily accessible records of periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries established during the most recent performance test are exceeded. The Administrator may at any time require a report of these data. Periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries established during the most recent performance tests are exceeded are defined as follows:

(1) For thermal incinerators, all loading cycles during which the average combustion temperature was more than 28 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) below the average loading cycle combustion temperature during the most recent performance test at which compliance with § 61.302(b) was determined.

(2) For catalytic incinerators, all loading cycles during which the average temperature of the vent stream immediately before the catalyst bed is more than 28 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) below the average temperature of the process vent stream during loading cycles during the most recent performance test at which compliance with § 61.302(b) was determined.

(3) All loading cycles during which the average combustion temperature was more than 28 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) below the average combustion temperature during the most recent performance test at which compliance with § 61.302(b) was determined for steam generating units or process heaters with a design heat input capacity of less than 44 MW (150 x 10BTU/hr).

(4) For steam generating units or process heaters, whenever there is a change in the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the flame zone as required under § 61.302(b).

(5) For carbon adsorbers, all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average VOC concentration or reading of organics in the exhaust gases is more than 20 percent greater than the average exhaust gas concentration or reading measured by the organics monitoring device during the most recent determination of the recovery efficiency of the carbon adsorber that demonstrated that the facility was in compliance.

(c) If a vent system containing valves that could divert the emission stream away from the control device is used, each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep for at least 2 years up-to-date, readily accessible continuous records of:

(1) All periods when flow is indicated if flow indicators are installed under § 61.303(g)(1).

(2) All times when maintenance is performed on car-sealed valves, when the car seal is broken, and when the valve position is changed (i.e., from open to closed for valves in the vent piping to the control device and from closed to open for valves that vent the stream directly or indirectly to the atmosphere bypassing the control device) if valves are monitored under § 60.303(g)(2).

(d) Each owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the provisions of this subpart who uses a steam generating unit or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 MW (150 x 10BTU/hr) or greater to comply with § 61.302(b) shall keep an up-to-date, readily accessible record of all periods of operation of the steam generating unit or process heater. Examples of such records could include records of steam use, fuel use, or monitoring data collected pursuant to other State or Federal regulatory requirements.

(e) Each owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of the flare pilot flame monitoring specified under § 61.303(b), as well as up-to-date, readily accessible records of any absence of the pilot flame during a loading cycle.

(f) Each owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the requirements of § 61.302 shall submit to the Administrator quarterly reports of the following information. The owner or operator shall submit the initial report within 90 days after the effective date of this subpart or 90 days after startup for a source that has an initial startup date after the effective date.

(1) Periods of operation where there were exceedances of monitored parameters recorded under § 61.305(b).

(2) All periods recorded under § 61.305(c)(1) when the vent stream is diverted from the control device.

(3) All periods recorded under § 61.305(d) when the steam generating unit or process heater was not operating.

(4) All periods recorded under § 61.305(e) in which the pilot flame of the flare was absent.

(5) All times recorded under § 61.305(c)(2) when maintenance is performed on car-sealed valves, when the car seal is broken, and when the valve position is changed.

(g) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall keep the vapor-tightness documentation required under § 61.302 (d) and (e) on file at the affected facility in a permanent form available for inspection.

(h) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall update the documentation file required under § 61.302 (d) and (e) for each tank truck, railcar, or marine vessel at least once per year to reflect current test results as determined by the appropriate method. The owner or operator shall include, as a minimum, the following information in this documentation:

(1) Test title;

(2) Tank truck, railcar, or marine vessel owner and address;

(3) Tank truck, railcar, or marine vessel identification number;

(4) Testing location;

(5) Date of test;

(6) Tester name and signature;

(7) Witnessing inspector: name, signature, and affiliation; and

(8) Test results, including, for railcars and tank trucks, the initial pressure up to which the tank was pressured at the start of the test.

(i) Each owner or operator of an affected facility complying with § 61.300(b) or § 61.300(d) shall record the following information. The first year after promulgation the owner or operator shall submit a report containing the requested information to the Director of the Emission Standards Division, (MD-13), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711. After the first year, the owner or operator shall continue to record; however, no reporting is required. The information shall be made available if requested. The information shall include, as a minimum:

(1) The affected facility's name and address;

(2) The weight percent of the benzene loaded;

(3) The type of vessel loaded (i.e., tank truck, railcar, or marine vessel); and

(4) The annual amount of benzene loaded into each type of vessel.
