
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart BB - National Emission Standard for Benzene Emissions From Benzene Transfer Operations
###### § 61.303 Monitoring requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of an affected facility that uses an incinerator to comply with the percent reduction requirement specified under § 61.302(b) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to manufacturer's specifications a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder and having an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the combustion temperature being measured expressed in degrees Celsius or +/-0.5 &#xB0;C, whichever is greater.

(1) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, the owner or operator of the affected facility shall install a temperature monitoring device in the firebox.

(2) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, the owner or operator shall install temperature monitoring devices in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.

(b) Each owner or operator of an affected facility that uses a flare to comply with § 61.302(b) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to manufacturer's specifications a heat sensing device, such as an ultraviolet beam sensor or thermocouple, at the pilot light to indicate the presence of a flame during the entire loading cycle.

(c) Each owner or operator of an affected facility that uses a steam generating unit or process heater to comply with § 61.302(b) shall comply with the following requirements. Where a steam generating unit with a design heat input capacity of less than 44 MW (150 x 10BTU/hr) is used to comply with § 61.302(b), the owner or operator of an affected facility shall comply with paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Where a steam generating unit or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 MW (150 x 10BTU/hr) or greater is used to comply with § 61.302(b), the owner or operator of an affected facility shall comply with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(1) Install in the firebox, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to manufacturer's specifications a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder and having an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being measured expressed in degrees Celsius or +/-0.5 &#xB0;C, whichever is greater, for steam generating units or process heaters of less than 44 MW (150 x 10BTU/hr) design heat input capacity.

(2) Monitor and record the periods of operation of the steam generating units or process heater if the design heat input capacity of the steam generating unit or process heater is 44 MW (150 x 10BTU/hr) or greater. The records must be readily available for inspection.

(d) Each owner or operator of an affected facility that uses a carbon adsorption system to comply with the percent reduction requirement specified under § 61.302(b) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to manufacturer's specifications a device that continuously indicates and records the concentration or reading of organic compounds in the outlet gas stream of each carbon adsorber bed.

(e) The owner or operator of an affected facility who wishes to demonstrate compliance with the standards specified under § 61.302(b) using control devices other than an incinerator, steam generating unit, process heater, carbon adsorber, or flare shall provide the Administrator with information describing the operation of the control device and the process parameter(s) that would indicate proper operation and maintenance of the device. The Administrator may request further information and will specify appropriate monitoring procedures or requirements.

(f) Each owner or operator of an affected facility complying with § 61.302(e)(1) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a recording pressure measurement device (magnehelic gauge or equivalent device) and an audible and visible alarm system that is activated when the pressure vacuum specified in § 61.302(e)(1) is not attained. The owner or operator shall place the alarm system so that it can be seen and heard where cargo transfer is controlled and on the open deck.

(g) Owners or operators using a vent system that contains valves that could divert a vent stream from a control device used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall do one or a combination of the following:

(1) Install a flow indicator immediately downstream of each valve that if opened would allow a vent stream to bypass the control device and be emitted, either directly or indirectly, to the atmosphere. The flow indicator shall be capable of recording flow at least once every 15 minutes.
