
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart FF - National Emission Standard for Benzene Waste Operations
###### ยง 61.340 Applicability.

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to owners and operators of chemical manufacturing plants, coke by-product recovery plants, and petroleum refineries.

(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to owners and operators of hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities that treat, store, or dispose of hazardous waste generated by any facility listed in paragraph (a) of this section. The waste streams at hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities subject to the provisions of this subpart are the benzene-containing hazardous waste from any facility listed in paragraph (a) of this section. A hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facility is a facility that must obtain a hazardous waste management permit under subtitle C of the Solid Waste Disposal Act.

(c) At each facility identified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the following waste is exempt from the requirements of this subpart:

(1) Waste in the form of gases or vapors that is emitted from process fluids:

(2) Waste that is contained in a segregated stormwater sewer system.

(d) At each facility identified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, any gaseous stream from a waste management unit, treatment process, or wastewater treatment system routed to a fuel gas system, as defined in ยง 61.341, is exempt from this subpart. No testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting is required under this subpart for any gaseous stream from a waste management unit, treatment process, or wastewater treatment unit routed to a fuel gas system.
