
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart FF - National Emission Standard for Benzene Waste Operations
###### § 61.349 Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.

(a) For each closed-vent system and control device used to comply with standards in accordance with §§ 61.343 through 61.348 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall properly design, install, operate, and maintain the closed-vent system and control device in accordance with the following requirements:

(1) The closed-vent system shall:

(i) Be designed to operate with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background, as determined initially and thereafter at least once per year by the methods specified in § 61.355(h) of this subpart.

(ii) Vent systems that contain any bypass line that could divert the vent stream away from a control device used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall install, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow indicator that provides a record of vent stream flow away from the control device at least once every 15 minutes, except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section.

(A) The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the vent stream away from the control device to the atmosphere.

(B) Where the bypass line valve is secured in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration, a flow indicator is not required.

(iii) All gauging and sampling devices shall be gas-tight except when gauging or sampling is taking place.

(iv) For each closed-vent system complying with paragraph (a) of this section, one or more devices which vent directly to the atmosphere may be used on the closed-vent system provided each device remains in a closed, sealed position during normal operations except when the device needs to open to prevent physical damage or permanent deformation of the closed-vent system resulting from malfunction of the unit in accordance with good engineering and safety practices for handling flammable, explosive, or other hazardous materials.

(2) The control device shall be designed and operated in accordance with the following conditions:

(i) An enclosed combustion device (e.g., a vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) shall meet one of the following conditions:

(A) Reduce the organic emissions vented to it by 95 weight percent or greater;

(B) Achieve a total organic compound concentration of 20 ppmv (as the sum of the concentrations for individual compounds using Method 18) on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen; or

(C) Provide a minimum residence time of 0.5 seconds at a minimum temperature of 760 &#xB0;C (1,400 &#xB0;F). If a boiler or process heater issued as the control device, then the vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.

(ii) A vapor recovery system (e.g., a carbon adsorption system or a condenser) shall recover or control the organic emissions vented to it with an efficiency of 95 weight percent or greater, or shall recover or control the benzene emissions vented to it with an efficiency of 98 weight percent or greater.

(iii) A flare shall comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 60.18.

(iv) A control device other than those described in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) through (iii) of this section may be used provided that the following conditions are met:

(A) The device shall recover or control the organic emissions vented to it with an efficiency of 95 weight percent or greater, or shall recover or control the benzene emissions vented to it with an efficiency of 98 weight percent or greater.

(B) The owner or operator shall develop test data and design information that documents the control device will achieve an emission control efficiency of either 95 percent or greater for organic compounds or 98 percent or greater for benzene.

(C) The owner or operator shall identify:
