
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart FF - National Emission Standard for Benzene Waste Operations
###### § 61.349 Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.
####### 3

() How these operating parameters will be monitored to ensure the proper operation and maintenance of the device.

(D) The owner or operator shall submit the information and data specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(iv) (B) and (C) of this section to the Administrator prior to operation of the alternative control device.

(E) The Administrator will determine, based on the information submitted under paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(D) of this section, if the control device subiect to paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section meets the requirements of § 61.349. The control device subject to paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section may be operated prior to receiving approval from the Administrator. However, if the Administrator determines that the control device does not meet the requirements of § 61.349, the facility may be subject to enforcement action beginning from the time the control device began operation.

(b) Each closed-vent system and control device used to comply with this subpart shall be operated at all times when waste is placed in the waste management unit vented to the control device except when maintenance or repair of the waste management unit cannot be completed without a shutdown of the control device.

(c) An owner and operator shall demonstrate that each control device, except for a flare, achieves the appropriate conditions specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section by using one of the following methods:

(1) Engineering calculations in accordance with requirements specified in § 61.356(f) of this subpart; or

(2) Performance tests conducted using the test methods and procedures that meet the requirements specified in § 61.355 of this subpart.

(d) An owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance of each flare in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.

(e) The Administrator may request at any time an owner or operator demonstrate that a control device meets the applicable conditions specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section by conducting a performance test using the test methods and procedures as required in § 61.355, and for control devices subject to paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section, the Administrator may specify alternative test methods and procedures, as appropriate.

(f) Each closed-vent system and control device shall be visually inspected initially and quarterly thereafter. The visual inspection shall include inspection of ductwork and piping and connections to covers and control devices for evidence of visable defects such as holes in ductwork or piping and loose connections.

(g) Except as provided in § 61.350 of this subpart, if visible defects are observed during an inspection, or if other problems are identified, or if detectable emissions are measured, a first effort to repair the closed-vent system and control device shall be made as soon as practicable but no later than 5 calendar days after detection. Repair shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the emissions are detected or the visible defect is observed.

(h) The owner or operator of a control device that is used to comply with the provisions of this section shall monitor the control device in accordance with § 61.354(c) of this subpart.
