
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart FF - National Emission Standard for Benzene Waste Operations
###### ยง 61.355 Test methods, procedures, and compliance provisions.
####### 2

() The ammonia still meets the definition of a sour water stripper in ยง 61.341.

(C) The determination for wastes that are received from offsite shall be made at the point where the waste enters the hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facility.

(D) The determination of flow-weighted annual average benzene concentration for process unit turnaround waste shall be made using either of the methods given in paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section. The resulting flow-weighted annual average benzene concentration shall be included in the calculation of annual benzene quantity as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section for the year in which the turnaround occurs and for each subsequent year until the unit undergoes the next process unit turnaround.

(ii) Volatilization of the benzene by exposure to air shall not be used in the determination to reduce the benzene concentration.

(iii) Mixing or diluting the waste stream with other wastes or other materials shall not be used in the determination-to reduce the benzene concentration.

(iv) The determination shall be made prior to any treatment of the waste that removes benzene, except as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.

(v) For wastes with multiple phases, the determination shall provide the weighted-average benzene concentration based on the benzene concentration in each phase of the waste and the relative proportion of the phases.
