
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart FF - National Emission Standard for Benzene Waste Operations
###### § 61.354 Monitoring of operations.

(a) Except for a treatment process or waste stream complying with § 61.348(d), the owner or operator shall monitor each treatment process or wastewater treatment system unit to ensure the unit is properly operated and maintained by one of the following monitoring procedures:

(1) Measure the benzene concentration of the waste stream exiting the treatment process complying with § 61.348(a)(1)(i) at least once per month by collecting and analyzing one or more samples using the procedures specified in § 61.355(c)(3).

(2) Install, calibrate, operate, and maintain according to manufacturer's specifications equipment to continuously monitor and record a process parameter (or parameters) for the treatment process or wastewater treatment system unit that indicates proper system operation. The owner or operator shall inspect at least once each operating day the data recorded by the monitoring equipment (e.g., temperature monitor or flow indicator) to ensure that the unit is operating properly.

(b) If an owner or operator complies with the requirements of § 61.348(b), then the owner or operator shall monitor each wastewater treatment system to ensure the unit is properly operated and maintained by the appropriate monitoring procedure as follows:

(1) For the first exempt waste management unit in each waste treatment train, other than an enhanced biodegradation unit, measure the flow rate, using the procedures of § 61.355(b), and the benzene concentration of each waste stream entering the unit at least once per month by collecting and analyzing one or more samples using the procedures specified in § 61.355(c)(3).

(2) For each enhanced biodegradation unit that is the first exempt waste management unit in a treatment train, measure the benzene concentration of each waste stream entering the unit at least once per month by collecting and analyzing one or more samples using the procedures specified in § 61.355(c)(3).

(c) An owner or operator subject to the requirements in § 61.349 of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a device to continuously monitor the control device operation as specified in the following paragraphs, unless alternative monitoring procedures or requirements are approved for that facility by the Administrator. The owner or operator shall inspect at least once each operating day the data recorded by the monitoring equipment (e.g., temperature monitor or flow indicator) to ensure that the control device is operating properly.

(1) For a thermal vapor incinerator, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device shall have an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being monitored in &#xB0;C or +/-0.5 &#xB0;C, whichever is greater. The temperature sensor shall be installed at a representative location in the combustion chamber.

(2) For a catalytic vapor incinerator, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device shall be capable of monitoring temperature at two locations, and have an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being monitored in &#xB0;C or +/-0.5 &#xB0;C, whichever is greater. One temperature sensor shall be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed inlet and a second temperature sensor shall be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed outlet.

(3) For a flare, a monitoring device in accordance with 40 CFR 60.18(f)(2) equipped with a continuous recorder.

(4) For a boiler or process heater having a design heat input capacity less than 44 MW (150 x 10BTU/hr), a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device shall have an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being monitored in &#xB0;C or +/-0.5 &#xB0;C, whichever is greater. The temperature sensor shall be installed at a representative location in the combustion chamber.

(5) For a boiler or process heater having a design heat input capacity greater than or equal to 44 MW (150 x 10BTU/hr), a monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder to measure a parameter(s) that indicates good combustion operating practices are being used.

(6) For a condenser, either:

(i) A monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder to measure either the concentration level of the organic compounds or the concentration level of benzene in the exhaust vent stream from the condenser; or

(ii) A temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device shall be capable of monitoring temperature at two locations, and have an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being monitored in &#xB0;C or +/-0.5 &#xB0;C, whichever is greater. One temperature sensor shall be installed at a location in the exhaust stream from the condenser, and a second temperature sensor shall be installed at a location in the coolant fluid exiting the condenser.

(7) For a carbon adsorption system that regenerates the carbon bed directly in the control device such as a fixed-bed carbon adsorber, either:

(i) A monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder to measure either the concentration level of the organic compounds or the benzene concentration level in the exhaust vent stream from the carbon bed; or

(ii) A monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder to measure a parameter that indicates the carbon bed is regenerated on a regular, predetermined time cycle.

(8) For a vapor recovery system other than a condenser or carbon adsorption system, a monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder to measure either the concentration level of the organic compounds or the benzene concentration level in the exhaust vent stream from the control device.

(9) For a control device subject to the requirements of § 61.349(a)(2)(iv), devices to monitor the parameters as specified in § 61.349(a)(2)(iv)(C).

(d) For a carbon adsorption system that does not regenerate the carbon bed directly on site in the control device (e.g., a carbon canister), either the concentration level of the organic compounds or the concentration level of benzene in the exhaust vent stream from the carbon adsorption system shall be monitored on a regular schedule, and the existing carbon shall be replaced with fresh carbon immediately when carbon breakthrough is indicated. The device shall be monitored on a daily basis or at intervals no greater than 20 percent of the design carbon replacement interval, whichever is greater. As an alternative to conducting this monitoring, an owner or operator may replace the carbon in the carbon adsorption system with fresh carbon at a regular predetermined time interval that is less than the carbon replacement interval that is determined by the maximum design flow rate and either the organic concentration or the benzene concentration in the gas stream vented to the carbon adsorption system.

(e) An alternative operation or process parameter may be monitored if it can be demonstrated that another parameter will ensure that the control device is operated in conformance with these standards and the control device's design specifications.

(f) Owners or operators using a closed-vent system that contains any bypass line that could divert a vent stream from a control device used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall do the following:

(1) Visually inspect the bypass line valve at least once every month, checking the position of the valve and the condition of the car-seal or closure mechanism required under § 61.349(a)(1)(ii) to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass line.

(2) Visually inspect the readings from each flow monitoring device required by § 61.349(a)(1)(ii) at least once each operating day to check that vapors are being routed to the control device as required.

(g) Each owner or operator who uses a system for emission control that is maintained at a pressure less than atmospheric pressure with openings to provide dilution air shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a device equipped with a continuous recorder to monitor the pressure in the unit to ensure that it is less than atmospheric pressure.
