
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart FF - National Emission Standard for Benzene Waste Operations
###### § 61.356 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of a facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of this section. Each record shall be maintained in a readily accessible location at the facility site for a period not less than two years from the date the information is recorded unless otherwise specified.

(b) Each owner or operator shall maintain records that identify each waste stream at the facility subject to this subpart, and indicate whether or not the waste stream is controlled for benzene emissions in accordance with this subpart. In addition the owner or operator shall maintain the following records:

(1) For each waste stream not controlled for benzene emissions in accordance with this subpart, the records shall include all test results, measurements, calculations, and other documentation used to determine the following information for the waste stream: waste stream identification, water content, whether or not the waste stream is a process wastewater stream, annual waste quantity, range of benzene concentrations, annual average flow-weighted benzene concentration, and annual benzene quantity.

(2) For each waste stream exempt from § 61.342(c)(1) in accordance with § 61.342(c)(3), the records shall include:

(i) All measurements, calculations, and other documentation used to determine that the continuous flow of process wastewater is less than 0.02 liters (0.005 gallons) per minute or the annual waste quantity of process wastewater is less than 10 Mg/yr (11 ton/yr) in accordance with § 61.342(c)(3)(i), or

(ii) All measurements, calculations, and other documentation used to determine that the sum of the total annual benzene quantity in all exempt waste streams does not exceed 2.0 Mg/yr (2.2 ton/yr) in accordance with § 61.342(c)(3)(ii).

(3) For each facility where process wastewater streams are controlled for benzene emissions in accordance with § 61.342(d) of this subpart, the records shall include for each treated process wastewater stream all measurements, calculations, and other documentation used to determine the annual benzene quantity in the process wastewater stream exiting the treatment process.

(4) For each facility where waste streams are controlled for benzene emissions in accordance with § 61.342(e), the records shall include for each waste stream all measurements, including the locations of the measurements, calculations, and other documentation used to determine that the total benzene quantity does not exceed 6.0 Mg/yr (6.6 ton/yr).

(5) For each facility where the annual waste quantity for process unit turnaround waste is determined in accordance with § 61.355(b)(5), the records shall include all test results, measurements, calculations, and other documentation used to determine the following information: identification of each process unit at the facility that undergoes turnarounds, the date of the most recent turnaround for each process unit, identification of each process unit turnaround waste, the water content of each process unit turnaround waste, the annual waste quantity determined in accordance with § 61.355(b)(5), the range of benzene concentrations in the waste, the annual average flow-weighted benzene concentration of the waste, and the annual benzene quantity calculated in accordance with § 61.355(a)(1)(iii) of this section.

(6) For each facility where wastewater streams are controlled for benzene emissions in accordance with § 61.348(b)(2), the records shall include all measurements, calculations, and other documentation used to determine the annual benzene content of the waste streams and the total annual benzene quantity contained in all waste streams managed or treated in exempt waste management units.

(c) An owner or operator transferring waste off-site to another facility for treatment in accordance with § 61.342(f) shall maintain documentation for each offsite waste shipment that includes the following information: Date waste is shipped offsite, quantity of waste shipped offsite, name and address of the facility receiving the waste, and a copy of the notice sent with the waste shipment.

(d) An owner or operator using control equipment in accordance with §§ 61.343 through 61.347 shall maintain engineering design documentation for all control equipment that is installed on the waste management unit. The documentation shall be retained for the life of the control equipment. If a control device is used, then the owner or operator shall maintain the control device records required by paragraph (f) of this section.

(e) An owner or operator using a treatment process or wastewater treatment system unit in accordance with § 61.348 of this subpart shall maintain the following records. The documentation shall be retained for the life of the unit.

(1) A statement signed and dated by the owner or operator certifying that the unit is designed to operate at the documented performance level when the waste stream entering the unit is at the highest waste stream flow rate and benzene content expected to occur.

(2) If engineering calculations are used to determine treatment process or wastewater treatment system unit performance, then the owner or operator shall maintain the complete design analysis for the unit. The design analysis shall include for example the following information: Design specifications, drawings, schematics, piping and instrumentation diagrams, and other documentation necessary to demonstrate the unit performance.

(3) If performance tests are used to determine treatment process or wastewater treatment system unit performance, then the owner or operator shall maintain all test information necessary to demonstrate the unit performance.

(i) A description of the unit including the following information: type of treatment process; manufacturer name and model number; and for each waste stream entering and exiting the unit, the waste stream type (e.g., process wastewater, sludge, slurry, etc.), and the design flow rate and benzene content.

(ii) Documentation describing the test protocol and the means by which sampling variability and analytical variability were accounted for in the determination of the unit performance. The description of the test protocol shall include the following information: sampling locations, sampling method, sampling frequency, and analytical procedures used for sample analysis.

(iii) Records of unit operating conditions during each test run including all key process parameters.

(iv) All test results.

(4) If a control device is used, then the owner or operator shall maintain the control device records required by paragraph (f) of this section.

(f) An owner or operator using a closed-vent system and control device in accordance with § 61.349 of this subpart shall maintain the following records. The documentation shall be retained for the life of the control device.

(1) A statement signed and dated by the owner or operator certifying that the closed-vent system and control device is designed to operate at the documented performance level when the waste management unit vented to the control device is or would be operating at the highest load or capacity expected to occur.

(2) If engineering calculations are used to determine control device performance in accordance with § 61.349(c), then a design analysis for the control device that includes for example:

(i) Specifications, drawings, schematics, and piping and instrumentation diagrams prepared by the owner or operator, or the control device manufacturer or vendor that describe the control device design based on acceptable engineering texts. The design analysis shall address the following vent stream characteristics and control device operating parameters:

(A) For a thermal vapor incinerator, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, and flow rate. The design analysis shall also establish the design minimum and average temperature in the combustion zone and the combustion zone residence time.

(B) For a catalytic vapor incinerator, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, and flow rate. The design analysis shall also establish the design minimum and average temperatures across the catalyst bed inlet and outlet.

(C) For a boiler or process heater, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, and flow rate. The design analysis shall also establish the design minimum and average flame zone temperatures, combustion zone residence time, and description of method and location where the vent stream is introduced into the flame zone.

(D) For a flare, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, and flow rate. The design analysis shall also consider the requirements specified in 40 CFR 60.18.

(E) For a condenser, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentration, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature. The design analysis shall also establish the design outlet organic compound concentration level or the design outlet benzene concentration level, design average temperature of the condenser exhaust vent stream, and the design average temperatures of the coolant fluid at the condenser inlet and outlet.

(F) For a carbon adsorption system that regenerates the carbon bed directly on-site in the control device such as a fixed-bed adsorber, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentration, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature. The design analysis shall also establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level or the design exhaust vent stream benzene concentration level, number and capacity of carbon beds, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for carbon beds, design total steam flow over the period of each complete carbon bed regeneration cycle, duration of the carbon bed steaming and cooling/drying cycles, design carbon bed temperature after regeneration, design carbon bed regeneration time, and design service life of carbon.

(G) For a carbon adsorption system that does not regenerate the carbon bed directly on-site in the control device, such as a carbon canister, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentration, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature. The design analysis shall also establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level or the design exhaust vent stream benzene concentration level, capacity of carbon bed, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for carbon bed, and design carbon replacement interval based on the total carbon working capacity of the control device and source operating schedule.

(H) For a control device subject to the requirements of § 61.349(a)(2)(iv), the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentration, and flow rate. The design analysis shall also include all of the information submitted under § 61.349 (a)(2)(iv).

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) If performance tests are used to determine control device performance in accordance with § 61.349(c) of this subpart:

(i) A description of how it is determined that the test is conducted when the waste management unit or treatment process is operating at the highest load or capacity level. This description shall include the estimated or design flow rate and organic content of each vent stream and definition of the acceptable operating ranges of key process and control parameters during the test program.

(ii) A description of the control device including the type of control device, control device manufacturer's name and model number, control device dimensions, capacity, and construction materials.

(iii) A detailed description of sampling and monitoring procedures, including sampling and monitoring locations in the system, the equipment to be used, sampling and monitoring frequency, and planned analytical procedures for sample analysis.

(iv) All test results.

(g) An owner or operator shall maintain a record for each visual inspection required by §§ 61.343 through 61.347 of this subpart that identifies a problem (such as a broken seal, gap or other problem) which could result in benzene emissions. The record shall include the date of the inspection, waste management unit and control equipment location where the problem is identified, a description of the problem, a description of the corrective action taken, and the date the corrective action was completed.

(h) An owner or operator shall maintain a record for each test of no detectable emissions required by §§ 61.343 through 61.347 and § 61.349 of this subpart. The record shall include the following information: date the test is performed, background level measured during test, and maximum concentration indicated by the instrument reading measured for each potential leak interface. If detectable emissions are measured at a leak interface, then the record shall also include the waste management unit, control equipment, and leak interface location where detectable emissions were measured, a description of the problem, a description of the corrective action taken, and the date the corrective action was completed.

(i) For each treatment process and wastewater treatment system unit operated to comply with § 61.348, the owner or operator shall maintain documentation that includes the following information regarding the unit operation:

(1) Dates of startup and shutdown of the unit.

(2) If measurements of waste stream benzene concentration are performed in accordance with § 61.354(a)(1) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall maintain records that include date each test is performed and all test results.

(3) If a process parameter is continuously monitored in accordance with § 61.354(a)(2) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall maintain records that include a description of the operating parameter (or parameters) to be monitored to ensure that the unit will be operated in conformance with these standards and the unit's design specifications, and an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters). This documentation shall be kept for the life of the unit.

(4) If measurements of waste stream benzene concentration are performed in accordance with § 61.354(b), the owner or operator shall maintain records that include the date each test is performed and all test results.

(5) Periods when the unit is not operated as designed.

(j) For each control device, the owner or operator shall maintain documentation that includes the following information regarding the control device operation:

(1) Dates of startup and shutdown of the closed-vent system and control device.

(2) A description of the operating parameter (or parameters) to be monitored to ensure that the control device will be operated in conformance with these standards and the control device's design specifications and an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters). This documentation shall be kept for the life of the control device.

(3) Periods when the closed-vent system and control device are not operated as designed including all periods and the duration when:

(i) Any valve car-seal or closure mechanism required under § 61.349(a)(1)(ii) is broken or the by-pass line valve position has changed.

(ii) The flow monitoring devices required under § 61.349(a)(1)(ii) indicate that vapors are not routed to the control device as required.

(4) If a thermal vapor incinerator is used, then the owner or operator shall maintain continuous records of the temperature of the gas stream in the combustion zone of the incinerator and records of all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average temperature of the gas stream in the combustion zone is more than 28 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) below the design combustion zone temperature.

(5) If a catalytic vapor incinerator is used, then the owner or operator shall maintain continuous records of the temperature of the gas stream both upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed of the incinerator, records of all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average temperature measured before the catalyst bed is more than 28 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) below the design gas stream temperature, and records of all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed is less than 80 percent of the design temperature difference.

(6) If a boiler or process heater is used, then the owner or operator shall maintain records of each occurrence when there is a change in the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the flame zone as required by § 61.349(a)(2)(i)(C). For a boiler or process heater having a design heat input capacity less than 44 MW (150 x 106 BTU/hr), the owner or operator shall maintain continuous records of the temperature of the gas stream in the combustion zone of the boiler or process heater and records of all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average temperature of the gas stream in the combustion zone is more than 28 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) below the design combustion zone temperature. For a boiler or process heater having a design heat input capacity greater than or equal to 44 MW (150 x 106 BTU/hr), the owner or operator shall maintain continuous records of the parameter(s) monitored in accordance with the requirements of § 61.354(c)(5).

(7) If a flare is used, then the owner or operator shall maintain continuous records of the flare pilot flame monitoring and records of all periods during which the pilot flame is absent.

(8) If a condenser is used, then the owner or operator shall maintain records from the monitoring device of the parameters selected to be monitored in accordance with § 61.354(c)(6). If concentration of organics or concentration of benzene in the control device outlet gas stream is monitored, then the owner or operator shall record all 3-hour periods of operation during which the concentration of organics or the concentration of benzene in the exhaust stream is more than 20 percent greater than the design value. If the temperature of the condenser exhaust stream and coolant fluid is monitored, then the owner or operator shall record all 3-hour periods of operation during which the temperature of the condenser exhaust vent stream is more than 6 &#xB0;C (11 &#xB0;F) above the design average exhaust vent stream temperature, or the temperature of the coolant fluid exiting the condenser is more than 6 &#xB0;C (11 &#xB0;F) above the design average coolant fluid temperature at the condenser outlet.

(9) If a carbon adsorber is used, then the owner or operator shall maintain records from the monitoring device of the concentration of organics or the concentration of benzene in the control device outlet gas stream. If the concentration of organics or the concentration of benzene in the control device outlet gas stream is monitored, then the owner or operator shall record all 3-hour periods of operation during which the concentration of organics or the concentration of benzene in the exhaust stream is more than 20 percent greater than the design value. If the carbon bed regeneration interval is monitored, then the owner or operator shall record each occurrence when the vent stream continues to flow through the control device beyond the predetermined carbon bed regeneration time.

(10) If a carbon adsorber that is not regenerated directly on site in the control device is used, then the owner or operator shall maintain records of dates and times when the control device is monitored, when breakthrough is measured, and shall record the date and time then the existing carbon in the control device is replaced with fresh carbon.

(11) If an alternative operational or process parameter is monitored for a control device, as allowed in § 61.354(e) of this subpart, then the owner or operator shall maintain records of the continuously monitored parameter, including periods when the device is not operated as designed.

(12) If a control device subject to the requirements of § 61.349(a)(2)(iv) is used, then the owner or operator shall maintain records of the parameters that are monitored and each occurrence when the parameters monitored are outside the range of values specified in § 61.349(a)(2)(iv)(C), or other records as specified by the Administrator.

(k) An owner or operator who elects to install and operate the control equipment in § 61.351 of this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR 60.115b.

(l) An owner or operator who elects to install and operate the control equipment in § 61.352 of this subpart shall maintain records of the following:

(1) The date, location, and corrective action for each visual inspection required by 40 CFR 60.693-2(a)(5), during which a broken seal, gap, or other problem is identified that could result in benzene emissions.

(2) Results of the seal gap measurements required by 40 CFR 60.693-2(a).

(m) If a system is used for emission control that is maintained at a pressure less than atmospheric pressure with openings to provide dilution air, then the owner or operator shall maintain records of the monitoring device and records of all periods during which the pressure in the unit is operated at a pressure that is equal to or greater than atmospheric pressure.

(n) Each owner or operator using a total enclosure to comply with control requirements for tanks in § 61.343 or the control requirements for containers in § 61.345 must keep the records required in paragraphs (n)(1) and (2) of this section. Owners or operators may use records as required in 40 CFR 264.1089(b)(2)(iv) or 40 CFR 265.1090(b)(2)(iv) for a tank or as required in 40 CFR 264.1089(d)(1) or 40 CFR 265.1090(d)(1) for a container to meet the recordkeeping requirement in paragraph (n)(1) of this section. The owner or operator must make the records of each verification of a total enclosure available for inspection upon request.

(1) Records of the most recent set of calculations and measurements performed to verify that the enclosure meets the criteria of a permanent total enclosure as specified in "Procedure T-Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure" in 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B;

(2) Records required for a closed-vent system and control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (d) (f), and (j) of this section.
