
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of Hg emissions, including both particulate and gaseous Hg, from chlor-alkali plants and other sources (as specified in the regulations) where the carrier-gas stream in the duct or stack is principally air.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

Particulate and gaseous Hg emissions are withdrawn isokinetically from the source and collected in acidic iodine monochloride (ICl) solution. The Hg collected (in the mercuric form) is reduced to elemental Hg, which is then aerated from the solution into an optical cell and measured by atomic absorption spectrophotometry.

4.1 Sample Collection. Sulfur dioxide (SO) reduces ICl and causes premature depletion of the ICl solution.

4.2 Sample Analysis.

4.2.1 ICl concentrations greater than 10molar inhibit the reduction of the Hg (II) ion in the aeration cell.

4.2.2 Condensation of water vapor on the optical cell windows causes a positive interference.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method does not purport to address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burn as thermal burn.

5.2.1 Hydrochloric Acid (HCl). Highly toxic and corrosive. Causes severe damage to tissues. Vapors are highly irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs, causing severe damage. May cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Exposure to concentrations of 0.13 to 0.2 percent can be lethal to humans in a few minutes. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Reacts with metals, producing hydrogen gas.

5.2.2 Nitric Acid (HNO). Highly corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs. Vapors cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Reaction to inhalation may be delayed as long as 30 hours and still be fatal. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Strong oxidizer. Hazardous reaction may occur with organic materials such as solvents.

5.2.3 Sulfuric Acid (HSO). Rapidly destructive to body tissue. Will cause third degree burns. Eye damage may result in blindness. Inhalation may be fatal from spasm of the larynx, usually within 30 minutes. 3 mg/mwill cause lung damage. 1 mg/mfor 8 hours will cause lung damage or, in higher concentrations, death. Provide ventilation to limit inhalation. Reacts violently with metals and organics.

6.1 Sample Collection. A schematic of the sampling train used in performing this method is shown in Figure 101-1; it is similar to the Method 5 sampling train. The following items are required for sample collection:

6.1.1 Probe Nozzle, Pitot Tube, Differential Pressure Gauge, Metering System, Barometer, and Gas Density Determination Equipment. Same as Method 5, Sections 6.1.1.1, 6.1.1.3, 6.1.1.4, 6.1.1.9, 6.1.2, and 6.1.3, respectively.

6.1.2 Probe Liner. Borosilicate or quartz glass tubing. A heating system capable of maintaining a gas temperature of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F) at the probe exit during sampling may be used to prevent water condensation.

6.1.3 Impingers. Four Greenburg-Smith impingers connected in series with leak-free ground glass fittings or any similar leak-free noncontaminating fittings. For the first, third, and fourth impingers, impingers that are modified by replacing the tip with a 13-mm ID (0.5-in.) glass tube extending to 13 mm (0.5 in.) from the bottom of the flask may be used.

6.1.4 Acid Trap. Mine Safety Appliances air line filter, Catalog number 81857, with acid absorbing cartridge and suitable connections, or equivalent.

6.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are needed for sample recovery:

6.2.1 Glass Sample Bottles. Leakless, with Teflon-lined caps, 1000- and 100-ml.

6.2.2 Graduated Cylinder. 250-ml.

6.2.3 Funnel and Rubber Policeman. To aid in transfer of silica gel to container; not necessary if silica gel is weighed in the field.

6.2.4 Funnel. Glass, to aid in sample recovery.

6.3 Sample Preparation and Analysis. The following items are needed for sample preparation and analysis:

6.3.1 Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer. Perkin-Elmer 303, or equivalent, containing a hollow-cathode mercury lamp and the optical cell described in Section 6.3.2.

6.3.2 Optical Cell. Cylindrical shape with quartz end windows and having the dimensions shown in Figure 101-2. Wind the cell with approximately 2 meters (6 ft) of 24-gauge Nichrome wire, or equivalent, and wrap with fiberglass insulation tape, or equivalent; do not let the wires touch each other.

6.3.3 Aeration Cell. Constructed according to the specifications in Figure 101-3. Do not use a glass frit as a substitute for the blown glass bubbler tip shown in Figure 101-3.

6.3.4 Recorder. Matched to output of the spectrophotometer described in Section 6.3.1.

6.3.5 Variable Transformer. To vary the voltage on the optical cell from 0 to 40 volts.

6.3.6 Hood. For venting optical cell exhaust.

6.3.7 Flow Metering Valve.

6.3.8 Rate Meter. Rotameter, or equivalent, capable of measuring to within 2 percent a gas flow of 1.5 liters/min (0.053 cfm).

6.3.9 Aeration Gas Cylinder. Nitrogen or dry, Hg-free air, equipped with a single-stage regulator.

6.3.10 Tubing. For making connections. Use glass tubing (ungreased ball and socket connections are recommended) for all tubing connections between the solution cell and the optical cell; do not use Tygon tubing, other types of flexible tubing, or metal tubing as substitutes. Teflon, steel, or copper tubing may be used between the nitrogen tank and flow metering valve (Section 6.3.7), and Tygon, gum, or rubber tubing between the flow metering valve and the aeration cell.

6.3.11 Flow Rate Calibration Equipment. Bubble flow meter or wet-test meter for measuring a gas flow rate of 1.5 +/-0.1 liters/min (0.053 +/-0.0035 cfm).

6.3.12 Volumetric Flasks. Class A with penny head standard taper stoppers; 100-, 250-, 500-, and 1000-ml.

6.3.13 Volumetric Pipets. Class A; 1-, 2-, 3-, 4-, and 5-ml.

6.3.14 Graduated Cylinder. 50-ml.

6.3.15 Magnetic Stirrer. General-purpose laboratory type.

6.3.16 Magnetic Stirring Bar. Teflon-coated.

6.3.17 Balance. Capable of weighing to +/-0.5 g.

6.3.18 Alternative Analytical Apparatus. Alternative systems are allowable as long as they meet the following criteria:

6.3.18.1 A linear calibration curve is generated and two consecutive samples of the same aliquot size and concentration agree within 3 percent of their average.

6.3.18.2 A minimum of 95 percent of the spike is recovered when an aliquot of a source sample is spiked with a known concentration of Hg (II) compound.

6.3.18.3 The reducing agent should be added after the aeration cell is closed.

6.3.18.4 The aeration bottle bubbler should not contain a frit.

6.3.18.5 Any Tygon tubing used should be as short as possible and conditioned prior to use until blanks and standards yield linear and reproducible results.

6.3.18.6 If manual stirring is done before aeration, it should be done with the aeration cell closed.

6.3.18.7 A drying tube should not be used unless it is conditioned as the Tygon tubing above.

Unless otherwise indicated, all reagents must conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society; where such specifications are not available, use the best available grade.

7.1 Sample Collection. The following reagents are required for sample collection:

7.1.1 Water. Deionized distilled, to conform to ASTM D 1193-77 or 91 (incorporated by reference-see § 61.18), Type 1. If high concentrations of organic matter are not expected to be present, the analyst may eliminate the KMnOtest for oxidizable organic matter. Use this water in all dilutions and solution preparations.

7.1.2 Nitric Acid, 50 Percent (v/v). Mix equal volumes of concentrated HNOand water, being careful to add the acid to the water slowly.

7.1.3 Silica Gel. Indicating type, 6- to 16-mesh. If previously used, dry at 175 &#xB0;C (350 &#xB0;F) for 2 hours. The tester may use new silica gel as received.

7.1.4 Potassium Iodide (KI) Solution, 25 Percent. Dissolve 250 g of KI in water, and dilute to 1 liter.

7.1.5 Iodine Monochloride Stock Solution, 1.0 M. To 800 ml of 25 percent KI solution, add 800 ml of concentrated HCl. Cool to room temperature. With vigorous stirring, slowly add 135 g of potassium iodate (KIO), and stir until all free iodine has dissolved. A clear orange-red solution occurs when all the KIOhas been added. Cool to room temperature, and dilute to 1800 ml with water. Keep the solution in amber glass bottles to prevent degradation.

7.1.6 Absorbing Solution, 0.1 M ICl. Dilute 100 ml of the 1.0 M ICl stock solution to 1 liter with water. Keep the solution in amber glass bottles and in darkness to prevent degradation. This reagent is stable for at least two months.

7.2 Sample Preparation and Analysis. The following reagents and standards are required for sample preparation and analysis:

7.2.1 Reagents.

7.2.1.1 Tin (II) Solution. Prepare fresh daily, and keep sealed when not being used. Completely dissolve 20 g of tin (II) chloride (or 25 g of tin (II) sulfate) crystals (Baker Analyzed reagent grade or any other brand that will give a clear solution) in 25 ml of concentrated HCl. Dilute to 250 ml with water. Do not substitute HNO, HSO, or other strong acids for the HCl.

7.2.1.2 Sulfuric Acid, 5 Percent (v/v). Dilute 25 ml of concentrated HSOto 500 ml with water.

7.2.2 Standards

7.2.2.1 Hg Stock Solution, 1 mg Hg/ml. Prepare and store all Hg standard solutions in borosilicate glass containers. Completely dissolve 0.1354 g of Hg (II) chloride in 75 ml of water in a 100-ml glass volumetric flask. Add 10 ml of concentrated HNO, and adjust the volume to exactly 100 ml with water. Mix thoroughly. This solution is stable for at least one month.

7.2.2.2 Intermediate Hg Standard Solution, 10 µg Hg/ml. Prepare fresh weekly. Pipet 5.0 ml of the Hg stock solution (Section 7.2.2.1) into a 500-ml glass volumetric flask, and add 20 ml of the 5 percent HSOsolution. Dilute to exactly 500 ml with water. Thoroughly mix the solution.

7.2.2.3 Working Hg Standard Solution, 200 ng Hg/ml. Prepare fresh daily. Pipet 5.0 ml of the intermediate Hg standard solution (Section 7.2.2.2) into a 250-ml volumetric glass flask. Add 10 ml of the 5 percent HSOand 2 ml of the 0.1 M ICl absorbing solution taken as a blank (Section 8.7.4.3), and dilute to 250 ml with water. Mix thoroughly.

Because of the complexity of this method, testers should be trained and experienced with the test procedures to ensure reliable results. Since the amount of Hg that is collected generally is small, the method must be carefully applied to prevent contamination or loss of sample.

8.1 Pretest Preparation. Follow the general procedure outlined in Method 5, Section 8.1, except omit Sections 8.1.2 and 8.1.3.

8.2 Preliminary Determinations. Follow the general procedure outlined in Method 5, Section 8.2, with the exception of the following:

8.2.1 Select a nozzle size based on the range of velocity heads to assure that it is not necessary to change the nozzle size in order to maintain isokinetic sampling rates below 28 liters/min (1.0 cfm).

8.2.2 Perform test runs such that samples are obtained over a period or periods that accurately determine the maximum emissions that occur in a 24-hour period. In the case of cyclic operations, run sufficient tests for the accurate determination of the emissions that occur over the duration of the cycle. A minimum sample time of 2 hours is recommended. In some instances, high Hg or high SOconcentrations make it impossible to sample for the desired minimum time. This is indicated by reddening (liberation of free iodine) in the first impinger. In these cases, the sample run may be divided into two or more subruns to ensure that the absorbing solution is not depleted.

8.3 Preparation of Sampling Train.

8.3.1 Clean all glassware (probe, impingers, and connectors) by rinsing with 50 percent HNO, tap water, 0.1 M ICl, tap water, and finally deionized distilled water. Place 100 ml of 0.1 M ICl in each of the first three impingers. Take care to prevent the absorbing solution from contacting any greased surfaces. Place approximately 200 g of preweighed silica gel in the fourth impinger. More silica gel may be used, but care should be taken to ensure that it is not entrained and carried out from the impinger during sampling. Place the silica gel container in a clean place for later use in the sample recovery. Alternatively, determine and record the weight of the silica gel plus impinger to the nearest 0.5 g.

8.3.2 Install the selected nozzle using a Viton A O-ring when stack temperatures are less than 260 &#xB0;C (500 &#xB0;F). Use a fiberglass string gasket if temperatures are higher. See APTD-0576 (Reference 3 in Method 5) for details. Other connecting systems using either 316 stainless steel or Teflon ferrules may be used. Mark the probe with heat-resistant tape or by some other method to denote the proper distance into the stack or duct for each sampling point.

8.3.3 Assemble the train as shown in Figure 101-1, using (if necessary) a very light coat of silicone grease on all ground glass joints. Grease only the outer portion (see APTD-0576) to avoid the possibility of contamination by the silicone grease.

8.3.4 After the sampling train has been assembled, turn on and set the probe heating system, if applicable, at the desired operating temperature. Allow time for the temperatures to stabilize. Place crushed ice around the impingers.

8.4 Leak-Check Procedures. Follow the leak-check procedures outlined in Method 5, Section 8.4.

8.5 Sampling Train Operation. Follow the general procedure outlined in Method 5, Section 8.5. For each run, record the data required on a data sheet such as the one shown in Figure 101-4.

8.6 Calculation of Percent Isokinetic. Same as Method 5, Section 8.6.

8.7 Sample Recovery. Begin proper cleanup procedure as soon as the probe is removed from the stack at the end of the sampling period.

8.7.1 Allow the probe to cool. When it can be safely handled, wipe off any external particulate matter near the tip of the probe nozzle, and place a cap over it. Do not cap off the probe tip tightly while the sampling train is cooling. Capping would create a vacuum and draw liquid out from the impingers.

8.7.2 Before moving the sampling train to the cleanup site, remove the probe from the train, wipe off the silicone grease, and cap the open outlet of the probe. Be careful not to lose any condensate that might be present. Wipe off the silicone grease from the impinger. Use either ground-glass stoppers, plastic caps, or serum caps to close these openings.

8.7.3 Transfer the probe and impinger assembly to a cleanup area that is clean, protected from the wind, and free of Hg contamination. The ambient air in laboratories located in the immediate vicinity of Hg-using facilities is not normally free of Hg contamination.

8.7.4 Inspect the train before and during disassembly, and note any abnormal conditions. Treat the samples as follows.

8.7.4.1 Container No. 1 (Impingers and Probe).
