
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

8.7.4.1.1 Using a graduated cylinder, measure the liquid in the first three impingers to within 1 ml. Record the volume of liquid present (see Figure 5-6 of Method 5). This information is needed to calculate the moisture content of the effluent gas. (Use only glass storage bottles and graduated cylinders that have been precleaned as in Section 8.3.1) Place the contents of the first three impingers into a 1000-ml glass sample bottle.

8.7.4.1.2 Taking care that dust on the outside of the probe or other exterior surfaces does not get into the sample, quantitatively recover the Hg (and any condensate) from the probe nozzle, probe fitting, and probe liner as follows: Rinse these components with two 50-ml portions of 0.1 M ICl. Next, rinse the probe nozzle, fitting and liner, and each piece of connecting glassware between the probe liner and the back half of the third impinger with a maximum of 400 ml of water. Add all washings to the 1000-ml glass sample bottle containing the liquid from the first three impingers.

8.7.4.1.3 After all washings have been collected in the sample container, tighten the lid on the container to prevent leakage during shipment to the laboratory. Mark the height of the liquid to determine later whether leakage occurred during transport. Label the container to identify clearly its contents.

8.7.4.2 Container No. 2 (Silica Gel). Same as Method 5, Section 8.7.6.3.

8.7.4.3 Container No. 3 (Absorbing Solution Blank). Place 50 ml of the 0.1 M ICl absorbing solution in a 100-ml sample bottle. Seal the container. Use this blank to prepare the working Hg standard solution (Section 7.2.2.3).

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. Same as Method 5, Section 9.2.

10.1 Before use, clean all glassware, both new and used, as follows: brush with soap and tap water, liberally rinse with tap water, soak for 1 hour in 50 percent HNO, and then rinse with deionized distilled water.

10.2 Sampling Equipment. Calibrate the sampling equipment according to the procedures outlined in the following sections of Method 5: Section 10.1 (Probe Nozzle), Section 10.2 (Pitot Tube Assembly), Section 10.3 (Metering System), Section 10.5 (Temperature Sensors), Section 10.6 (Barometer).

10.3 Aeration System Flow Rate Meter. Assemble the aeration system as shown in Figure 101-5. Set the outlet pressure on the aeration gas cylinder regulator to a minimum pressure of 500 mm Hg (10 psi), and use the flow metering valve and a bubble flowmeter or wet-test meter to obtain a flow rate of 1.5 +/-0.1 liters/min (0.053 +/-0.0035 cfm) through the aeration cell. After the calibration of the aeration system flow rate meter is complete, remove the bubble flowmeter from the system.

10.4 Optical Cell Heating System. Using a 50-ml graduated cylinder, add 50 ml of water to the bottle section of the aeration cell, and attach the bottle section to the bubbler section of the cell. Attach the aeration cell to the optical cell and while aerating at 1.5 +/-0.1 liters/min (0.053 +/-0.0035 cfm), determine the minimum variable transformer setting necessary to prevent condensation of moisture in the optical cell and in the connecting tubing. (This setting should not exceed 20 volts.)

10.5 Spectrophotometer and Recorder.

10.5.1 The Hg response may be measured by either peak height or peak area.

10.5.2 Set the spectrophotometer wavelength at 253.7 nm, and make certain the optical cell is at the minimum temperature that will prevent water condensation. Then set the recorder scale as follows: Using a 50-ml graduated cylinder, add 50 ml of water to the aeration cell bottle. Add three drops of Antifoam B to the bottle, and then pipet 5.0 ml of the working Hg standard solution into the aeration cell.

10.5.3 Place a Teflon-coated stirring bar in the bottle. Before attaching the bottle section to the bubbler section of the aeration cell, make certain that (1) the aeration cell exit arm stopcock (Figure 101-3) is closed (so that Hg will not prematurely enter the optical cell when the reducing agent is being added) and (2) there is no flow through the bubbler. If conditions (1) and (2) are met, attach the bottle section to the bubbler section of the aeration cell. Pipet 5 ml of tin (II) reducing solution into the aeration cell through the side arm, and immediately stopper the side arm. Stir the solution for 15 seconds, turn on the recorder, open the aeration cell exit arm stopcock, and immediately initiate aeration with continued stirring. Determine the maximum absorbance of the standard, and set this value to read 90 percent of the recorder full scale.

10.6 Calibration Curve.

10.6.1 After setting the recorder scale, repeat the procedure in Section 10.5 using 0.0-, 1.0-, 2.0-, 3.0-, 4.0-, and 5.0-ml aliquots of the working standard solution (final amount of Hg in the aeration cell is 0, 200, 400, 600, 800, and 1000 ng, respectively). Repeat this procedure on each aliquot size until two consecutive peaks agree within 3 percent of their average value.

10.6.2 It should not be necessary to disconnect the aeration gas inlet line from the aeration cell when changing samples. After separating the bottle and bubbler sections of the aeration cell, place the bubbler section into a 600-ml beaker containing approximately 400 ml of water. Rinse the bottle section of the aeration cell with a stream of water to remove all traces of the tin (II) reducing agent. Also, to prevent the loss of Hg before aeration, remove all traces of the reducing agent between samples by washing with water. It will be necessary, however, to wash the aeration cell parts with concentrated HCl if any of the following conditions occur: (1) A white film appears on any inside surface of the aeration cell, (2) the calibration curve changes suddenly, or (3) the replicate samples do not yield reproducible results.

10.6.3 Subtract the average peak height (or peak area) of the blank (0.0-ml aliquot)-which must be less than 2 percent of recorder full scale-from the averaged peak heights of the 1.0-, 2.0-, 3.0-, 4.0-, and 5.0-ml aliquot standards. If the blank absorbance is greater than 2 percent of full-scale, the probable cause is Hg contamination of a reagent or carry-over of Hg from a previous sample. Prepare the calibration curve by plotting the corrected peak height of each standard solution versus the corresponding final total Hg weight in the aeration cell (in ng), and draw the best fit straight line. This line should either pass through the origin or pass through a point no further from the origin than +/-2 percent of the recorder full scale. If the line does not pass through or very near to the origin, check for nonlinearity of the curve and for incorrectly prepared standards.

11.1 Sample Loss Check. Check the liquid level in each container to see whether liquid was lost during transport. If a noticeable amount of leakage occurred, either void the sample or use methods subject to the approval of the Administrator to account for the losses.

11.2 Sample Preparation. Treat each sample as follows:

11.2.1 Container No. 1 (Impingers and Probe). Carefully transfer the contents of Container No. 1 into a 1000-ml volumetric flask, and adjust the volume to exactly 1000 ml with water.

11.2.2 Dilutions. Pipet a 2-ml aliquot from the diluted sample from Section 11.2.1 into a 250-ml volumetric flask. Add 10 ml of 5 percent HSO, and adjust the volume to exactly 250 ml with water. This solution is stable for at least 72 hours.

11.3 Analysis. Calibrate the analytical equipment and develop a calibration curve as outlined in Sections 10.3 through 10.6.

11.3.1 Mercury Samples. Repeat the procedure used to establish the calibration curve with an appropriately sized aliquot (1 to 5 ml) of the diluted sample (from Section 11.2.2) until two consecutive peak heights agree within 3 percent of their average value. The peak maximum of an aliquot (except the 5-ml aliquot) must be greater than 10 percent of the recorder full scale. If the peak maximum of a 1.0-ml aliquot is off scale on the recorder, further dilute the original source sample to bring the Hg concentration into the calibration range of the spectrophotometer.

11.3.2 Run a blank and standard at least after every five samples to check the spectrophotometer calibration. The peak height of the blank must pass through a point no further from the origin than +/-2 percent of the recorder full scale. The difference between the measured concentration of the standard (the product of the corrected peak height and the reciprocal of the least squares slope) and the actual concentration of the standard must be less than 7 percent, or recalibration of the analyzer is required.

11.3.3 Check for Matrix Effects (optional). Use the Method of Standard Additions as follows to check at least one sample from each source for matrix effects on the Hg results. The Method of Standard Additions procedures described on pages 9-4 and 9-5 of the section entitled "General Information" of the Perkin Elmer Corporation Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometry Manual, Number 303-0152 (Reference 16 in Section 16.0) are recommended. If the results of the Method of Standard Additions procedure used on the single source sample do not agree to within +/-5 percent of the value obtained by the routine atomic absorption analysis, then reanalyze all samples from the source using the Method of Standard Additions procedure.

11.4 Container No. 2 (Silica Gel). Weigh the spent silica gel (or silica gel plus impinger) to the nearest 0.5 g using a balance. (This step may be conducted in the field.)

Carry out calculations, retaining at least one extra decimal significant figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures only after the final calculation. Other forms of the equations may be used as long as they give equivalent results.

12.1 Average Dry Gas Meter Temperature and Average Orifice Pressure Drop, Dry Gas Volume, Volume of Water Vapor Condensed, Moisture Content, and Isokinetic Variation. Same as Method 5, Sections 12.2 through 12.5 and 12.11, respectively.

12.2 Stack Gas Velocity. Using the data from this test and Equation 2-9 of Method 2, calculate the average stack gas velocity v.

12.3 Total Mercury.

12.3.1 For each source sample, correct the average maximum absorbance of the two consecutive samples whose peak heights agree within 3 percent of their average for the contribution of the solution blank (see Section 10.6.3). Use the calibration curve and these corrected averages to determine the final total weight of Hg in ng in the aeration cell for each source sample.

12.3.2 Correct for any dilutions made to bring the sample into the working range of the spectrophotometer. Then calculate the Hg in the original solution, m, as follows:

12.4 Mercury Emission Rate. Calculate the daily Hg emission rate, R, using Equation 101-2. For continuous operations, the operating time is equal to 86,400 seconds per day. For cyclic operations, use only the time per day each stack is in operation. The total Hg emission rate from a source will be the summation of results from all stacks.

12.5 Determination of Compliance. Each performance test consists of three repetitions of the applicable test method. For the purpose of determining compliance with an applicable national emission standard, use the average of the results of all repetitions.

The following estimates are based on collaborative tests, wherein 13 laboratories performed duplicate analyses on two Hg-containing samples from a chlor-alkali plant and on one laboratory-prepared sample of known Hg concentration. The sample concentrations ranged from 2 to 65 µg Hg/ml.

13.1 Precision. The estimated intra-laboratory and inter-laboratory standard deviations are 1.6 and 1.8 µg Hg/ml, respectively.

13.2 Accuracy. The participating laboratories that analyzed a 64.3 µg Hg/ml (in 0.1 M ICl) standard obtained a mean of 63.7 µg Hg/ml.

13.3 Analytical Range. After initial dilution, the range of this method is 0.5 to 120 µg Hg/ml. The upper limit can be extended by further dilution of the sample.

16.1 Alternative Analyzer. Samples may also be analyzed by cold vapor atomic fluorescence spectrometry.

Same as Method 5, Section 17.0, References 1-3, 5, and 6, with the addition of the following:

1. Determining Dust Concentration in a Gas Stream. ASME Performance Test Code No. 27. New York, NY. 1957.
