
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart L - Drinking Water State Revolving Funds
###### ยง 35.3530 Limitations on uses of the Fund.
####### Cross-collateralization.

(d)A State may combine the Fund assets of the DWSRF program and CWSRF program as security for bond issues to enhance the lending capacity of one or both of the programs. The following conditions apply:

(1) When a State initially decides to cross-collateralize:

(i) The State's Attorney General, or someone designated by the Attorney General, must sign or concur in a certification for the DWSRF program and the CWSRF program that State law permits the State to cross-collateralize the Fund assets of the DWSRF program and CWSRF program; and

(ii) The Operating Agreements or other parts of the capitalization grant agreements for the DWSRF program and the CWSRF program must be amended to detail the method the State will use to cross-collateralize.

(2) The proceeds generated by the issuance of bonds must be allocated to the purposes of the DWSRF program and CWSRF program in the same proportion as the assets from the Funds that are used as security for the bonds. A State must demonstrate at the time of bond issuance that the proportionality requirements have been or will be met. If a default should occur, and the Fund assets from one program are used for debt service in the other program to cure the default, the security would no longer need to be proportional.

(3) A State may not combine the Fund assets of the DWSRF program and the CWSRF program as security for bond issues to acquire State match for either program or use the assets of one program to secure match bonds for the other program.

(4) The debt service reserves for the DWSRF program and the CWSRF program must be accounted for separately.

(5) Loan repayments must be made to the respective program from which the loan was made.
