
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

8.4.2.1.1 Using a graduated cylinder, measure the liquid in the first three impingers to within 1 ml. Record the volume of liquid present (see Figure 5-6 of Method 5). This information is needed to calculate the moisture content of the effluent gas. (Use only graduated cylinder and glass storage bottles that have been precleaned as in Section 8.2.1.) Place the contents of the first three impingers (four if an extra impinger was added as described in Section 8.1) into a 1000-ml glass sample bottle labeled Container No. 1.

8.4.2.1.2 Taking care that dust on the outside of the probe or other exterior surfaces does not get into the sample, quantitatively recover the Hg (and any condensate) from the probe nozzle, probe fitting, probe liner, front half of the filter holder (if applicable), and impingers as follows: Rinse these components with a total of 400 ml (350 ml if an extra impinger was added as described in Section 8.1) of fresh absorbing solution, carefully assuring removal of all loose particulate matter from the impingers; add all washings to the 1000 ml glass sample bottle. To remove any residual brown deposits on the glassware following the permanganate rinse, rinse with approximately 100 ml of water, carefully assuring removal of all loose particulate matter from the impingers. Add this rinse to Container No. 1.

8.4.2.1.3 If no visible deposits remain after this water rinse, do not rinse with 8 N HCl. If deposits do remain on the glassware after the water rinse, wash impinger walls and stems with 25 ml of 8 N HCl, and place the wash in a separate container labeled Container No. 1A as follows: Place 200 ml of water in a sample container labeled Container No. 1A. Wash the impinger walls and stem with the HCl by turning the impinger on its side and rotating it so that the HCl contacts all inside surfaces. Pour the HCl wash carefully with stirring into Container No. 1A.

8.4.2.1.4 After all washings have been collected in the appropriate sample container(s), tighten the lid(s) on the container(s) to prevent leakage during shipment to the laboratory. Mark the height of the fluid level to allow subsequent determination of whether leakage has occurred during transport. Label each container to identify its contents clearly.

8.4.3 Container No. 2 (Silica Gel). Same as Method 5, Section 8.7.6.3.

8.4.4 Container No. 3 (Filter). If a filter was used, carefully remove it from the filter holder, place it in a 100-ml glass sample bottle, and add 20 to 40 ml of absorbing solution. If it is necessary to fold the filter, be sure that the particulate cake is inside the fold. Carefully transfer to the 100-ml sample bottle any particulate matter and filter fibers that adhere to the filter holder gasket by using a dry Nylon bristle brush and a sharp-edged blade. Seal the container. Label the container to identify its contents clearly. Mark the height of the fluid level to allow subsequent determination of whether leakage has occurred during transport.

8.4.5 Container No. 4 (Filter Blank). If a filter was used, treat an unused filter from the same filter lot as that used for sampling according to the procedures outlined in Section 8.4.4.

8.4.6 Container No. 5 (Absorbing Solution Blank). Place 650 ml of 4 percent KMnOabsorbing solution in a 1000-ml sample bottle. Seal the container.

8.4.7 Container No. 6 (HCl Rinse Blank). Place 200 ml of water in a 1000-ml sample bottle, and add 25 ml of 8 N HCl carefully with stirring. Seal the container. Only one blank sample per 3 runs is required.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. Same as Method 5, Section 9.2.

Same as Method 101, Section 10.0, with the following exceptions:

10.1 Optical Cell Heating System Calibration. Same as in Method 101, Section 10.4, except use a-25 ml graduated cylinder to add 25 ml of water to the bottle section of the aeration cell.

10.2 Spectrophotometer and Recorder Calibration.

10.2.1 The Hg response may be measured by either peak height or peak area.

10.2.2 Set the spectrophotometer wave length at 253.7 nm, and make certain the optical cell is at the minimum temperature that will prevent water condensation. Then set the recorder scale as follows: Using a 25-ml graduated cylinder, add 25 ml of water to the aeration cell bottle. Add three drops of Antifoam B to the bottle, and then pipet 5.0 ml of the working Hg standard solution into the aeration cell.

10.2.3 Place a Teflon-coated stirring bar in the bottle. Add 5 ml of absorbing solution to the aeration bottle, and mix well. Before attaching the bottle section to the bubbler section of the aeration cell, make certain that (1) the aeration cell exit arm stopcock (Figure 101-3 of Method 101) is closed (so that Hg will not prematurely enter the optical cell when the reducing agent is being added) and (2) there is no flow through the bubbler. If conditions (1) and (2) are met, attach the bottle section to the bubbler section of the aeration cell. Add sodium chloride-hydroxylamine in 1 ml increments until the solution is colorless. Now add 5 ml of tin (II) solution to the aeration bottle through the side arm, and immediately stopper the side arm. Stir the solution for 15 seconds, turn on the recorder, open the aeration cell exit arm stopcock, and immediately initiate aeration with continued stirring. Determine the maximum absorbance of the standard, and set this value to read 90 percent of the recorder full scale.

11.1 Sample Loss Check. Check the liquid level in each container to see if liquid was lost during transport. If a noticeable amount of leakage occurred, either void the sample or use methods subject to the approval of the Administrator to account for the losses.

11.2 Sample Preparation. Treat sample containers as follows:

11.2.1 Containers No. 3 and No. 4 (Filter and Filter Blank).

11.2.1.1 If a filter is used, place the contents, including the filter, of Containers No. 3 and No. 4 in separate 250-ml beakers, and heat the beakers on a steam bath until most of the liquid has evaporated. Do not heat to dryness. Add 20 ml of concentrated HNOto the beakers, cover them with a watch glass, and heat on a hot plate at 70 &#xB0;C (160 &#xB0;F) for 2 hours. Remove from the hot plate.

11.2.1.2 Filter the solution from digestion of the Container No. 3 contents through Whatman No. 40 filter paper, and save the filtrate for addition to the Container No. 1 filtrate as described in Section 11.2.2. Discard the filter paper.

11.2.1.3 Filter the solution from digestion of the Container No. 4 contents through Whatman No. 40 filter paper, and save the filtrate for addition to Container No. 5 filtrate as described in Section 11.2.3 below. Discard the filter paper.

11.2.2 Container No. 1 (Impingers, Probe, and Filter Holder) and, if applicable, No. 1A (HCl rinse).

11.2.2.1 Filter the contents of Container No. 1 through Whatman No. 40 filter paper into a 1 liter volumetric flask to remove the brown manganese dioxide (MnO) precipitate. Save the filter for digestion of the brown MnOprecipitate. Add the sample filtrate from Container No. 3 to the 1-liter volumetric flask, and dilute to volume with water. If the combined filtrates are greater than 1000 ml, determine the volume to the nearest ml and make the appropriate corrections for blank subtractions. Mix thoroughly. Mark the filtrate as analysis Sample No. A.1 and analyze for Hg within 48 hr of the filtration step. Place the saved filter, which was used to remove the brown MnOprecipitate, into an appropriate sized container. In a laboratory hood, add 25 ml of 8 N HCl to the filter and allow to digest for a minimum of 24 hours at room temperature.

11.2.2.2 Filter the contents of Container 1A through Whatman No. 40 filter paper into a 500-ml volumetric flask. Then filter the digestate of the brown MnOprecipitate from Container No. 1 through Whatman No. 40 filter paper into the same 500-ml volumetric flask, and dilute to volume with water. Mark this combined 500 ml dilute solution as analysis Sample No. A.2. Discard the filters.

11.2.3 Container No. 5 (Absorbing Solution Blank) and No. 6 (HCl Rinse Blank).

11.2.3.1 Treat Container No. 5 as Container No. 1 (as described in Section 11.2.2), except substitute the filter blank filtrate from Container No. 4 for the sample filtrate from Container No. 3, and mark as Sample A.1 Blank.

11.2.3.2 Treat Container No. 6 as Container No. 1A, (as described in Section 11.2.2, except substitute the filtrate from the digested blank MnOprecipitate for the filtrate from the digested sample MnOprecipitate, and mark as Sample No. A.2 Blank.

11.3 Analysis. Calibrate the analytical equipment and develop a calibration curve as outlined in Section 10.0.

11.3.1 Mercury Samples. Then repeat the procedure used to establish the calibration curve with appropriately sized aliquots (1 to 10 ml) of the samples (from Sections 11.2.2 and 11.2.3) until two consecutive peak heights agree within 3 percent of their average value. If the 10 ml sample is below the detectable limit, use a larger aliquot (up to 20 ml), but decrease the volume of water added to the aeration cell accordingly to prevent the solution volume from exceeding the capacity of the aeration bottle. If the peak maximum of a 1.0 ml aliquot is off scale, further dilute the original sample to bring the Hg concentration into the calibration range of the spectrophotometer. If the Hg content of the absorbing solution and filter blank is below the working range of the analytical method, use zero for the blank.

11.3.2 Run a blank and standard at least after every five samples to check the spectrophotometer calibration; recalibrate as necessary.

11.3.3 Check for Matrix Effects (optional). Same as Method 101, Section 11.3.3.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Average Dry Gas Meter Temperature and Average Orifice Pressure Drop, Dry Gas Volume, Volume of Water Vapor Condensed, Moisture Content, Isokinetic Variation, and Stack Gas Velocity and Volumetric Flow Rate. Same as Method 5, Sections 12.2 through 12.5, 12.11, and 12.12, respectively.

12.3 Total Mercury.

12.3.1 For each source sample, correct the average maximum absorbance of the two consecutive samples whose peak heights agree within 3 percent of their average for the contribution of the blank. Use the calibration curve and these corrected averages to determine the final total weight of Hg in ng in the aeration cell for each source sample.

12.3.2 Correct for any dilutions made to bring the sample into the working range of the spectrophotometer.

12.3 Mercury Emission Rate. Same as Method 101, Section 12.3.

12.4 Determination of Compliance. Same as Method 101, Section 12.4.

13.1 Precision. Based on eight paired-train tests, the intra-laboratory standard deviation was estimated to be 4.8 µg/ml in the concentration range of 50 to 130 µg/m.

13.2 Bias. [Reserved]

13.3 Range. After initial dilution, the range of this method is 20 to 800 ng Hg/ml. The upper limit can be extended by further dilution of the sample.

16.1 Alternative Analyzers.

16.1.1 Inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES) may be used as an alternative to atomic absorption analysis provided the following conditions are met:

16.1.1.1 Sample collection, sample preparation, and analytical preparation procedures are as defined in the method except as necessary for the ICP-AES application.

16.1.1.2 The quality control procedures are conducted as prescribed.

16.1.1.3 The limit of quantitation for the ICP-AES must be demonstrated and the sample concentrations reported should be no less than two times the limit of quantitation. The limit of quantitation is defined as ten times the standard deviation of the blank value. The standard deviation of the blank value is determined from the analysis of seven blanks. It has been reported that for mercury and those elements that form hydrides, a continuous-flow generator coupled to an ICP-AES offers detection limits comparable to cold vapor atomic absorption.

16.1.2 Samples may also be analyzed by cold vapor atomic fluorescence spectrometry.

Same as Section 16.0 of Method 101, with the addition of the following:
