
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### et al.

2. Wilshire, Frank W.,Reliability Study of the U.S. EPA's Method 101A-Determination of Particulate and Gaseous Mercury Emissions. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, NC. Report No. 600/D-31/219 AREAL 367, NTIS Acc No. PB91-233361.

3. Memorandum from William J. Mitchell to Roger T. Shigehara discussing the potential safety hazard in Section 7.2 of Method 101A. February 28, 1990.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of Hg emissions, including both particulate and gaseous Hg, from chlor-alkali plants and other sources (as specified in the regulations) where the carrier-gas stream in the duct or stack is principally hydrogen.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

2.1 Particulate and gaseous Hg emissions are withdrawn isokinetically from the source and collected in acidic iodine monochloride (ICl) solution. The Hg collected (in the mercuric form) is reduced to elemental Hg, which is then aerated from the solution into an optical cell and measured by atomic absorption spectrophotometry.

Same as Method 101, Section 4.2.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. Same as Method 101, Section 5.2.

5.3 Explosive Mixtures. The sampler must conduct the source test under conditions of utmost safety because hydrogen and air mixtures are explosive. Since the sampling train essentially is leakless, attention to safe operation can be concentrated at the inlet and outlet. If a leak does occur, however, remove the meter box cover to avoid a possible explosive mixture. The following specific precautions are recommended:
