
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

5.3 Chlorine Evolution. Hydrochloric acid reacts with KMnOto liberate chlorine gas. Although this is a minimal concern when small quantities of HCl (5-10 ml) are used in the impinger rinse, a potential safety hazard may still exist. At sources that emit higher concentrations of oxidizable materials (power plants), more HCl may be required to remove the larger amounts of brown deposit formed in the impingers. In such cases, the potential safety hazards due to sample container pressurization are greater, because of the larger volume of HCl rinse added to the recovered sample. These hazards are eliminated by storing and analyzing the HCl impinger wash separately from the permanganate impinger sample.

6.1 Sample Collection and Sample Recovery. Same as Method 101, Sections 6.1 and 6.2, respectively, with the following exceptions:

6.1.1 Probe Liner. Same as in Method 101, Section 6.1.2, except that if a filter is used ahead of the impingers, the probe heating system must be used to minimize the condensation of gaseous Hg.

6.1.2 Filter Holder (Optional). Borosilicate glass with a rigid stainless-steel wire-screen filter support (do not use glass frit supports) and a silicone rubber or Teflon gasket, designed to provide a positive seal against leakage from outside or around the filter. The filter holder must be equipped with a filter heating system capable of maintaining a temperature around the filter holder of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F) during sampling to minimize both water and gaseous Hg condensation. A filter may also be used in cases where the stream contains large quantities of particulate matter.

6.2 Sample Analysis. Same as Method 101, Section 6.3, with the following additions and exceptions:

6.2.1 Volumetric Pipets. Class A; 1-, 2-, 3-, 4-, 5-, 10-, and 20-ml.

6.2.2 Graduated Cylinder. 25-ml.

6.2.3 Steam Bath.

6.2.4 Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer or Equivalent. Any atomic absorption unit with an open sample presentation area in which to mount the optical cell is suitable. Instrument settings recommended by the particular manufacturer should be followed. Instruments designed specifically for the measurement of mercury using the cold-vapor technique are commercially available and may be substituted for the atomic absorption spectrophotometer.

6.2.5 Optical Cell. Alternatively, a heat lamp mounted above the cell or a moisture trap installed upstream of the cell may be used.

6.2.6 Aeration Cell. Alternatively, aeration cells available with commercial cold vapor instrumentation may be used.

6.2.7 Aeration Gas Cylinder. Nitrogen, argon, or dry, Hg-free air, equipped with a single-stage regulator. Alternatively, aeration may be provided by a peristaltic metering pump. If a commercial cold vapor instrument is used, follow the manufacturer's recommendations.

Unless otherwise indicated, it is intended that all reagents conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available; otherwise, use the best available grade.

7.1 Sample Collection and Recovery. The following reagents are required for sample collection and recovery:

7.1.1 Water. Deionized distilled, to conform to ASTM D 1193-77 or 91 Type 1. If high concentrations of organic matter are not expected to be present, the analyst may eliminate the KMnOtest for oxidizable organic matter. Use this water in all dilutions and solution preparations.

7.1.2 Nitric Acid, 50 Percent (V/V). Mix equal volumes of concentrated HNOand water, being careful to add the acid to the water slowly.

7.1.3 Silica Gel. Indicating type, 6 to 16 mesh. If previously used, dry at 175 &#xB0;C (350 &#xB0;F) for 2 hours. New silica gel may be used as received.

7.1.4 Filter (Optional). Glass fiber filter, without organic binder, exhibiting at least 99.95 percent efficiency on 0.3-&#x3BC;m dioctyl phthalate smoke particles. The filter in cases where the gas stream contains large quantities of particulate matter, but blank filters should be analyzed for Hg content.

7.1.5 Sulfuric Acid, 10 Percent (V/V). Carefully add and mix 100 ml of concentrated HSOto 900 ml of water.

7.1.6 Absorbing Solution, 4 Percent KMnO(W/V). Prepare fresh daily. Dissolve 40 g of KMnOin sufficient 10 percent HSOto make 1 liter. Prepare and store in glass bottles to prevent degradation.

7.1.7 Hydrochloric Acid, 8 N. Carefully add and mix 67 ml of concentrated HCl to 33 ml of water.

7.2 Sample Analysis. The following reagents and standards are required for sample analysis:

7.2.1 Water. Same as in Section 7.1.1.

7.2.2 Tin (II) Solution. Prepare fresh daily, and keep sealed when not being used. Completely dissolve 20 g of tin (II) chloride (or 25 g of tin (II) sulfate) crystals (Baker Analyzed reagent grade or any other brand that will give a clear solution) in 25 ml of concentrated HCl. Dilute to 250 ml with water. Do not substitute HNOH2SO, or other strong acids for the HCl.

7.2.3 Sodium Chloride-Hydroxylamine Solution. Dissolve 12 g of sodium chloride and 12 g of hydroxylamine sulfate (or 12 g of hydroxylamine hydrochloride) in water and dilute to 100 ml.

7.2.4 Hydrochloric Acid, 8 N. Same as Section 7.1.7.

7.2.5 Nitric Acid, 15 Percent (V/V). Carefully add 15 ml HNOto 85 ml of water.

7.2.6 Antifoam B Silicon Emulsion. J.T. Baker Company (or equivalent).

7.2.7 Mercury Stock Solution, 1 mg Hg/ml. Prepare and store all Hg standard solutions in borosilicate glass containers. Completely dissolve 0.1354 g of Hg (II) chloride in 75 ml of water. Add 10 ml of concentrated HNO, and adjust the volume to exactly 100 ml with water. Mix thoroughly. This solution is stable for at least one month.

7.2.8 Intermediate Hg Standard Solution, 10 µg/ml. Prepare fresh weekly. Pipet 5.0 ml of the Hg stock solution (Section 7.2.7) into a 500 ml volumetric flask, and add 20 ml of 15 percent HNOsolution. Adjust the volume to exactly 500 ml with water. Thoroughly mix the solution.

7.2.9 Working Hg Standard Solution, 200 ng Hg/ml. Prepare fresh daily. Pipet 5.0 ml from the "Intermediate Hg Standard Solution" (Section 7.2.8) into a 250-ml volumetric flask. Add 5 ml of 4 percent KMnOabsorbing solution and 5 ml of 15 percent HNO. Adjust the volume to exactly 250 ml with water. Mix thoroughly.

7.2.10 Potassium Permanganate, 5 Percent (W/V). Dissolve 5 g of KMnOin water and dilute to 100 ml.

7.2.11 Filter. Whatman No. 40, or equivalent.

Same as Method 101, Section 8.0, with the exception of the following:

8.1 Preliminary Determinations. Same as Method 101, Section 8.2, except that the liberation of free iodine in the first impinger due to high Hg or sulfur dioxide concentrations is not applicable. In this method, high oxidizable organic content may make it impossible to sample for the desired minimum time. This problem is indicated by the complete bleaching of the purple color of the KMnOsolution. In cases where an excess of water condensation is encountered, collect two runs to make one sample, or add an extra impinger in front of the first impinger (also containing acidified KMnOsolution).

8.2 Preparation of Sampling Train. Same as Method 101, Section 8.3, with the exception of the following:

8.2.1 In this method, clean all the glass components by rinsing with 50 percent HNO, tap water, 8 N HCl, tap water, and finally with deionized distilled water. Then place 50 ml of absorbing solution in the first impinger and 100 ml in each of the second and third impingers.

8.2.2 If a filter is used, use a pair of tweezers to place the filter in the filter holder. Be sure to center the filter, and place the gasket in the proper position to prevent the sample gas stream from bypassing the filter. Check the filter for tears after assembly is completed. Be sure also to set the filter heating system at the desired operating temperature after the sampling train has been assembled.

8.3 Sampling Train Operation. In addition to the procedure outlined in Method 101, Section 8.5, maintain a temperature around the filter (if applicable) of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F).

8.4 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 101, Section 8.7, with the exception of the following:

8.4.1 Transfer the probe, impinger assembly, and (if applicable) filter assembly to the cleanup area.

8.4.2 Treat the sample as follows:

8.4.2.1 Container No. 1 (Impinger, Probe, and Filter Holder) and, if applicable, Container No. 1A (HCl rinse).
