
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

6.1.2 Impingers. Four impingers connected in series with leak-free ground-glass fittings or any similar leak-free noncontaminating fittings. For the first, third, and fourth impingers, use the Greenburg-Smith design, modified by replacing the tip with a 1.3-cm ID (0.5-in.) glass tube extending to about 1.3 cm (0.5 in.) from the bottom of the flask. For the second impinger, use the Greenburg-Smith design with the standard tip. Modifications (flexible connections between the impingers, materials other than glass, or flexible vacuum lines to connect the filter holder to the condenser) are subject to the approval of the Administrator.

6.1.3 Temperature Sensor. Place a temperature sensor, capable of measuring temperature to within 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F), at the outlet of the fourth impinger for monitoring purposes.

6.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are required for sample recovery:

6.2.1 Probe-Liner and Probe-Nozzle Brushes, Petri Dishes, Graduated Cylinder and/or Balance, Plastic Storage Containers, and Funnel and Rubber Policeman. Same as Method 5, Sections 6.2.1 and 6.2.4 to 6.2.8, respectively.

6.2.2 Wash Bottles. Polyethylene (2).

6.2.3 Sample Storage Containers. Chemically resistant, polyethylene or polypropylene for glassware washes, 500- or 1000-ml.

6.3 Analysis. The following items are required for analysis:

6.3.1 Spectrophotometer. Equipped with an electrodeless discharge lamp and a background corrector to measure absorbance at 193.7 nanometers (nm). For measuring samples having less than 10 µg As/ml, use a vapor generator accessory or a graphite furnace.

6.3.2 Recorder. To match the output of the spectrophotometer.

6.3.3 Beakers. 150 ml.

6.3.4 Volumetric Flasks. Glass 50-, 100-, 200-, 500-, and 1000-ml; and polypropylene, 50-ml.

6.3.5 Balance. To measure within 0.5 g.

6.3.6 Volumetric Pipets. 1-, 2-, 3-, 5-, 8-, and 10-ml.

6.3.7 Oven.

6.3.8 Hot Plate.

Unless otherwise indicated, it is intended that all reagents conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available; otherwise, use the best available grade.

7.1 The following reagents are required for sample collection:

7.1.1 Filters. Same as Method 5, Section 7.1.1, except that the filters need not be unreactive to SO.

7.1.2 Silica Gel, Crushed Ice, and Stopcock Grease. Same as Method 5, Sections 7.1.2, 7.1.4, and 7.1.5, respectively.

7.1.3 Water. Deionized distilled to meet ASTM D 1193-77 or 91 (incorporated by reference-see § 61.18), Type 3. When high concentrations of organic matter are not expected to be present, the KMnOtest for oxidizable organic matter may be omitted.

7.2 Sample Recovery.

7.2.1 0.1 N NaOH. Dissolve 4.00 g of NaOH in about 500 ml of water in a 1-liter volumetric flask. Then, dilute to exactly 1.0 liter with water.

7.3 Analysis. The following reagents and standards are required for analysis:

7.3.1 Water. Same as Section 7.1.3.

7.3.2 Sodium Hydroxide, 0.1 N. Same as in Section 7.2.1.

7.3.3 Sodium Borohydride (NaBH), 5 Percent Weight by Volume (W/V). Dissolve 50.0 g of NaBHin about 500 ml of 0.1 N NaOH in a 1-liter volumetric flask. Then, dilute to exactly 1.0 liter with 0.1 N NaOH.

7.3.4 Hydrochloric Acid, Concentrated.

7.3.5 Potassium Iodide (KI), 30 Percent (W/V). Dissolve 300 g of KI in 500 ml of water in a 1 liter volumetric flask. Then, dilute to exactly 1.0 liter with water.

7.3.6 Nitric Acid, Concentrated.

7.3.7 Nitric Acid, 0.8 N. Dilute 52 ml of concentrated HNOto exactly 1.0 liter with water.

7.3.8 Nitric Acid, 50 Percent by Volume (V/V). Add 50 ml concentrated HNOto 50 ml water.

7.3.9 Stock Arsenic Standard, 1 mg As/ml. Dissolve 1.3203 g of primary standard grade AsOin 20 ml of 0.1 N NaOH in a 150 ml beaker. Slowly add 30 ml of concentrated HNO. Heat the resulting solution and evaporate just to dryness. Transfer the residue quantitatively to a 1-liter volumetric flask, and dilute to 1.0 liter with water.

7.3.10 Arsenic Working Solution, 1.0 µg As/ml. Pipet exactly 1.0 ml of stock arsenic standard into an acid-cleaned, appropriately labeled 1-liter volumetric flask containing about 500 ml of water and 5 ml of concentrated HNO. Dilute to exactly 1.0 liter with water.

7.3.11 Air. Suitable quality for AAS analysis.

7.3.12 Acetylene. Suitable quality for AAS analysis.

7.3.13 Nickel Nitrate, 5 Percent Ni (W/V). Dissolve 24.780 g of nickel nitrate hexahydrate [Ni(NO)6HO] in water in a 100-ml volumetric flask, and dilute to 100 ml with water.

7.3.14 Nickel Nitrate, 1 Percent Ni (W/V). Pipet 20 ml of 5 percent nickel nitrate solution into a 100-ml volumetric flask, and dilute to exactly 100 ml with water.

7.3.15 Hydrogen Peroxide, 3 Percent by Volume. Pipet 50 ml of 30 percent HOinto a 500-ml volumetric flask, and dilute to exactly 500 ml with water.

8.1 Pretest Preparation. Follow the general procedure given in Method 5, Section 8.1, except the filter need not be weighed, and the 200 ml of 0.1N NaOH and Container 4 should be tared to within 0.5 g.

8.2 Preliminary Determinations. Follow the general procedure given in Method 5, Section 8.2, except select the nozzle size to maintain isokinetic sampling rates below 28 liters/min (1.0 cfm).

8.3 Preparation of Sampling Train. Follow the general procedure given in Method 5, Section 8.3.

8.4 Leak-Check Procedures. Same as Method 5, Section 8.4.

8.5 Sampling Train Operation. Follow the general procedure given in Method 5, Section 8.5, except maintain isokinetic sampling flow rates below 28 liters/min (1.0 cfm). For each run, record the data required on a data sheet similar to the one shown in Figure 108-2.

8.6 Calculation of Percent Isokinetic. Same as Method 5, Section 8.6.

8.7 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, Section 8.7, except that 0.1 N NaOH is used as the cleanup solvent instead of acetone and that the impinger water is treated as follows:

8.7.1 Container Number 4 (Impinger Water). Clean each of the first three impingers and connecting glassware in the following manner:

8.7.1.1 Wipe the impinger ball joints free of silicone grease, and cap the joints.

8.7.1.2 Rotate and agitate each of the first two impingers, using the impinger contents as a rinse solution.

8.7.1.3 Transfer the liquid from the first three impingers to Container Number 4. Remove the outlet ball-joint cap, and drain the contents through this opening. Do not separate the impinger parts (inner and outer tubes) while transferring their contents to the container.

8.7.1.4 Weigh the contents of Container No. 4 to within 0.5 g. Record in the log the weight of liquid along with a notation of any color or film observed in the impinger catch. The weight of liquid is needed along with the silica gel data to calculate the stack gas moisture content.

8.7.1.5 Pour approximately 30 ml of 0.1 NaOH into each of the first two impingers, and agitate the impingers. Drain the 0.1 N NaOH through the outlet arm of each impinger into Container Number 4. Repeat this operation a second time; inspect the impingers for any abnormal conditions.

8.7.1.6 Wipe the ball joints of the glassware connecting the impingers and the back half of the filter holder free of silicone grease, and rinse each piece of glassware twice with 0.1 N NaOH; transfer this rinse into Container Number 4. (DO NOT RINSE or brush the glass-fritted filter support.) Mark the height of the fluid level to determine whether leakage occurs during transport. Label the container to identify clearly its contents.

8.8 Blanks.

8.8.1 Sodium Hydroxide. Save a portion of the 0.1 N NaOH used for cleanup as a blank. Take 200 ml of this solution directly from the wash bottle being used and place it in a plastic sample container labeled "NaOH blank."

8.8.2 Water. Save a sample of the water, and place it in a container labeled "HO blank."

8.8.3 Filter. Save two filters from each lot of filters used in sampling. Place these filters in a container labeled "filter blank."

9.2 Volume Metering System Checks. Same as Method 5, Section 9.2.

10.1 Sampling Equipment. Same as Method 5, Section 10.0.

10.2 Preparation of Standard Solutions.

10.2.1 For the high level procedure, pipet 1, 3, 5, 8, and 10 ml of the 1.0 mg As/ml stock solution into separate 100 ml volumetric flasks, each containing 5 ml of concentrated HNO. Dilute to the mark with water.

10.2.2 For the low level vapor generator procedure, pipet 1, 2, 3, and 5 ml of 1.0 µg As/ml standard solution into separate reaction tubes. Dilute to the mark with water.

10.2.3 For the low level graphite furnace procedure, pipet 1, 5, 10 and 15 ml of 1.0 µg As/ml standard solution into separate flasks along with 2 ml of the 5 percent nickel nitrate solution and 10 ml of the 3 percent HOsolution. Dilute to the mark with water.

10.3 Calibration Curve. Analyze a 0.8 N HNOblank and each standard solution according to the procedures outlined in section 11.4.1. Repeat this procedure on each standard solution until two consecutive peaks agree within 3 percent of their average value. Subtract the average peak height (or peak area) of the blank-which must be less than 2 percent of recorder full scale-from the averaged peak height of each standard solution. If the blank absorbance is greater than 2 percent of full-scale, the probable cause is As contamination of a reagent or carry-over of As from a previous sample. Prepare the calibration curve by plotting the corrected peak height of each standard solution versus the corresponding final total As weight in the solution.
