
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### e.g.

4.1 Matrix Effects. Analysis for Be by flame atomic absorption spectrophotometry is sensitive to the chemical composition and to the physical properties (, viscosity, pH) of the sample. Aluminum and silicon, in particular, are known to interfere when present in appreciable quantities. The analytical procedure includes (optionally) the use of the Method of Standard Additions to check for these matrix effects, and sample analysis using the Method of Standard Additions if significant matrix effects are found to be present (see Reference 2 in Section 17.0).

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burn as thermal burn.

5.2.1 Hydrochloric Acid (HC). Highly toxic. Vapors are highly irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs, causing severe damage. May cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Exposure to concentrations of 0.13 to 0.2 percent can be lethal to humans in a few minutes. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Reacts with metals, producing hydrogen gas.

5.2.2 Hydrogen Peroxide (HO). Irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs.

5.2.3 Nitric Acid (HNO). Highly corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs. Vapors cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Reaction to inhalation may be delayed as long as 30 hours and still be fatal. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Strong oxidizer. Hazardous reaction may occur with organic materials such as solvents.

5.2.4 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). Causes severe damage to eyes and skin. Inhalation causes irritation to nose, throat, and lungs. Reacts exothermically with limited amounts of water.

5.3 Beryllium is hazardous, and precautions should be taken to minimize exposure.

6.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 5, Section 6.1, with the exception of the following:

6.1.1 Sampling Train. Same as Method 5, Section 6.1.1, with the exception of the following:

6.1.2 Probe Liner. Borosilicate or quartz glass tubing. A heating system capable of maintaining a gas temperature of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F) at the probe exit during sampling to prevent water condensation may be used.
