
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

10.4 Spectrophotometer Calibration Quality Control. Calculate the least squares slope of the calibration curve. The line must pass through the origin or through a point no further from the origin than +/-2 percent of the recorder full scale. Multiply the corrected peak height by the reciprocal of the least squares slope to determine the distance each calibration point lies from the theoretical calibration line. The difference between the calculated concentration values and the actual concentrations (1, 3, 5, 8, and 10 mg As for the high-level procedure) must be less than 7 percent for all standards.

11.1 Sample Loss Check. Prior to analysis, check the liquid level in Containers Number 2 and Number 4. Note on the analytical data sheet whether leakage occurred during transport. If a noticeable amount of leakage occurred, either void the sample or take steps, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to adjust the final results.

11.2 Sample Preparation.

11.2.1 Container Number 1 (Filter). Place the filter and loose particulate matter in a 150 ml beaker. Also, add the filtered solid material from Container Number 2 (see Section 11.2.2). Add 50 ml of 0.1 N NaOH. Then stir and warm on a hot plate at low heat (do not boil) for about 15 minutes. Add 10 ml of concentrated HNO, bring to a boil, then simmer for about 15 minutes. Filter the solution through a glass fiber filter. Wash with hot water, and catch the filtrate in a clean 150 ml beaker. Boil the filtrate, and evaporate to dryness. Cool, add 5 ml of 50 percent HNO, and then warm and stir. Allow to cool. Transfer to a 50-ml volumetric flask, dilute to volume with water, and mix well.

11.2.2 Container Number 2 (Probe Wash).

11.2.2.1 Filter (using a glass fiber filter) the contents of Container Number 2 into a 200 ml volumetric flask. Combine the filtered (solid) material with the contents of Container Number 1 (Filter).

11.2.2.2 Dilute the filtrate to exactly 200 ml with water. Then pipet 50 ml into a 150 ml beaker. Add 10 ml of concentrated HNO, bring to a boil, and evaporate to dryness. Allow to cool, add 5 ml of 50 percent HNO, and then warm and stir. Allow the solution to cool, transfer to a 50-ml volumetric flask, dilute to volume with water, and mix well.

11.2.3 Container Number 4 (Impinger Solution). Transfer the contents of Container Number 4 to a 500 ml volumetric flask, and dilute to exactly 500-ml with water. Pipet 50 ml of the solution into a 150-ml beaker. Add 10 ml of concentrated HNO, bring to a boil, and evaporate to dryness. Allow to cool, add 5 ml of 50 percent HNO, and then warm and stir. Allow the solution to cool, transfer to a 50-ml volumetric flask, dilute to volume with water, and mix well.

11.2.4 Filter Blank. Cut each filter into strips, and treat each filter individually as directed in Section 11.2.1, beginning with the sentence, "Add 50 ml of 0.1 N NaOH."

11.2.5 Sodium Hydroxide and Water Blanks. Treat separately 50 ml of 0.1 N NaOH and 50 ml water, as directed under Section 11.2.3, beginning with the sentence, "Pipet 50 ml of the solution into a 150-ml beaker."

11.3 Spectrophotometer Preparation. Turn on the power; set the wavelength, slit width, and lamp current. Adjust the background corrector as instructed by the manufacturer's manual for the particular atomic absorption spectrophotometer. Adjust the burner and flame characteristics as necessary.

11.4 Analysis. Calibrate the analytical equipment and develop a calibration curve as outlined in Sections 10.2 through 10.4.

11.4.1 Arsenic Samples. Analyze an appropriately sized aliquot of each diluted sample (from Sections 11.2.1 through 11.2.3) until two consecutive peak heights agree within 3 percent of their average value. If applicable, follow the procedures outlined in Section 11.4.1.1. If the sample concentration falls outside the range of the calibration curve, make an appropriate dilution with 0.8 N HNOso that the final concentration falls within the range of the curve. Using the calibration curve, determine the arsenic concentration in each sample fraction.

11.4.1.1 Arsenic Determination at Low Concentration. The lower limit of flame AAS is 10 µg As/ml. If the arsenic concentration of any sample is at a lower level, use the graphite furnace or vapor generator which is available as an accessory component. Flame, graphite furnace, or vapor generators may be used for samples whose concentrations are between 10 and 30 µg/ml. Follow the manufacturer's instructions in the use of such equipment.

11.4.1.1.1 Vapor Generator Procedure. Place a sample containing between 0 and 5 µg of arsenic in the reaction tube, and dilute to 15 ml with water. Since there is some trial and error involved in this procedure, it may be necessary to screen the samples by conventional atomic absorption until an approximate concentration is determined. After determining the approximate concentration, adjust the volume of the sample accordingly. Pipet 15 ml of concentrated HCl into each tube. Add 1 ml of 30 percent KI solution. Place the reaction tube into a 50 &#xB0;C (120 &#xB0;F) water bath for 5 minutes. Cool to room temperature. Connect the reaction tube to the vapor generator assembly. When the instrument response has returned to baseline, inject 5.0 ml of 5 percent NaBH, and integrate the resulting spectrophotometer signal over a 30-second time period.

11.4.1.1.2 Graphite Furnace Procedure. Dilute the digested sample so that a 5 ml aliquot contains less than 1.5 µg of arsenic. Pipet 5 ml of this digested solution into a 10-ml volumetric flask. Add 1 ml of the 1 percent nickel nitrate solution, 0.5 ml of 50 percent HNO, and 1 ml of the 3 percent hydrogen peroxide and dilute to 10 ml with water. The sample is now ready for analysis.

11.4.1.2 Run a blank (0.8 N HNO) and standard at least after every five samples to check the spectrophotometer calibration. The peak height of the blank must pass through a point no further from the origin than +/-2 percent of the recorder full scale. The difference between the measured concentration of the standard (the product of the corrected average peak height and the reciprocal of the least squares slope) and the actual concentration of the standard must be less than 7 percent, or recalibration of the analyzer is required.

11.4.1.3 Determine the arsenic concentration in the filter blank (i.e., the average of the two blank values from each lot).

11.4.2 Container Number 3 (Silica Gel). This step may be conducted in the field. Weigh the spent silica gel (or silica gel plus impinger) to the nearest 0.5 g; record this weight.

11.5 Check for matrix effects on the arsenic results. Same as Method 12, Section 11.5.

12.2 Average Dry Gas Meter Temperatures (T) and Average Orifice Pressure Drop (ΔH). See data sheet (Figure 108-2).

12.3 Dry Gas Volume. Using data from this test, calculate Vaccording to the procedures outlined in Method 5, Section 12.3.

12.4 Volume of Water Vapor.

12.5 Moisture Content.

12.6 Amount of Arsenic Collected.

12.6.1 Calculate the amount of arsenic collected in each part of the sampling train, as follows:

12.6.2 Calculate the total amount of arsenic collected in the sampling train as follows:

12.7 Calculate the arsenic concentration in the stack gas (dry basis, adjusted to standard conditions) as follows:

12.8 Stack Gas Velocity and Volumetric Flow Rate. Calculate the average stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate using data obtained in this method and the equations in Sections 12.2 and 12.3 of Method 2.

12.9 Pollutant Mass Rate. Calculate the arsenic mass emission rate as follows:

12.10 Isokinetic Variation. Same as Method 5, Section 12.11.

13.1 Sensitivity. The lower limit of flame AAS 10 µg As/ml. The analytical procedure includes provisions for the use of a graphite furnace or vapor generator for samples with a lower arsenic concentration.

16.1 Inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES) Analysis. ICP-AES may be used as an alternative to atomic absorption analysis provided the following conditions are met:

16.1.1 Sample collection, sample preparation, and analytical preparation procedures are as defined in the method except as necessary for the ICP-AES application.

16.1.2 Quality Assurance/Quality Control procedures, including audit material analysis, are conducted as prescribed in the method. The QA acceptance conditions must be met.

16.1.3 The limit of quantitation for the ICP-AES must be demonstrated and the sample concentrations reported should be no less than two times the limit of quantitation. The limit of quantitation is defined as ten times the standard deviation of the blank value. The standard deviation of the blank value is determined from the analysis of seven blanks. It has been reported that for mercury and those elements that form hydrides, a continuous-flow generator coupled to an ICP-AES offers detection limits comparable to cold vapor atomic absorption.

16.2 Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS) Analysis. ICP-MS may be used as an alternative to atomic absorption analysis.

16.3 Cold Vapor Atomic Fluorescence Spectrometry (CVAFS) Analysis. CVAFS may be used as an alternative to atomic absorption analysis.

Same as References 1 through 9 of Method 5, Section 17.0, with the addition of the following:

1. Perkin Elmer Corporation. Analytical Methods for Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometry. 303-0152. Norwalk, Connecticut. September 1976. pp. 5-6.

2. Standard Specification for Reagent Water. In: Annual Book of American Society for Testing and Materials Standards. Part 31: Water, Atmospheric Analysis. American Society for Testing and Materials. Philadelphia, PA. 1974. pp. 40-42.

3. Stack Sampling Safety Manual (Draft). U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standard, Research Triangle Park, NC. September 1978.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method applies to the determination of inorganic As content of process ore and reverberatory matte samples from nonferrous smelters and other sources as specified in an applicable subpart of the regulations.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

Arsenic bound in ore samples is liberated by acid digestion and analyzed by flame atomic absorption spectrophotometry (AAS).
