
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

Analysis for As by flame AAS is sensitive to the chemical composition and to the physical properties (viscosity, pH) of the sample. The analytical procedure includes a check for matrix effects (Section 11.4).

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures that prevent chemical splashes are recommended. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burns as thermal burns.

5.2.1 Hydrochloric acid (HCl). Highly corrosive liquid with toxic vapors. Vapors are highly irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs, causing severe damage. May cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Exposure to concentrations of 0.13 to 0.2 percent can be lethal to humans in a few minutes. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Reacts with metals, producing hydrogen gas.

5.2.2 Hydrofluoric Acid (HF). Highly corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, throat, and lungs. Reaction to exposure may be delayed by 24 hours or more. Provide ventilation to limit exposure.

5.2.3 Nitric Acid (HNO). Highly corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs. Vapors are highly toxic and can cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Reaction to inhalation may be delayed as long as 30 hours and still be fatal. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Strong oxidizer. Hazardous reaction may occur with organic materials such as solvents.

5.2.4 Perchloric Acid (HClO). Corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, and throat. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Very strong oxidizer. Keep separate from water and oxidizable materials to prevent vigorous evolution of heat, spontaneous combustion, or explosion. Heat solutions containing HClOonly in hoods specifically designed for HClO.

6.1 Sample Preparation. The following items are required for sample preparation:

6.1.1 Teflon Beakers. 150-ml.

6.1.2 Graduated Pipets. 5-ml disposable.

6.1.3 Graduated Cylinder. 50-ml.

6.1.4 Volumetric Flask. 100-ml.

6.1.5 Analytical Balance. To measure within 0.1 mg.

6.1.6 Hot Plate.

6.1.7 Perchloric Acid Fume Hood.

6.2 Analysis. The following items are required for analysis:

6.2.1 Spectrophotometer. Equipped with an electrodeless discharge lamp and a background corrector to measure absorbance at 193.7 nm.

6.2.2 Beaker and Watch Glass. 400-ml.

6.2.3 Volumetric Flask. 1-liter.

6.2.4 Volumetric Pipets. 1-, 5-, 10-, and 25-ml.

Unless otherwise indicated, it is intended that all reagents conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available; otherwise, use the best available grade.

7.1 Sample Preparation. The following reagents are required for sample preparation:

7.1.1 Water. Deionized distilled to meet ASTM D 1193-77 or 91 Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see § 61.18).

7.1.2 Nitric Acid, Concentrated.

7.1.3 Hydrofluoric Acid, Concentrated.

7.1.4 Perchloric Acid, 70 Percent.

7.1.5 Hydrochloric Acid, Concentrated.

7.2 Analysis. The following reagents and standards are required for analysis:

7.2.1 Water. Same as in Section 7.1.1.

7.2.2 Stock Arsenic Standard, 1.0 mg As/ml. Dissolve 1.3203 g of primary grade As0[dried at 105 &#xB0;C (221 &#xB0;F)] in a 400-ml beaker with 10 ml of HNOand 5 ml of HCl. Cover with a watch glass, and heat gently until dissolution is complete. Add 10 ml of HNOand 25 ml of HClO, evaporate to strong fumes of HClO, and reduce to about 20 ml volume. Cool, add 100 ml of water and 100 ml of HCl, and transfer quantitatively to a 1-liter volumetric flask. Dilute to volume with water and mix.

7.2.3 Acetylene. Suitable quality for AAS analysis.

7.2.4 Air. Suitable quality for AAS analysis.

Same as in Method 108A, Sections 8.1 and 8.2.

10.1 Preparation of Standard Solutions. Pipet 1, 5, 10, and 25 ml of the stock As solution into separate 100-ml volumetric flasks. Add 2 ml of HClO, 10 ml of HCl, and dilute to the mark with water. This will provide standard concentrations of 10, 50, 100, and 250 µg As/ml.

10.2 Calibration Curve and Spectrophotometer Calibration Quality Control. Same as Method 108A, Sections 10.2 and 10.3

11.1 Sample Preparation. Weigh 100 to 1000 mg of finely pulverized sample to the nearest 0.1 mg. Transfer the sample to a 150-ml Teflon beaker. Dissolve the sample by adding 15 ml of HNO, 10 ml of HCl, 10 ml of HF, and 10 ml of HClOin the exact order as described, and let stand for 10 minutes. In a HClOfume hood, heat on a hot plate until 2-3 ml of HClOremain, then cool. Add 20 ml of water and 10 ml of HCl. Cover and warm until the soluble salts are in solution. Cool, and transfer quantitatively to a 100-ml volumetric flask. Dilute to the mark with water.

11.2 Spectrophotometer Preparation. Same as in Method 108A, Section 11.2.

11.3 Arsenic Determination. If the sample concentration falls outside the range of the calibration curve, make an appropriate dilution with 2 percent HClO/10 percent HCl (prepared by diluting 2 ml concentrated HClOand 10 ml concentrated HCl to 100 ml with water) so that the final concentration falls within the range of the curve. Using the calibration curve, determine the As concentration in each sample.

Run a blank and standard at least after every five samples to check the spectrophotometer calibration. The peak height of the blank must pass through a point no further from the origin than +/-2 percent of the recorder full scale. The difference between the measured concentration of the standard (the product of the corrected average peak height and the reciprocal of the least squares slope) and the actual concentration of the standard must be less than 7 percent, or recalibration of the analyzer is required.

11.4 Mandatory Check for Matrix Effects on the Arsenic Results. Same as Method 12, Section 11.5.

Same as in Method 108A, Section 12.0.

13.1 Sensitivity. The lower limit of flame AAS is 10 µg As/ml.

Same as in Method 108A, Section 16.0.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method applies to the determination of inorganic As content of process ore and reverberatory matte samples from nonferrous smelters and other sources as specified in an applicable subpart of the regulations.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

Arsenic bound in ore samples is liberated by acid digestion and analyzed by the molybdenum blue photometric procedure.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures that prevent chemical splashes are recommended. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burns as thermal burns.

5.2.1 Hydrochloric Acid (HCl). Highly corrosive liquid with toxic vapors. Vapors are highly irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs, causing severe damage. May cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Exposure to concentrations of 0.13 to 0.2 percent can be lethal to humans in a few minutes. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Reacts with metals, producing hydrogen gas.

5.2.2 Hydrofluoric Acid (HF). Highly corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, throat, and lungs. Reaction to exposure may be delayed by 24 hours or more. Provide ventilation to limit exposure.

5.2.3 Nitric Acid (HNO). Highly corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs. Vapors are highly toxic and can cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Reaction to inhalation may be delayed as long as 30 hours and still be fatal. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Strong oxidizer. Hazardous reaction may occur with organic materials such as solvents.

5.2.4 Perchloric Acid (HClO). Corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, and throat. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Very strong oxidizer. Keep separate from water and oxidizable materials to prevent vigorous evolution of heat, spontaneous combustion, or explosion. Heat solutions containing HClOonly in hoods specifically designed for HClO.

5.2.5 Sulfuric acid (HSO). Rapidly destructive to body tissue. Will cause third degree burns. Eye damage may result in blindness. Inhalation may be fatal from spasm of the larynx, usually within 30 minutes. May cause lung tissue damage with edema. 3 mg/mwill cause lung damage in uninitiated. 1 mg/mfor 8 hours will cause lung damage or, in higher concentrations, death. Provide ventilation to limit inhalation. Reacts violently with metals and organics.

6.1 Sample Preparation. The following items are required for sample preparation:

6.1.1 Analytical Balance. To measure to within 0.1 mg.

6.1.2 Erlenmeyer Flask. 300-ml.

6.1.3 Hot Plate.

6.1.4 Distillation Apparatus. No. 6, in ASTM E 50-82, 86, or 90 (Reapproved 1995)(incorporated by reference-see § 61.18); detailed in Figure 108C-1.

6.1.5 Graduated Cylinder. 50-ml.

6.1.6 Perchloric Acid Fume Hood.

6.2 Analysis. The following items are required for analysis:

6.2.1 Spectrophotometer. Capable of measuring at 660 nm.

6.2.2 Volumetric Flasks. 50- and 100-ml.

Unless otherwise indicated, it is intended that all reagents conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available; otherwise, use the best available grade.

7.1 Sample Preparation. The following reagents are required for sample preparation:

7.1.1 Water. Deionized distilled to meet ASTM D 1193-77 or 91 Type 3 (incorporated by reference-see § 61.18). When high concentrations of organic matter are not expected to be present, the KMnOtest for oxidizable organic matter may be omitted. Use in all dilutions requiring water.

7.1.2 Nitric Acid, Concentrated.

7.1.3 Hydrofluoric Acid, Concentrated.

7.1.4 Sulfuric Acid, Concentrated.

7.1.5 Perchloric Acid, 70 Percent.

7.1.6 Hydrochloric Acid, Concentrated.

7.1.7 Dilute Hydrochloric Acid. Add one part concentrated HCl to nine parts water.

7.1.8 Hydrazine Sulfate ((NH)&#xB7;HSO).

7.1.9 Potassium Bromide (KBr).

7.1.10 Bromine Water, Saturated.

7.2 Analysis. The following reagents and standards are required for analysis:

7.2.1 Water. Same as in Section 7.1.1.

7.2.2 Methyl Orange Solution, 1 g/liter.

7.2.3 Ammonium Molybdate Solution, 5 g/liter. Dissolve 0.5 g (NH)MoO&#xB7;4HO in water in a 100-ml volumetric flask, and dilute to the mark. This solution must be freshly prepared.

7.2.4 Standard Arsenic Solution, 10 µg As/ml. Dissolve 0.13203 g of AsOin 100 ml HCl in a 1-liter volumetric flask. Add 200 ml of water, cool, dilute to the mark with water, and mix. Transfer 100 ml of this solution to a 1-liter volumetric flask, add 40 ml HCl, cool, dilute to the mark, and mix.

7.2.5 Hydrazine Sulfate Solution, 1 g/liter. Dissolve 0.1 g of [(NH)&#xB7;HSO] in water, and dilute to 100 ml in a volumetric flask. This solution must be freshly prepared.

7.2.6 Potassium Bromate (KBrO) Solution, 0.03 Percent Weight by Volume (W/V). Dissolve 0.3 g KBrOin water, and dilute to 1 liter with water.

7.2.7 Ammonium Hydroxide (NHOH), Concentrated.

7.2.8 Boiling Granules.

7.2.9 Hydrochloric Acid, 50 percent by volume. Dilute equal parts concentrated HCl with water.

Same as in Method 108A, Sections 8.1 and 8.2.

10.1 Preparation of Standard Solutions. Transfer 1.0, 2.0, 4.0, 8.0, 12.0, 16.0, and 20.0 ml of standard arsenic solution (10 µg/ml) to each of seven 50-ml volumetric flasks. Dilute to 20 ml with dilute HCl. Add one drop of methyl orange solution and neutralize to the yellow color with dropwise addition of NHOH. Just bring back to the red color by dropwise addition of dilute HCl, and add 10 ml in excess. Proceed with the color development as described in Section 11.2.

10.2 Calibration Curve. Plot the spectrophotometric readings of the calibration solutions against µg As per 50 ml of solution. Use this curve to determine the As concentration of each sample.

10.3 Spectrophotometer Calibration Quality Control. Calculate the least squares slope of the calibration curve. The line must pass through the origin or through a point no further from the origin than +/-2 percent of the recorder full scale. Multiply the corrected peak height by the reciprocal of the least squares slope to determine the distance each calibration point lies from the theoretical calibration line. The difference between the calculated concentration values and the actual concentrations must be less than 7 percent for all standards.

11.1 Sample Preparation.

11.1.1 Weigh 1.0 g of finely pulverized sample to the nearest 0.1 mg. Transfer the sample to a 300 ml Erlenmeyer flask and add 15 ml of HNO, 4 ml HCl, 2 ml HF, 3 ml HClO, and 15 ml HSO, in the order listed. In a HClOfume hood, heat on a hot plate to decompose the sample. Then heat while swirling over an open flame until dense white fumes evolve. Cool, add 15 ml of water, swirl to hydrate the HSOcompletely, and add several boiling granules. Cool to room temperature.

11.1.2 Add 1 g of KBr, 1 g hydrazine sulfate, and 50 ml HCl. Immediately attach the distillation head with thermometer and dip the side arm into a 50-ml graduated cylinder containing 25 ml of water and 2 ml of bromine water. Keep the graduated cylinder immersed in a beaker of cold water during distillation. Distill until the temperature of the vapor in the flask reaches 107 &#xB0;C (225 &#xB0;F). When distillation is complete, remove the flask from the hot plate, and simultaneously wash down the side arm with water as it is removed from the cylinder.

11.1.3 If the expected arsenic content is in the range of 0.0020 to 0.10 percent, dilute the distillate to the 50-ml mark of the cylinder with water, stopper, and mix. Transfer a 5.0-ml aliquot to a 50-ml volumetric flask. Add 10 ml of water and a boiling granule. Place the flask on a hot plate, and heat gently until the bromine is expelled and the color of methyl orange indicator persists upon the addition of 1 to 2 drops. Cool the flask to room temperature. Neutralize just to the yellow color of the indicator with dropwise additions of NHOH. Bring back to the red color by dropwise addition of dilute HCl, and add 10 ml excess. Proceed with the molybdenum blue color development as described in Section 11.2.

11.1.4 If the expected arsenic content is in the range of 0.0002 to 0.0010 percent As, transfer either the entire initial distillate or the measured remaining distillate from Section 11.1.2 to a 250-ml beaker. Wash the cylinder with two successive portions of concentrated HNO, adding each portion to the distillate in the beaker. Add 4 ml of concentrated HClO, a boiling granule, and cover with a flat watch glass placed slightly to one side. Boil gently on a hot plate until the volume is reduced to approximately 10 ml. Add 3 ml of HNO, and continue the evaporation until HClOis refluxing on the beaker cover. Cool briefly, rinse the underside of the watch glass and the inside of the beaker with about 3-5 ml of water, cover, and continue the evaporation to expel all but 2 ml of the HClO.

11.1.5 To the 2 ml of HClOsolution or 1 ml of HSOsolution, add 15 ml of water, boil gently for 2 minutes, and then cool. Proceed with the molybdenum blue color development by neutralizing the solution directly in the beaker just to the yellow indicator color by dropwise addition of NHOH. Obtain the red color by dropwise addition of dilute HCl. Transfer the solution to a 50-ml volumetric flask. Rinse the beaker successively with 10 ml of dilute HCl, followed by several small portions of water. At this point the volume of solution in the flask should be no more than 40 ml. Continue with the color development as described in Section 11.2.

11.2 Analysis.

11.2.1 Add 1 ml of KBrOsolution to the flask and heat on a low-temperature hot plate to about 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F) to oxidize the arsenic and methyl orange. Add 5.0 ml of ammonium molybdate solution to the warm solution and mix. Add 2.0 ml of hydrazine sulfate solution, dilute until the solution comes within the neck of the flask, and mix. Place the flask in a 400 ml beaker, 80 percent full of boiling water, for 10 minutes. Enough heat must be supplied to prevent the water bath from cooling much below the boiling point upon inserting the volumetric flask. Remove the flask, cool to room temperature, dilute to the mark, and mix.

11.2.2 Transfer a suitable portion of the reference solution to an absorption cell, and adjust the spectrophotometer to the initial setting using a light band centered at 660 nm. While maintaining this spectrophotometer adjustment, take the readings of the calibration solutions followed by the samples.

Same as in Method 108A, Section 12.0.

1. Ringwald, D. Arsenic Determination on Process Materials from ASARCO's Copper Smelter in Tacoma, Washington. Unpublished Report. Prepared for the Emission Measurement Branch, Technical Support Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. August 1980. 35 pp.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of the polonium-210 content of particulate matter samples collected from stationary source exhaust stacks, and for the use of these data to calculate polonium-210 emissions from individual sources and from all affected sources at a facility.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

A particulate matter sample, collected according to Method 5, is analyzed for polonium-210 content: the polonium-210 in the sample is put in solution, deposited on a metal disc, and the radioactive disintegration rate measured. Polonium in acid solution spontaneously deposits on surfaces of metals that are more electropositive than polonium. This principle is routinely used in the radiochemical analysis of polonium-210. Data reduction procedures are provided, allowing the calculation of polonium-210 emissions from individual sources and from all affected sources at a facility, using data obtained from Methods 2 and 5 and from the analytical procedures herein.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive Reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures are useful in preventing chemical splashes. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burns as thermal burns.

5.2.1 Hydrochloric Acid (HCl). Highly corrosive liquid with toxic vapors. Vapors are highly irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs, causing severe damage. May cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Exposure to concentrations of 0.13 to 0.2 percent can be lethal to humans in a few minutes. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Reacts with metals, producing hydrogen gas.

5.2.2 Hydrofluoric Acid (HF). Highly corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, throat, and lungs. Reaction to exposure may be delayed by 24 hours or more. Provide ventilation to limit exposure.

5.2.3 Nitric Acid (HNO). Highly corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs. Vapors cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Reaction to inhalation may be delayed as long as 30 hours and still be fatal. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Strong oxidizer. Hazardous reaction may occur with organic materials such as solvents.

5.2.4 Perchloric Acid (HClO). Corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, and throat. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Keep separate from water and oxidizable materials to prevent vigorous evolution of heat, spontaneous combustion, or explosion. Heat solutions containing HClOonly in hoods specifically designed for HClO.

6.1 Alpha Spectrometry System. Consisting of a multichannel analyzer, biasing electronics, silicon surface barrier detector, vacuum pump and chamber.

6.2 Constant Temperature Bath at 85 &#xB0;C (185 &#xB0;F).

6.3 Polished Silver Discs. 3.8 cm diameter, 0.4 mm thick with a small hole near the edge.

6.4 Glass Beakers. 400 ml, 150 ml.

6.5 Hot Plate, Electric.

6.6 Fume Hood.

6.7 Teflon Beakers, 150 ml.

6.8 Magnetic Stirrer.

6.9 Stirring Bar.

6.10 Hooks. Plastic or glass, to suspend plating discs.

6.11 Internal Proportional Counter. For measuring alpha particles.

6.12 Nucleopore Filter Membranes. 25 mm diameter, 0.2 micrometer pore size or equivalent.

6.13 Planchets. Stainless steel, 32 mm diameter with 1.5 mm lip.

6.14 Transparent Plastic Tape. 2.5 cm wide with adhesive on both sides.

6.15 Epoxy Spray Enamel.

6.16 Suction Filter Apparatus. For 25 mm diameter filter.

6.17 Wash Bottles, 250 ml capacity.

6.18 Graduated Cylinder, plastic, 25 ml capacity.

6.19 Volumetric Flasks, 100 ml, 250 ml.

Unless otherwise indicated, it is intended that all reagents conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available; otherwise, use the best available grade.

7.1 Ascorbic Acid.

7.2 Ammonium Hydroxide (NHOH), 15 M.

7.3 Water. Deionized distilled, to conform to ASTM D 1193-77 or 91 (incorporated by reference-see § 61.18), Type 3. Use in all dilutions requiring water.

7.4 Ethanol (CHOH), 95 percent.

7.5 Hydrochloric Acid, 12 M.

7.6 Hydrochloric Acid, 1 M. Dilute 83 ml of the 12 M HCl to 1 liter with distilled water.

7.7 Hydrofluoric Acid, 29 M.

7.8 Hydrofluoric Acid, 3 M. Dilute 52 ml of the 29 M HF to 500 ml with distilled water. Use a plastic graduated cylinder and storage bottle.

7.9 Lanthanum Carrier, 0.1 mg La/ml. Dissolve 0.078 gram lanthanum nitrate, La(NO)&#xB7;6HO in 250 ml of 1 M HCl.

7.10 Nitric Acid, 16 M.

7.11 Perchloric Acid, 12 M.

7.12 Polonium-209 Solution.

7.13 Silver Cleaner. Any mild abrasive commercial silver cleaner.

7.14 Degreaser.

7.15 Standard Solution. Standardized solution of an alpha-emitting actinide element, such as plutonium-239 or americium-241.

9.1 General Requirement.

9.1.1 All analysts using this method are required to demonstrate their ability to use the method and to define their respective accuracy and precision criteria.

10.1 Standardization of Alpha Spectrometry System.

10.1.1 Add a quantity of the actinide standard solution to a 100 ml volumetric flask so that the final concentration when diluted to a volume of 100 ml will be approximately 1Ci/ml.

10.1.2 Add 10 ml of 16 M HNOand dilute to 100 ml with water.

10.1.3 Add 20 ml of 1 M HCl to each of six 150 ml beakers. Add 1.0 ml of lanthanum carrier, 0.1 mg lanthanum per ml, to the acid solution in each beaker.

10.1.4 Add 1.0 ml of the 1 pCi/ml working solution (from Section 10.1.1) to each beaker. Add 5.0 ml of 3 M HF to each beaker.

10.1.5 Cover beakers and allow solutions to stand for a minimum of 30 minutes. Filter the contents of each beaker through a separate filter membrane using the suction filter apparatus. After each filtration, wash the filter membrane with 10 ml of distilled water and 5 ml of ethanol, and allow the filter membrane to air dry on the filter apparatus.

10.1.6 Carefully remove the filter membrane and mount it, filtration side up, with double-side tape on the inner surface of a planchet. Place planchet in an alpha spectrometry system and count each planchet for 1000 minutes.

10.1.7 Calculate the counting efficiency of the detector for each aliquot of the 1 pCi/ml actinide working solution using Eq. 111-1 in Section 12.2.

10.1.8 Determine the average counting efficiency of the detector, E, by calculating the average of the six determinations.

10.2 Preparation of Standardized Solution of Polonium-209.

10.2.1 Add a quantity of the Po-209 solution to a 100 ml volumetric flask so that the final concentration when diluted to a 100 ml volume will be approximately 1 pCi/ml.

10.2.2 Follow the procedures outlined in Sections 10.1.2 through 10.1.6, except substitute 1.0 ml of polonium-209 tracer solution (Section 10.2.1) and 3.0 ml of 15 M ammonium hydroxide for the 1 pCi/ml actinide working solution and the 3 M HF, respectively.

10.2.3 Calculate the activity of each aliquot of the polonium-209 tracer solution using Eq. 111-2 in Section 12.3.

10.2.4 Determine the average activity of the polonium-209 tracer solution, F, by averaging the results of the six determinations.

10.3 Standardization of Internal Proportional Counter

10.3.1 Add a quantity of the actinide standard solution to a 100 ml volumetric flask so that the final concentration when diluted to a 100 ml volume will be approximately 100 pCi/ml.

10.3.2 Follow the procedures outlined in Sections 10.1.2 through 10.1.6, except substitute the 100 pCi/ml actinide working solution for the 1 pCi/ml solution, place the planchet in an internal proportional counter (instead of an alpha spectrometry system), and count for 100 minutes (instead of 1000 minutes).

10.3.3 Calculate the counting efficiency of the internal proportional counter for each aliquot of the 100 pCi/ml actinide working solution using Eq. 111-3 in 12.4.

10.3.4 Determine the average counting efficiency of the internal proportional counter, E, by averaging the results of the six determinations.

11.1 Determination of Procedure Background. Background counts used in all equations are determined by performing the specific analysis required using the analytical reagents only. All procedure background counts and sample counts for the internal proportional counter should utilize a counting time of 100 minutes; for the alpha spectrometry system, 1000 minutes. These background counts should be performed no less frequently than once per 10 sample analyses.

11.2 Determination of Instrument Background. Instrument backgrounds of the internal proportional counter and the alpha spectrometry system should be determined on a weekly basis. Instrument background should not exceed procedure background. If this occurs, it may be due to a malfunction or contamination, and should be corrected before use.
