
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

Analysis for As by flame AAS is sensitive to the chemical composition and to the physical properties (viscosity, pH) of the sample. The analytical procedure includes a check for matrix effects (Section 11.5).

5.1 This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Corrosive reagents. The following reagents are hazardous. Personal protective equipment and safe procedures that prevent chemical splashes are recommended. If contact occurs, immediately flush with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes. Remove clothing under shower and decontaminate. Treat residual chemical burns as thermal burns.

5.2.1 Hydrochloric Acid (HCl). Highly corrosive liquid with toxic vapors. Vapors are highly irritating to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs, causing severe damage. May cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Exposure to concentrations of 0.13 to 0.2 percent can be lethal to humans in a few minutes. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Reacts with metals, producing hydrogen gas.

5.2.2 Hydrogen Peroxide (HO). Very harmful to eyes. 30% HOcan burn skin, nose, and lungs.

5.2.3 Nitric Acid (HNO). Highly corrosive to eyes, skin, nose, and lungs. Vapors are highly toxic and can cause bronchitis, pneumonia, or edema of lungs. Reaction to inhalation may be delayed as long as 30 hours and still be fatal. Provide ventilation to limit exposure. Strong oxidizer. Hazardous reaction may occur with organic materials such as solvents.

5.2.4 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH). Causes severe damage to eyes and skin. Inhalation causes irritation to nose, throat, and lungs. Reacts exothermically with small amounts of water.

6.1 Sample Collection. A schematic of the sampling train used in performing this method is shown in Figure 108-1; it is similar to the Method 5 sampling train of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. The following items are required for sample collection:

6.1.1 Probe Nozzle, Probe Liner, Pitot Tube, Differential Pressure Gauge, Filter Holder, Filter Heating System, Temperature Sensor, Metering System, Barometer, and Gas Density Determination Equipment. Same as Method 5, Sections 6.1.1.1 to 6.1.1.7, 6.1.1.9, 6.1.2, and 6.1.3, respectively.
