
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

11.4 Sample Preparation. Treat the Method 5 samples [the glass fiber filter (Container No. 1) and the acetone rinse (Container No. 2)] as follows:

11.4.1 Container No. 1. Transfer the filter and any loose particulate matter from the sample container to a 150-ml Teflon beaker.

11.4.2 Container No. 2. Note the level of liquid in the container, and confirm on the analysis sheet whether leakage occurred during transport. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, either void the sample or use methods, subject to the approval of the Administrator, to correct the final results. Transfer the contents to a 400-ml glass beaker. Add polonium-209 tracer solution to the glass beaker in an amount approximately equal to the amount of polonium-210 expected in the total particulate sample. Record the activity of the tracer solution added. Add 16 M nitric acid to the beaker to digest and loosen the residue.

11.4.3 Transfer the contents of the glass beaker to the Teflon beaker containing the glass fiber filter. Rinse the glass beaker with 16 M HNO. If necessary, reduce the volume in the beaker by evaporation until all of the nitric acid HNOfrom the glass beaker has been transferred to the Teflon beaker.

11.4.4 Add 30 ml of 29 M HF to the Teflon beaker and evaporate to near dryness on a hot plate in a properly operating hood.

11.4.5 Repeat step 11.4.4 until the filter is dissolved.

11.4.6 Add 100 ml of 16 M HNOto the residue in the Teflon beaker and evaporate to near dryness.

11.4.7 Add 50 ml of 16 M HNOand 10 ml of 12 M perchloric acid to the Teflon beaker and heat until dense fumes of perchloric acid are evolved.

11.4.8 Repeat steps 11.4.4 to 11.4.7 as necessary until sample is completely dissolved.

11.4.9 Add 10 ml of 12 M HCl to the Teflon beaker and evaporate to dryness. Repeat additions and evaporations several times.

11.4.10 Transfer the sample to a 250-ml volumetric flask and dilute to volume with 3 M HCl.

11.5 Sample Screening. To avoid contamination of the alpha spectrometry system, check each sample as follows:

11.5.1 Add 20 ml of 1 M HCl, 1 ml of the lanthanum carrier solution (0.1 mg La/ml), a 1 ml aliquot of the sample solution from Section 11.4.10, and 3 ml of 15 M ammonium hydroxide to a 250-ml beaker in the order listed. Allow this solution to stand for a minimum of 30 minutes.

11.5.2 Filter the solution through a filter membrane using the suction filter apparatus. Wash the filter membrane with 10 ml of water and 5 ml of ethanol, and allow the filter membrane to air dry on the filter apparatus.

11.5.3 Carefully remove the filter membrane and mount it, filtration side up, with double-side tape on the inner surface of a planchet. Place the planchet in an internal proportional counter, and count for 100 minutes.

11.5.4 Calculate the activity of the sample using Eq. 111-4 in Section 12.5.

11.5.5 Determine the aliquot volume of the sample solution from Section 11.4.10 to be analyzed for polonium-210, such that the aliquot contains an activity between 1 and 4 picocuries. Use Eq. 111-5 in Section 12.6.

11.6 Preparation of Silver Disc for Spontaneous Electrodeposition.

11.6.1 Clean both sides of the polished silver disc with silver cleaner and with degreaser.

11.6.2 Place disc on absorbent paper and spray one side with epoxy spray enamel. This should be carried out in a well-ventilated area, with the disc lying flat to keep paint on one side only. Allow paint to dry for 24 hours before using disc for deposition.

11.7 Sample Analysis.

11.7.1 Add the aliquot of sample solution from Section 11.4.10 to be analyzed for polonium-210, the volume of which was determined in Section 11.5.5, to a suitable 200-ml container to be placed in a constant temperature bath.

11.7.2 If necessary, bring the volume to 100 ml with 1 M HCl. If the aliquot volume exceeds 100 ml, use total aliquot.

11.7.3 Add 200 mg of ascorbic acid and heat solution to 85 &#xB0;C (185 &#xB0;F) in a constant temperature bath.

11.7.4 Suspend a silver disc in the heated solution using a glass or plastic rod with a hook inserted through the hole in the disc. The disc should be totally immersed in the solution, and the solution must be stirred constantly, at all times during the plating operation. Maintain the disc in solution for 3 hours.

11.7.5 Remove the silver disc, rinse with deionized distilled water, and allow to air dry at room temperature.

11.7.6 Place the disc, with deposition side (unpainted side) up, on a planchet and secure with double-side plastic tape. Place the planchet with disc in alpha spectrometry system and count for 1000 minutes.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Counting Efficiency. Calculate the counting efficiency of the detector for each aliquot of the 1 pCi/ml actinide working solution using Eq. 111-1.

12.3 Polonium-209 Tracer Solution Activity. Calculate the activity of each aliquot of the polonium-209 tracer solution using Eq. 111-2.

12.4 Control Efficiency of Internal Proportional Counter. Calculate the counting efficiency of the internal proportional counter for each aliquot of the 100 pCi/ml actinide working solution using Eq. 111-3.

12.5 Calculate the activity of the sample using Eq. 111-4.

12.6 Aliquot Volume. Determine the aliquot volume of the sample solution from Section 11.4.10 to be analyzed for polonium-210 , such that the aliquot contains an activity between 1 and 4 picocuries using Eq. 111-5.

12.7 Polonium-209 Recovery. Calculate the fraction of polonium-209 recovered on the planchet, E, using Eq. 111-6.

12.8 Polonium-210 Activity. Calculate the activity of polonium-210 in the Method 5 sample (including glass fiber filter and acetone rinse) using Eq. 111-7.

12.9 Emission Rate from Each Stack.

12.9.1 For each test run, i, on a stack, calculate the measured polonium-210 emission rate, R, using Eq. 111-8.

12.9.2 Determine the average polonium-210 emission rate from the stack, R, by taking the sum of the measured emission rates for all runs, and dividing by the number of runs performed.

12.9.3 Repeat steps 12.9.1 and 12.9.2 for each stack of each calciner.

12.10 Emission Rate from Each Source. Determine the total polonium-210 emission rate, X, from each source, k, by taking the sum of the average emission rates from all stacks to which the source exhausts.

12.11 Annual Polonium-210 Emission Rate from Entire Facility. Determine the annual elemental phosphorus plant emissions of polonium-210, S, using Eq. 111-9.
