
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### 38

1. Blanchard, R.L. "Rapid Determination of Lead-210 and Polonium-210 in Environmental Samples by Deposition on Nickel." Anal. Chem.,:189, pp. 189-192. February 1966.

This method provides the requirements for: (1) Stack monitoring and sample collection methods appropriate for radionuclides; (2) radiochemical methods which are used in determining the amounts of radionuclides collected by the stack sampling and; (3) quality assurance methods which are conducted in conjunction with these measurements. These methods are appropriate for emissions for stationary sources. A list of references is provided.

Many different types of facilities release radionuclides into air. These radionuclides differ in the chemical and physical forms, half-lives and type of radiation emitted. The appropriate combination of sample extraction, collection and analysis for an individual radionuclide is dependent upon many interrelated factors including the mixture of other radionuclides present. Because of this wide range of conditions, no single method for monitoring or sample collection and analysis of a radionuclide is applicable to all types of facilities. Therefore, a series of methods based on "principles of measurement" are described for monitoring and sample collection and analysis which are applicable to the measurement of radionuclides found in effluent streams at stationary sources. This approach provides the user with the flexibility to choose the most appropriate combination of monitoring and sample collection and analysis methods which are applicable to the effluent stream to be measured.

Monitoring and sample collection methods are described based on "principles of monitoring and sample collection" which are applicable to the measurement of radionuclides from effluent streams at stationary sources. Radionuclides of most elements will be in the particulate form in these effluent streams and can be readily collected using a suitable filter media. Radionuclides of hydrogen, oxygen, carbon, nitrogen, the noble gases and in some circumstances iodine will be in the gaseous form. Radionuclides of these elements will require either the use of an in-line or off-line monitor to directly measure the radionuclides, or suitable sorbers, condensers or bubblers to collect the radionuclides.

2.1 Radionuclides as Particulates. The extracted effluent stream is passed through a filter media to remove the particulates. The filter must have a high efficiency for removal of sub-micron particles. The guidance in ANSI/HPS N13.1-1999 (section 6.6.2 Filter media) shall be followed in using filter media to collect particulates (incorporated by reference-see ยง 61.18 of this part).

2.2 Radionuclides as Gases.

2.2.1 The Radionuclide Tritium (H-3). Tritium in the form of water vapor is collected from the extracted effluent sample by sorption, condensation or dissolution techniques. Appropriate collectors may include silica gel, molecular sieves, and ethylene glycol or water bubblers.

Tritium in the gaseous form may be measured directly in the sample stream using Method B-1, collected as a gas sample or may be oxidized using a metal catalyst to tritiated water and collected as described above.

2.2.2 Radionuclides of Iodine. Iodine is collected from an extracted sample by sorption or dissolution techniques. Appropriate collectors may include charcoal, impregnated charcoal, metal zeolite and caustic solutions.

2.2.3 Radionuclides of Argon, Krypton and Xenon. Radionuclides of these elements are either measured directly by an in-line or off-line monitor, or are collected from the extracted sample by low temperature sorption techniques, Appropriate sorbers may include charcoal or metal zeolite.

2.2.4 Radionuclides of Oxygen, Carbon, Nitrogen and Radon. Radionuclides of these elements are measured directly using an in-line or off-line monitor. Radionuclides of carbon in the form of carbon dioxide may be collected by dissolution in caustic solutions.

2.3 Definition of Terms
