
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### Sample collection

means a procedure in which the radionuclides are removed from an extracted sample of the effluent using a collection media. These collection media include filters, absorbers, bubblers and condensers. The collected sample is analyzed using the methods described in Section 3.

A series of methods based on "principles of measurement" are described which are applicable to the analysis of radionuclides collected from airborne effluent streams at stationary sources. These methods are applicable only under the conditions stated and within the limitations described. Some methods specify that only a single radionuclide be present in the sample or the chemically separated sample. This condition should be interpreted to mean that no other radionuclides are present in quantities which would interfere with the measurement.

Also identified (Table 1) are methods for a selected list of radionuclides. The listed radionuclides are those which are most commonly used and which have the greatest potential for causing dose to members of the public. Use of methods based on principles of measurement other than those described in this section must be approved in advance of use by the Administrator. For radionuclides not listed in Table 1, any of the described methods may be used provided the user can demonstrate that the applicability conditions of the method have been met.

The type of method applicable to the analysis of a radionuclide is dependent upon the type of radiation emitted, i.e., alpha, beta or gamma. Therefore, the methods described below are grouped according to principles of measurements for the analysis of alpha, beta and gamma emitting radionuclides.

3.1 Methods for Alpha Emitting Radionuclides

3.1.1 Method A-1, Radiochemistry-Alpha Spectrometry.
