
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart L - Drinking Water State Revolving Funds
###### ยง 35.3535 Authorized set-aside activities.
####### State program management.

(d)A State may use up to 10 percent of its allotment for State program management activities.

(1) This set-aside may only be used for the following activities:

(i) To administer the State PWSS program;

(ii) To administer or provide technical assistance through source water protection programs (including a Class V Underground Injection Control Program), except for enforcement actions;

(iii) To develop and implement a capacity development strategy; and

(iv) To develop and implement an operator certification program.

(2) Match requirement. A State must provide a dollar for dollar match for expenditures made under this set-aside.

(i) The match must be provided at the time of the capitalization grant award or in the same year that funds for this set-aside are expected to be expended in accordance with a workplan approved by EPA.

(ii) A State is authorized to use the amount of State funds it expended on its PWSS program in fiscal year 1993 (including PWSS match) as a credit toward meeting its match requirement. The value of this credit can be up to, but not greater than, 50 percent of the amount of match that is required. After determining the value of the credit that it is eligible to receive, a State must provide the additional funds necessary to meet the remainder of the match requirement. The source of these additional funds can be State funds (excluding PWSS match) or documented in-kind services.
