
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart L - Drinking Water State Revolving Funds
###### ยง 35.3535 Authorized set-aside activities.
####### Local assistance and other State programs.

(e)A State may use up to 15 percent of its capitalization grant to assist in the development and implementation of local drinking water protection initiatives and other State programs. No more than 10 percent of the capitalization grant amount can be used for any one authorized activity.

(1) This set-aside may only be used for the following activities:

(i) A State may provide assistance only in the form of loans to community water systems and non-profit noncommunity water systems to acquire land or conservation easements from willing sellers or grantors. A system must demonstrate how the purchase of land or easements will protect the source water of the system from contamination and ensure compliance with national primary drinking water regulations. A State must develop a priority setting process for determining what parcels of land or easements to purchase or use an established priority setting process that meets the same goals. A State must seek public review and comment on its priority setting process and must identify the systems that received loans and include a description of the specific parcels of land or easements purchased in the Biennial Report.

(ii) A State may provide assistance only in the form of loans to community water systems to assist in implementing voluntary, incentive-based source water protection measures in areas delineated under a source water assessment program under section 1453 of the Act and for source water petitions under section 1454 of the Act. A State must develop a list of systems that may receive loans, giving priority to activities that facilitate compliance with national primary drinking water regulations applicable to the systems or otherwise significantly further the health protection objectives of the Act. A State must seek public review and comment on its priority setting process and its list of systems that may receive loans.

(iii) A State may make expenditures to establish and implement wellhead protection programs under section 1428 of the Act.

(iv) A State may provide assistance, including technical and financial assistance, to public water systems as part of a capacity development strategy under section 1420(c) of the Act.

(v) A State may make expenditures from its fiscal year 1997 capitalization grant to delineate and assess source water protection areas for public water systems under section 1453 of the Act. Assessments include the identification of potential sources of contamination within the delineated areas. These assessment activities are limited to the identification of contaminants regulated under the Act or unregulated contaminants that a State determines may pose a threat to public health. A State must obligate funds within 4 years of receiving its fiscal year 1997 capitalization grant.

(2) A State may make loans under this set-aside only if an assistance recipient begins annual repayment of principal and interest no later than one year after completion of the activity and completes loan repayment no later than 20 years after completion of the activity. A State must deposit repayments into the Fund or into a separate account dedicated for this set-aside. The separate account is subject to the same management oversight requirements as the Fund. Amounts deposited into the Fund are subject to the authorized uses of the Fund.
