
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 61 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 61 - Test Methods
###### Single Channel Analyzers.

-Thallium activated sodium iodide crystals used with a single window analyzer. Pulses from the photomultiplier tubes are separated in a single predetermined energy range.

3.5.4 Calibration of Counters. Counters are calibrated for specific radionuclide measurements using a standard of the radionuclide under either identical or very similar conditions as the sample to be counted. For gamma spectrometers a series of standards covering the energy range of interest may be used to construct a calibration curve relating gamma energy to counting efficiency.

In those cases where a standard is not available for a radionuclide, counters may be calibrated using a standard with energy characteristics as similar as possible to the radionuclide to be measured. For gross alpha and beta measurements of the unidentified mixtures of radionuclides, alpha counters are calibrated with a natural uranium standard and beta counters with a cesium-137 standard. The standard must contain the same weight and distribution of solids as the samples, and be mounted in an identical manner. If the samples contain variable amounts of solids, calibration curves relating weight of solids present to counting efficiency are prepared. Standards other than those prescribed may be used provided it can be shown that such standards are more applicable to the radionuclide mixture measured.

3.6 Radiochemical Methods for Selected Radionuclides. Methods for a selected list of radionuclides are listed in Table 1. The radionuclides listed are those which are most commonly used and which have the greatest potential for causing doses to members of the public. For radionuclides not listed in Table 1, methods based on any of the applicable "principles of measurement" described in section 3.1 through 3.4 may be used.

3.7 Applicability of Gross Alpha and Beta Measurements to Unidentified Mixtures of Radionuclides. Gross alpha and beta measurements may be used as a screening measurement as a part of an emission measurement program to identify the need to do specific radionuclide analyses or to confirm or verify that unexpected radionuclides are not being released in significant quantities.

Gross alpha (Method A-4) or gross beta (Methods B-2 or B-4) measurements may also be used for the purpose of comparing the measured concentrations in the effluent stream with the limiting "Concentration Levels for Environmental Compliance" in table 2 of appendix E. For unidentified mixtures, the measured concentration value shall be compared with the lowest environmental concentration limit for any radionuclide which is not known to be absent from the effluent stream.

Each facility required to measure their radionuclide emissions shall conduct a quality assurance program in conjunction with the radionuclide emission measurements. This program shall assure that the emission measurements are representative, and are of known precision and accuracy and shall include administrative controls to assure prompt response when emission measurements indicate unexpectedly large emissions. The program shall consist of a system of policies, organizational responsibilities, written procedures, data quality specifications, audits, corrective actions and reports. This quality assurance program shall include the following program elements:

4.1 The organizational structure, functional responsibilities, levels of authority and lines of communications for all activities related to the emissions measurement program shall be identified and documented.

4.2 Administrative controls shall be prescribed to ensure prompt response in the event that emission levels increase due to unplanned operations.

4.3 The sample collection and analysis procedures used in measuring the emissions shall be described including where applicable:

4.3.1 Identification of sampling sites and number of sampling points, including the rationale for site selections.

4.3.2 A description of sampling probes and representativeness of the samples.

4.3.3 A description of any continuous monitoring system used to measure emissions, including the sensitivity of the system, calibration procedures and frequency of calibration.

4.3.4 A description of the sample collection systems for each radionuclide measured, including frequency of collection, calibration procedures and frequency of calibration.

4.3.5 A description of the laboratory analysis procedures used for each radionuclide measured, including frequency of analysis, calibration procedures and frequency of calibration.

4.3.6 A description of the sample flow rate measurement systems or procedures, including calibration procedures and frequency of calibration.

4.3.7 A description of the effluent flow rate measurement procedures, including frequency of measurements, calibration procedures and frequency of calibration.

4.4 The objectives of the quality assurance program shall be documented and shall state the required precision, accuracy and completeness of the emission measurement data including a description of the procedures used to assess these parameters. Accuracy is the degree of agreement of a measurement with a true or known value. Precision is a measure of the agreement among individual measurements of the same parameters under similar conditions. Completeness is a measure of the amount of valid data obtained compared to the amount expected under normal conditions.

4.5 A quality control program shall be established to evaluate and track the quality of the emissions measurement data against preset criteria. The program should include where applicable a system of replicates, spiked samples, split samples, blanks and control charts. The number and frequency of such quality control checks shall be identified.

4.6 A sample tracking system shall be established to provide for positive identification of samples and data through all phases of the sample collection, analysis and reporting system. Sample handling and preservation procedures shall be established to maintain the integrity of samples during collection, storage and analysis.

4.7 Regular maintenance, calibration and field checks shall be performed for each sampling system in use by satisfying the requirements found in Table 2: Maintenance, Calibration and Field Check Requirements.

4.8 Periodic internal and external audits shall be performed to monitor compliance with the quality assurance program. These audits shall be performed in accordance with written procedures and conducted by personnel who do not have responsibility for performing any of the operations being audited.

4.9 A corrective action program shall be established including criteria for when corrective action is needed, what corrective actions will be taken and who is responsible for taking the corrective action.

4.10 Periodic reports to responsible management shall be prepared on the performance of the emissions measurements program. These reports should include assessment of the quality of the data, results of audits and description of corrective actions.

4.11 The quality assurance program should be documented in a quality assurance project plan that should address each of the above requirements.

(1) American National Standards Institute "Guide to Sampling Airborne Radioactive Materials in Nuclear Facilities", ANSI-N13.1-1969, American National Standards Institute, New York, New York (1969).

(2) American Public Health Association, "Methods of Air Sampling", 2nd Edition, Method 605, "Tentative Method of Analysis for Plutonium Content of Atmospheric Particulate Matter". American Public Health Association, New York, NY (1977).

(3) Ibid, Method 601, "Tentative Method of Analysis for Gross Alpha Radioactivity Content of the Atmosphere".

(4) Ibid, Method 602, "Tentative Method of the Analysis for Gross Beta Radioactivity Content of the Atmosphere".

(5) Ibid, Method 608, "Tentative Method of Analysis for Strontium-90 Content of Atmospheric Particulate Matter".

(6) Ibid, Method 609, "Tentative Method of Analysis for Tritium Content of the Atmosphere".

(7) Ibid, Method 603, "Tentative Method of Analysis for Iodine-131 Content of the Atmosphere".

(8) American Society for Testing and Materials, 1986 Annual Book ASTM Standards, Designation D-3648-78, "Standard Practices for the Measurement of Radioactivity". American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, PA (1986).

(9) Ibid, Designation D-3649-85, "Standard Practice for High Resolution Gamma Spectrometry".

(10) Ibid, Designation D-1943-81, "Standard Test Method for Alpha Particle Radioactivity of Water".

(11) Ibid, Designation D-1890-81, "Standard Test Method for Beta Particle Radioactivity of Water".

(12) Ibid, Designation D-2459-72, "Standard Test Method for Gamma Spectrometry of Water".

(13) Ibid, Designation D-3972-82, "Standard Test Method for Isotopic Uranium in Water by Radiochemistry".

(14) Ibid, Designation D-2907-83, "Standard Test Methods for Microquantities of Uranium in Water by Fluorometry".

(15) Ibid, Designation E-318, "Standard Test Method for Uranium in Aqueous Solutions by Colorimetry".

(16) Ibid, Designation D-3084-75, "Standard Practice for Alpha Spectrometry of Water".

(17) Corley, J.P. and C.D. Corbit, "A Guide for Effluent Radiological Measurements at DOE Installations", DOE/EP-0096, Pacific Northwest Laboratories, Richland, Washington (1983).

(18) Department of Energy, "RESL Analytical Chemistry Branch Procedures Manual", IDO-12096, U.S. Department of Energy, Idaho Falls, Idaho (1982).

(19) Environmental Protection Agency, "Radiochemical Analytical Procedures for Analysis of Environmental Samples", EMSL-LV-0539-17, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory, Las Vegas, Nevada (1979).

(20) Environmental Protection Agency, "Radiochemistry Procedures Manual", EPA 520/5-84-006, Eastern Environmental Radiation Facility, Montgomery, Alabama (1984).

(21) National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements, NCRP Report No. 50, "Environmental Radiation Measurements", National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurement, Bethesda, Maryland (1976).

(22) Ibid, Report No. 47, "Tritium Measurement Techniques". (1976).

(23) Ibid, Report No. 58 "A Handbook of Radioactivity Measurement Procedures" (1985).

(24) Environmental Protection Agency, "Indoor Radon and Radon Decay Product Measurement Protocols", EPA 520/1-89-009, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC (1989).

This appendix describes the monitoring methods which must be used in determining the radon-222 emissions from underground uranium mines, uranium mill tailings piles, phosphogypsum stacks, and other piles of waste material emitting radon.

1.1 Sampling Frequency and Calculation of Emissions. Radon-222 emissions from underground uranium mine vents shall be determined using one of the following methods:

1.1.1 Continuous Measurement. These measurements shall be made and the emissions calculated as follows:

(a) The radon-222 concentration shall be continuously measured at each mine vent whenever the mine ventilation system is operational.

(b) Each mine vent exhaust flow rate shall be measured at least 4 times per year.

(c) A weekly radon-222 emission rate for the mine shall be calculated and recorded weekly as follows:

(d) The annual radon-222 emission rate is the sum of the weekly emission rates during a calendar year.

1.1.2 Periodic Measurement. This method is applicable only to mines that continuously operate their ventilation system except for extended shutdowns. Mines which start up and shut down their ventilation system frequently must use the continuous measurement method describe in Section 1.1.1 above. Emission rates determined using periodic measurements shall be measured and calculated as follows:

(a) The radon-222 shall be continuously measured at each mine vent for at least one week every three months.

(b) Each mine vent exhaust flow rate shall be measured at least once during each of the radon-222 measurement periods.

(c) A weekly radon-222 emission rate shall be calculated for each weekly period according to the method described in Section 1.1.1. In this calculation T = 168 hr.

(d) The annual radon-222 emission rate from the mine should be calculated as follows:

1.2 Test Methods and Procedures

Each underground mine required to test its emissions, unless an equivalent or alternative method has been approved by the Administrator, shall use the following test methods:

1.2.1 Test Method 1 of appendix A to part 60 shall be used to determine velocity traverses. The sampling point in the duct shall be either the centroid of the cross section or the point of average velocity.

1.2.2 Test Method 2 of appendix A to part 60 shall be used to determine velocity and volumetric flow rates.

1.2.3 Test Methods A-6 or A-7 of appendix B, Method 114 to part 61 shall be used for the analysis of radon-222. Use of Method A-7 requires prior approval of EPA based on conditions described in appendix B.

1.2.4 A quality assurance program shall be conducted in conformance with the programs described for Continuous Radon Monitors and Alpha Track Detectors in EPA 520/1-89-009. (2)

2.1 Measurement and Calculation of Radon Flux from Uranium Mill Tailings Piles.

2.1.1 Frequency of Flux Measurement. A single set of radon flux measurements may be made, or if the owner or operator chooses, more frequent measurements may be made over a one year period. These measurements may involve quarterly, monthly or weekly intervals. All radon measurements shall be made as described in paragraphs 2.1.2 through 2.1.6 except that for measurements made over a one year period, the requirement of paragraph 2.1.4(c) shall not apply. The mean radon flux from the pile shall be the arithmetic mean of the mean radon flux for each measurement period. The weather conditions, moisture content of the tailings and area of the pile covered by water existing at the time of the measurement shall be chosen so as to provide measurements representative of the long term radon flux from the pile and shall be subject to EPA review and approval.

2.1.2 Distribution of Flux Measurements. The distribution and number of radon flux measurements required on a pile will depend on clearly defined areas of the pile (called regions) that can have significantly different radon fluxes due to surface conditions. The mean radon flux shall be determined for each individual region of the pile. Regions that shall be considered for operating mill tailings piles are:

For mill tailings after disposal the pile shall be considered to consist of only one region.

2.1.3 Number of Flux Measurements. Radon flux measurements shall be made within each region on the pile, except for those areas covered with water. Measurements shall be made at regularly spaced locations across the surface of the region, realizing that surface roughness will prohibit measurements in some areas of a region. The minimum number of flux measurements considered necessary to determine a representative mean radon flux value for each type of region on an operating pile is:

For a mill tailings pile after disposal which consists of only one region a minimum of 100 measurements are required.

2.1.4 Restrictions to Radon Flux Measurements. The following restrictions are placed on making radon flux measurements:

2.1.5 Areas of Pile Regions. The approximate area of each region of the pile shall be determined in units of square meters.

2.1.6 Radon Flux Measurement. Measuring radon flux involves the adsorption of radon on activated charcoal in a large-area collector. The radon collector is placed on the surface of the pile area to be measured and allowed to collect radon for a time period of 24 hours. The radon collected on the charcoal is measured by gamma-ray spectroscopy. The detailed measurement procedure provided in appendix A of EPA 520/5-85-0029(1) shall be used to measure the radon flux on uranium mill tailings, except the surface of the tailings shall not be penetrated by the lip of the radon collector as directed in the procedure, rather the collector shall be carefully positioned on a flat surface with soil or tailings used to seal the edge.

2.1.7 Calculations. The mean radon flux for each region of the pile and for the total pile shall be calculated and reported as follows:

2.1.8 Reporting. The results of individual flux measurements, the approximate locations on the pile, and the mean radon flux for each region and the mean radon flux for the total stack shall be included in the emission test report. Any condition or unusual event that occurred during the measurements that could significantly affect the results should be reported.

3.0 Radon-222 Emissions from Phosphogypsum Stacks.

3.1 Measurement and Calculation of the Mean Radon Flux. Radon flux measurements shall be made on phosphogypsum stacks as described below:

3.1.1 Frequency of Measurements. A single set of radon flux measurements may be made after the phosphogypsum stack becomes inactive, or if the owner or operator chooses, more frequent measurements may be made over a one year period. These measurements may involve quarterly, monthly or weekly intervals. All radon measurements shall be made as described in paragraphs 3.1.2 through 3.1.6 except that for measurements made over a one year period, the requirement of paragraph 3.1.4(c) shall not apply. For measurements made over a one year period, the radon flux shall be the arithmetic mean of the mean radon flux for each measurement period.

3.1.2 Distribution and Number of Flux Measurements. The distribution and number of radon flux measurements required on a stack will depend on clearly defined areas of the stack (called regions) that can have significantly different radon fluxes due to surface conditions. The mean radon flux shall be determined for each individual region of the stack. Regions that shall be considered are:

3.1.3 Number of Flux Measurements. Radon flux measurements shall be made within each region on the phosphogypsum stack, except for those areas covered with water. Measurements shall be made at regularly spaced locations across the surface of the region, realizing that surface roughness will prohibit measurements in some areas of a region. The minimum number of flux measurements considered necessary to determine a representative mean radon flux value for each type of region is:

3.1.4 Restrictions to Radon Flux Measurements. The following restrictions are placed on making radon flux measurements:

3.1.5 Areas of Stack Regions. The approximate area of each region of the stack shall be determined in units of square meters.

3.1.6 Radon Flux Measurements. Measuring radon flux involves the adsorption of radon on activated charcoal in a large-area collector. The radon collector is placed on the surface of the stack area to be measured and allowed to collect radon for a time period of 24 hours. The radon collected on the charcoal is measured by gamma-ray spectroscopy. The detailed measurement procedure provided in appendix A of EPA 520/5-85-0029(1) shall be used to measure the radon flux on phosphogypsum stacks, except the surface of the phosphogypsum shall not be penetrated by the lip of the radon collector as directed in the procedure, rather the collector shall be carefully positioned on a flat surface with soil or phosphogypsum used to seal the edge.

3.1.7 Calculations. The mean radon flux for each region of the phosphogypsum stack and for the total stack shall be calculated and reported as follows:

3.1.8 Reporting. The results of individual flux measurements, the approximate locations on the stack, and the mean radon flux for each region and the mean radon flux for the total stack shall be included in the emission test report. Any condition or unusual event that occurred during the measurements that could significantly affect the results should be reported.

4.0 Quality Assurance Procedures for Measuring Rn-222 Flux

Records of field activities and laboratory measurements shall be maintained. The following information shall be recorded for each charcoal canister measurement:

Records shall include all applicable information associated with determining the sample measurement, calculations, observations, and comments.

Custodial control of all charcoal samples exposed in the field shall be maintained in accordance with EPA chain-of-custody field procedures. A control record shall document all custody changes that occur between the field and laboratory personnel.

The radioactivity of two standard charcoal sources, each containing a carefully determined quantity of radium-226 uniformly distributed through 180g of activated charcoal, shall be measured. An efficiency factor is computed by dividing the average measured radioactivity of the two standard charcoal sources, minus the background, in cpm by the known radioactivity of the charcoal sources in dpm. The same two standard charcoal sources shall be counted at the beginning and at the end of each day's counting as a check of the radioactivity counting equipment. A background count using unexposed charcoal should also be made at the beginning and at the end of each counting day to check for inadvertent contamination of the detector or other changes affecting the background. The unexposed charcoal comprising the blank is changed with each new batch of charcoal used.

The charcoal from every tenth exposed canister shall be recounted. Five percent of the samples analyzed shall be either blanks (charcoal having no radioactivity added) or samples spiked with known quantities of radium-226.

The precision, accuracy, and completeness of measurements and analyses shall be within the following limits for samples measuring greater than 1.0 pCi/m-s.

(a) Precision: 10%

(b) Accuracy: +/-10%

(c) Completeness: at least 85% of the measurements must yield useable results.

(1) Hartley, J.N. and Freeman, H.D., "Radon Flux Measurements on Gardinier and Royster phosphogypsum Piles Near Tampa and Mulberry, Florida," U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Report, EPA 520/5-85-029, January 1986.

(2) Environmental Protection Agency, "Indoor Radon and Radon Decay Product Measurement Protocols", EPA 520/1-89-009, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC. (1989).
