
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 62.02 Introduction.

(a) This part sets forth the Administrator's approval and disapproval of State plans for the control of pollutants and facilities under section 111(d), and section 129 as applicable, of the Act, and the Administrator's promulgation of such plans or portions of plans thereof. Approval of a plan or any portion of a plan is based on a determination by the Administrator that it meets the requirements of section 111(d), and section 129 as applicable, of the Act and provisions of part 60 of this chapter.

(b)(1) If a State does not submit a complete, approvable plan, the Administrator may then promulgate a substitute plan or part of a plan. The promulgated provision, plus the approved parts of the State plan, constitute the applicable plan for purposes of the act.

(2) The part 60 subpart A of this chapter general provisions and appendices to part 60 apply to part 62, except as follows: 40 CFR 60.7(a)(1), 60.7(a)(3), and 60.8(a) and where special provisions set forth under the applicable subpart of this part shall apply instead of any conflicting provisions.

(c) The Administrator will promulgate substitute provisions for the disapproved regulatory provisions only. If a nonregulatory provision is disapproved, however, it will be noted in this part and a detailed explanation will be sent to the State.

(d) Section 62.12 provides information on availability of applicable plans. The Administrator and state and local agencies shall enforce

(1) Regulatory provisions of a plan approved or promulgated by the Administrator, and

(2) All permit conditions or denials issued in carrying out the approved or promulgated regulations for the review of designated facilities.

(e) Each State's plan is dealt with in a separate subpart, with separate headings for different pollutants and facilities. The plans shall include an introductory section identifying the plan by name and the date of its submittal. Additional sections are included as necessary to specifically identify disapproved provisions, to set forth reasons for disapproval, and to set forth provisions of the plan promulgated by the Administrator. Except as otherwise specified, all supplemental information submitted to the Administrator with respect to any plan has been submitted by the Governor of the State.

(f) Revisions to applicable plans will be included in this part when approved or promulgated by the Administrator.

(g) Substitute plans promulgated by the Administrator for States that do not have approved plans are contained in separate subparts that appear after the subparts for States. These Federal plans include sections identifying the applicability of the plan, emission limits, compliance schedules, recordkeeping and reporting, performance testing, and monitoring requirements.
