
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 62.13 Federal plans.

The Federal plans apply to owners and operators of affected facilities that are not covered by an EPA approved and currently effective State or Tribal plan. This Federal plan, or portions thereof, also applies to each affected facility located in any State or portion of Indian country whose approved State or Tribal plan for that area is subsequently vacated in whole or in part. Affected facilities are defined in each Federal plan.

(a) The substantive requirements of the municipal waste combustor Federal plan are contained in subpart FFF of this part. These requirements include emission limits, compliance schedules, testing, monitoring, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(b) The substantive requirements of the municipal solid waste landfills Federal plan that implements 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc of this chapter, are contained in subpart GGG of this part. These requirements include emission limits, compliance schedules, testing, monitoring, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements. After June 21, 2021, per paragraph (j) of this section, the substantive requirements of the municipal solid waste landfills Federal plan are contained in subpart OOO of this part and owners and operators of municipal solid waste landfills must comply with subpart OOO of this part or a state/tribal plan implementing 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cf of this chapter, instead of subpart GGG of this part.

(c) The substantive requirements of the hospital/ medical/infectious waste incinerator Federal plan are contained in subpart HHH of this part. These requirements include emission limits, compliance schedules, testing, monitoring and reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(d) The substantive requirements of the commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units Federal plan are contained in subpart III of this part. These requirements include emission limits, compliance schedules, testing, monitoring, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(e) The substantive requirements of the small municipal waste combustion unit Federal plan are contained in subpart JJJ of this part. These requirements include emission limits, compliance schedules, testing, monitoring, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) The substantive requirements of the sewage sludge incineration units Federal plan are contained in subpart LLL of this part. These requirements include emission limits, compliance schedules, testing, monitoring, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(h)-(i) [Reserved]

(j) The substantive requirements of the municipal solid waste landfills Federal plan that implements 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cf of this chapter, are contained in subpart OOO of this part. These requirements include emission limits, compliance schedules, testing, monitoring, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
