
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart F - California
######## ยง 62.1100 Identification of plan.

(a) State of California Designated Facility Plan (Section 111(d) Plan).

(b) The plan was officially submitted as follows:

(1) Control of fluoride emissions from existing facilities at phosphate fertilizer plants, submitted on February 26 and July 16, 1979 and April 7, 1980 having been adopted by the Districts on December 1 and 6, 1979 and January 9, 1979. A letter clarifying the plan was submitted on March 27, 1979. Revisions to the plan were submitted on September 23, 1980 and February 5 and July 6, 1981.

(2) Control of sulfuric acid mist from existing facilities at sulfuric acid production units, submitted on February 26, July 16, and September 7, 1979 and April 7, 1980, having been adopted by the Districts on December 1 and 6, 1978 and January 9, 1979. Revisions to the plan were submitted on October 31, 1980, February 18, and May 1, 1981.

(3) Control of total reduced sulfur (TRS) emissions from existing kraft pulping mills submitted as follows:

(i) 9-25-79; submittal of existing rules. (A) Bay Area Air Quality Management District (AQMD) Rule 1, Regulation 12-Kraft Pulp Mills.

(B) Humboldt County Air Pollution Control District Regulation 1; Rule 130-Definitions, Rule 240-Permit to Operate, Rule 450-Sulfide Emissions from Kraft Pulp Mills.

(C) Shasta County Air Pollution Control District Rule 3:2-Specific Air Contaminants.

(ii) 3-21-80; Clarification of Bay Area Rule 1, Regulation 12-Kraft Pulp Mills.

(iii) 4-7-80; Summary of district rules and State laws that meet the requirements of 40 CFR, parts 60.23-60.26 for Designated Facilities in general.

(iv) 5-29-80; revision of Bay Area AQMD Rule 1, Regulation 12-Kraft Pulp Mills.

(v) 9-5-80; Evidence of public hearing and annual report schedule defined for Bay Area Rule 1, Regulation 12-Kraft Pulp Mills.

(vi) 11-4-81. (A) Humboldt County APCD Rules 130-Definitions; 240-Permit to Operate; and 450-Kraft Pulp Mills amended (7-28-81).

(B) Shasta County APCD Rule 3:2-Specific Contaminants amended (8-4-81).

(C) A summary of compliance of all districts with the requirements set forth in 40 CFR 60.23 through 60.26.

(D) A list of witnesses appearing at Humboldt and Shasta Counties public hearings and a summary of testimonies Statewide emissions inventory of all TRS sources in the State.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) State of California's Section 111(d) Plan For Existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, submitted on September 26, 1997, June 26, 1998, November 9, 1998, and July 14, 1999 by the California Air Resources Board.

(i) Revision to the State of California's Section 111(d) Plan for Existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, submitted by the California Air Resources Board on December 20, 2000.

(ii) [Reserved]

(6) State of California's Section 129/111(d) Plan for Existing Large Municipal Waste Combustors, submitted by the California Air Resources Board on September 23, 1998, with supplemental materials submitted on May 2, 2002.

(7) State of California's Section 111(d) Plan for Existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, including 17 CCR 95460-95476 (collectively, subarticle 6 entitled "Methane Emissions from Municipal Solid Waste Landfills,") operative June 17, 2010, submitted on May 30, 2017 by the California Air Resources Board to implement 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cf. The Plan does not include provisions relating to 40 CFR 60.34f(c), 60.36f(a)(5), 60.37f(a)(2) and (3), 60.38f(k), and 60.39f(e)(2) and (5). The Plan includes the regulatory provisions cited in paragraph (d) of this section, which the EPA incorporates by reference.

(c) Designated facilities: The plans apply to existing facilities in the following categories of sources:

(1) Existing phosphate fertilizer plants.

(2) Existing sulfuric acid production units.

(3) Existing kraft pulp mills.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) Existing municipal solid waste landfills.

(6) Existing large municipal waste combustors.
