
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart H - Connecticut
######## ยง 62.1500 Identification of Plan.
######### Identification of Plan.

(a)Connecticut Plan for the Control of Designated Pollutants from Existing Plants (section 111(d) Plan).

(b) The plan was officially submitted as follows:

(1) Plan for Implementing the Municipal Waste Combustor Guidelines and New Source Performance Standards, submitted on October 1, 1999.

(2) Revisions to Plan for Implementing the Municipal Waste Combustor Guidelines and New Source Performance Standards, submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on October 15, 2001 and including Connecticut DEP's revised regulation 22a-174-38. Certain provisions of the revised regulation 22a-174-38 submitted with the MWC Plan are stricken from the regulatory text. The stricken provisions include standards for MWC units constructed after September 20, 1994, more stringent mercury emission standards, and shutdown provisions for mass burn refractory MWC units.

(3) Revision to Plan to implement the Large and Small Municipal Waste Combustors, submitted on September 16, 2004.

(4) Revised State Plan for Large and Small Municipal Waste Combustors was submitted on October 22, 2008. Revisions included amendments to Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies section 22a-174-38 (Section 38) in response to amended emission guidelines for Large MWCs (40 CFR part 60, subpart Cb) published on May 10, 2006 (71 FR 27324). Certain new provisions of Section 38 (subdivision (12) and (13) of subsection (k)) were revised in the state regulation, but not submitted for approval in the State Plan.

(c) The Plan applies to existing sources in the following categories:

(1) Existing municipal waste combustor units greater than 250 tons per day.

(2) Small municipal waste combustors with a design combustion capacity of 35 to 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste.
