
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Confidentiality of Business Information
###### ยง 2.307 Special rules governing certain information obtained under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act.
####### Disclosure in special circumstances.

(h)(1) Section 2.209 applies without change to information to which this section applies. In addition, under section 12(a)(2)(D) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 136j(a)(2)(D), EPA possesses authority to disclose any information to which this section applies to physicians, pharmacists, and other qualified persons needing such information for the performance of their duties, notwithstanding the fact that the information might otherwise be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart. Such authority under section 12(a)(2)(D) of the Act may be exercised only in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) or (h)(3) of this section.

(2) Information to which this section applies may be disclosed (notwithstanding the fact that it might otherwise be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart) to physicians, pharmacists, hospitals, veterinarians, law enforcement personnel, or governmental agencies with responsibilities for protection of public health, and to employees of any such persons or agencies, or to other qualified persons, when and to the extent that disclosure is necessary in order to treat illness or injury or to prevent imminent harm to persons, property, or the environment, in the opinion of the Administrator or his designee.

(3) Information to which this section applies may be disclosed (notwithstanding the fact that it otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart) to a person under contract to EPA to perform work for EPA in connection with the Act or regulations which implement the Act, if the EPA program office managing the contract first determines in writing that such disclosure is necessary in order that the contractor may carry out the work required by the contract. Any such disclosure to a contractor shall be made only in accordance with the procedure and requirements of ยง 2.301(h)(2) (ii) through (iv).

(4) Information to which this section applies, and which relates to formulas of products, may be disclosed at any public hearing or in findings of fact issued by the Administrator, to the extent and in the manner authorized by the Administrator or his designee.
