
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart O - Illinois
###### Landfill Gas Emissions From Existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills
####### ยง 62.3330 Identification of plan.
######## Illinois Register,Ill. Reg.,Illinois Register,Ill. Reg.

The Illinois Plan for implementing the Federal Municipal Solid Waste Landfill Emission Guidelines to control air emissions from existing landfills in the State was submitted on July 21, 1998. The Illinois rules for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills are primarily found in Title 35: Environmental Protection; Subtitle B: Air Pollution; Chapter I: Pollution Control Board; Subchapter C: Emission Standards and Limitations for Stationary Sources; Part 220: Nonmethane Organic Compounds of the Illinois Administrative Code (35 IAC). Part 220 was adopted by the IPCB on June 17, 1998 and filed in the principal office on that day. Part 220 was published in theon July 10, 1998 at 2211790 and became effective on July 31, 1998. As part of the same rulemaking action, the IPCB amended 35 IAC Part 201: Permits and General Provisions; Subpart A: Definitions; Section 201.103 (a) by adding the following abbreviations: Mg = megagrams, M(3) = cubic meters, NMOC = nonmethane organic compounds, and yr = year. In Section 201.103 (b) the conversion factor for 1000 gal was changed from 3.785 cubic meters to 3.785 M(3). In Subpart C: Prohibitions, Section 201.146 was amended by adding paragraph (ggg) which states that municipal solid waste landfills with a maximum total design capacity of less than 2.5 million Mg or 2.5 million M(3) are not required to install a gas collection and control system pursuant to 35 Ill. Adm. Code 220 or 800 through 849 or Section 9.1 of the [Illinois Environmental Protection] Act. These amendments were published in theon July 10, 1998 at 2211824 and became effective on July 31, 1998.
