
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart L - Drinking Water State Revolving Funds
###### ยง 35.3550 Specific capitalization grant agreement requirements.
####### Provide State match.

(g)A State must agree to deposit into the Fund an amount from State monies that equals at least 20 percent of each capitalization grant payment.

(1) A State must identify the source of State match in the capitalization grant application.

(2) A State must deposit the match into the Fund on or before the date that a State receives each payment for the capitalization grant, except when a State chooses to use a letter of credit (LOC) mechanism or similar financial arrangement for the State match. Under this mechanism, payments to this LOC account must be made proportionally on the same schedule as the payments for the capitalization grant. Cash from this State match LOC account must be drawn into the Fund as cash is drawn into the Fund through the Automated Clearing House (ACH).

(3) A State may issue general obligation or revenue bonds to derive the State match. The net proceeds from the bonds issued by a State to derive the match must be deposited into the Fund and the bonds may only be retired using the interest portion of loan repayments and interest earnings of the Fund. Loan principal must not be used to retire State match bonds.

(4) If the State deposited State monies in a dedicated revolving fund after July 1, 1993, and prior to receiving a capitalization grant, the State may credit these monies toward the match requirement if:

(i) The monies were deposited in a separate revolving fund that subsequently became the Fund after receiving a capitalization grant and they were expended in accordance with section 1452 of the Act;

(ii) The monies were deposited in a separate revolving fund that has not received a capitalization grant, they were expended in accordance with section 1452 of the Act, and an amount equal to all repayments of principal and payments of interest from loans will be deposited into the Fund; or

(iii) The monies were deposited in a separate revolving fund and used as a reserve for a leveraged program consistent with section 1452 of the Act and an amount equal to the reserve is transferred to the Fund as the reserve's function is satisfied.

(5) If a State provides a match in excess of the required amount, the excess balance may be credited towards match requirements associated with subsequent capitalization grants.
