
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart T - Louisiana
######## ยง 62.4620 Identification of plan.
######### Identification of plan.

(a)Louisiana Plan for Control of Designated Pollutants from Existing Facilities (111(d) Plan).

(b) The plan was officially submitted as follows:

(1) Control of sulfuric acid mist from sulfuric acid plants, and fluoride emissions from existing facilities at phosphate fertilizer plants, submitted on July 18, 1978, having been adopted by the State November 30, 1977, and letter dated February 16, 1982.

(2) Control of fluoride emissions from existing facilities at primary aluminum plants, submitted on January 12, 1981, having been adopted by the State on December 11, 1980.

(3) Control of total reduced sulfur from existing facilities at kraft pulp mill plants, submitted in December 1979, having been adopted November 27, 1979, and letter dated February 16, 1982.

(4) Control of landfill gas emissions from existing municipal solid waste landfills, submitted on December 9, 1996 (LAC 33.III.3003.B, Table 2), and revised on December 20, 1998 (LAC 33.III.3003.C.4).

(5) [Reserved]

(6) Control of air emissions from existing commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units, submitted by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality on February 18, 2003 (LAC 33:III.3003.B.6).

(7) Control of mercury emissions from coal-fired electric steam generating units and coal-fired electric generating units as defined in 40 CFR 60.24(h)(8): Clean Air Act Section 111(d) Plan for Coal-Fired Electrical Steam Generating Units, submitted by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality on October 25, 2006 (LAC 33:III.3003.A).
