
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart U - Maine
######## ยง 62.4845 Identification of plan.
######### Identification of plan.

(a)Maine Plan for the Control of Designated Pollutants from Existing Plants (Section 111(d) Plan).

(b) The plan was officially submitted as follows:

(1) Control of sulfuric acid mist emissions from existing sulfuric acid production units, submitted on November 10, 1988.

(2) Control of total reduced sulfur (TRS) emissions from existing kraft pulp mills, submitted on February 15, 1990.

(3) A revision to the plan to control TRS from existing kraft pulp mills, which extends the final compliance date for brown stock washers to January 1, 1997, was submitted on April 27, 1994.

(4) Control of metals, acid gases, organic compounds and nitrogen oxide emissions from existing large municipal waste combustors with the capacity to combust greater than 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste, submitted on April 15, 1998.

(5) A revision to the plan controlling TRS from existing kraft pulp mills to incorporate the pulp and paper maximum achievable control technology (MACT) requirements that impact TRS emission sources such as brownstock washer systems, low volume high concentration (LVHC) systems, steam strippers, and waste water treatment plants. Changes have also been made to clarify venting allowances and recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(6) A revision to the plan controlling TRS from existing kraft pulp mills which extends the final compliance date for brownstock washers to April 17, 2007, was submitted on June 23, 2004.

(7) A revision to the plan controlling metals, acid gases, organic compounds and nitrogen oxide emissions from large municipal waste combustors with the capacity to combust greater than 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste, submitted on December 24, 2019 (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (d)(1) of this section).

(8) Control of metals, acid gases, organic compounds and nitrogen oxide emissions from existing small municipal waste combustors with the capacity to combust less than or equal to 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste, submitted on December 24, 2019 (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (d)(1) of this section).
