
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart L - Drinking Water State Revolving Funds
###### ยง 35.3555 Intended Use Plan (IUP).
####### Priority lists of projects.

(2)All projects, with the exception of projects funded on an emergency basis, must be ranked using a State's priority system and go through a public review process prior to receiving assistance.

(i) The IUP must contain a fundable list of projects that are expected to receive assistance from available funds designated for use in the current IUP and a comprehensive list of projects that are expected to receive assistance in the future. The fundable list of projects must include: the name of the public water system; the priority assigned to the project; a description of the project; the expected terms of financial assistance based on the best information available at the time the IUP is developed; and the population of the system's service area at the time of the loan application. The comprehensive list must include, at a minimum, the priority assigned to each project and, to the extent known, the expected funding schedule for each project. A State may combine the fundable and comprehensive lists into one list, provided that projects which are expected to receive assistance from available funds designated for use in the current IUP are identified.

(ii) The IUP may include procedures which would allow a State to bypass projects on the fundable list. The procedures must clearly identify the conditions which would allow a project to be bypassed and the method for identifying which projects would receive funding. If a bypass occurs, a State must fund the highest ranked project on the comprehensive list that is ready to proceed. If a State elects to bypass a project for reasons other than readiness to proceed, the State must explain why the project was bypassed in the Biennial Report and during the annual review. To the maximum extent practicable, a State must work with bypassed projects to ensure that they will be prepared to receive funding in future years.

(iii) The IUP may allow for the funding of projects which require immediate attention to protect public health on an emergency basis, provided that a State defines what conditions constitute an emergency and identifies the projects in the Biennial Report and during the annual review.

(iv) The IUP must demonstrate how a State will meet the requirement of providing loan assistance to small systems as described in ยง 35.3525(a)(5). A State that is unable to comply with this requirement must describe the steps it is taking to ensure that a sufficient number of projects are identified to meet this requirement in future years.
