
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart AA - Missouri
######## ยง 62.6350 Identification of plan.
######### Identification of plan.

(a)Missouri Plan for Control of Designated Pollutants from Existing Facilities (Section 111(d) Plan).

(b) The plan was officially submitted as follows:

(1) Control of fluoride emissions from existing facilities at phosphate fertilizer plants, and fluoride emissions from existing facilities at primary aluminum reduction plants, submitted on September 22, 1981, having been adopted by the State on June 17 and June 21, 1981. A letter conveying additional information regarding this plan was submitted on January 3, 1985.

(2) Control of sulfuric acid mist from existing facilities at sulfuric acid production plants, submitted on March 12, 1979, having been adopted by the State in 1967 and 1971. A letter providing additional information regarding this plan was submitted on January 3, 1985.

(3) A revision to Missouri's 111(d) plan for Sulfuric Acid Mist from Existing Sulfuric Acid Production Plants which was effective on August 30, 1996. This revision incorporates the 111(d) requirements from two existing regulations into a new consolidated regulation.

(4) A revision to Missouri's 111(d) plan for sulfuric acid mist production was state effective on May 30, 2004. This revision approves the renumbering of the rule. The effective date of the amended plan is April 12, 2006.

(5) A revision to Missouri's 111(d) plan to incorporate state regulation 10 CSR 10-6.020 Definitions and Common Reference Tables was state effective on February 28, 2013. The effective date of the amended plan is May 16, 2014.

(6) A revision to Missouri's 111(d) plan to incorporate state regulation 10 CSR 10-6.020 Definitions and Common Reference Tables was state effective March 30, 2014. The effective date of the amended plan is May 4, 2015.

(7) A withdrawal of Missouri's 111(d) plan, including state rule 10 CSR 10.3.160, for control of fluoride emissions from existing phosphate fertilizer plants was state effective on September 30, 2018 and was submitted on December 3, 2018.
