
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart HH - New York
###### Metals, Acid Gases, Organic Compounds and Nitrogen Oxide Emissions From Existing Municipal Waste Combustors With the Capacity To Combust Greater Than 250 Tons Per Day of Municipal Solid Waste
####### ยง 62.8103 Identification of plan.

(a) The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency a "State Plan for implementation and enforcement of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cb, Emissions Guidelines for Large Municipal Waste Combustors" on December 15, 1997 and supplemented on June 22, 1998.

(b) Identification of sources: The plan applies to existing facilities with a municipal waste combustor unit capacity greater than 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste.

(c) On October 7, 1998 and supplemented on November 5, 1998, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation submitted revisions to the State Plan which incorporates emission limits and compliance schedules as amended by EPA on August 25, 1997 (65 FR 45116).

(d) Identification of plan: On July 12, 2013, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) a Clean Air Act section 111(d)/129 revised plan, and the associated Table 2 of subdivision 200.10(b) at Part 200 of Title 6 NYCRR, addressing 40 CFR part 60 subpart Cb, "Emissions Guidelines and Compliance Times for Large Municipal Waste Combustors That are Constructed on or Before September 20, 1994," as amended on May 10, 2006. The plan includes the regulatory provisions cited in paragraph (g) of this section, which the EPA incorporates by reference.

(e) Identification of sources: The plan applies to all existing facilities in New York with a municipal waste combustion capacity greater than 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste for which construction commenced on or before September 20, 1994, and which are subject to 40 CFR part 60 subpart Cb.

(f) Effective date: The effective date of the plan for October 4, 2021.

(g) Incorporation by reference:
