
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart II - North Carolina
######## ยง 62.8350 Identification of plan.
######### Identification of plan.

(a)North Carolina Designated Facility Plan (Section 111(d) Plan).

(b) The plan was officially submitted as follows:

(1) Control of sulfuric acid mist emissions from existing sulfuric acid production units, submitted on October 27, 1978, and November 14, 1979.

(2) Control of fluoride emissions from existing primary aluminum plants, submitted on April 16, and August 24, 1981.

(3) Control of total reduced sulfur emissions from existing facilities at kraft pulp mills, submitted on May 2, 1980, and September 24, 1982.

(4) The following revisions to Title 15 of the North Carolina Administrative Code (15 NCAC) were submitted to EPA on July 18, 1986, following adoption by the North Carolina Environmental Management Commission on November 8, 1984: Revised regulations 2D.0517-Emissions From Plants Producing Sulfuric Acid, 2D.0528-Total Reduced Sulfur From Kraft Pulp Mills, and 2D.0529-Fluoride Emissions From Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants.

(5) A change to regulation 15 NCAC 2D.0528, Total Reduced Sulfur from Kraft Pulp Mills, was submitted to EPA April 14, 1987, following adoption by the North Carolina Environmental Management Commission on April 9, 1987.

(6) Revisions to regulations 15 NCAC 2D.0528(c), (f), (g), and (h)-Total Reduced Sulfur from Kraft Pulp Mills, and 2D.0529 (a) and (c)-Fluoride Emissions from Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants, were submitted by the North Carolina Department of Natural Resources and Community Development on May 2, 1988, following adoption by the North Carolina Environmental Management Commission on April 14, 1988.

(7) Regulation 1-144, Particulate Matter and Reduced Sulfur Emissions from Pulp and Paper Mills, except 1-144(f) and (g) for the Western North Carolina portion of the North Carolina SIP submitted on June 14, 1990.
