
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart MM - Oregon
######## ยง 62.9350 Identification of plan.
######### Identification of plan.

(a)Oregon Designated Facility Plan (Section 111(d) Plan).

(b) The plan was officially submitted as follows:

(1) Control of fluoride emissions from phosphate fertilizer plants, submitted by the Oregon State Department of Environmental Quality on June 1, 1977.

(2) Control of sulfuric acid mist emissions from sulfuric acid production units, submitted by the Oregon State Department of Environmental Quality on January 27, 1978.

(3) Control of fluoride emissions from primary aluminum reduction plants, submitted by the Oregon State Department of Environmental Quality on January 13, 1981 and August 9, 1982.

(4) Control of metals, acid gases, organic compounds and nitrogen oxide emissions from existing municipal waste combustors was submitted by Oregon Department of Environmental Quality on December 31, 1996.

(5) Control of emissions from existing municipal solid waste landfills was submitted by Oregon Department of Environmental Quality on August 2, 2019, amending a plan previously submitted on May 14, 1997 and approved by the EPA on June 26, 1998.

(6) Control of metals, acid gases, organic compounds, particulates and nitrogen oxide emissions from existing Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators was submitted by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality on October 20, 1998, and November 6, 1998.
