
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart VV - Virginia
###### Total Reduced Sulfur Emissions From Existing Kraft Pulp Mills
####### ยง 62.11610 Identification of plan.
######## Title of Plan.

(a)Commonwealth of Virginia State Implementation Plan under section 111(d) plan for the Designated Facility-Kraft Pulp Mills.

(b) The plan was officially submitted by the Executive Director of the Department of Virginia Department of Air Pollution Control, on May 15, 1990.

(c) Identification of sources. The Plan includes the following Kraft Pulp Mills:

(1) Chesapeake Corporation, West Point;

(2) Stone Container Corporation, Hopewell;

(3) Union Camp Corporation, Franklin; and

(4) Westvaco Corporation, Covington.

(d) On June 20, 2005, the Commonwealth of Virginia submitted changes to its 111(d) Plan. The changes consist of amendments to 9 VAC 5, Chapter 40, Part II, Article 13, Sections 5-40-1660, 5-40-1670 (definitions of Agreement (removed), Cross recovery furnace (revised), Neutral sulfite semichemical pulping operation (added), New design recovery furnace (added), Pulp and paper mill (added), Semichemical pulping process (added), Straight kraft recovery furnace (revised), Total reduced sulfur (revised)), 5-40-1690, 5-40-1750, 5-40-1770B. and C., 5-40-1780D., and 5-40-1810. The State effective date is April 1, 1999.
