
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart BBB - Puerto Rico
###### Air Emissions From Existing Sewage Sludge Incineration Units
####### ยง 62.13109 Identification of plan.

(a) On July 30, 2014, the Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board (PREQB) submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency a section 111(d)/129 plan for implementation and enforcement of 40 CFR part 60, subpart MMMM-Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Existing Sewage Sludge Incineration Units. In emails dated June 4, 2015, August 10, 2015 and November 10, 2015, the PREQB submitted clarifying information concerning Puerto Rico's plan. The State plan includes revisions to Rule 102 and Rule 405 of the Puerto Rico Regulations for the Control of Atmospheric Pollution, entitled, "Definitions" and "Incineration," Respectively. The revisions to Rules 102 and 405 became effective on July 13, 2014. At the request of Puerto Rico, EPA has not taken any action on a provision of its State plan allowing for affirmative defenses of Clean Air Act violations in the case of malfunctions.

(b) Identification of sources: The plan applies to existing sewage sludge incineration (SSI) units that:

(1) Commenced construction on or before October 14, 2010; or

(2) Commenced a modification on or before September 21, 2011 primarily to comply with Puerto Rico's plan; and

(3) Meets the definition of a SSI unit defined in Puerto Rico's plan.

(c) The effective date of the plan for existing sewage sludge incineration units is May 31, 2016.
