
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart FFF - Federal Plan Requirements for Large Municipal Waste Combustors Constructed on or Before September 20, 1994
###### ยง 62.14103 Emission limits for municipal waste combustor metals, acid gases, organics, and nitrogen oxides.

(a) The emission limits for municipal waste combustor metals are specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain: particulate matter in excess of 27 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter, corrected to 7 percent oxygen; and opacity in excess of 10 percent (6-minute average).

(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain: cadmium in excess of 0.040 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter, corrected to 7 percent oxygen; and lead in excess of 0.44 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter, corrected to 7 percent oxygen.

(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain mercury in excess of 0.080 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter or 15 percent of the potential mercury emission concentration (85-percent reduction by weight), corrected to 7 percent oxygen, whichever is less stringent.

(b) The emission limits for municipal waste combustor acid gases, expressed as sulfur dioxide and hydrogen chloride, are specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain sulfur dioxide in excess of 29 parts per million by volume or 25 percent of the potential sulfur dioxide emission concentration (75-percent reduction by weight or volume), corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis), whichever is less stringent. Compliance with this emission limit is based on a 24-hour daily geometric mean.

(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain hydrogen chloride in excess of 29 parts per million by volume or 5 percent of the potential hydrogen chloride emission concentration (95-percent reduction by weight or volume), corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis), whichever is less stringent.

(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain municipal waste combustor organics, expressed as total mass dioxins/furans, in excess of the emission limits specified in either paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, as applicable.

(1) The emission limit for affected facilities that employ an electrostatic precipitator-based emission control system is 60 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass), corrected to 7 percent oxygen.

(2) The emission limit for affected facilities that do not employ an electrostatic precipitator-based emission control system is 30 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass), corrected to 7 percent oxygen.

(d) The owner or operator of an affected facility must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain nitrogen oxides in excess of the emission limits listed in table 2 of this subpart for affected facilities. Table 2 of this subpart provides emission limits for the nitrogen oxides concentration level for each type of affected facility.
