
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart FFF - Federal Plan Requirements for Large Municipal Waste Combustors Constructed on or Before September 20, 1994
###### ยง 62.14105 Requirements for municipal waste combustor operator training and certification.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) Each chief facility operator and shift supervisor must have completed full certification or must have scheduled a full certification exam with either the American Society of Mechanical Engineers QRO-1-1994 or a State certification program in Connecticut and Maryland (if the affected facility is located in either of the respective States). If ASME certification is chosen, proceed in accordance with ASME QRO-1-1994, Standard for the Qualification and Certification of Resource Recovery Facility Operators. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Service Center, 22 Law Drive, Post Office Box 2900, Fairfield, NJ 07007. You may inspect a copy at the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards Air Docket, EPA, Mutual Building, Room 540, 411 West Chapel Hill Street, Durham, NC 27701 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility must not allow the facility to be operated at any time unless one of the following persons is on duty at the affected facility: a fully certified chief facility operator; a provisionally certified chief facility operator who is scheduled to take the full certification exam no later than 12 months after the effective date of this subpart; a fully certified shift supervisor; or a provisionally certified shift supervisor who is scheduled to take the full certification exam no later than 12 months after the effective date of this subpart. If one of the persons listed in this paragraph must leave the affected facility during their operating shift, a provisionally certified control room operator who is onsite at the affected facility may fulfill the requirement in this paragraph.

(d)(1) Each chief facility operator, shift supervisor, and control room operator at an affected facility must complete the EPA municipal waste combustor operator training course or the State municipal waste combustor operator training course in Connecticut (if the affected facility is located in Connecticut).

(2) The requirement specified in this paragraph does not apply to chief facility operators, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have obtained full certification from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on or before the effective date of this subpart. The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that the EPA Administrator waive the requirement specified in this paragraph for chief facility operators, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have obtained provisional certification from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on or before the effective date of this subpart.

(e) The owner or operator of an affected facility must develop and update on a yearly basis a site-specific operating manual that must, at a minimum, address the elements of municipal waste combustor unit operation specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(11) of this section.

(1) A summary of the applicable standards under this subpart;

(2) A description of basic combustion theory applicable to a municipal waste combustor unit;

(3) Procedures for receiving, handling, and feeding municipal solid waste;

(4) Procedures for municipal waste combustor unit startup, shutdown, and malfunction;

(5) Procedures for maintaining proper combustion air supply levels;

(6) Procedures for operating the municipal waste combustor unit within the standards established under this subpart;

(7) Procedures for responding to periodic upset or off-specification conditions;

(8) Procedures for minimizing particulate matter carryover;

(9) Procedures for handling ash;

(10) Procedures for monitoring municipal waste combustor unit emissions; and

(11) Reporting and recordkeeping procedures.

(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility must establish a training program to review the operating manual according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section with each person who has responsibilities affecting the operation of an affected facility including, but not limited to, chief facility operators, shift supervisors, control room operators, ash handlers, maintenance personnel, and crane/load handlers.

(1) Each person specified in paragraph (f) of this section must undergo initial training no later than the date specified in paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (f)(1)(ii) of this section, whichever is later.

(i) The date prior to the day the person assumes responsibilities affecting municipal waste combustor unit operation; or

(ii) The date 12 months after the effective date of this subpart.

(2) Annually, following the initial review required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(g) The operating manual required by paragraph (e) of this section must be kept in a location readily accessible to each person required to undergo training under paragraph (f) of this section. The operating manual and records of training must be available for inspection by the EPA or its delegated enforcement agency upon request.
