
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart FFF - Federal Plan Requirements for Large Municipal Waste Combustors Constructed on or Before September 20, 1994
###### § 62.14108 Compliance schedules.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility must achieve the increments of progress specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) to retrofit air pollution control devices to meet the emission limits of this subpart. As specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart B, the compliance schedules and increments of progress apply to each owner or operator of an affected facility who is taking longer than 1 year after the date of publication of this subpart FFF final rule to comply with the emission limits specified in this subpart.

(1) Submit a final control plan according to the requirements of § 62.14109(g).

(2) Award contract(s): Award contract(s) to initiate on-site construction, initiate on-site installation of emission control equipment, or incorporate process changes. The owner or operator must submit a signed copy of the contract(s) awarded according to the requirements of § 62.14109(h).

(3) Initiate on-site construction: Initiate on-site construction, initiate on-site installation of emission control equipment, or initiate process changes needed to meet the emission limits as outlined in the final control plan.

(4) Complete on-site construction: Complete on-site construction and installation of emission control equipment or complete process changes.

(5) Achieve final compliance: Incorporate all process changes or complete retrofit construction as designed in the final control plan and connect the air pollution control equipment or process changes with the affected facility identified in the final control plan such that if the affected facility is brought on line, all necessary process changes or air pollution control equipment are operating fully. Within 180 days after the date the affected facility is required to achieve final compliance, the initial performance test must be conducted.

(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility must achieve the increments of progress specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction on or before June 26, 1987 and will take longer than 1 year after the date of publication of this subpart FFF (or 1 year after a revised construction permit or a revised operating permit is issued, if a permit modification is required) to comply with the emission limits of this subpart must achieve the increments of progress according to the schedule in table 4 of this subpart, except for those affected facilities specified in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility that began construction, modification, or reconstruction after June 26, 1987 must achieve the increments of progress according to the schedule in table 5 of this subpart to comply with the emission limits of this subpart, except for those affected facilities specified in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section.

(3) The owner or operator of each specified affected facility in table 6 of this subpart must achieve the increments of progress according to the schedule in table 6 of this subpart.

(4) For affected facilities that are subject to the schedule requirements of paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, the owner or operator (or the State air pollution control authority) may submit for approval alternative dates for achieving increments 2, 3, and 4. The owner or operator (or the State air pollution control authority) that is submitting these alternative dates must meet the reporting requirements of § 62.14109(m).

(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility that has ceased operation but will reopen prior to the applicable final compliance date specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section must meet the same compliance dates and increments of progress specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.

(d) The owner or operator of an affected facility that has ceased or ceases operation of an affected facility and restarts the affected facility after the compliance dates specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section must comply with the emission limits, requirements for combustor operating practices, and operator training and certification requirements of this subpart upon the date the affected facility restarts. The initial performance tests required by § 62.14109(c) must be conducted within 180 days after the date the unit restarts.

(e) The owner or operator of an affected facility that will be de-rated prior to the applicable final compliance date instead of complying with the emission limits of this subpart must meet the same increments of progress and achieve the de-rating by the final compliance date (specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section) that would be applicable to the affected facility if it did not de-rate. The owner or operator of an affected facility that will be de-rated must meet the reporting requirements of § 62.14109k. After de-rating is accomplished, the municipal waste combustor affected facility is no longer subject to this subpart.
