
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart GGG - Federal Plan Requirements for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills That Commenced Construction Prior to May 30, 1991 and Have Not Been Modified or Reconstructed Since May 30, 1991
###### ยง 62.14356 Compliance schedules and increments of progress.
####### Increments of progress.

(a)The owner or operator of a designated facility that has a design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters and a nonmethane organic compound emission rate greater than or equal to 50 megagrams per year must achieve the increments of progress specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section to install air pollution control devices to meet the emission standards specified in ยง 62.14353(b) of this subpart. (Refer to ยง 62.14351 for a definition of each increment of progress.)

(1) Submit control plan: Submit a final control plan (collection and control system design plan) according to the requirements of ยง 62.14353(b) of this subpart and 40 CFR 60.752(b)(2).

(2) Award contract(s): Award contract(s) to initiate on-site construction or initiate on-site installation of emission collection and/or control equipment.

(3) Initiate on-site construction: Initiate on-site construction or initiate on-site installation of emission collection and/or control equipment as described in the EPA-approved final control plan.

(4) Complete on-site construction: Complete on-site construction and installation of emission collection and/or control equipment.

(5) Achieve final compliance: Complete construction in accordance with the design specified in the EPA-approved final control plan and connect the landfill gas collection system and air pollution control equipment such that they are fully operating. The initial performance test must be conducted within 180 days after the date the facility is required to achieve final compliance.
