
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart GGG - Federal Plan Requirements for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills That Commenced Construction Prior to May 30, 1991 and Have Not Been Modified or Reconstructed Since May 30, 1991
###### § 62.14355 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of a designated facility must comply with the recordkeeping and reporting provisions listed in 40 CFR 60.757 and 60.758, except as provided for under paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.

(1) The initial design capacity report for a designated facility is due within 90 days of the effective date of this subpart. Existing MSW landfills with a design capacity less than 2.5 million megagrams or 2.5 million cubic meters that are located in States that submitted a negative declaration letter are not required to submit an initial design capacity report provided that the MSW landfill's design capacity was included in the negative declaration letter.

(2) The initial nonmethane organic compounds emission rate report for a designated facility is due within 90 days of the effective date of this subpart.

(b) The owner or operator of a designated facility must submit notification to the EPA Regional Office within 10 business days of completing each increment of progress. Each notification must indicate which increment of progress specified in § 62.14356(a)(1) through (a)(5) of this subpart has been achieved. The notification must be signed by the owner or operator of the landfill.

(1) For the first increment of progress, the final control plan (collection and control system design plan) must be submitted in addition to the notification. A copy of the design plan must also be kept on site at the landfill.

(2) For the second increment of progress, a signed copy of the contract(s) awarded must be submitted in addition to the notification.

(c) The owner or operator of a designated facility who fails to meet any increment of progress specified in § 62.14356(a)(1) through (a)(5) of this subpart according to the applicable schedule in § 62.14356 of this subpart must submit notification that the owner or operator failed to meet the increment to the EPA Regional Office within 10 business days of the applicable date in § 62.14356.

(d) The owner or operator (or the State or Tribal air pollution control authority) that is submitting alternative dates for increments 2 and 3 according to § 62.14356(d) of this subpart must do so by the date specified for submitting the final control plan. The date for submitting the final control plan is specified in § 62.14356(c)(1) and (c)(2) of this subpart, as applicable. The owner or operator (or the State or Tribal air pollution control authority) must submit a justification if any of the alternative dates are later than the increment dates in table 3 of this subpart. In addition to submitting the alternative dates to the appropriate EPA Regional Office, the owner or operator must also submit the alternative dates to the State.
