
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart HHH - Federal Plan Requirements for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators Constructed On Or Before December 1, 2008
###### Waste Management Plan
####### ยง 62.14431 What must my waste management plan include?
######## e.g.,,e.g.,

(a) Your waste management plan must identify both the feasibility of, and the approach for, separating certain components of solid waste from the health care waste stream in order to reduce the amount of toxic emissions from incinerated waste. The waste management plan you develop may address, but is not limited to, elements such as segregation and recycling of paper, cardboard, plastics, glass, batteries, food waste and metals (aluminum cans, metals-containing devices); segregation of non-recyclable wastes (polychlorinated biphenyl-containing waste, pharmaceutical waste, and mercury-containing waste such as dental waste); and purchasing recycled or recyclable products. Your waste management plan may include different goals or approaches for different areas or departments of the facility and need not include new waste management goals for every waste stream. When you develop your waste management plan, it should identify, where possible, reasonably available additional waste management measures, taking into account the effectiveness of waste management measures already in place, the costs of additional measures, the emissions reductions expected to be achieved, and any other potential environmental or energy impacts they might have. In developing your waste management plan, you must consider the American Hospital Association (AHA) publication titled "Ounce of Prevention: Waste Reduction Strategies for Health Care Facilities." This publication (AHA Catalog Number 057007) is available for purchase from AHA Services, Inc., Post Office Box 933283, Atlanta, Georgia 31193-3283.

(b) If you own or operate commercial HMIWI, you must conduct training and education programs in waste segregation for each of your waste generator clients and ensure that each client prepares its own waste management plan that includes, but is not limited to, the provisions listed in this section.

(c) If you own or operate commercial HMIWI, you must conduct training and education programs in waste segregation for your HMIWI operators.
