
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart HHH - Federal Plan Requirements for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators Constructed On Or Before December 1, 2008
###### Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
####### § 62.14464 When must I submit reports?

(a) You must submit the information specified in § 62.14463(a)(1) through (4) no later than 60 days following the initial performance test.

(b) You must submit an annual report to the EPA Administrator (or delegated enforcement authority) no more than 1 year following the submission of the information in paragraph (a) of this section, and you must submit subsequent reports no more than 1 year following the previous report (once the unit is subject to permitting requirements under Title V of the CAA, you must submit these reports semiannually). The annual report must include the information specified in § 62.14463(a)(5) through (14), as applicable.

(c) You must submit semiannual reports containing any information recorded under § 62.14460(c) through (e) no later than 60 days following the end of the semiannual reporting period. The first semiannual reporting period ends 6 months following the submission of information in paragraph (a) of this section. Subsequent reports must be submitted no later than 6 calendar months following the previous report.

(d) You must submit your petition for site-specific operating parameters specified in § 62.14463(a)(15) prior to your initial performance test. You may not conduct the initial performance test until the EPA Administrator has approved the petition.
