
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart HHH - Federal Plan Requirements for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators Constructed On Or Before December 1, 2008
###### Compliance Schedule
####### § 62.14470 When must I comply with this subpart if I plan to continue operation of my HMIWI?

If you plan to continue operation of your HMIWI, then you must follow the requirements in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section depending on when you plan to come into compliance with the requirements of this subpart.

(a) If you plan to continue operation and come into compliance with the requirements of this subpart by May 13, 2014, then you must complete the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section.

(1) You must comply with the operator training and qualification requirements and inspection requirements (if applicable) of this subpart by May 13, 2014.

(2) You must achieve final compliance by May 13, 2014. This includes incorporating all process changes and/or completing retrofit construction, connecting the air pollution control equipment or process changes such that the HMIWI is brought online, and ensuring that all necessary process changes and air pollution control equipment are operating properly.

(3) You must conduct the initial performance test required by § 62.14451(a) within 180 days after the date when you are required to achieve final compliance under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(4) You must submit an initial report including the results of the initial performance test and the waste management plan no later than 60 days following the initial performance test (see §§ 62.14463 and 62.14464 for complete reporting and recordkeeping requirements).

(b) If you plan to continue operation and come into compliance with the requirements of this subpart after May 13, 2014, but before October 6, 2014, then you must complete the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must comply with the operator training and qualification requirements and inspection requirements (if applicable) of this subpart by May 13, 2014.

(2) You must demonstrate that you are taking steps towards compliance with the emission limits in the subpart by completing the increments of progress in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v) of this section. You must submit notification to the EPA Administrator (or delegated enforcement authority) within 10 business days of completing (or failing to complete by the applicable date) each of the increments of progress listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v) of this section. Your notification must be signed by your facilities manager (defined in § 62.14490).

(i) You must submit a final control plan by August 13, 2013. Your final control plan must, at a minimum, include a description of the air pollution control device(s) or process changes that will be employed for each unit to comply with the emissions limits and other requirements of this subpart.

(ii) You must award contract(s) for on-site construction, on-site installation of emissions control equipment or incorporation of process changes by December 13, 2013. You must submit a signed copy of the contract(s) awarded.

(iii) You must begin on-site construction, begin on-site installation of emissions control equipment or begin process changes needed to meet the emissions limits as outlined in the final control plan by January 6, 2014.

(iv) You must complete on-site construction, installation of emissions control equipment or process changes by August 6, 2014.

(v) You must achieve final compliance by October 6, 2014. This includes incorporating all process changes and/or completing retrofit construction as described in the final control plan, connecting the air pollution control equipment or process changes such that the HMIWI is brought online and ensuring that all necessary process changes and air pollution control equipment are operating properly.

(3) You must conduct the initial performance test required by § 62.14451(a) within 180 days after the date when you are required to achieve final compliance under paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section.

(4) You must submit an initial report including the result of the initial performance test and the waste management plan no later than 60 days following the initial performance test (see §§ 62.14463 and 62.14464 for complete reporting and recordkeeping requirements).
