
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart HHH - Federal Plan Requirements for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators Constructed On Or Before December 1, 2008
###### Performance Testing and Monitoring Requirements
####### ยง 62.14455 What if my HMIWI goes outside of a parameter limit?

(a) Operation above the established maximum or below the established minimum operating parameter(s) constitutes a violation of established operating parameter(s). Operating parameter limits do not apply during performance tests.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (g) or (h) of this section, if your HMIWI uses combustion control only:

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (f) or (g) of this section, if your HMIWI is equipped with a dry scrubber followed by a FF:

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (g) or (h) of this section, if your HMIWI is equipped with a wet scrubber:

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (g) or (h) of this section, if your HMIWI is equipped with a dry scrubber followed by a FF and a wet scrubber:

(f) Except as provided in paragraph (g) or (h) of this section, if your HMIWI is equipped with a SNCR system:

(g) You may conduct a repeat performance test within 30 days of violation of applicable operating parameter(s) to demonstrate that your HMIWI is not in violation of the applicable emissions limit(s). You must conduct repeat performance tests pursuant to this paragraph using the identical operating parameters that indicated a violation under paragraph (b), (c), (d), (e), or (f) of this section.

(h) If you are using a CEMS to demonstrate compliance with any of the emissions limits in table 1 of this subpart or ยง 62.14412, and your CEMS indicates compliance with an emissions limit during periods when operating parameters indicate a violation of an emissions limit under paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) of this section, then you are considered to be in compliance with the emissions limit. You need not conduct a repeat performance test to demonstrate compliance.

(i) You may conduct a repeat performance test in accordance with ยง 62.14452 at any time to establish new values for the operating parameters.
