
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart HHH - Federal Plan Requirements for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators Constructed On Or Before December 1, 2008
###### Compliance Schedule
####### § 62.14472 When must I comply with this subpart if I plan to shut down and later restart?

If you wish to shut down and later restart, then you must follow the compliance times in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section depending on when you shut down and restart.

(a) If you plan to shutdown and restart prior to October 6, 2014, then you must:

(1) Meet the compliance schedule outlined in § 63.14470(a) if you restart prior to May 13, 2014; or

(2) Meet the compliance schedule outlined in § 62.14470(b) if you restart after May 13, 2014. Any missed increments of progress need to be completed prior to or upon the date of restart.

(b) If you plan to shutdown by May 13, 2014, and restart after October 6, 2014, then you must complete the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.

(1) You must shutdown by May 13, 2014.

(2) You must comply with the operator training and qualification requirements and inspection requirements (if applicable) of this subpart before restarting your HMIWI.

(3) You must achieve final compliance upon restarting your HMIWI. This includes incorporating all process changes and/or completing retrofit construction, connecting the air pollution control equipment or process changes such that the HMIWI is brought on line, and ensuring that all necessary process changes and air pollution control equipment are operating properly.

(4) You must conduct the initial performance test required by § 62.14451(a) within 180 days after the date when you restart.

(5) You must submit an initial report including the results of the initial performance test and the waste management plan no later than 60 days following the initial performance test (see §§ 62.14463 and 62.14464 for complete reporting and recordkeeping requirements).

(c) If you plan to shutdown after May 13, 2014, and restart after October 6, 2014, then you must complete the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You must petition the EPA for an extension by following the procedures outlined in § 63.14471(b)(1) through (3).

(2) You must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(5) of this section.
