
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart III - Federal Plan Requirements for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units That Commenced Construction On or Before November 30, 1999
###### Compliance Schedule and Increments of Progress
####### § 62.14535 When must I comply with this subpart if I plan to continue operation of my CISWI unit?

If you plan to continue operation of your CISWI unit, then you must follow the requirements in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section depending on when you plan to come into compliance with the requirements of this subpart.

(a) If you plan to continue operation and come into compliance with the requirements of this subpart by October 4, 2004, then you must complete the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.

(1) You must comply with the operator training and qualification requirements and inspection requirements (if applicable) of this subpart by October 4, 2004.

(2) You must submit a waste management plan no later than April 5, 2004.

(3) You must achieve final compliance by October 4, 2004. To achieve final compliance, you must incorporate all process changes and complete retrofit construction of control devices, as specified in the final control plan, so that, if the affected CISWI unit is brought online, all necessary process changes and air pollution control devices would operate as designed.

(4) You must conduct the initial performance test within 90 days after the date when you are required to achieve final compliance under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(5) You must submit an initial report including the results of the initial performance test no later than 60 days following the initial performance test (see §§ 62.14700 through 62.14760 for complete reporting and recordkeeping requirements).

(b) If you plan to continue operation and come into compliance with the requirements of this subpart after October 4, 2004, but before October 3, 2005 you must petition for and be granted an extension of the final compliance date specified § 62.14535(a)(3) by meeting the requirements of § 62.14536 and you must meet the requirements for increments of progress specified in § 62.14540 through § 62.14565. To achieve the final compliance increment of progress, you must complete the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.

(1) You must comply with the operator training and qualification requirements and inspection requirements (if applicable) of this subpart by October 4, 2004.

(2) You must submit a waste management plan no later than April 5, 2004.

(3) You must achieve final compliance by October 3, 2005. For the final compliance increment of progress, you must incorporate all process changes and complete retrofit construction of control devices, as specified in the final control plan, so that, when the affected CISWI unit is brought online, all necessary process changes and air pollution control devices operate as designed.

(4) You must conduct the initial performance test within 90 days after the date when you are required to achieve final compliance under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(5) You must submit an initial report including the result of the initial performance no later than 60 days following the initial performance test (see §§ 62.14700 through 62.14760 for complete reporting and recordkeeping requirements).
