
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart III - Federal Plan Requirements for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units That Commenced Construction On or Before November 30, 1999
###### Compliance Schedule and Increments of Progress
####### ยง 62.14560 How do I comply with the increment of progress for submittal of a control plan?

For your control plan increment of progress, you must satisfy the two requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(a) Submit the final control plan that includes the six items described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) A description of the devices for air pollution control and process changes that you will use to comply with the emission limitations and other requirements of this subpart.

(2) The type(s) of waste to be burned.

(3) The maximum design waste burning capacity.

(4) The anticipated maximum charge rate.

(5) If applicable, the petition for site-specific operating limits under ยง 62.14640.

(6) A schedule that includes the date by which you will award the contracts to procure emission control equipment or related materials, initiate on-site construction, initiate on-site installation of emission control equipment, and/or incorporate process changes, and the date by which you will initiate on-site construction.

(b) Maintain an on-site copy of the final control plan.
