
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart III - Federal Plan Requirements for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units That Commenced Construction On or Before November 30, 1999
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 62.14670 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and the operating limits?

(a) You must conduct an annual performance test for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, and opacity for each CISWI unit as required under 40 CFR 60.8 to determine compliance with the emission limitations. The annual performance test must be conducted using the test methods listed in table 1 of this subpart and the procedures in § 62.14650.

(b) You must continuously monitor the operating parameters specified in § 62.14635 or established under § 62.14640. Operation above the established maximum or below the established minimum operating limits constitutes a deviation from the established operating limits. Three-hour rolling average values are used to determine compliance (except for baghouse leak detection system alarms) unless a different averaging period is established under § 62.14640. Operating limits do not apply during performance tests.

(c) You must only burn the same types of waste used to establish operating limits during the performance test.
