
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart III - Federal Plan Requirements for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units That Commenced Construction On or Before November 30, 1999
###### Performance Testing
####### ยง 62.14650 How do I conduct the initial and annual performance test?

(a) All performance tests must consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under conditions representative of normal operations.

(b) You must document that the waste burned during the performance test is representative of the waste burned under normal operating conditions by maintaining a log of the quantity of waste burned (as required in ยง 62.14700(b)(1)) and the types of waste burned during the performance test.

(c) All performance tests must be conducted using the minimum run duration specified in Table 1 of this subpart.

(d) Method 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A must be used to select the sampling location and number of traverse points.

(e) Method 3A or 3B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A must be used for gas composition analysis, including measurement of oxygen concentration. Method 3A or 3B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A must be used simultaneously with each method.

(f) All pollutant concentrations, except for opacity, must be adjusted to 7 percent oxygen using Equation 1 of this section:

(g) You must determine dioxins/furans toxic equivalency by following the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Measure the concentration of each dioxin/furan tetra- through octa-congener emitted using EPA Method 23.

(2) For each dioxin/furan congener measured in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section, multiply the congener concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in Table 3 of this subpart.

(3) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins/furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.
