
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart III - Federal Plan Requirements for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units That Commenced Construction On or Before November 30, 1999
###### Delegation of Authority
####### § 62.14838 What authorities are withheld by the EPA Administrator?

The following authorities are withheld by the EPA Administrator and not transferred to the State or Tribe:

(a) Approval of alternatives to the emission limitations in table 1 of this subpart and operating limits established under § 62.14635 and table 2 of this subpart.

(b) Approval of petitions submitted pursuant to the requirements of § 62.14640 establishing operating parameters when using controls other than a dry scrubber followed by a fabric filter, a wet scrubber, or a dry scrubber followed by a fabric filter and a wet scrubber.

(c) Approval of major alternatives to test methods established under § 62.14650 and table 1 of this subpart.

(d) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring requirements established under § 62.14690, § 62.14605 and table 2 of this subpart.

(e) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart.

(f) Approval of petitions submitted pursuant to the requirements of § 62.14530 establishing requirements for petitions and approvals of exemptions for chemical recovery units included in § 62.14525(n).

(g) Approval of requests submitted pursuant to the requirements in § 62.14625(b)(2).
