
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart III - Federal Plan Requirements for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units That Commenced Construction On or Before November 30, 1999
###### Air Curtain Incinerators That Burn 100 Percent Wood Wastes, Clean Lumber and/or Yard Waste
####### ยง 62.14825 What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for air curtain incinerators that burn 100 percent wood wastes, clean lumber, and/or yard waste?

(a) Keep records of results of all initial and annual opacity tests onsite in either paper copy or electronic format, unless the Administrator approves another format, for at least 5 years.

(b) Make all records available for submittal to the Administrator or for an inspector's onsite review.

(c) Submit an initial report no later than 60 days following the initial opacity test that includes the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The types of materials you plan to combust in your air curtain incinerator.

(2) The results (each 6-minute average) of the initial opacity tests.

(d) Submit annual opacity test results within 12 months following the previous report.

(e) Submit initial and annual opacity test reports as electronic or paper copy on or before the applicable submittal date and keep a copy onsite for a period of five years.
