
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart JJJ - Federal Plan Requirements for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999
###### Applicability of this Subpart
####### § 62.15030 What are my obligations under this subpart if I reduce my small municipal waste combustion unit's combustion capacity to less than 35 tons per day?

If you reduce your small municipal waste combustion unit's combustion capacity to less than 35 tons per day by the final compliance date, you must comply only with the following requirements:

(a) You must submit a final control plan according to the schedule in table 1 of this subpart and comply with § 62.15065(b).

(b) The final control plan must, at a minimum, include two items:

(1) A description of the physical changes that will be made to accomplish the reduction in combustion capacity. A permit restriction or a change in the method of operation does not qualify as a reduction in combustion capacity.

(2) Calculations of the current maximum combustion capacity and the planned maximum combustion capacity after the reduction. Use the equations specified under § 62.15390(d) and (e) to calculate the combustion capacity of a municipal waste combustion unit.

(c) You must complete the physical changes to accomplish the reduction in combustion capacity by the final compliance date specified in table 1 of this subpart.

(d) If you comply with all of the requirements specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, you are no longer subject to this subpart.

(e) You must comply with the requirements specified in § 62.15395 and § 62.15400 regarding title V permitting. If you comply with all of the requirements specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, you are no longer subject to title V permitting requirements as a result of this subpart. You will remain subject to title V permitting requirements, however, if you are subject as a result of one or more of the applicability criteria in 40 CFR 70.3(a) and (b) or 71.3(a) and (b).
