
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart JJJ - Federal Plan Requirements for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999
###### Good Combustion Practices: Operator Training
####### ยง 62.15105 Who must complete the operator training course? By when?

(a) Three types of employees must complete the EPA operator training course:

(1) Chief facility operators.

(2) Shift supervisors.

(3) Control room operators.

(b) These employees must complete the operator training course by the later of three dates:

(1) One year after the effective date of this subpart.

(2) Six months after your municipal waste combustion unit starts up.

(3) The date before an employee assumes responsibilities that affect operation of the municipal waste combustion unit.

(c) The requirement in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to chief facility operators, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have obtained full certification from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on or before the effective date of this subpart.

(d) You may request that the EPA Administrator waive the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section for chief facility operators, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have obtained provisional certification from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on or before the effective date of this subpart.
