
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart JJJ - Federal Plan Requirements for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999
###### Good Combustion Practices: Operator Certification
####### ยง 62.15130 What types of operator certification must the chief facility operator and shift supervisor obtain and by when must they obtain it?
######## http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) Each chief facility operator and shift supervisor must obtain and maintain a current provisional operator certification from either the American Society of Mechanical Engineers QRO-1-1994 or a State certification program in Connecticut and Maryland (if the affected facility is located in either of the respective States). If ASME certification is chosen, proceed in accordance with ASME QRO-1-1994. Standard for the Qualification and Certification of Resource Recovery Facility Operators. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C.552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Service Center, 22 Law Drive, Post Office Box 2900, Fairfield, NJ 07007. You may inspect a copy at the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards Air Docket, EPA, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Room C521C, RTP, NC 27709 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(b) Each chief facility operator and shift supervisor must obtain a provisional certification by the later of three dates:

(1) For Class I units, 12 months after the effective date of this subpart. For Class II units, 18 months after the effective date of this subpart.

(2) Six months after the municipal waste combustion unit starts up.

(3) Six months after they transfer to the municipal waste combustion unit or 6 months after they are hired to work at the municipal waste combustion unit.

(c) Each chief facility operator and shift supervisor must take one of two actions:

(1) Obtain a full certification from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

(2) Schedule a full certification exam with the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (QRO-1-1994 (incorporated by reference in ยง 60.17 of subpart A of 40 CFR part 60)).

(d) The chief facility operator and shift supervisor must obtain the full certification or be scheduled to take the certification exam by the later of the following dates:

(1) For Class I units, 12 months after the effective date of this subpart. For Class II units, 18 months after the effective date of this subpart.

(2) Six months after the municipal waste combustion unit starts up.

(3) Six months after they transfer to the municipal waste combustion unit or 6 months after they are hired to work at the municipal waste combustion unit.
