
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart JJJ - Federal Plan Requirements for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999
###### Recordkeeping
####### ยง 62.15310 What records must I keep for municipal waste combustion units that use activated carbon?
######## Records of average carbon feed rate.

(a)Document five items:

(1) Average carbon feed rate (in kilograms or pounds per hour) during all stack tests for dioxins/furans and mercury emissions. Include supporting calculations in the records.

(2) For the operating parameter chosen to monitor carbon feed rate, average operating level during all stack tests for dioxins/furans and mercury emissions. Include supporting data that document the relationship between the operating parameter and the carbon feed rate.

(3) All 8-hour block average carbon feed rates in kilograms (pounds) per hour calculated from the monitored operating parameter.

(4) Total carbon purchased and delivered to the municipal waste combustion plant for each calendar quarter. If you choose to evaluate total carbon purchased and delivered on a municipal waste combustion unit basis, record the total carbon purchased and delivered for each individual municipal waste combustion unit at your plant. Include supporting documentation.

(5) Required quarterly usage of carbon for the municipal waste combustion plant, calculated using the appropriate equation in ยง 62.15390(f). If you choose to evaluate required quarterly usage for carbon on a municipal waste combustion unit basis, record the required quarterly usage for each municipal waste combustion unit at your plant. Include supporting calculations.
