
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart JJJ - Federal Plan Requirements for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999
###### Air Curtain Incinerators that Burn 100 Percent Yard Waste
####### ยง 62.15385 What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for air curtain incinerators that burn 100 percent yard waste?

(a) Provide a notice of construction that includes four items:

(1) Your intent to construct the air curtain incinerator.

(2) Your planned initial startup date.

(3) Types of fuels you plan to combust in your air curtain incinerator.

(4) The capacity of your incinerator, including supporting capacity calculations, as specified in ยง 62.15390 (d) and (e).

(b) Keep records of results of all opacity tests onsite in either paper copy or electronic format unless the Administrator approves another format.

(c) Keep all records for each incinerator for at least 5 years.

(d) Make all records available for submittal to the Administrator or for onsite review by an inspector.

(e) Submit the results (each 6-minute average) of the opacity tests by February 1 of the year following the year of the opacity emission test.

(f) Submit reports as a paper copy on or before the applicable submittal date. If the Administrator agrees, you may submit reports on electronic media.
