
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart JJJ - Federal Plan Requirements for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999
###### Reporting
####### ยง 62.15355 What must I include in the semiannual out-of-compliance reports?

You must include three items in the semiannual report:

(a) For any of the following six pollutants or parameters that exceeded the limits specified in this subpart, include the calendar date they exceeded the limits, the averaged and recorded data for that date, the reasons for exceeding the limits, and your corrective actions:

(1) Concentration or percent reduction of sulfur dioxide emissions.

(2) For Class I municipal waste combustion units only, concentration of nitrogen oxides emissions.

(3) Concentration of carbon monoxide emissions.

(4) Load level of your municipal waste combustion unit.

(5) Temperature of the flue gases at the inlet of your particulate matter air pollution control device.

(6) Average 6-minute opacity level. The data obtained from your continuous opacity monitoring system are not used to determine compliance with the limit on opacity emissions.

(b) If the results of your annual stack tests (as recorded in ยง 62.15300(a)) show emissions above the limits specified in table 2 or 4 of this subpart as applicable for dioxins/furans, cadmium, lead, mercury, particulate matter, opacity, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash, include a copy of the test report that documents the emission levels and your corrective actions.

(c) For municipal waste combustion units that apply activated carbon to control dioxins/furans or mercury emissions, include two items:

(1) Documentation of all dates when the 8-hour block average carbon feed rate (calculated from the carbon injection system operating parameter) is less than the highest carbon feed rate established during the most recent mercury and dioxins/furans stack test (as specified in ยง 62.15310(a)(1)). Include four items:

(i) Eight-hour average carbon feed rate.

(ii) Reasons for these occurrences of low carbon feed rates.

(iii) The corrective actions you have taken to meet the carbon feed rate requirement.

(iv) The calendar date.

(2) Documentation of each quarter when total carbon purchased and delivered to the municipal waste combustion plant is less than the total required quarterly usage of carbon. If you choose to evaluate total carbon purchased and delivered on a municipal waste combustion unit basis, record the total carbon purchased and delivered for each individual municipal waste combustion unit at your plant. Include five items:

(i) Amount of carbon purchased and delivered to the plant.

(ii) Required quarterly usage of carbon.

(iii) Reasons for not meeting the required quarterly usage of carbon.

(iv) The corrective actions you have taken to meet the required quarterly usage of carbon.

(v) The calendar date.
