
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart LLL - Federal Plan Requirements for Sewage Sludge Incineration Units Constructed on or Before October 14, 2010
###### Operator Training and Qualification
####### ยง 62.15920 What are the operator training and qualification requirements?

(a) An SSI unit cannot be operated unless a fully trained and qualified SSI unit operator is accessible, either at the facility or can be at the facility within 1 hour. The trained and qualified SSI unit operator may operate the SSI unit directly or be the direct supervisor of one or more other plant personnel who operate the unit. If all qualified SSI unit operators are temporarily not accessible, you must follow the procedures in ยง 62.15945.

(b) Operator training and qualification must be obtained through a state-approved program or by completing the requirements included in paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) Training must be obtained by completing an incinerator operator training course that includes, at a minimum, the three elements described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) Training on the 10 subjects listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (x) of this section:

(i) Environmental concerns, including types of emissions;

(ii) Basic combustion principles, including products of combustion;

(iii) Operation of the specific type of incinerator to be used by the operator, including proper startup, sewage sludge feeding and shutdown procedures;

(iv) Combustion controls and monitoring;

(v) Operation of air pollution control equipment and factors affecting performance (if applicable);

(vi) Inspection and maintenance of the incinerator and air pollution control devices;

(vii) Actions to prevent malfunctions or to prevent conditions that may lead to malfunctions;

(viii) Bottom and fly ash characteristics and handling procedures;

(ix) Applicable federal, state and local regulations, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration workplace standards; and

(x) Pollution prevention.

(2) An examination designed and administered by the state-approved program or instructor administering the subjects in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) Written material covering the training course topics that may serve as reference material following completion of the course.
