
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart LLL - Federal Plan Requirements for Sewage Sludge Incineration Units Constructed on or Before October 14, 2010
###### Performance Testing, Monitoring, and Calibration Requirements
####### ยง 62.16015 What are the performance testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements for compliance with the emission limits and standards?
######## Continuous monitor requirements.

(b)You must meet the following requirements, as applicable, when using a continuous monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart. The option to use a continuous emissions monitoring system for hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium or lead is published in theIf you elect to use a continuous emissions monitoring system instead of conducting annual performance testing, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section. If you elect to use a continuous automated sampling system instead of conducting annual performance testing, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(7) of this section. The option to use a continuous automated sampling system for dioxins/furans takes effect on the date a final performance specification for such a continuous automated sampling system is published in the.

(1) You must notify the Administrator 1 month before starting use of the continuous emissions monitoring system.

(2) You must notify the Administrator 1 month before stopping use of the continuous emissions monitoring system, in which case you must also conduct a performance test within prior to ceasing operation of the system.

(3) You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously measuring and recording the emissions to the atmosphere in accordance with the following:

(i) Section 60.13 of subpart A of part 60 of this chapter.

(ii) The following performance specifications of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter, as applicable:

(A) For particulate matter, Performance Specification 11 of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter.

(B) For hydrogen chloride, Performance Specification 15 of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter.

(C) For carbon monoxide, Performance Specification 4B of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter with spans appropriate to the applicable emission limit.

(D) [Reserved]

(E) For mercury, Performance Specification 12A of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter.

(F) For nitrogen oxides, Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter.

(G) For sulfur dioxide, Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter.
