
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart LLL - Federal Plan Requirements for Sewage Sludge Incineration Units Constructed on or Before October 14, 2010
###### Recordkeeping and Reporting
####### § 62.16030 What reports must I submit?
######## Initial compliance report.

(b)You must submit the following information no later than 60 days following the initial performance test.

(1) Company name, physical address and mailing address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.

(3) Date of report.

(4) The complete test report for the initial performance test results obtained by using the test methods specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart.

(5) If an initial performance evaluation of a continuous monitoring system was conducted, the results of that initial performance evaluation.

(6) The values for the site-specific operating limits established pursuant to §§ 62.15960 and 62.15965 and the calculations and methods, as applicable, used to establish each operating limit.

(7) If you are using a fabric filter to comply with the emission limits, documentation that a bag leak detection system has been installed and is being operated, calibrated, and maintained as required by § 62.15960(b).

(8) The results of the initial air pollution control device inspection required in § 62.15990, including a description of repairs.

(9) The site-specific monitoring plan required under § 62.15995, at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation of your continuous monitoring system.

(10) The site-specific monitoring plan for your ash handling system required under § 62.15995, at least 60 days before your initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with your fugitive ash emission limit.
