
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart OOO - Federal Plan Requirements for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills That Commenced Construction On or Before July 17, 2014 and Have Not Been Modified or Reconstructed Since July 17, 2014
###### § 62.16711 Designated facilities.

(a) The designated facility to which this subpart applies is each municipal solid waste landfill in each state, protectorate, and portion of Indian country that meets the conditions of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, except for landfills exempted by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(1) The municipal solid waste landfill commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification on or before July 17, 2014.

(2) The municipal solid waste landfill has accepted waste at any time since November 8, 1987, or the landfill has additional capacity for future waste deposition.

(b) A municipal solid waste landfill regulated by an EPA-approved and currently effective state or tribal plan implementing 40 CFR 60, subpart Cf, is not subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(c) A municipal solid waste landfill located in a state, locality, or portion of Indian country that submitted a negative declaration letter is not subject to the requirements of this subpart other than the requirements in the definition of design capacity in § 62.16730 to recalculate the site-specific density annually and in § 62.16724(b) to submit an amended design capacity report in the event that the recalculated design capacity is equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters. However, if the existing municipal solid waste landfill already has a design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters, then it is subject to the requirements of this Federal plan.

(d) Physical or operational changes made to an existing MSW landfill solely to comply with an emission guideline implemented by a state or Federal plan are not considered a modification or reconstruction and would not subject an existing MSW landfill to the requirements of 40 CFR 60, subpart XXX. Landfills that commence construction, modification, or reconstruction after July 17, 2014, are subject to 40 CFR part 60, subpart XXX.

(e) For purposes of obtaining an operating permit under title V of the Clean Air Act, the owner or operator of an MSW landfill subject to this subpart with a design capacity less than 2.5 million megagrams or 2.5 million cubic meters is not subject to the requirement to obtain an operating permit for the landfill under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, unless the landfill is otherwise subject to either 40 CFR part 70 or 71. For purposes of submitting a timely application for an operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, the owner or operator of an MSW landfill subject to this subpart with a design capacity greater than or equal to 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters, and not otherwise subject to either 40 CFR part 70 or 71, becomes subject to the requirements of § 70.5(a)(1)(i) or 71.5(a)(1)(i) of this chapter 90 days after the effective date of such CAA section 111(d) program approval, even if the design capacity report is submitted earlier.

(f) When an MSW landfill subject to this subpart is closed as defined in this subpart, the owner or operator is no longer subject to the requirement to maintain an operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71 for the landfill if the landfill is not otherwise subject to the requirements of either 40 CFR part 70 or 71 and if either of the following conditions are met:

(1) The landfill was never subject to the requirement to install and operate a gas collection and control system under § 62.16714; or

(2) The landfill meets the conditions for control system removal specified in § 62.16714(f).

(g) When an MSW landfill subject to this subpart is in the closed landfill subcategory, the owner or operator is not subject to the following reports of this subpart, provided the owner or operator submitted these reports under the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart WWW; subpart GGG of this part; or a state plan implementing 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc, on or before July 17, 2014:

(1) Initial design capacity report specified in § 62.16724(a).

(2) Initial or subsequent NMOC emission rate report specified in § 62.16724(c), provided that the most recent NMOC emission rate report indicated the NMOC emissions were below 50 megagrams per year.

(3) Collection and control system design plan specified in § 62.16724(d).

(4) Closure report specified in § 62.16724(f).

(5) Equipment removal report specified in § 62.16724(g).

(6) Initial annual report specified in § 62.16724(h).

(7) Initial performance test report in § 62.16724(i).

(h) When an MSW landfill subject to this subpart is a legacy controlled landfill, as defined in § 62.16730, the owner or operator is not subject to the following reports of this subpart, provided the owner or operator submitted these reports under 40 CFR part 60, subpart WWW; subpart GGG of this part; or a state plan implementing 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc on or before June 21, 2021.

(1) Initial design capacity report specified in § 62.16724(a).

(2) Initial or subsequent NMOC emission rate report specified in § 62.16724(c).

(3) Collection and control system design plan specified in § 62.16724(d).

(5) Initial annual report specified in § 62.16724(h).

(4) Initial performance test report in § 62.16724(i).
