
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 62 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF STATE PLANS FOR DESIGNATED FACILITIES AND POLLUTANTS
##### Subpart OOO - Federal Plan Requirements for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills That Commenced Construction On or Before July 17, 2014 and Have Not Been Modified or Reconstructed Since July 17, 2014
###### § 62.16724 Reporting guidelines.
####### Annual report.

(h)The owner or operator of a landfill seeking to comply with § 62.16714(e)(2) using an active collection system designed in accordance with § 62.16714(b) must submit to the Administrator, following the procedures specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, an annual report of the recorded information in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section. The initial annual report must be submitted within 180 days of installation and startup of the collection and control system except for legacy controlled landfills that have already submitted an initial report under 40 CFR part 60, subpart WWW; subpart GGG of this part; or a state plan implementing 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc. Except for legacy controlled landfills, the initial annual report must include the initial performance test report required under 40 CFR 60.8, as applicable, unless the report of the results of the performance test has been submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX. Legacy controlled landfills are exempted from submitting performance test reports in EPA's CDX provided that those reports were submitted under 40 CFR part 60, subpart WWW; subpart GGG of this part; or a state plan implementing 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc. In the initial annual report, the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in lieu of the performance test report if the report has been previously submitted to the EPA's CDX. The initial performance test report must be submitted, following the procedure specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, no later than the date that the initial annual report is submitted. For enclosed combustion devices and flares, reportable exceedances are defined under § 62.16726(c)(1). Legacy controlled landfills are required to submit the annual report no later than one year after the most recent annual report submitted. If complying with the operational provisions of §§ 63.1958, 63.1960, and 63.1961 of this chapter, as allowed at §§ 62.16716, 62.16720, and 62.16722, the owner or operator must follow the semi-annual reporting requirements in § 63.1981(h) of this chapter in lieu of this paragraph.

(1) Value and length of time for exceedance of applicable parameters monitored under § 62.16722(a)(1), (b), (c), (d), and (g).

(2) Description and duration of all periods when the gas stream was diverted from the control device or treatment system through a bypass line or the indication of bypass flow as specified under § 62.16722.

(3) Description and duration of all periods when the control device or treatment system was not operating and length of time the control device or treatment system was not operating.

(4) All periods when the collection system was not operating.

(5) The location of each exceedance of the 500 parts-per-million methane concentration as provided in § 62.16716(d) and the concentration recorded at each location for which an exceedance was recorded in the previous month. For location, you must determine the latitude and longitude coordinates using an instrument with an accuracy of at least 4 meters. The coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.

(6) The date of installation and the location of each well or collection system expansion added pursuant to § 62.16720(a)(3), (4), (b), and (c)(4).

(7) For any corrective action analysis for which corrective actions are required in § 62.16720(a)(3) or (4) and that take more than 60 days to correct the exceedance, the root cause analysis conducted, including a description of the recommended corrective action(s), the date for corrective action(s) already completed following the positive pressure or elevated temperature reading, and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.
