
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.1 Applicability.
####### General.

(a)(1) Terms used throughout this part are defined in ยง 63.2 or in the Clean Air Act (Act) as amended in 1990, except that individual subparts of this part may include specific definitions in addition to or that supersede definitions in ยง 63.2.

(2) This part contains national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) established pursuant to section 112 of the Act as amended November 15, 1990. These standards regulate specific categories of stationary sources that emit (or have the potential to emit) one or more hazardous air pollutants listed in this part pursuant to section 112(b) of the Act. This section explains the applicability of such standards to sources affected by them. The standards in this part are independent of NESHAP contained in 40 CFR part 61. The NESHAP in part 61 promulgated by signature of the Administrator before November 15, 1990 (i.e., the date of enactment of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990) remain in effect until they are amended, if appropriate, and added to this part.

(3) No emission standard or other requirement established under this part shall be interpreted, construed, or applied to diminish or replace the requirements of a more stringent emission limitation or other applicable requirement established by the Administrator pursuant to other authority of the Act (section 111, part C or D or any other authority of this Act), or a standard issued under State authority. The Administrator may specify in a specific standard under this part that facilities subject to other provisions under the Act need only comply with the provisions of that standard.

(4)(i) Each relevant standard in this part 63 must identify explicitly whether each provision in this subpart A is or is not included in such relevant standard.

(ii) If a relevant part 63 standard incorporates the requirements of 40 CFR part 60, part 61 or other part 63 standards, the relevant part 63 standard must identify explicitly the applicability of each corresponding part 60, part 61, or other part 63 subpart A (General) provision.

(iii) The General Provisions in this subpart A do not apply to regulations developed pursuant to section 112(r) of the amended Act, unless otherwise specified in those regulations.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) To obtain the most current list of categories of sources to be regulated under section 112 of the Act, or to obtain the most recent regulation promulgation schedule established pursuant to section 112(e) of the Act, contact the Office of the Director, Emission Standards Division, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, U.S. EPA (MD-13), Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711.

(7)-(9) [Reserved]

(10) For the purposes of this part, time periods specified in days shall be measured in calendar days, even if the word "calendar" is absent, unless otherwise specified in an applicable requirement.

(11) For the purposes of this part, if an explicit postmark deadline is not specified in an applicable requirement for the submittal of a notification, application, test plan, report, or other written communication to the Administrator, the owner or operator shall postmark the submittal on or before the number of days specified in the applicable requirement. For example, if a notification must be submitted 15 days before a particular event is scheduled to take place, the notification shall be postmarked on or before 15 days preceding the event; likewise, if a notification must be submitted 15 days after a particular event takes place, the notification shall be postmarked on or before 15 days following the end of the event. The use of reliable non-Government mail carriers that provide indications of verifiable delivery of information required to be submitted to the Administrator, similar to the postmark provided by the U.S. Postal Service, or alternative means of delivery agreed to by the permitting authority, is acceptable.

(12) Notwithstanding time periods or postmark deadlines specified in this part for the submittal of information to the Administrator by an owner or operator, or the review of such information by the Administrator, such time periods or deadlines may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator. Procedures governing the implementation of this provision are specified in ยง 63.9(i).
