
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 63.1 Applicability.
####### Applicability of this part after a relevant standard has been set under this part.

(c)(1) If a relevant standard has been established under this part, the owner or operator of an affected source must comply with the provisions of that standard and of this subpart as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(2) Except as provided in § 63.10(b)(3), if a relevant standard has been established under this part, the owner or operator of an affected source may be required to obtain a title V permit from a permitting authority in the State in which the source is located. Emission standards promulgated in this part for area sources pursuant to section 112(c)(3) of the Act will specify whether-

(i) States will have the option to exclude area sources affected by that standard from the requirement to obtain a title V permit (i.e., the standard will exempt the category of area sources altogether from the permitting requirement);

(ii) States will have the option to defer permitting of area sources in that category until the Administrator takes rulemaking action to determine applicability of the permitting requirements; or

(iii) If a standard fails to specify what the permitting requirements will be for area sources affected by such a standard, then area sources that are subject to the standard will be subject to the requirement to obtain a title V permit without any deferral.

(3)-(4) [Reserved]

(5) If an area source that otherwise would be subject to an emission standard or other requirement established under this part if it were a major source subsequently increases its emissions of hazardous air pollutants (or its potential to emit hazardous air pollutants) such that the source is a major source that is subject to the emission standard or other requirement, such source also shall be subject to the notification requirements of this subpart.

(6) A major source may become an area source at any time upon reducing its emissions of and potential to emit hazardous air pollutants, as defined in this subpart, to below the major source thresholds established in § 63.2, subject to the provisions in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) A major source reclassifying to area source status is subject to the applicability of standards, compliance dates and notification requirements specified in (c)(6)(i)(A) of this section. An area source that previously was a major source and becomes a major source again is subject to the applicability of standards, compliance dates, and notification requirements specified in (c)(6)(i)(B) of this section:

(A) A major source reclassifying to area source status under this part remains subject to any applicable major source requirements established under this part until the reclassification becomes effective. After the reclassification becomes effective, the source is subject to any applicable area source requirements established under this part immediately, provided the compliance date for the area source requirements has passed. The owner or operator of a major source that becomes an area source subject to newly applicable area source requirements under this part must comply with the initial notification requirements pursuant to § 63.9(b). The owner or operator of a major source that becomes an area source must also provide to the Administrator any change in the information already provided under § 63.9(b) per § 63.9(j).

(B) An area source that previously was a major source under this part and that becomes a major source again is subject to the applicable major source requirements established under this part immediately upon becoming a major source again, provided the compliance date for the major source requirements has passed, notwithstanding any provision within the applicable subparts. The owner or operator of an area source that becomes a major source again must comply with the initial notification pursuant to § 63.9(b). The owner or operator must also provide to the Administrator any change in the information already provided under § 63.9(b) per § 63.9(j).

(ii) Becoming an area source does not absolve a source subject to an enforcement action or investigation for major source violations or infractions from the consequences of any actions occurring when the source was major. Becoming a major source does not absolve a source subject to an enforcement action or investigation for area source violations or infractions from the consequences of any actions occurring when the source was an area source.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) If the Administrator promulgates an emission standard under section 112(d) or (h) of the Act that is applicable to a source subject to an emission limitation by permit established under section 112(j) of the Act, and the requirements under the section 112(j) emission limitation are substantially as effective as the promulgated emission standard, the owner or operator may request the permitting authority to revise the source's title V permit to reflect that the emission limitation in the permit satisfies the requirements of the promulgated emission standard. The process by which the permitting authority determines whether the section 112(j) emission limitation is substantially as effective as the promulgated emission standard must include, consistent with part 70 or 71 of this chapter, the opportunity for full public, EPA, and affected State review (including the opportunity for EPA's objection) prior to the permit revision being finalized. A negative determination by the permitting authority constitutes final action for purposes of review and appeal under the applicable title V operating permit program.
