
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.5 Preconstruction review and notification requirements.
####### Application for approval of reconstruction.

(3)Each application for approval of reconstruction shall include, in addition to the information required in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section-

(i) A brief description of the affected source and the components that are to be replaced;

(ii) A description of present and proposed emission control systems (i.e., equipment or methods). The description of the equipment to be used for the control of emissions shall include each control device for each hazardous air pollutant and the estimated control efficiency (percent) for each control device. The description of the method to be used for the control of emissions shall include an estimated control efficiency (percent) for that method. Such technical information shall include calculations of emission estimates in sufficient detail to permit assessment of the validity of the calculations;

(iii) An estimate of the fixed capital cost of the replacements and of constructing a comparable entirely new source;

(iv) The estimated life of the affected source after the replacements; and

(v) A discussion of any economic or technical limitations the source may have in complying with relevant standards or other requirements after the proposed replacements. The discussion shall be sufficiently detailed to demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the technical or economic limitations affect the source's ability to comply with the relevant standard and how they do so.

(vi) If in the application for approval of reconstruction the owner or operator designates the affected source as a reconstructed source and declares that there are no economic or technical limitations to prevent the source from complying with all relevant standards or other requirements, the owner or operator need not submit the information required in paragraphs (d)(3)(iii) through (d)(3)(v) of this section.
