
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.5 Preconstruction review and notification requirements.
####### Requirements for existing, newly constructed, and reconstructed sources.

(b)(1) A new affected source for which construction commences after proposal of a relevant standard is subject to relevant standards for new affected sources, including compliance dates. An affected source for which reconstruction commences after proposal of a relevant standard is subject to relevant standards for new sources, including compliance dates, irrespective of any change in emissions of hazardous air pollutants from that source.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) After the effective date of any relevant standard promulgated by the Administrator under this part, no person may, without obtaining written approval in advance from the Administrator in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, do any of the following:

(i) Construct a new affected source that is major-emitting and subject to such standard;

(ii) Reconstruct an affected source that is major-emitting and subject to such standard; or

(iii) Reconstruct a major source such that the source becomes an affected source that is major-emitting and subject to the standard.

(4) After the effective date of any relevant standard promulgated by the Administrator under this part, an owner or operator who constructs a new affected source that is not major-emitting or reconstructs an affected source that is not major-emitting that is subject to such standard, or reconstructs a source such that the source becomes an affected source subject to the standard, must notify the Administrator of the intended construction or reconstruction. The notification must be submitted in accordance with the procedures in ยง 63.9(b).

(5) [Reserved]

(6) After the effective date of any relevant standard promulgated by the Administrator under this part, equipment added (or a process change) to an affected source that is within the scope of the definition of affected source under the relevant standard must be considered part of the affected source and subject to all provisions of the relevant standard established for that affected source.

(c) [Reserved]
