
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.5 Preconstruction review and notification requirements.
####### Approval of construction or reconstruction based on prior State preconstruction review.

(f)(1) Preconstruction review procedures that a State utilizes for other purposes may also be utilized for purposes of this section if the procedures are substantially equivalent to those specified in this section. The Administrator will approve an application for construction or reconstruction specified in paragraphs (b)(3) and (d) of this section if the owner or operator of a new affected source or reconstructed affected source, who is subject to such requirement meets the following conditions:

(i) The owner or operator of the new affected source or reconstructed affected source has undergone a preconstruction review and approval process in the State in which the source is (or would be) located and has received a federally enforceable construction permit that contains a finding that the source will meet the relevant promulgated emission standard, if the source is properly built and operated.

(ii) Provide a statement from the State or other evidence (such as State regulations) that it considered the factors specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator must submit to the Administrator the request for approval of construction or reconstruction under this paragraph (f)(2) no later than the application deadline specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (see also ยง 63.9(b)(2)). The owner or operator must include in the request information sufficient for the Administrator's determination. The Administrator will evaluate the owner or operator's request in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (e) of this section. The Administrator may request additional relevant information after the submittal of a request for approval of construction or reconstruction under this paragraph (f)(2).
