
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 63.5 Preconstruction review and notification requirements.
####### General application requirements.

(1)(i) An owner or operator who is subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section must submit to the Administrator an application for approval of the construction or reconstruction. The application must be submitted as soon as practicable before actual construction or reconstruction begins. The application for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used to fulfill the initial notification requirements of § 63.9(b)(5). The owner or operator may submit the application for approval well in advance of the date actual construction or reconstruction begins in order to ensure a timely review by the Administrator and that the planned date to begin will not be delayed.

(ii) A separate application shall be submitted for each construction or reconstruction. Each application for approval of construction or reconstruction shall include at a minimum:

(A) The applicant's name and address;

(B) A notification of intention to construct a new major affected source or make any physical or operational change to a major affected source that may meet or has been determined to meet the criteria for a reconstruction, as defined in § 63.2 or in the relevant standard;

(C) The address (i.e., physical location) or proposed address of the source;

(D) An identification of the relevant standard that is the basis of the application;

(E) The expected date of the beginning of actual construction or reconstruction;

(F) The expected completion date of the construction or reconstruction;

(G) [Reserved]

(H) The type and quantity of hazardous air pollutants emitted by the source, reported in units and averaging times and in accordance with the test methods specified in the relevant standard, or if actual emissions data are not yet available, an estimate of the type and quantity of hazardous air pollutants expected to be emitted by the source reported in units and averaging times specified in the relevant standard. The owner or operator may submit percent reduction information if a relevant standard is established in terms of percent reduction. However, operating parameters, such as flow rate, shall be included in the submission to the extent that they demonstrate performance and compliance; and

(I) [Reserved]

(J) Other information as specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section.

(iii) An owner or operator who submits estimates or preliminary information in place of the actual emissions data and analysis required in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(H) and (d)(2) of this section shall submit the actual, measured emissions data and other correct information as soon as available but no later than with the notification of compliance status required in § 63.9(h) (see § 63.9(h)(5)).
