
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.6 Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements.
####### Compliance dates for existing sources.

(c)(1) After the effective date of a relevant standard established under this part pursuant to section 112(d) or 112(h) of the Act, the owner or operator of an existing source shall comply with such standard by the compliance date established by the Administrator in the applicable subpart(s) of this part, except as provided in ยง 63.1(c)(6)(i). Except as otherwise provided for in section 112 of the Act, in no case will the compliance date established for an existing source in an applicable subpart of this part exceed 3 years after the effective date of such standard.

(2) If an existing source is subject to a standard established under this part pursuant to section 112(f) of the Act, the owner or operator must comply with the standard by the date 90 days after the standard's effective date, or by the date specified in an extension granted to the source by the Administrator under paragraph (i)(4)(ii) of this section, whichever is later.

(3)-(4) [Reserved]

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(7) of this section, the owner or operator of an area source that increases its emissions of (or its potential to emit) hazardous air pollutants such that the source becomes a major source and meets the definition of an existing source in the applicable major source standard shall be subject to relevant standards for existing sources. Except as provided in paragraph ยง 63.1(c)(6)(i)(B), such sources must comply by the date specified in the standards for existing area sources that become major sources. If no such compliance date is specified in the standards, the source shall have a period of time to comply with the relevant emission standard that is equivalent to the compliance period specified in the relevant standard for existing sources in existence at the time the standard becomes effective.

(d) [Reserved]
