
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 63.6 Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements.
####### Use of an alternative nonopacity emission standard.

(g)(1) If, in the Administrator's judgment, an owner or operator of an affected source has established that an alternative means of emission limitation will achieve a reduction in emissions of a hazardous air pollutant from an affected source at least equivalent to the reduction in emissions of that pollutant from that source achieved under any design, equipment, work practice, or operational emission standard, or combination thereof, established under this part pursuant to section 112(h) of the Act, the Administrator will publish in thea notice permitting the use of the alternative emission standard for purposes of compliance with the promulgated standard. Anynotice under this paragraph shall be published only after the public is notified and given the opportunity to comment. Such notice will restrict the permission to the stationary source(s) or category(ies) of sources from which the alternative emission standard will achieve equivalent emission reductions. The Administrator will condition permission in such notice on requirements to assure the proper operation and maintenance of equipment and practices required for compliance with the alternative emission standard and other requirements, including appropriate quality assurance and quality control requirements, that are deemed necessary.

(2) An owner or operator requesting permission under this paragraph shall, unless otherwise specified in an applicable subpart, submit a proposed test plan or the results of testing and monitoring in accordance with § 63.7 and § 63.8, a description of the procedures followed in testing or monitoring, and a description of pertinent conditions during testing or monitoring. Any testing or monitoring conducted to request permission to use an alternative nonopacity emission standard shall be appropriately quality assured and quality controlled, as specified in § 63.7 and § 63.8.

(3) The Administrator may establish general procedures in an applicable subpart that accomplish the requirements of paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section.
