
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.6 Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements.
####### Approval of request for extension of compliance.

(8)Paragraphs (i)(9) through (i)(14) of this section concern approval of an extension of compliance requested under paragraphs (i)(4) through (i)(6) of this section.

(9) Based on the information provided in any request made under paragraphs (i)(4) through (i)(6) of this section, or other information, the Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) may grant an extension of compliance with an emission standard, as specified in paragraphs (i)(4) and (i)(5) of this section.

(10) The extension will be in writing and will-

(i) Identify each affected source covered by the extension;

(ii) Specify the termination date of the extension;

(iii) Specify the dates by which steps toward compliance are to be taken, if appropriate;

(iv) Specify other applicable requirements to which the compliance extension applies (e.g., performance tests); and

(v)(A) Under paragraph (i)(4), specify any additional conditions that the Administrator (or the State) deems necessary to assure installation of the necessary controls and protection of the health of persons during the extension period; or

(B) Under paragraph (i)(5), specify any additional conditions that the Administrator deems necessary to assure the proper operation and maintenance of the installed controls during the extension period.

(11) The owner or operator of an existing source that has been granted an extension of compliance under paragraph (i)(10) of this section may be required to submit to the Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) progress reports indicating whether the steps toward compliance outlined in the compliance schedule have been reached. The contents of the progress reports and the dates by which they shall be submitted will be specified in the written extension of compliance granted under paragraph (i)(10) of this section.

(12)(i) The Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) will notify the owner or operator in writing of approval or intention to deny approval of a request for an extension of compliance within 30 calendar days after receipt of sufficient information to evaluate a request submitted under paragraph (i)(4)(i) or (i)(5) of this section. The Administrator (or the State) will notify the owner or operator in writing of the status of his/her application, that is, whether the application contains sufficient information to make a determination, within 30 calendar days after receipt of the original application and within 30 calendar days after receipt of any supplementary information that is submitted. The 30-day approval or denial period will begin after the owner or operator has been notified in writing that his/her application is complete.

(ii) When notifying the owner or operator that his/her application is not complete, the Administrator will specify the information needed to complete the application and provide notice of opportunity for the applicant to present, in writing, within 30 calendar days after he/she is notified of the incomplete application, additional information or arguments to the Administrator to enable further action on the application.

(iii) Before denying any request for an extension of compliance, the Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) will notify the owner or operator in writing of the Administrator's (or the State's) intention to issue the denial, together with-

(A) Notice of the information and findings on which the intended denial is based; and

(B) Notice of opportunity for the owner or operator to present in writing, within 15 calendar days after he/she is notified of the intended denial, additional information or arguments to the Administrator (or the State) before further action on the request.

(iv) The Administrator's final determination to deny any request for an extension will be in writing and will set forth the specific grounds on which the denial is based. The final determination will be made within 30 calendar days after presentation of additional information or argument (if the application is complete), or within 30 calendar days after the final date specified for the presentation if no presentation is made.

(13)(i) The Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing of approval or intention to deny approval of a request for an extension of compliance within 30 calendar days after receipt of sufficient information to evaluate a request submitted under paragraph (i)(4)(ii) of this section. The 30-day approval or denial period will begin after the owner or operator has been notified in writing that his/her application is complete. The Administrator (or the State) will notify the owner or operator in writing of the status of his/her application, that is, whether the application contains sufficient information to make a determination, within 15 calendar days after receipt of the original application and within 15 calendar days after receipt of any supplementary information that is submitted.

(ii) When notifying the owner or operator that his/her application is not complete, the Administrator will specify the information needed to complete the application and provide notice of opportunity for the applicant to present, in writing, within 15 calendar days after he/she is notified of the incomplete application, additional information or arguments to the Administrator to enable further action on the application.

(iii) Before denying any request for an extension of compliance, the Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing of the Administrator's intention to issue the denial, together with-

(A) Notice of the information and findings on which the intended denial is based; and

(B) Notice of opportunity for the owner or operator to present in writing, within 15 calendar days after he/she is notified of the intended denial, additional information or arguments to the Administrator before further action on the request.

(iv) A final determination to deny any request for an extension will be in writing and will set forth the specific grounds on which the denial is based. The final determination will be made within 30 calendar days after presentation of additional information or argument (if the application is complete), or within 30 calendar days after the final date specified for the presentation if no presentation is made.

(14) The Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) may terminate an extension of compliance at an earlier date than specified if any specification under paragraph (i)(10)(iii) or (iv) of this section is not met. Upon a determination to terminate, the Administrator will notify, in writing, the owner or operator of the Administrator's determination to terminate, together with:

(i) Notice of the reason for termination; and

(ii) Notice of opportunity for the owner or operator to present in writing, within 15 calendar days after he/she is notified of the determination to terminate, additional information or arguments to the Administrator before further action on the termination.

(iii) A final determination to terminate an extension of compliance will be in writing and will set forth the specific grounds on which the termination is based. The final determination will be made within 30 calendar days after presentation of additional information or arguments, or within 30 calendar days after the final date specified for the presentation if no presentation is made.

(15) [Reserved]

(16) The granting of an extension under this section shall not abrogate the Administrator's authority under section 114 of the Act.
