
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.6 Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements.
####### Request for extension of compliance.

(3)Paragraphs (i)(4) through (i)(7) of this section concern requests for an extension of compliance with a relevant standard under this part (except requests for an extension of compliance under paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section will be handled through procedures specified in subpart D of this part).

(4)(i)(A) The owner or operator of an existing source who is unable to comply with a relevant standard established under this part pursuant to section 112(d) of the Act may request that the Administrator (or a State, when the State has an approved part 70 permit program and the source is required to obtain a part 70 permit under that program, or a State, when the State has been delegated the authority to implement and enforce the emission standard for that source) grant an extension allowing the source up to 1 additional year to comply with the standard, if such additional period is necessary for the installation of controls. An additional extension of up to 3 years may be added for mining waste operations, if the 1-year extension of compliance is insufficient to dry and cover mining waste in order to reduce emissions of any hazardous air pollutant. The owner or operator of an affected source who has requested an extension of compliance under this paragraph and who is otherwise required to obtain a title V permit shall apply for such permit or apply to have the source's title V permit revised to incorporate the conditions of the extension of compliance. The conditions of an extension of compliance granted under this paragraph will be incorporated into the affected source's title V permit according to the provisions of part 70 or Federal title V regulations in this chapter (42 U.S.C. 7661), whichever are applicable.

(B) Any request under this paragraph for an extension of compliance with a relevant standard must be submitted in writing to the appropriate authority no later than 120 days prior to the affected source's compliance date (as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section), except as provided for in paragraph (i)(4)(i)(C) of this section. Nonfrivolous requests submitted under this paragraph will stay the applicability of the rule as to the emission points in question until such time as the request is granted or denied. A denial will be effective as of the date of denial. Emission standards established under this part may specify alternative dates for the submittal of requests for an extension of compliance if alternatives are appropriate for the source categories affected by those standards.

(C) An owner or operator may submit a compliance extension request after the date specified in paragraph (i)(4)(i)(B) of this section provided the need for the compliance extension arose after that date, and before the otherwise applicable compliance date and the need arose due to circumstances beyond reasonable control of the owner or operator. This request must include, in addition to the information required in paragraph (i)(6)(i) of this section, a statement of the reasons additional time is needed and the date when the owner or operator first learned of the problems. Nonfrivolous requests submitted under this paragraph will stay the applicability of the rule as to the emission points in question until such time as the request is granted or denied. A denial will be effective as of the original compliance date.

(ii) The owner or operator of an existing source unable to comply with a relevant standard established under this part pursuant to section 112(f) of the Act may request that the Administrator grant an extension allowing the source up to 2 years after the standard's effective date to comply with the standard. The Administrator may grant such an extension if he/she finds that such additional period is necessary for the installation of controls and that steps will be taken during the period of the extension to assure that the health of persons will be protected from imminent endangerment. Any request for an extension of compliance with a relevant standard under this paragraph must be submitted in writing to the Administrator not later than 90 calendar days after the effective date of the relevant standard.

(5) The owner or operator of an existing source that has installed BACT or technology required to meet LAER [as specified in paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section] prior to the promulgation of a relevant emission standard in this part may request that the Administrator grant an extension allowing the source 5 years from the date on which such installation was achieved, as determined by the Administrator, to comply with the standard. Any request for an extension of compliance with a relevant standard under this paragraph shall be submitted in writing to the Administrator not later than 120 days after the promulgation date of the standard. The Administrator may grant such an extension if he or she finds that the installation of BACT or technology to meet LAER controls the same pollutant (or stream of pollutants) that would be controlled at that source by the relevant emission standard.

(6)(i) The request for a compliance extension under paragraph (i)(4) of this section shall include the following information:

(A) A description of the controls to be installed to comply with the standard;

(B) A compliance schedule, including the date by which each step toward compliance will be reached. At a minimum, the list of dates shall include:
