
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.7 Performance testing requirements.
####### Use of an alternative test method,General.

(f)-(1)Until authorized to use an intermediate or major change or alternative to a test method, the owner or operator of an affected source remains subject to the requirements of this section and the relevant standard.

(2) The owner or operator of an affected source required to do performance testing by a relevant standard may use an alternative test method from that specified in the standard provided that the owner or operator-

(i) Notifies the Administrator of his or her intention to use an alternative test method at least 60 days before the performance test is scheduled to begin;

(ii) Uses Method 301 in appendix A of this part to validate the alternative test method. This may include the use of specific procedures of Method 301 if use of such procedures are sufficient to validate the alternative test method; and

(iii) Submits the results of the Method 301 validation process along with the notification of intention and the justification for not using the specified test method. The owner or operator may submit the information required in this paragraph well in advance of the deadline specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section to ensure a timely review by the Administrator in order to meet the performance test date specified in this section or the relevant standard.

(3) The Administrator will determine whether the owner or operator's validation of the proposed alternative test method is adequate and issue an approval or disapproval of the alternative test method. If the owner or operator intends to demonstrate compliance by using an alternative to any test method specified in the relevant standard, the owner or operator is authorized to conduct the performance test using an alternative test method after the Administrator approves the use of the alternative method. However, the owner or operator is authorized to conduct the performance test using an alternative method in the absence of notification of approval/disapproval 45 days after submission of the request to use an alternative method and the request satisfies the requirements in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The owner or operator is authorized to conduct the performance test within 60 calendar days after he/she is authorized to demonstrate compliance using an alternative test method. Notwithstanding the requirements in the preceding three sentences, the owner or operator may proceed to conduct the performance test as required in this section (without the Administrator's prior approval of the site-specific test plan) if he/she subsequently chooses to use the specified testing and monitoring methods instead of an alternative.

(4) If the Administrator finds reasonable grounds to dispute the results obtained by an alternative test method for the purposes of demonstrating compliance with a relevant standard, the Administrator may require the use of a test method specified in a relevant standard.

(5) If the owner or operator uses an alternative test method for an affected source during a required performance test, the owner or operator of such source shall continue to use the alternative test method for subsequent performance tests at that affected source until he or she receives approval from the Administrator to use another test method as allowed under ยง 63.7(f).

(6) Neither the validation and approval process nor the failure to validate an alternative test method shall abrogate the owner or operator's responsibility to comply with the requirements of this part.
