
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.7 Performance testing requirements.
####### Conduct of performance tests.

(e)(1) Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance (i.e., performance based on normal operating conditions) of the affected source. Operations during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction shall not constitute representative conditions for the purpose of a performance test, nor shall emissions in excess of the level of the relevant standard during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction be considered a violation of the relevant standard unless otherwise specified in the relevant standard or a determination of noncompliance is made under ยง 63.6(e). Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(2) Performance tests shall be conducted and data shall be reduced in accordance with the test methods and procedures set forth in this section, in each relevant standard, and, if required, in applicable appendices of parts 51, 60, 61, and 63 of this chapter unless the Administrator-

(i) Specifies or approves, in specific cases, the use of a test method with minor changes in methodology (see definition in ยง 63.90(a)). Such changes may be approved in conjunction with approval of the site-specific test plan (see paragraph (c) of this section); or

(ii) Approves the use of an intermediate or major change or alternative to a test method (see definitions in ยง 63.90(a)), the results of which the Administrator has determined to be adequate for indicating whether a specific affected source is in compliance; or

(iii) Approves shorter sampling times or smaller sample volumes when necessitated by process variables or other factors; or

(iv) Waives the requirement for performance tests because the owner or operator of an affected source has demonstrated by other means to the Administrator's satisfaction that the affected source is in compliance with the relevant standard.

(3) Unless otherwise specified in a relevant standard or test method, each performance test shall consist of three separate runs using the applicable test method. Each run shall be conducted for the time and under the conditions specified in the relevant standard. For the purpose of determining compliance with a relevant standard, the arithmetic mean of the results of the three runs shall apply. Upon receiving approval from the Administrator, results of a test run may be replaced with results of an additional test run in the event that-

(i) A sample is accidentally lost after the testing team leaves the site; or

(ii) Conditions occur in which one of the three runs must be discontinued because of forced shutdown; or

(iii) Extreme meteorological conditions occur; or

(iv) Other circumstances occur that are beyond the owner or operator's control.

(4) Nothing in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section shall be construed to abrogate the Administrator's authority to require testing under section 114 of the Act.
