
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.7 Performance testing requirements.
####### Data analysis, recordkeeping, and reporting.

(g)(1) Unless otherwise specified in a relevant standard or test method, or as otherwise approved by the Administrator in writing, results of a performance test shall include the analysis of samples, determination of emissions, and raw data. A performance test is "completed" when field sample collection is terminated. The owner or operator of an affected source shall report the results of the performance test to the Administrator before the close of business on the 60th day following the completion of the performance test, unless specified otherwise in a relevant standard or as approved otherwise in writing by the Administrator (see ยง 63.9(i)). The results of the performance test shall be submitted as part of the notification of compliance status required under ยง 63.9(h). Before a title V permit has been issued to the owner or operator of an affected source, the owner or operator shall send the results of the performance test to the Administrator. After a title V permit has been issued to the owner or operator of an affected source, the owner or operator shall send the results of the performance test to the appropriate permitting authority.

(2) Contents of a performance test, CMS performance evaluation, or CMS quality assurance test report (electronic or paper submitted copy). Unless otherwise specified in a relevant standard, test method, CMS performance specification, or quality assurance requirement for a CMS, or as otherwise approved by the Administrator in writing, the report shall include the elements identified in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) General identification information for the facility including a mailing address, the physical address, the owner or operator or responsible official (where applicable) and his/her email address, and the appropriate Federal Registry System (FRS) number for the facility.

(ii) Purpose of the test including the applicable regulation requiring the test, the pollutant(s) and other parameters being measured, the applicable emission standard, and any process parameter component, and a brief process description.

(iii) Description of the emission unit tested including fuel burned, control devices, and vent characteristics; the appropriate source classification code (SCC); the permitted maximum process rate (where applicable); and the sampling location.

(iv) Description of sampling and analysis procedures used and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures and results, record of process operating conditions that demonstrate the applicable test conditions are met, and values for any operating parameters for which limits were being set during the test.

(v) Where a test method, CEMS, PEMS, or COMS performance specification, or on-going quality assurance requirement for a CEMS, PEMS, or COMS requires you record or report, the following shall be included in your report: Record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, chain-of-custody documentation, and example calculations for reported results.

(vi) Identification of the company conducting the performance test including the primary office address, telephone number, and the contact for this test including his/her email address.

(3) For a minimum of 5 years after a performance test is conducted, the owner or operator shall retain and make available, upon request, for inspection by the Administrator the records or results of such performance test and other data needed to determine emissions from an affected source.
