
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 63.8 Monitoring requirements.
####### Operation and maintenance of continuous monitoring systems.

(c)(1) The owner or operator of an affected source shall maintain and operate each CMS as specified in this section, or in a relevant standard, and in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices. (i) The owner or operator of an affected source must maintain and operate each CMS as specified in § 63.6(e)(1).

(ii) The owner or operator must keep the necessary parts for routine repairs of the affected CMS equipment readily available.

(iii) The owner or operator of an affected source must develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan for CMS as specified in § 63.6(e)(3).

(2)(i) All CMS must be installed such that representative measures of emissions or process parameters from the affected source are obtained. In addition, CEMS must be located according to procedures contained in the applicable performance specification(s).

(ii) Unless the individual subpart states otherwise, the owner or operator must ensure the read out (that portion of the CMS that provides a visual display or record), or other indication of operation, from any CMS required for compliance with the emission standard is readily accessible on site for operational control or inspection by the operator of the equipment.

(3) All CMS shall be installed, operational, and the data verified as specified in the relevant standard either prior to or in conjunction with conducting performance tests under § 63.7. Verification of operational status shall, at a minimum, include completion of the manufacturer's written specifications or recommendations for installation, operation, and calibration of the system.

(4) Except for system breakdowns, out-of-control periods, repairs, maintenance periods, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level calibration drift adjustments, all CMS, including COMS and CEMS, shall be in continuous operation and shall meet minimum frequency of operation requirements as follows:

(i) All COMS shall complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.

(ii) All CEMS for measuring emissions other than opacity shall complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.

(5) Unless otherwise approved by the Administrator, minimum procedures for COMS shall include a method for producing a simulated zero opacity condition and an upscale (high-level) opacity condition using a certified neutral density filter or other related technique to produce a known obscuration of the light beam. Such procedures shall provide a system check of all the analyzer's internal optical surfaces and all electronic circuitry, including the lamp and photodetector assembly normally used in the measurement of opacity.

(6) The owner or operator of a CMS that is not a CPMS, which is installed in accordance with the provisions of this part and the applicable CMS performance specification(s), must check the zero (low-level) and high-level calibration drifts at least once daily in accordance with the written procedure specified in the performance evaluation plan developed under paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. The zero (low-level) and high-level calibration drifts must be adjusted, at a minimum, whenever the 24-hour zero (low-level) drift exceeds two times the limits of the applicable performance specification(s) specified in the relevant standard. The system shall allow the amount of excess zero (low-level) and high-level drift measured at the 24-hour interval checks to be recorded and quantified whenever specified. For COMS, all optical and instrumental surfaces exposed to the effluent gases must be cleaned prior to performing the zero (low-level) and high-level drift adjustments; the optical surfaces and instrumental surfaces must be cleaned when the cumulative automatic zero compensation, if applicable, exceeds 4 percent opacity. The CPMS must be calibrated prior to use for the purposes of complying with this section. The CPMS must be checked daily for indication that the system is responding. If the CPMS system includes an internal system check, results must be recorded and checked daily for proper operation.

(7)(i) A CMS is out of control if-

(A) The zero (low-level), mid-level (if applicable), or high-level calibration drift (CD) exceeds two times the applicable CD specification in the applicable performance specification or in the relevant standard; or

(B) The CMS fails a performance test audit (e.g., cylinder gas audit), relative accuracy audit, relative accuracy test audit, or linearity test audit; or

(C) The COMS CD exceeds two times the limit in the applicable performance specification in the relevant standard.

(ii) When the CMS is out of control, the owner or operator of the affected source shall take the necessary corrective action and shall repeat all necessary tests which indicate that the system is out of control. The owner or operator shall take corrective action and conduct retesting until the performance requirements are below the applicable limits. The beginning of the out-of-control period is the hour the owner or operator conducts a performance check (e.g., calibration drift) that indicates an exceedance of the performance requirements established under this part. The end of the out-of-control period is the hour following the completion of corrective action and successful demonstration that the system is within the allowable limits. During the period the CMS is out of control, recorded data shall not be used in data averages and calculations, or to meet any data availability requirement established under this part.

(8) The owner or operator of a CMS that is out of control as defined in paragraph (c)(7) of this section shall submit all information concerning out-of-control periods, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken, in the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report required in § 63.10(e)(3).
