
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.8 Monitoring requirements.
####### Conduct of monitoring.

(b)(1) Monitoring shall be conducted as set forth in this section and the relevant standard(s) unless the Administrator-

(i) Specifies or approves the use of minor changes in methodology for the specified monitoring requirements and procedures (see ยง 63.90(a) for definition); or

(ii) Approves the use of an intermediate or major change or alternative to any monitoring requirements or procedures (see ยง 63.90(a) for definition).

(iii) Owners or operators with flares subject to ยง 63.11(b) are not subject to the requirements of this section unless otherwise specified in the relevant standard.

(2)(i) When the emissions from two or more affected sources are combined before being released to the atmosphere, the owner or operator may install an applicable CMS for each emission stream or for the combined emissions streams, provided the monitoring is sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the relevant standard.

(ii) If the relevant standard is a mass emission standard and the emissions from one affected source are released to the atmosphere through more than one point, the owner or operator must install an applicable CMS at each emission point unless the installation of fewer systems is-

(A) Approved by the Administrator; or

(B) Provided for in a relevant standard (e.g., instead of requiring that a CMS be installed at each emission point before the effluents from those points are channeled to a common control device, the standard specifies that only one CMS is required to be installed at the vent of the control device).

(3) When more than one CMS is used to measure the emissions from one affected source (e.g., multiple breechings, multiple outlets), the owner or operator shall report the results as required for each CMS. However, when one CMS is used as a backup to another CMS, the owner or operator shall report the results from the CMS used to meet the monitoring requirements of this part. If both such CMS are used during a particular reporting period to meet the monitoring requirements of this part, then the owner or operator shall report the results from each CMS for the relevant compliance period.
