
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.8 Monitoring requirements.
####### Quality control program.

(d)(1) The results of the quality control program required in this paragraph will be considered by the Administrator when he/she determines the validity of monitoring data.

(2) The owner or operator of an affected source that is required to use a CMS and is subject to the monitoring requirements of this section and a relevant standard shall develop and implement a CMS quality control program. As part of the quality control program, the owner or operator shall develop and submit to the Administrator for approval upon request a site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the CMS performance evaluation required in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, according to the procedures specified in paragraph (e). In addition, each quality control program shall include, at a minimum, a written protocol that describes procedures for each of the following operations:

(i) Initial and any subsequent calibration of the CMS;

(ii) Determination and adjustment of the calibration drift of the CMS;

(iii) Preventive maintenance of the CMS, including spare parts inventory;

(iv) Data recording, calculations, and reporting;

(v) Accuracy audit procedures, including sampling and analysis methods; and

(vi) Program of corrective action for a malfunctioning CMS.

(3) The owner or operator shall keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (i.e., superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. Where relevant, e.g., program of corrective action for a malfunctioning CMS, these written procedures may be incorporated as part of the affected source's startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan to avoid duplication of planning and recordkeeping efforts.
