
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.8 Monitoring requirements.
####### Request to use alternative monitoring procedure.

(4)(i)An owner or operator who wishes to use an alternative monitoring procedure must submit an application to the Administrator as described in paragraph (f)(4)(ii) of this section. The application may be submitted at any time provided that the monitoring procedure is not the performance test method used to demonstrate compliance with a relevant standard or other requirement. If the alternative monitoring procedure will serve as the performance test method that is to be used to demonstrate compliance with a relevant standard, the application must be submitted at least 60 days before the performance evaluation is scheduled to begin and must meet the requirements for an alternative test method under ยง 63.7(f).

(ii) The application must contain a description of the proposed alternative monitoring system which addresses the four elements contained in the definition of monitoring in ยง 63.2 and a performance evaluation test plan, if required, as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. In addition, the application must include information justifying the owner or operator's request for an alternative monitoring method, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality, of the affected source using the required method.

(iii) The owner or operator may submit the information required in this paragraph well in advance of the submittal dates specified in paragraph (f)(4)(i) above to ensure a timely review by the Administrator in order to meet the compliance demonstration date specified in this section or the relevant standard.

(iv) Application for minor changes to monitoring procedures, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, may be made in the site-specific performance evaluation plan.
