
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.8 Monitoring requirements.
####### Reduction of monitoring data.

(g)(1) The owner or operator of each CMS must reduce the monitoring data as specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator of each COMS shall reduce all data to 6-minute averages calculated from 36 or more data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period. Data from CEMS for measurement other than opacity, unless otherwise specified in the relevant standard, shall be reduced to 1-hour averages computed from four or more data points equally spaced over each 1-hour period, except during periods when calibration, quality assurance, or maintenance activities pursuant to provisions of this part are being performed. During these periods, a valid hourly average shall consist of at least two data points with each representing a 15-minute period. Alternatively, an arithmetic or integrated 1-hour average of CEMS data may be used. Time periods for averaging are defined in ยง 63.2.

(3) The data may be recorded in reduced or nonreduced form (e.g., ppm pollutant and percent Oor ng/J of pollutant).

(4) All emission data shall be converted into units of the relevant standard for reporting purposes using the conversion procedures specified in that standard. After conversion into units of the relevant standard, the data may be rounded to the same number of significant digits as used in that standard to specify the emission limit (e.g., rounded to the nearest 1 percent opacity).

(5) Monitoring data recorded during periods of unavoidable CMS breakdowns, out-of-control periods, repairs, maintenance periods, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments must not be included in any data average computed under this part. For the owner or operator complying with the requirements of ยง 63.10(b)(2)(vii)(A) or (B), data averages must include any data recorded during periods of monitor breakdown or malfunction.
