
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.9 Notification requirements.
####### Applicability and general information.

(a)(1) The applicability of this section is set out in ยง 63.1(a)(4).

(2) For affected sources that have been granted an extension of compliance under subpart D of this part, the requirements of this section do not apply to those sources while they are operating under such compliance extensions.

(3) If any State requires a notice that contains all the information required in a notification listed in this section, the owner or operator may send the Administrator a copy of the notice sent to the State to satisfy the requirements of this section for that notification.

(4)(i) Before a State has been delegated the authority to implement and enforce notification requirements established under this part, the owner or operator of an affected source in such State subject to such requirements shall submit notifications to the appropriate Regional Office of the EPA (to the attention of the Director of the Division indicated in the list of the EPA Regional Offices in ยง 63.13).

(ii) After a State has been delegated the authority to implement and enforce notification requirements established under this part, the owner or operator of an affected source in such State subject to such requirements shall submit notifications to the delegated State authority (which may be the same as the permitting authority). In addition, if the delegated (permitting) authority is the State, the owner or operator shall send a copy of each notification submitted to the State to the appropriate Regional Office of the EPA, as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section. The Regional Office may waive this requirement for any notifications at its discretion.
