
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.9 Notification requirements.
####### Adjustment to time periods or postmark deadlines for submittal and review of required communications.

(i)(1)(i) Until an adjustment of a time period or postmark deadline has been approved by the Administrator under paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source remains strictly subject to the requirements of this part.

(ii) An owner or operator shall request the adjustment provided for in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section each time he or she wishes to change an applicable time period or postmark deadline specified in this part.

(2) Notwithstanding time periods or postmark deadlines specified in this part for the submittal of information to the Administrator by an owner or operator, or the review of such information by the Administrator, such time periods or deadlines may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator. An owner or operator who wishes to request a change in a time period or postmark deadline for a particular requirement shall request the adjustment in writing as soon as practicable before the subject activity is required to take place. The owner or operator shall include in the request whatever information he or she considers useful to convince the Administrator that an adjustment is warranted.

(3) If, in the Administrator's judgment, an owner or operator's request for an adjustment to a particular time period or postmark deadline is warranted, the Administrator will approve the adjustment. The Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing of approval or disapproval of the request for an adjustment within 15 calendar days of receiving sufficient information to evaluate the request.

(4) If the Administrator is unable to meet a specified deadline, he or she will notify the owner or operator of any significant delay and inform the owner or operator of the amended schedule.
