
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.10 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
####### e.g.,

(3) If an owner or operator determines that his or her existing or new stationary source is in the source category regulated by a standard established pursuant to section 112 of the Act, but that source is not subject to the relevant standard (or other requirement established under this part) because of enforceable limitations on the source's potential to emit, or the source otherwise qualifies for an exclusion, the owner or operator must keep a record of the applicability determination. The applicability determination must be kept on site at the source for a period of 5 years after the determination, or until the source changes its operations to become an affected source subject to the relevant standard (or other requirement established under this part), whichever comes first if the determination is made prior to January 19, 2021. The applicability determination must be kept until the source changes its operations to become an affected source subject to the relevant standard (or other requirement established under this part) if the determination was made on or after January 19, 2021. The record of the applicability determination must be signed by the person making the determination and include an emissions analysis (or other information) that demonstrates the owner or operator's conclusion that the source is unaffected (because the source is an area source). The analysis (or other information) must be sufficiently detailed to allow the Administrator to make an applicability finding for the source with regard to the relevant standard or other requirement. If applicable, the analysis must be performed in accordance with requirements established in relevant subparts of this part for this purpose for particular categories of stationary sources. If relevant, the analysis should be performed in accordance with EPA guidance materials published to assist sources in making applicability determinations under section 112 of the Act, if any. The requirements to determine applicability of a standard under ยง 63.1(b)(3) and to record the results of that determination under this paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall not by themselves create an obligation for the owner or operator to obtain a title V permit.
