
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 63.10 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
####### Applicability and general information.

(a)(1) The applicability of this section is set out in § 63.1(a)(4).

(2) For affected sources that have been granted an extension of compliance under subpart D of this part, the requirements of this section do not apply to those sources while they are operating under such compliance extensions.

(3) If any State requires a report that contains all the information required in a report listed in this section, an owner or operator may send the Administrator a copy of the report sent to the State to satisfy the requirements of this section for that report.

(4)(i) Before a State has been delegated the authority to implement and enforce recordkeeping and reporting requirements established under this part, the owner or operator of an affected source in such State subject to such requirements shall submit reports to the appropriate Regional Office of the EPA (to the attention of the Director of the Division indicated in the list of the EPA Regional Offices in § 63.13).

(ii) After a State has been delegated the authority to implement and enforce recordkeeping and reporting requirements established under this part, the owner or operator of an affected source in such State subject to such requirements shall submit reports to the delegated State authority (which may be the same as the permitting authority). In addition, if the delegated (permitting) authority is the State, the owner or operator shall send a copy of each report submitted to the State to the appropriate Regional Office of the EPA, as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section. The Regional Office may waive this requirement for any reports at its discretion.

(5) If an owner or operator of an affected source in a State with delegated authority is required to submit periodic reports under this part to the State, and if the State has an established timeline for the submission of periodic reports that is consistent with the reporting frequency(ies) specified for such source under this part, the owner or operator may change the dates by which periodic reports under this part shall be submitted (without changing the frequency of reporting) to be consistent with the State's schedule by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the State. For each relevant standard established pursuant to section 112 of the Act, the allowance in the previous sentence applies in each State beginning 1 year after the affected source's compliance date for that standard. Procedures governing the implementation of this provision are specified in § 63.9(i).

(6) If an owner or operator supervises one or more stationary sources affected by more than one standard established pursuant to section 112 of the Act, he/she may arrange by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator (or the State permitting authority) a common schedule on which periodic reports required for each source shall be submitted throughout the year. The allowance in the previous sentence applies in each State beginning 1 year after the latest compliance date for any relevant standard established pursuant to section 112 of the Act for any such affected source(s). Procedures governing the implementation of this provision are specified in § 63.9(i).

(7) If an owner or operator supervises one or more stationary sources affected by standards established pursuant to section 112 of the Act (as amended November 15, 1990) and standards set under part 60, part 61, or both such parts of this chapter, he/she may arrange by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator (or the State permitting authority) a common schedule on which periodic reports required by each relevant (i.e., applicable) standard shall be submitted throughout the year. The allowance in the previous sentence applies in each State beginning 1 year after the stationary source is required to be in compliance with the relevant section 112 standard, or 1 year after the stationary source is required to be in compliance with the applicable part 60 or part 61 standard, whichever is latest. Procedures governing the implementation of this provision are specified in § 63.9(i).
