
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.10 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
####### Periodic startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports.

(5)(i)If actions taken by an owner or operator during a startup or shutdown (and the startup or shutdown causes the source to exceed any applicable emission limitation in the relevant emission standards), or malfunction of an affected source (including actions taken to correct a malfunction) are consistent with the procedures specified in the source's startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (see ยง 63.6(e)(3)), the owner or operator shall state such information in a startup, shutdown, and malfunction report. Actions taken to minimize emissions during such startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions shall be summarized in the report and may be done in checklist form; if actions taken are the same for each event, only one checklist is necessary. Such a report shall also include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. Reports shall only be required if a startup or shutdown caused the source to exceed any applicable emission limitation in the relevant emission standards, or if a malfunction occurred during the reporting period. The startup, shutdown, and malfunction report shall consist of a letter, containing the name, title, and signature of the owner or operator or other responsible official who is certifying its accuracy, that shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually (or on a more frequent basis if specified otherwise in a relevant standard or as established otherwise by the permitting authority in the source's title V permit). The startup, shutdown, and malfunction report shall be delivered or postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each calendar half (or other calendar reporting period, as appropriate). If the owner or operator is required to submit excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance (or other periodic) reports under this part, the startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports required under this paragraph may be submitted simultaneously with the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance (or other) reports. If startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports are submitted with excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance (or other periodic) reports, and the owner or operator receives approval to reduce the frequency of reporting for the latter under paragraph (e) of this section, the frequency of reporting for the startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports also may be reduced if the Administrator does not object to the intended change. The procedures to implement the allowance in the preceding sentence shall be the same as the procedures specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
