
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.11 Control device and work practice requirements.
####### Flares.

(b)(1) Owners or operators using flares to comply with the provisions of this part shall monitor these control devices to assure that they are operated and maintained in conformance with their designs. Applicable subparts will provide provisions stating how owners or operators using flares shall monitor these control devices.

(2) Flares shall be steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted.

(3) Flares shall be operated at all times when emissions may be vented to them.

(4) Flares shall be designed for and operated with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of 5 minutes during any 2 consecutive hours. Test Method 22 in appendix A of part 60 of this chapter shall be used to determine the compliance of flares with the visible emission provisions of this part. The observation period is 2 hours and shall be used according to Method 22.

(5) Flares shall be operated with a flame present at all times. The presence of a flare pilot flame shall be monitored using a thermocouple or any other equivalent device to detect the presence of a flame.

(6) An owner/operator has the choice of adhering to the heat content specifications in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, and the maximum tip velocity specifications in paragraph (b)(7) or (b)(8) of this section, or adhering to the requirements in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section.

(i)(A) Flares shall be used that have a diameter of 3 inches or greater, are nonassisted, have a hydrogen content of 8.0 percent (by volume) or greater, and are designed for and operated with an exit velocity less than 37.2 m/sec (122 ft/sec) and less than the velocity V, as determined by the following equation:

(B) The actual exit velocity of a flare shall be determined by the method specified in paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section.

(ii) Flares shall be used only with the net heating value of the gas being combusted at 11.2 MJ/scm (300 Btu/scf) or greater if the flare is steam-assisted or air-assisted; or with the net heating value of the gas being combusted at 7.45 M/scm (200 Btu/scf) or greater if the flares is non-assisted. The net heating value of the gas being combusted in a flare shall be calculated using the following equation:

(7)(i) Steam-assisted and nonassisted flares shall be designed for and operated with an exit velocity less than 18.3 m/sec (60 ft/sec), except as provided in paragraphs (b)(7)(ii) and (b)(7)(iii) of this section. The actual exit velocity of a flare shall be determined by dividing by the volumetric flow rate of gas being combusted (in units of emission standard temperature and pressure), as determined by Test Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D in appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 of this chapter, as appropriate, by the unobstructed (free) cross-sectional area of the flare tip.

(ii) Steam-assisted and nonassisted flares designed for and operated with an exit velocity, as determined by the method specified in paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section, equal to or greater than 18.3 m/sec (60 ft/sec) but less than 122 m/sec (400 ft/sec), are allowed if the net heating value of the gas being combusted is greater than 37.3 MJ/scm (1,000 Btu/scf).

(iii) Steam-assisted and nonassisted flares designed for and operated with an exit velocity, as determined by the method specified in paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section, less than the velocity V, as determined by the method specified in this paragraph, but less than 122 m/sec (400 ft/sec) are allowed. The maximum permitted velocity, V, for flares complying with this paragraph shall be determined by the following equation:

(8) Air-assisted flares shall be designed and operated with an exit velocity less than the velocity V. The maximum permitted velocity, V, for air-assisted flares shall be determined by the following equation:
