
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.11 Control device and work practice requirements.
####### Daily instrument check.

(2)On a daily basis, and prior to beginning any leak monitoring work, test the optical gas imaging instrument at the mass flow rate determined in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section in accordance with the procedure specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) through (e)(2)(iv) of this section for each camera configuration used during monitoring (for example, different lenses used), unless an alternative method to demonstrate daily instrument checks has been approved in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(v) of this section.

(i) Calculate the mass flow rate to be used in the daily instrument check by following the procedures in paragraphs (e)(2)(i)(A) and (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section.

(A) For a specified population of equipment to be imaged by the instrument, determine the piece of equipment in contact with the lowest mass fraction of chemicals that are detectable, within the distance to be used in paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, at or below the standard detection sensitivity level.

(B) Multiply the standard detection sensitivity level, corresponding to the selected monitoring frequency in Table 1 of subpart A of this part, by the mass fraction of detectable chemicals from the stream identified in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section to determine the mass flow rate to be used in the daily instrument check, using the following equation.

(ii) Start the optical gas imaging instrument according to the manufacturer's instructions, ensuring that all appropriate settings conform to the manufacturer's instructions.

(iii) Use any gas chosen by the user that can be viewed by the optical gas imaging instrument and that has a purity of no less than 98 percent.

(iv) Establish a mass flow rate by using the following procedures:

(A) Provide a source of gas where it will be in the field of view of the optical gas imaging instrument.

(B) Set up the optical gas imaging instrument at a recorded distance from the outlet or leak orifice of the flow meter that will not be exceeded in the actual performance of the leak survey. Do not exceed the operating parameters of the flow meter.

(C) Open the valve on the flow meter to set a flow rate that will create a mass emission rate equal to the mass rate calculated in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section while observing the gas flow through the optical gas imaging instrument viewfinder. When an image of the gas emission is seen through the viewfinder at the required emission rate, make a record of the reading on the flow meter.

(v) Repeat the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) through (e)(2)(iv) of this section for each configuration of the optical gas imaging instrument used during the leak survey.

(vi) To use an alternative method to demonstrate daily instrument checks, apply to the Administrator for approval of the alternative under ยง 63.177 or ยง 63.178, whichever is applicable.
