
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.11 Control device and work practice requirements.
####### Recordkeeping.

(4)Keep the records described in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (e)(4)(vii) of this section:

(i) The equipment, processes, and facilities for which the owner or operator chooses to use the alternative work practice.

(ii) The detection sensitivity level selected from Table 1 to subpart A of this part for the optical gas imaging instrument.

(iii) The analysis to determine the piece of equipment in contact with the lowest mass fraction of chemicals that are detectable, as specified in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section.

(iv) The technical basis for the mass fraction of detectable chemicals used in the equation in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section.

(v) The daily instrument check. Record the distance, per paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, and the flow meter reading, per paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(C) of this section, at which the leak was imaged. Keep a video record of the daily instrument check for each configuration of the optical gas imaging instrument used during the leak survey (for example, the daily instrument check must be conducted for each lens used). The video record must include a time and date stamp for each daily instrument check. The video record must be kept for 5 years.
