
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 63.14 Incorporations by reference.
####### fedreg.legal@nara.gov,www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.

(a) The materials listed in this section are incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, a document must be published in theand the material must be available to the public. All approved materials are available for inspection at the Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center (Air Docket) in the EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC) at Rm. 3334, EPA West Bldg., 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC. The EPA/DC Public Reading Room hours of operation are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The telephone number of the EPA/DC Public Reading Room is (202) 566-1744, and the telephone number for the Air Docket is (202) 566-1742. These approved materials are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, emailor go toIn addition, these materials are available from the following sources:

(b) American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH), Customer Service Department, 1330 Kemper Meadow Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio 45240, telephone number (513) 742-2020.

(1) Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice, 22nd Edition, 1995, Chapter 3, "Local Exhaust Hoods" and Chapter 5, "Exhaust System Design Procedure." IBR approved for §§ 63.843(b) and 63.844(b).

(2) Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice, 23rd Edition, 1998, Chapter 3, "Local Exhaust Hoods" and Chapter 5, "Exhaust System Design Procedure." IBR approved for §§ 63.1503, 63.1506(c), 63.1512(e), Table 2 to subpart RRR, Table 3 to subpart RRR, and appendix A to subpart RRR, and § 63.2984(e).

(3) Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for Design, 27th Edition, 2010. IBR approved for §§ 63.1503, 63.1506(c), 63.1512(e), Table 2 to subpart RRR, Table 3 to subpart RRR, and appendix A to subpart RRR, and § 63.2984(e).

(c) American Petroleum Institute (API), 1220 L Street NW., Washington, DC 20005.

(1) API Publication 2517, Evaporative Loss from External Floating-Roof Tanks, Third Edition, February 1989, IBR approved for §§ 63.111, 63.1402, 63.2406 and 63.7944.

(2) API Publication 2518, Evaporative Loss from Fixed-roof Tanks, Second Edition, October 1991, IBR approved for § 63.150(g).

(3) API Manual of Petroleum Measurement Specifications (MPMS) Chapter 19.2 (API MPMS 19.2), Evaporative Loss From Floating-Roof Tanks, First Edition, April 1997, IBR approved for §§ 63.1251 and 63.12005.
