
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 63.16 Performance Track Provisions.

(a) Notwithstanding any other requirements in this part, an affected source at any major source or any area source at a Performance Track member facility, which is subject to regular periodic reporting under any subpart of this part, may submit such periodic reports at an interval that is twice the length of the regular period specified in the applicable subparts; provided, that for sources subject to permits under 40 CFR part 70 or 71 no interval so calculated for any report of the results of any required monitoring may be less frequent than once in every six months.

(b) Notwithstanding any other requirements in this part, the modifications of reporting requirements in paragraph (c) of this section apply to any major source at a Performance Track member facility which is subject to requirements under any of the subparts of this part and which has:

(1) Reduced its total HAP emissions to less than 25 tons per year;

(2) Reduced its emissions of each individual HAP to less than 10 tons per year; and

(3) Reduced emissions of all HAPs covered by each MACT standard to at least the level required for full compliance with the applicable emission standard.

(c) For affected sources at any area source at a Performance Track member facility and which meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, or for affected sources at any major source that meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section:

(1) If the emission standard to which the affected source is subject is based on add-on control technology, and the affected source complies by using add-on control technology, then all required reporting elements in the periodic report may be met through an annual certification that the affected source is meeting the emission standard by continuing to use that control technology. The affected source must continue to meet all relevant monitoring and recordkeeping requirements. The compliance certification must meet the requirements delineated in Clean Air Act section 114(a)(3).

(2) If the emission standard to which the affected source is subject is based on add-on control technology, and the affected source complies by using pollution prevention, then all required reporting elements in the periodic report may be met through an annual certification that the affected source is continuing to use pollution prevention to reduce HAP emissions to levels at or below those required by the applicable emission standard. The affected source must maintain records of all calculations that demonstrate the level of HAP emissions required by the emission standard as well as the level of HAP emissions achieved by the affected source. The affected source must continue to meet all relevant monitoring and recordkeeping requirements. The compliance certification must meet the requirements delineated in Clean Air Act section 114(a)(3).

(3) If the emission standard to which the affected source is subject is based on pollution prevention, and the affected source complies by using pollution prevention and reduces emissions by an additional 50 percent or greater than required by the applicable emission standard, then all required reporting elements in the periodic report may be met through an annual certification that the affected source is continuing to use pollution prevention to reduce HAP emissions by an additional 50 percent or greater than required by the applicable emission standard. The affected source must maintain records of all calculations that demonstrate the level of HAP emissions required by the emission standard as well as the level of HAP emissions achieved by the affected source. The affected source must continue to meet all relevant monitoring and recordkeeping requirements. The compliance certification must meet the requirements delineated in Clean Air Act section 114(a)(3).

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (c)(1) through (3), of this section, for sources subject to permits under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, the results of any required monitoring and recordkeeping must be reported not less frequently than once in every six months.
