
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Control Technology Determinations for Major Sources in Accordance With Clean Air Act Sections, Sections 112(g) and 112(j)
###### ยง 63.43 Maximum achievable control technology (MACT) determinations for constructed and reconstructed major sources.
####### Notice of MACT Approval.

(g)(1) The Notice of MACT Approval will contain a MACT emission limitation (or a MACT work practice standard if the permitting authority determines it is not feasible to prescribe or enforce an emission standard) to control the emissions of HAP. The MACT emission limitation or standard will be determined by the permitting authority and will conform to the principles set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) The Notice of MACT Approval will specify any notification, operation and maintenance, performance testing, monitoring, reporting and record keeping requirements. The Notice of MACT Approval shall include:

(i) In addition to the MACT emission limitation or MACT work practice standard established under this subpart, additional emission limits, production limits, operational limits or other terms and conditions necessary to ensure Federal enforceability of the MACT emission limitation;

(ii) Compliance certifications, testing, monitoring, reporting and record keeping requirements that are consistent with the requirements of ยง 70.6(c) of this chapter;

(iii) In accordance with section 114(a)(3) of the Act, monitoring shall be capable of demonstrating continuous compliance during the applicable reporting period. Such monitoring data shall be of sufficient quality to be used as a basis for enforcing all applicable requirements established under this subpart, including emission limitations;

(iv) A statement requiring the owner or operator to comply with all applicable requirements contained in subpart A of this part;

(3) All provisions contained in the Notice of MACT Approval shall be federally enforceable upon the effective date of issuance of such notice, as provided by paragraph (j) of this section.

(4) The Notice of MACT Approval shall expire if construction or reconstruction has not commenced within 18 months of issuance, unless the permitting authority has granted an extension which shall not exceed an additional 12 months.
