
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Control Technology Determinations for Major Sources in Accordance With Clean Air Act Sections, Sections 112(g) and 112(j)
###### ยง 63.43 Maximum achievable control technology (MACT) determinations for constructed and reconstructed major sources.
####### Administrative procedures for review of the Notice of MACT Approval.

(f)(1) The permitting authority will notify the owner or operator in writing, within 45 days from the date the application is first received, as to whether the application for a MACT determination is complete or whether additional information is required.

(2) The permitting authority will initially approve the recommended MACT emission limitation and other terms set forth in the application, or the permitting authority will notify the owner or operator in writing of its intent to disapprove the application, within 30 calendar days after the owner or operator is notified in writing that the application is complete.

(3) The owner or operator may present, in writing, within 60 calendar days after receipt of notice of the permitting authority's intent to disapprove the application, additional information or arguments pertaining to, or amendments to, the application for consideration by the permitting authority before it decides whether to finally disapprove the application.

(4) The permitting authority will either initially approve or issue a final disapproval of the application within 90 days after it notifies the owner or operator of an intent to disapprove or within 30 days after the date additional information is received from the owner or operator; whichever is earlier.

(5) A final determination by the permitting authority to disapprove any application will be in writing and will specify the grounds on which the disapproval is based. If any application is finally disapproved, the owner or operator may submit a subsequent application concerning construction or reconstruction of the same major source, provided that the subsequent application has been amended in response to the stated grounds for the prior disapproval.

(6) An initial decision to approve an application for a MACT determination will be set forth in the Notice of MACT Approval as described in paragraph (g) of this section.
