
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Control Technology Determinations for Major Sources in Accordance With Clean Air Act Sections, Sections 112(g) and 112(j)
###### ยง 63.51 Definitions.
####### Available information

means, for purposes of conducting a MACT floor finding and identifying control technology options under this subpart, any information that is available as of the date on which the first Part 2 MACT application is filed for a source in the relevant source category or subcategory in the State or jurisdiction; and, pursuant to the requirements of this subpart, is additional relevant information that can be expeditiously provided by the Administrator, is submitted by the applicant or others prior to or during the public comment period on the section 112(j) equivalent emission limitation for that source, or information contained in the information sources in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this definition.

(1) A relevant proposed regulation, including all supporting information;

(2) Relevant background information documents for a draft or proposed regulation.

(3) Any relevant regulation, information or guidance collected by the Administrator establishing a MACT floor finding and/or MACT determination.

(4) Relevant data and information available from the Clean Air Technology Center developed pursuant to section 112(l)(3) of the Act.

(5) Relevant data and information contained in the Aerometric Information Retrieval System (AIRS).

(6) Any additional information that can be expeditiously provided by the Administrator, and

(7) Any information provided by applicants in an application for a permit, permit modification, administrative amendment, or Notice of MACT Approval pursuant to the requirements of this subpart.

(8) Any additional relevant information provided by the applicant.
