
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Control Technology Determinations for Major Sources in Accordance With Clean Air Act Sections, Sections 112(g) and 112(j)
###### § 63.52 Approval process for new and existing affected sources.
####### Sources subject to section 112(j) as of the section 112(j) deadline.

(a)The requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section apply to major sources that include, as of the section 112(j) deadline, one or more sources in a category or subcategory for which the Administrator has failed to promulgate an emission standard under this part on or before an applicable section 112(j) deadline. Existing source MACT requirements (including relevant compliance deadlines), as specified in a title V permit issued to the source pursuant to the requirements of the subpart, must apply to such sources.

(1) The owner or operator must submit an application for a title V permit or for a revision to an existing title V permit or a pending title V permit meeting the requirements of § 63.53(a) by the section 112(j) deadline if the owner or operator can reasonably determine that one or more sources at the major source belong in the category or subcategory subject to section 112(j).

(2) If an application was not submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and if notified by the permitting authority, the owner or operator must submit an application for a title V permit or for a revision to an existing title V permit or a pending title V permit meeting the requirements of § 63.53(a) within 30 days after being notified in writing by the permitting authority that one or more sources at the major source belong to such category or subcategory. Permitting authorities are not required to make such notification.

(3) The requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (ii) of this section apply when the owner or operator has obtained a title V permit that incorporates a case-by-case MACT determination by the permitting authority under section 112(g) or has submitted a title V permit application for a revision that incorporates a case-by-case MACT determination under section 112(g), but has not submitted an application for a title V permit revision that addresses the emission limitation requirements of section 112(j).

(i) When the owner or operator has a title V permit that incorporates a case-by-case MACT determination by the permitting authority under section 112(g), the owner or operator must submit an application meeting the requirements of § 63.53(a) for a title V permit revision within 30 days of the section 112(j) deadline or within 30 days of being notified in writing by the permitting authority that one or more sources at the major source belong in such category or subcategory. Using the procedures established in paragraph (e) of this section, the permitting authority must determine whether the emission limitations adopted pursuant to the prior case-by-case MACT determination under section 112(g) are substantially as effective as the emission limitations which the permitting authority would otherwise adopt pursuant to section 112(j) for the source in question. If the permitting authority determines that the emission limitations previously adopted to effectuate section 112(g) are substantially as effective as the emission limitations which the permitting authority would otherwise adopt to effectuate section 112(j) for the source, then the permitting authority must retain the existing emission limitations in the permit as the emission limitations to effectuate section 112(j). The title V permit applicable to that source must be revised accordingly. If the permitting authority does not retain the existing emission limitations in the permit as the emission limitations to effectuate section 112(j), the MACT requirements of this subpart are satisfied upon issuance of a revised title V permit incorporating any additional section 112(j) requirements.

(ii) When the owner or operator has submitted a title V permit application that incorporates a case-by-case MACT determination by the permitting authority under section 112(g), but has not received the permit incorporating the section 112(g) requirements, the owner or operator must continue to pursue a title V permit that addresses the emission limitation requirements of section 112(g). Within 30 days of issuance of that title V permit, the owner or operator must submit an application meeting the requirements of § 63.53(a) for a change to the existing title V permit. Using the procedures established in paragraph (e) of this section, the permitting authority must determine whether the emission limitations adopted pursuant to the prior case-by-case MACT determination under section 112(g) are substantially as effective as the emission limitations which the permitting authority would otherwise adopt pursuant to section 112(j) for the source in question. If the permitting authority determines that the emission limitations previously adopted to effectuate section 112(g) are substantially as effective as the emission limitations which the permitting authority would otherwise adopt to effectuate section 112(j) for the source, then the permitting authority must retain the existing emission limitations in the permit as the emission limitations to effectuate section 112(j). The title V permit applicable to that source must be revised accordingly. If the permitting authority does not retain the existing emission limitations in the permit as the emission limitations to effectuate section 112(j), the MACT requirements of this subpart are satisfied upon issuance of a revised title V permit incorporating any additional section 112(j) requirements.
