
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Control Technology Determinations for Major Sources in Accordance With Clean Air Act Sections, Sections 112(g) and 112(j)
###### § 63.52 Approval process for new and existing affected sources.
####### Sources that become subject to section 112(j) after the section 112(j) deadline and that do not have a title V permit addressing section 112(j) requirements.

(b)The requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section apply to sources that do not meet the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section on the section 112(j) deadline and are, therefore, not subject to section 112(j) on that date, but where events occur subsequent to the section 112(j) deadline that would bring the source under the requirements of this subpart, and the source does not have a title V permit that addresses the requirements of section 112(j).

(1) When one or more sources in a category or subcategory subject to the requirements of this subpart are installed at a major source, or result in the source becoming a major source due to the installation, and the installation does not invoke section 112(g) requirements, the owner or operator must submit an application meeting the requirements of § 63.53(a) within 30 days of startup of the source. This application shall be reviewed using the procedures established in paragraph (e) of this section. Existing source MACT requirements (including relevant compliance deadlines), as specified in a title V permit issued pursuant to the requirements of this subpart, shall apply to such sources.

(2) The requirements in this paragraph apply when one or more sources in a category or subcategory subject to this subpart are installed at a major source, or result in the source becoming a major source due to the installation, and the installation does require emission limitations to be established and permitted under section 112(g), and the owner or operator has not submitted an application for a title V permit revision that addresses the emission limitation requirements of section 112(j). In this case, the owner or operator must apply for and obtain a title V permit that addresses the emission limitation requirements of section 112(g). Within 30 days of issuance of that title V permit, the owner or operator must submit an application meeting the requirements of § 63.53(a) for a revision to the existing title V permit. Using the procedures established in paragraph (e) of this section, the permitting authority must determine whether the emission limitations adopted pursuant to the prior case-by-case MACT determination under section 112(g) are substantially as effective as the emission limitations which the permitting authority would otherwise adopt pursuant to section 112(j) for the source in question. If the permitting authority determines that the emission limitations previously adopted to effectuate section 112(g) are substantially as effective as the emission limitations which the permitting authority would otherwise adopt to effectuate section 112(j) for the source, then the permitting authority must retain the existing emission limitations in the permit as the emission limitations to effectuate section 112(j). The title V permit applicable to that source must be revised accordingly. If the permitting authority does not retain the existing emission limitations in the permit as the emission limitations to effectuate section 112(j), the MACT requirements of this subpart are satisfied upon issuance of a revised title V permit incorporating any additional section 112(j) requirements.

(3) The owner or operator of an area source that, due to a relaxation in any federally enforceable emission limitation (such as a restriction on hours of operation), increases its potential to emit hazardous air pollutants such that the source becomes a major source that is subject to this subpart, must submit an application meeting the requirements of § 63.53(a) for a title V permit or for an application for a title V permit revision within 30 days after the date that such source becomes a major source. This application must be reviewed using the procedures established in paragraph (e) of this section. Existing source MACT requirements (including relevant compliance deadlines), as specified in a title V permit issued pursuant to the requirements of this subpart, must apply to such sources.

(4) On or after April 5, 2002, if the Administrator establishes a lesser quantity emission rate under section 112(a)(1) of the Act that results in an area source becoming a major source that is subject to this subpart, then the owner or operator of such a major source must submit an application meeting the requirements of § 63.53(a) for a title V permit or for a change to an existing title V permit or pending title V permit on or before the date 6 months after the date that such source becomes a major source. Existing source MACT requirements (including relevant compliance deadlines), as specified in a title V permit issued pursuant to the requirements of this subpart, shall apply to such sources.
