
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Control Technology Determinations for Major Sources in Accordance With Clean Air Act Sections, Sections 112(g) and 112(j)
###### § 63.52 Approval process for new and existing affected sources.
####### Permit application review.

(e)(1) Each owner or operator who is required to submit to the permitting authority a Part 1 MACT application which meets the requirements of § 63.53(a) for one or more sources in a category or subcategory subject to section 112(j) must also submit to the permitting authority a timely Part 2 MACT application for the same sources which meets the requirements of § 63.53(b). Each owner or operator shall submit the Part 2 MACT application for the sources in a particular category or subcategory no later than the applicable date specified in table 1 to this subpart. The submission date specified in table 1 to this subpart for Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing shall apply to sources in each of the source categories listed in table 2 to this subpart. When the owner or operator is required by §§ 63.50 through 63.56 to submit an application meeting the requirements of § 63.53(a) by a date which is after the date for a Part 2 MACT application for sources in the category or subcategory in question established by table 1 to this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit a Part 2 MACT application meeting the requirements of § 63.53(b) within 60 additional days after the applicable deadline for submission of the Part 1 MACT application. Part 2 MACT applications must be reviewed by the permitting authority according to procedures established in § 63.55. The resulting MACT determination must be incorporated into the source's title V permit according to procedures established under title V, and any other regulations approved under title V in the jurisdiction in which the affected source is located.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the owner or operator may request either an applicability determination or an equivalency determination by the permitting authority as provided in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Each owner or operator who submitted a request for an applicability determination pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section on or before May 15, 2002, which remains pending before the permitting authority on May 30, 2003, and who still wishes to obtain such a determination, must resubmit that request by July 29, 2003, or by the date which is 60 days after the Administrator publishes in thea proposed standard under section 112(d) or 112(h) of the Act for the category or subcategory in question, whichever is later. Each request for an applicability determination which is resubmitted under this paragraph (e)(2)(i) must be supplemented to discuss the relation between the source(s) in question and the applicability provision in the proposed standard for the category or subcategory in question, and to explain why there may still be uncertainties that require a determination of applicability. The permitting authority must take action upon each properly resubmitted and supplemented request for an applicability determination within an additional 60 days after the applicable deadline for the resubmitted request. If the applicability determination is positive, the owner or operator must submit a Part 2 MACT application meeting the requirements of § 63.53(b) by the date specified for the category or subcategory in question in Table 1 to this subpart. If the applicability determination is negative, then no further action by the owner or operator is necessary.

(ii) As specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, an owner or operator who has submitted an application meeting the requirements of § 63.53(a) may request a determination by the permitting authority of whether emission limitations adopted pursuant to a prior case-by-case MACT determination under section 112(g) that apply to one or more sources at a major source in a relevant category or subcategory are substantially as effective as the emission limitations which the permitting authority would otherwise adopt pursuant to section 112(j) for the source in question. Such a request must be submitted by the date for the category or subcategory in question specified in Table 1 to this subpart. Any owner or operator who previously submitted such a request under a prior version of this paragraph (e)(2)(ii) need not resubmit the request. Each request for an equivalency determination under this paragraph (e)(2)(ii), regardless of when it was submitted, will be construed in the alternative as a complete application for an equivalent emission limitation under section 112(j). The process for determination by the permitting authority of whether the emission limitations in the prior case-by-case MACT determination are substantially as effective as the emission limitations which the permitting authority would otherwise adopt under section 112(j) must include the opportunity for full public, EPA, and affected State review prior to a final determination. If the permitting authority determines that the emission limitations in the prior case-by-case MACT determination are substantially as effective as the emission limitations which the permitting authority would otherwise adopt under section 112(j), then the permitting authority must adopt the existing emission limitations in the permit as the emission limitations to effectuate section 112(j) for the source in question. If more than 3 years remain on the current title V permit, the owner or operator must submit an application for a title V permit revision to make any conforming changes in the permit required to adopt the existing emission limitations as the section 112(j) MACT emission limitations. If less than 3 years remain on the current title V permit, any required conforming changes must be made when the permit is renewed. If the permitting authority determines that the emission limitations in the prior case-by-case MACT determination under section 112(g) are not substantially as effective as the emission limitations which the permitting authority would otherwise adopt for the source in question under section 112(j), the permitting authority must make a new MACT determination and adopt a title V permit incorporating an appropriate equivalent emission limitation under section 112(j). Such a determination constitutes final action for purposes of judicial review under 40 CFR 70.4(b)(3)(x) and corresponding State title V program provisions.

(3) Within 60 days of submittal of the Part 2 MACT application, the permitting authority must notify the owner or operator in writing whether the application is complete or incomplete. The Part 2 MACT application shall be deemed complete on the date it was submitted unless the permitting authority notifies the owner or operator in writing within 60 days of the submittal that the Part 2 MACT application is incomplete. A Part 2 MACT application is complete if it is sufficient to begin processing the application for a title V permit addressing section 112(j) requirements. In the event that the permitting authority disapproves a permit application or determines that the application is incomplete, the owner or operator must revise and resubmit the application to meet the objections of the permitting authority. The permitting authority must specify a reasonable period in which the owner or operator is required to remedy the deficiencies in the disapproved or incomplete application. This period may not exceed 6 months from the date the owner or operator is first notified that the application has been disapproved or is incomplete.

(4) Following submittal of a Part 1 or Part 2 MACT application, the permitting authority may request additional information from the owner or operator. The owner or operator must respond to such requests in a timely manner.

(5) If the owner or operator has submitted a timely and complete application as required by this section, any failure to have a title V permit addressing section 112(j) requirements shall not be a violation of section 112(j), unless the delay in final action is due to the failure of the applicant to submit, in a timely manner, information required or requested to process the application. Once a complete application is submitted, the owner or operator shall not be in violation of the requirement to have a title V permit addressing section 112(j) requirements.
