
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Control Technology Determinations for Major Sources in Accordance With Clean Air Act Sections, Sections 112(g) and 112(j)
###### ยง 63.52 Approval process for new and existing affected sources.
####### Permit content.

(f)The title V permit must contain an equivalent emission limitation (or limitations) for the relevant category or subcategory determined on a case-by-case basis by the permitting authority, or, if the applicable criteria in subpart D of this part are met, the title V permit may contain an alternative emission limitation. For the purposes of the preceding sentence, early reductions made pursuant to section 112(i)(5)(A) of the Act must be achieved not later than the date on which the relevant standard should have been promulgated according to the source category schedule for standards.

(1) The title V permit must contain an emission standard or emission limitation that is equivalent to existing source MACT and an emission standard or emission limitation that is equivalent to new source MACT for control of emissions of hazardous air pollutants. The MACT emission standards or limitations must be determined by the permitting authority and must be based on the degree of emission reductions that can be achieved if the control technologies or work practices are installed, maintained, and operated properly. The permit must also specify the affected source and the new affected source. If construction of a new affected source or reconstruction of an affected source commences after a title V permit meeting the requirements of section 112(j) has been issued for the source, the new source MACT compliance dates must apply.

(2) The title V permit must specify any notification, operation and maintenance, performance testing, monitoring, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements. In developing the title V permit, the permitting authority must consider and specify the appropriate provisions of subpart A of this part. The title V permit must also include the information in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) In addition to the MACT emission limitation required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section, additional emission limits, production limits, operational limits or other terms and conditions necessary to ensure practicable enforceability of the MACT emission limitation.

(ii) Compliance certifications, testing, monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping requirements that are consistent with requirements established pursuant to title V and paragraph (h) of this section.

(iii) Compliance dates by which the owner or operator must be in compliance with the MACT emission limitation and all other applicable terms and conditions of the permit.

(A) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to the requirements of this subpart must comply with the emission limitation(s) by the date established in the source's title V permit. In no case shall such compliance date be later than 3 years after the issuance of the permit for that source, except where the permitting authority issues a permit that grants an additional year to comply in accordance with section 112(i)(3)(B) of the Act, or unless otherwise specified in section 112(i), or in subpart D of this part.

(B) The owner or operator of a new affected source, as defined in the title V permit meeting the requirements of section 112(j), that is subject to the requirements of this subpart must comply with a new source MACT level of control immediately upon startup of the new affected source.
