
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Control Technology Determinations for Major Sources in Accordance With Clean Air Act Sections, Sections 112(g) and 112(j)
###### ยง 63.54 Preconstruction review procedures for new affected sources.
####### Optional administrative procedures for preconstruction or preoperation review for new affected sources.

(b)The permitting authority may provide for an enhanced review of section 112(j) MACT determinations for review procedures and compliance requirements equivalent to those set forth in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.

(1) The permitting authority will notify the owner or operator in writing as to whether the application for a MACT determination is complete or whether additional information is required.

(2) The permitting authority will approve an applicant's proposed control technology, or the permitting authority will notify the owner or operator in writing of its intention to disapprove a control technology.

(3) The owner or operator may present in writing, within a time frame specified by the permitting authority, additional information, considerations, or amendments to the application before the permitting authority's issuance of a final disapproval.

(4) The permitting authority will issue a preliminary approval or issue a disapproval of the application, taking into account additional information received from the owner or operator.

(5) A determination to disapprove any application will be in writing and will specify the grounds on which the disapproval is based.

(6) Approval of an applicant's proposed control technology must be set forth in a Notice of MACT Approval (or the equivalent) as described in ยง 63.52(f).
