
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Control Technology Determinations for Major Sources in Accordance With Clean Air Act Sections, Sections 112(g) and 112(j)
###### ยง 63.55 Maximum achievable control technology (MACT) determinations for affected sources subject to case-by-case determination of equivalent emission limitations.
####### Requirements for permitting authorities.

(a)The permitting authority must determine whether the ยง 63.53(a) Part 1 and ยง 63.53(b) Part 2 MACT application is complete or an application for a Notice of MACT Approval is approvable. In either case, when the application is complete or approvable, the permitting authority must establish hazardous air pollutant emissions limitations equivalent to the limitations that would apply if an emission standard had been issued in a timely manner under section 112(d) or (h) of the Act. The permitting authority must establish these emissions limitations consistent with the following requirements and principles:

(1) Emission limitations must be established for the equipment and activities within the affected sources within a source category or subcategory for which the section 112(j) deadline has passed.

(2) Each emission limitation for an existing affected source must reflect the maximum degree of reduction in emissions of hazardous air pollutants (including a prohibition on such emissions, where achievable) that the permitting authority, taking into consideration the cost of achieving such emission reduction and any non-air quality health and environmental impacts and energy requirements, determines is achievable by affected sources in the category or subcategory for which the section 112(j) deadline has passed. This limitation must not be less stringent than the MACT floor which must be established by the permitting authority according to the requirements of section 112(d)(3)(A) and (B) and must be based upon available information.

(3) Each emission limitation for a new affected source must reflect the maximum degree of reduction in emissions of hazardous air pollutants (including a prohibition on such emissions, where achievable) that the permitting authority, taking into consideration the cost of achieving such emission reduction and any non-air quality health and environmental impacts and energy requirements, determines is achievable. This limitation must not be less stringent than the emission limitation achieved in practice by the best controlled similar source which must be established by the permitting authority according to the requirements of section 112(d)(3). This limitation must be based upon available information.

(4) The permitting authority must select a specific design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof, when it is not feasible to prescribe or enforce an equivalent emission limitation due to the nature of the process or pollutant. It is not feasible to prescribe or enforce a limitation when the Administrator determines that hazardous air pollutants cannot be emitted through a conveyance designed and constructed to capture such pollutant, or that any requirement for, or use of, such a conveyance would be inconsistent with any Federal, State, or local law, or the application of measurement methodology to a particular class of sources is not practicable due to technological and economic limitations.

(5) Nothing in this subpart shall prevent a State or local permitting authority from establishing an emission limitation more stringent than required by Federal regulations.
