
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart D - Regulations Governing Compliance Extensions for Early Reductions of Hazardous Air Pollutants
###### § 63.77 Application procedures.

(a) To apply for an alternative emission limitation under § 63.72, an owner or operator of the source shall file a permit application with the appropriate permitting authority.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the permit application shall contain the information required by § 63.74, as applicable, and the additional information required for a complete permit application as specified by the applicable permit program established pursuant to title V of the Act.

(c) Permit applications under this section for sources not subject to enforceable commitments shall be submitted by the later of the following dates:

(1) 120 days after proposal of an otherwise applicable standard issued under section 112(d) of the Act; or

(2) 120 days after the date an applicable permit program is approved or established pursuant to title V of the Act.

(d) Permit applications for sources subject to enforceable commitments pursuant to § 63.75 shall be submitted no later than April 30, 1994.

(e) If the post-reduction year does not end at least one month before the permit application deadline under paragraph (c) of this section, the source may file the post-reduction emissions information required under § 63.74(d)(2), (d)(3), and (d)(5) later as a supplement to the original permit application. In such cases, this supplemental information shall be submitted to the permitting authority no later than one month after the end of the post-reduction year.

(f) If a source test will be the supporting basis for establishing post-reduction emissions for one or more emissions units in the early reductions source, the test results shall be submitted by the applicable deadline for submittal of a permit application as specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section.

(g) Review and disposition of permit applications submitted under this section will be accomplished according to the provisions of the applicable permit program established pursuant to title V of the Act.
