
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### § 63.91 Criteria for straight delegation and criteria common to all approval options.
####### Revisions.

(e)Within 90 days of any State amendment, repeal, or revision of any State rule, program, permit, or other requirement approved as an alternative to a Federal requirement or part of the authority necessary for the up-front approval, the State must provide the Administrator with a copy of the revised authorities and meet the requirements of either paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section.

(1)(i) The State shall provide the Administrator with a written finding by the State Attorney General (or for a local agency or tribal authority, the General Counsel with full authority to represent the local agency or tribal authority) that the State's revised legal authorities are adequate to continue to implement and to enforce all previously approved State rules and the approved State program (as applicable) and adequate to continue to assure compliance by all sources within the State with approved rules, the approved program, the approved permit, or other requirements (as applicable) and each applicable section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement.

(ii) If the Administrator determines that the written finding is not adequate, the State shall request approval of the revised rule, program, permit, or other requirement according to the provisions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(2) The State shall request approval under this subpart for any revised rule, program, permit, or other requirement.

(i) If the Administrator approves the revised rule, program, permit, or other requirement, the revision will replace the previously approved rule, program, permit, or other requirement.

(ii) If the Administrator disapproves the revised rule, program, permit, or other requirement, the Administrator will initiate procedures under § 63.96 to withdraw approval of any previously approved rule, program, permit, or other requirement that may be affected by the revised authorities.

(iii) Until such time as the Administrator approves or withdraws approval of a revised rule, program, permit, or other requirement, the previously approved rule, program, permit, or requirement remains federally enforceable and the revision is not federally enforceable.

(3) If the EPA amends, or otherwise revises a promulgated section 112 rule or requirement in a way that increases its stringency, the EPA will notify any State which has received delegation under this subpart of the need to revise their equivalency demonstration.

(i) The EPA Regional Office will consult with the affected State(s) to set a time frame for the State(s) to submit a revised equivalency demonstration.

(ii) The revised equivalency demonstration will be reviewed and approved or disapproved according to the procedures set forth in this section and § 63.91, § 63.92, § 63.93, § 63.94, § 63.95, or § 63.97, whichever are applicable.
