
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.92 Approval of State requirements that adjust a section 112 rule.
####### Approval process.

(a)(1) If the Administrator finds that the criteria of this section and the criteria of ยง 63.91 are met, the Administrator will approve the State requirements, publish them in theand incorporate them, directly or by reference, in the appropriate subpart of part 63, without additional notice and opportunity for comment. Requirements approved under ยง 63.95 will be incorporated pursuant to requirements under part 68 of this chapter.

(2) If the Administrator finds that any one of the State adjustments to the Federal rule is in any way ambiguous with respect to the stringency of applicability, level of control, compliance and enforcement measures, or the compliance date for any affected source or emission point, the Administrator will either disapprove the State request or consider the request under ยง 63.93.

(3) Within 60 days of receiving a complete request for approval under this section, the Administrator will either approve or disapprove the State request. If approved, the change will be effective upon signature of thenotice.

(4) Requirements submitted for approval under this section shall include either title V permits, title V general permits, Federal new source review permits, or State rules. Permits must already be issued to be used under this section.

(5) If the State uses a permit as the basis of alternative requirements under this section, the relevant permit terms and conditions must remain applicable to the source, even if the source takes steps that would otherwise release it from an obligation to have a permit.
