
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### § 63.91 Criteria for straight delegation and criteria common to all approval options.
####### Enforcement.

(c)(1) Approval of the alternative rule, program, or requirement delegates to the State the authority to implement and enforce the approved rule, program, or requirement in lieu of the otherwise applicable Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement.

(i) The approved State rule, program, or requirement shall be federally enforceable from the date the Administrator signs the approval, with two exceptions. For States that implement unchanged Federal requirements (§ 63.91, straight delegation) via their title V permit program, and for States using the equivalency by permit option (63.94), the approved requirements shall be federally enforceable on the date of issuance or revision of the title V permit.

(ii) In the case of a partial approval under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, only those authorities of the State request found to meet the requirements of this section will be approved; the remaining Federal authorities will be implemented and enforced by EPA.

(iii) For partial approvals under paragraph (f)(3) of this section, only the portion of the State rule that is approved will be federally enforceable; the remainder continues to be State enforceable only.

(2) When a State rule, program, or requirement is approved by the Administrator under this subpart, applicable title V permits shall be revised according to the provisions of § 70.7(f) of this chapter.

(i) Each permit shall specify the origin of the alternative conditions per § 70.6 (a)(i) of this chapter and specifically reference thenotice or other EPA approval mechanism in the permit.

(ii) When approved alternative requirements are incorporated in a permit, those requirements must be clearly identified and carried forward in any subsequent permit revisions or renewals. If the permit is not renewed, or if a revision or renewal does not carry the alternate requirements forward, then the Federal section 112 requirements become the applicable requirements.

(3) If approval is withdrawn under § 63.96, all otherwise applicable Federal rules and requirements shall be enforceable in accordance with the compliance schedule established in the withdrawal notice and relevant title V permits shall be revised according to the provisions of § 70.7(f) of this chapter.
