
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### § 63.91 Criteria for straight delegation and criteria common to all approval options.
####### Criteria for approval.

(d)(1) Any request for approval under this subpart shall meet all section 112(l) approval criteria specified by the otherwise applicable Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement, all of the approval criteria of this section, and any additional approval criteria in § 63.92, § 63.93, § 63.94, § 63.95, or § 63.97.

(2) Once a State has satisfied the § 63.91(d) up-front approval requirements, it only needs to reference the previous demonstration and reaffirm that is still meets the criteria for any subsequent equivalency submittals.

(3) Interim or final title V program approval will satisfy the criteria set forth in § 63.91(d), up-front approval criteria. Alternatively, the State must provide the following items in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (v) of this section to the Administrator:

(i) A written finding by the State Attorney General (or for a local agency or tribal authority, the General Counsel with full authority to represent the local agency or tribal authority) that the State has the necessary legal authority to implement and to enforce the State rule, program, or requirement upon approval and to assure compliance by all sources within the State with each applicable section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement. For full approval, the State must have the following legal authorities concerning enforcement and compliance assurance:

(A) The State shall have enforcement authorities that meet the requirements of § 70.11 of this chapter, except that tribal authorities shall have enforcement authorities that meet the requirements of part 49 of this chapter, the Tribal Air Rule.

(B) The State shall have authority to request information from regulated sources regarding their compliance status.

(C) The State shall have authority to inspect sources and any records required to determine a source's compliance status.

(D) If a State delegates authorities to a local agency, the State must retain enforcement authority unless the local agency has authorities that meet the requirements of § 70.11 of this chapter.

(ii) A copy of State statutes, regulations, and requirements that contain the appropriate provisions granting authority to implement and enforce the State rule, program, or requirement upon approval.

(iii) A demonstration that the State has adequate resources to implement and enforce all aspects of the rule, program, or requirement upon approval (except for authorities explicitly retained by the Administrator, such as those pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section or pursuant to part 49 of this chapter), which includes:

(A) A description in narrative form of the scope, structure, coverage, and processes of the State program.

(B) A description of the organization and structure of the agency or agencies that will have responsibility for administering the program.

(C) A description of the agency's capacity to carry out the State program, including the number, occupation, and general duties of the employees.

(iv) A schedule demonstrating expeditious State implementation of the rule, program, or requirement upon approval.

(v) A plan that assures expeditious compliance by all sources subject to the State rule, program, or requirement upon approval. The plan should include, at a minimum, a complete description of the State's compliance tracking and enforcement program, including but not limited to inspection strategies.

(4) If any of the State documents that are required to support an approval under this subpart are readily available to the EPA and to the public, the State may cite the relevant portions of the documents or indicate where they are available (e.g., by providing an Internet address) rather than provide copies.

(5) Electronic documents. Submission of electronic documents shall comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 3-(Electronic reporting).
