
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.94 Approval of State permit terms and conditions that substitute for a section 112 rule.
####### Up-front approval process.

(a)(1) A State must submit a request that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. After receiving a complete request for approval of a State program under this section and making a preliminary determination of equivalence, the Administrator will seek public comment for 21 days through anotice. The Administrator will require that comments be submitted concurrently to the State.

(2) If, after review of all public comments, and State responses to comments submitted to the Administrator, the Administrator finds that the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section and the criteria of ยง 63.91 are met, the Administrator will approve the State program. The approved program will be published in theand incorporated directly or by reference in the appropriate subpart of part 63.

(3) If the Administrator finds that any of the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section or ยง 63.91 have not been met, the Administrator will partially approve or disapprove the State program. For any partial approvals or disapprovals, the Administrator will provide the State with the basis for the partial approval or disapproval and what action the State can take to make the programs approvable.

(4) Within 90 days of receiving a complete request for approval under this section, the Administrator will either approve, partially approve, or disapprove the State request.
