
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.94 Approval of State permit terms and conditions that substitute for a section 112 rule.
####### Approval process for alternative requirements.

(c)(1) After promulgation of a Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement for which the State has up-front approval to implement and enforce alternative requirements in the form of title V permit terms and conditions, the State shall provide the Administrator with pre-draft title V permit terms and conditions that are sufficient, in the Administrator's judgement, to allow the Administrator to determine equivalency. The permit terms and conditions shall reflect all of the requirements of the otherwise applicable Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) If, the Administrator receives a complete request and finds the pre-draft title V permit terms and conditions submitted by the State meet the criteria of paragraph (d), the Administrator will approve the State's alternative requirements (by approving the pre-draft permit terms and conditions) and notify the State in writing of the approval.

(4) The Administrator may approve the State's alternative requirements on the condition that the State makes certain changes to the pre-draft title V permit terms and conditions and includes the changes in the complete pre-draft, proposed, and final title V permits for the affected sources. If the Administrator approves the alternative requirements on the condition that the State makes certain changes to them, the State shall make those changes or the alternative requirements will not be federally enforceable when they are included in the final permit, even if the Administrator does not object to the proposed permit. Until the Administrator affirmatively approves the State's alternative requirements (by approving the pre-draft permit terms and conditions) under this paragraph, and those requirements (permit terms) are incorporated into the final title V permit for any affected source, the otherwise applicable Federal emission standard(s) remain the federally enforceable and applicable requirements for that source.

(5) If, after evaluating the pre-draft title V permit terms and conditions that were submitted by the State, the Administrator finds that the criteria of paragraph (d) of this section have not been met, the Administrator will disapprove the State's alternative requirements and notify the State in writing of the disapproval. In the notice of disapproval, the Administrator will specify the deficient or nonapprovable elements of the State's alternative requirements.

(6) Within 90 days of receiving a complete request for approval under this paragraph, the Administrator will either approve, partially approve, or disapprove the State's alternative requirements.

(7) Nothing in this section precludes the State from submitting alternative requirements in the form of title V permit terms and conditions or title V general permit terms and conditions for approval under this paragraph at the same time the State submits its program to the Administrator for up-front approval under paragraph (a) of this section, provided that the Federal emission standards for which the State submits alternative requirements are promulgated at the time of the State's submittal. If the Administrator finds that the criteria of ยง 63.91 and the criteria of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section are met, the Administrator will approve both the State program and the permit terms and conditions within 90 days of receiving a complete request for approval.
