
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.94 Approval of State permit terms and conditions that substitute for a section 112 rule.
####### Approval criteria for alternative requirements.

(d)Any request for approval under this paragraph shall meet the following criteria. Taken together, the criteria in this paragraph describe the minimum contents of a State's equivalency demonstration for a promulgated Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement. To be approvable, the State submittal must contain sufficient detail to allow the Administrator to make a determination of equivalency between the State's alternative requirements and the Federal requirements. Each submittal of alternative requirements in the form of pre-draft permit terms and conditions for an affected source shall:

(1) Identify the specific, practicably enforceable terms and conditions with which the source would be required to comply upon issuance, renewal, or revision of the title V permit. The State shall submit permit terms and conditions that reflect all of the requirements of the otherwise applicable Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement. The State shall identify for the Administrator the specific permit terms and conditions that contain alternative requirements.

(2) Identify specifically how the alternative requirements in the form of permit terms and conditions are the same as or differ from the requirements in the otherwise applicable Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement (including any applicable requirements in subpart A or other subparts or appendices). The State shall provide this identification in a side-by-side comparison of the State's requirements in the form of permit terms and conditions and the requirements of the Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement.

(3) The State shall provide the Administrator with detailed documentation that demonstrates that the alternative requirements meet the criteria specified in ยง 63.93(b), i.e., that the alternative requirements are at least as stringent as the otherwise applicable Federal requirements.
