
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.94 Approval of State permit terms and conditions that substitute for a section 112 rule.
####### Criteria for up-front approval.

(b)Any request for program approval under this section shall meet all of the criteria of this paragraph and ยง 63.91 before approval. The State shall provide the Administrator with:

(1)(i) To the extent possible, an identification of all specific sources in source categories listed pursuant to subsection 112(c) for which the State is seeking authority to implement and enforce alternative requirements under this section;

(ii) If the identified sources in any source category comprise a subset of the sources in that category within the State's jurisdiction, the State shall request delegation for the remainder of the sources in that category that are required to be permitted by the State under part 70 of this chapter. The State shall request delegation for the remainder of the sources in that category under another section of this subpart.

(iii) Prior to submitting a request for one or more sources within a source category, the State shall consult with their EPA Regional Office regarding the number of sources in a category eligible for submittal under this option. Based on the Regional Office's decision, the State shall limit the number of sources for which it submits permit requirements.

(2) To the extent possible, an identification of all existing and future section 112 emission standards for which the State is seeking authority under this section to implement and enforce alternative requirements.

(3) If, after approval of the initial list of source categories identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the State adds source categories for approval under this option, the State shall submit an addendum to the up-front approval submission, and identify the addition to the lists. The Administrator will follow the process outlined in paragraph (a) of this section for up-front approval.

(4) A one-time demonstration that the State has an approved title V operating permit program and that the program permits the affected sources.
