
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.93 Approval of State requirements that substitute for a section 112 rule.
####### Approval process.

(a)(1) After receiving a complete request for approval under this section and making a preliminary determination on its equivalence, the Administrator will seek public comment on the State's request for a minimum of 30 days through anotice. The Administrator will require that comments be submitted concurrently to the State.

(2) If, after review of public comments and any State responses to comments submitted to the Administrator, the Administrator finds that the criteria of this section and the criteria of ยง 63.91 are met, the Administrator will approve the State requirements under this section, publish the approved requirements in theand incorporate them directly or by reference, in the appropriate subpart of part 63. Requirements approved under ยง 63.95 will be incorporated pursuant to requirements under part 68 of this chapter.

(3) If the Administrator finds that any of the requirements of this section or ยง 63.91 have not been met, the Administrator may partially approve or disapprove the State requirements. For any partial approvals or disapprovals, the Administrator will provide the State with the basis for the partial approval or disapproval and what actions that State can take to make the requirements approvable.

(4) Requirements submitted for approval under this section shall include either: State rules, title V permits, title V general permits, Federal new source review permits, board and administrative orders, permits issued pursuant to permit templates, or State operating permits. Permits must already be issued to be used under this section.

(5) If the State uses a permit as the basis of alternative requirements under this section, the relevant permit terms and conditions must remain applicable to the source even if it takes steps that would otherwise release it from an obligation to have a permit.

(6) Within 180 days of receiving a complete request for approval under this section, the Administrator will either approve, partially approve, or disapprove the State request.
