
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### § 63.96 Review and withdrawal of approval.
####### Withdrawal of approval of a state rule or program.

(b)(1) If the Administrator has reason to believe that a State is not adequately implementing or enforcing an approved rule or program according to the criteria of this section or that an approved rule or program is not as stringent as the otherwise applicable Federal rule, emission standard or requirements, the Administrator will so inform the State in writing and will identify the reasons why the Administrator believes that the State's rule or program is not adequate. The State shall then initiate action to correct the deficiencies identified by the Administrator and shall inform the Administrator of the actions it has initiated and completed. If the Administrator determines that the State's actions are not adequate to correct the deficiencies, the Administrator will notify the State that the Administrator intends to withdraw approval and will hold a public hearing and seek public comment on the proposed withdrawal of approval. The Administrator will require that comments be submitted concurrently to the State. Upon notification of the intent to withdraw, the State will notify all sources subject to the relevant approved rule or program that withdrawal proceedings have been initiated.

(2) Based on any public comment received and any response to that comment by the State, the Administrator will notify the State of any changes in identified deficiencies or actions needed to correct identified deficiencies. If the State does not correct the identified deficiencies within 90 days after receiving revised notice of deficiencies, the Administrator shall withdraw approval of the State's rule or program upon a determination that:

(i) The State no longer has adequate authorities to assure compliance or re-sources to implement and enforce the approved rule or program, or

(ii) The State is not adequately implementing or enforcing the approved rule or program, or

(iii) An approved rule or program is not as stringent as the otherwise applicable Federal rule, emission standard or requirement.

(3) The Administrator may withdraw approval for part of a rule, for a rule, for part of a program, or for an entire program.

(4) Any State rule, program or portion of a State rule or program for which approval is withdrawn is no longer Federally enforceable. The Federal rule, emission standard or requirement that would have been applicable in the absence of approval under this will be the federally enforceable rule, emission standard or requirement.

(i) Upon withdrawal of approval, the Administrator will publish an expeditious schedule for sources subject to the previously approved State rule or program to come into compliance with applicable Federal requirements. Such schedule shall include interim emission limits where appropriate. During this transition, sources must be operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions.

(ii) Upon withdrawal, the State shall reopen, under the provisions of § 70.7(f) of this chapter, the part 70 permit of each source subject to the previously approved rules or programs in order to assure compliance through the permit with the applicable requirements for each source.

(iii) If the Administrator withdraws approval of State rules applicable to sources that are not subject to part 70 permits, the applicable State rules are no longer Federally enforceable.

(iv) If the Administrator withdraws approval of a portion of a State rule or program, other approved portions of the State rule or program that are not withdrawn shall remain in effect.

(v) Any applicable Federal emission standard or requirement shall remain enforceable by the EPA as specified in section 112(l)(7) of the Act.

(5) If a rule approved under § 63.93 is withdrawn under the provisions of § 63.96(b)(2) (i) or (ii), and, at the time of withdrawal, the Administrator finds the rule to be no less stringent than the otherwise applicable Federal requirement, the Administrator will grant equivalency to the previously approved State rule under the appropriate provisions of this part.

(6) A State may submit a new rule, program or portion of a rule or program for approval after the Administrator has withdrawn approval of the State's rule, program or portion of a rule or program. The Administrator will determine whether the new rule or program or portion of a rule or program is approvable according to the criteria and procedures of § 63.91 and either of § 63.92, § 63.93 or § 63.94.

(7) A State may voluntarily withdraw from an approved State rule, program or portion of a rule or program by notifying the EPA and all affected sources subject to the rule or program and providing notice and opportunity for comment to the public within the State.

(i) Upon voluntary withdrawal by a State, the Administrator will publish a timetable for sources subject to the previously approved State rule or program to come into compliance with applicable Federal requirements.

(ii) Upon voluntary withdrawal, the State must reopen and revise the part 70 permits of all sources affected by the withdrawal as provided for in this section and § 70.7(f), and the Federal rule, emission standard, or requirement that would have been applicable in the absence of approval under this subpart will become the applicable requirement for the source.

(iii) Any applicable Federal section 112 rule, emission standard or requirement shall remain enforceable by the EPA as specified in section 112(l)(7) of the Act.

(iv) Voluntary withdrawal shall not be effective sooner than 180 days after the State notifies the EPA of its intent to voluntarily withdraw.
