
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.97 Approval of a State program that substitutes for section 112 requirements.
####### Up-front approval process.

(a)(1) After receiving a complete request for approval of a State program submitted under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section and making a preliminary determination on whether to approve it, the Administrator will seek public comment for 21 days through anotice. At its discretion, the State may include in this submittal a request for approval of specific alternative requirements under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The Administrator will require that comments be submitted concurrently to the State.

(4) If, after review of all public comments and State responses to comments submitted to the Administrator, the Administrator finds that the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section and the criteria of ยง 63.91 are met, the Administrator will approve or partially approve the State program. The approved State program will be published in theand incorporated, directly or by reference, in the appropriate subpart of part 63.

(5) If the Administrator finds that any of the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section or ยง 63.91 have not been met, the Administrator will partially approve or disapprove the State program.

(6) The Administrator will either approve, partially approve, or disapprove the State request:

(i) Within 90 days after receipt of a complete request for approval of a State program submitted under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section; or

(ii) Within 180 days after receipt of a complete request for approval of a State program submitted under paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) and paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
