
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.94 Approval of State permit terms and conditions that substitute for a section 112 rule.
####### Incorporation of permit terms and conditions into title V permits.

(e)(1) After approval of the State's alternative requirements under this section, the State shall incorporate the approved permit terms and conditions into title V permits for the affected sources. The State shall issue or revise the title V permits according to the provisions contained in ยง 70.7 of this chapter. The alternative permit terms and conditions may substitute for the Federal requirements once they are contained in a valid title V permit. If the State does not write the alternative conditions, exactly as approved, into the permit, EPA may reopen the permit for cause per ยง 70.7(g) of this chapter, and the delegation may not occur.

(2) In the notice of pre-draft permit availability, and in each pre-draft, proposed, and final permit, the State shall indicate prominently that the permit contains alternative section 112 requirements. In the notice of pre-draft permit availability, the State shall specifically solicit public comment on the alternative requirements. In addition, the State shall attach all documents supporting the approved equivalency determination for those alternative requirements to each pre-draft, proposed, and final permit.
