
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.97 Approval of a State program that substitutes for section 112 requirements.
####### Approval process for alternative requirements.

(c)(1) After promulgation of a Federal emission standard or requirement for which the State has program approval under this section to implement and enforce alternative requirements, the State shall provide the Administrator with alternative requirements that are sufficient, in the Administrator's judgement, to allow the Administrator to determine equivalency under paragraph (d) of this section. The alternative requirements shall reflect all of the requirements of the otherwise applicable Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement, including any alternative requirements that the State is seeking to implement and enforce. Alternative requirements submitted for approval under this paragraph shall be contained in rules, regulations, general permits, or other mechanisms that apply to and are enforceable under State law for categories of sources. State policies are not approvable under this section unless they are incorporated into specific, enforceable, alternative requirements in rules, permits, or other mechanisms that apply to categories of sources.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) After receiving a complete request for approval under this section and making a preliminary determination on its equivalence, the Administrator will seek public comment for a minimum of 21 days through anotice. The Administrator will require that comments be submitted concurrently to the State.

(4) If, after review of public comments and any State responses to comments submitted to the Administrator, the Administrator finds that the criteria of paragraph (d) of this section and the criteria of ยง 63.91 are met, the Administrator will approve the State's alternative requirements. The approved alternative requirements will be published in theand incorporated, directly or by reference, in the appropriate subpart of part 63.

(5) If the Administrator finds that any of the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section or ยง 63.91 have not been met, the Administrator will partially approve or disapprove the State's alternative requirements. For any partial approvals or disapprovals, the Administrator will provide the State with the basis for the partial approval or disapproval and what action the State can take to make the alternative requirements approvable.

(6) Within 180 days of receiving a complete request for approval under this paragraph, the Administrator will either approve, partially approve, or disapprove the State request.

(7) Nothing in this section precludes the State from submitting alternative requirements for approval under this paragraph at the same time the State submits its program to the Administrator for up-front approval under paragraph (a) of this section, provided that the Federal rules, emission standards, or requirements for which the State submits alternative requirements are promulgated at the time of the State's submittal. If the Administrator finds that the criteria of ยง 63.91 and the criteria of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section are met, the Administrator will approve both the State program and the alternative requirements within 180 days of receiving a complete request for approval. Alternatively, following up-front approval, the State may submit alternative requirements for approval under this paragraph at any time after promulgation of the Federal emission standards or requirements.
