
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.97 Approval of a State program that substitutes for section 112 requirements.
####### Criteria for up-front approval.

(b)Any request for program approval under this section shall meet all of the criteria of this paragraph and ยง 63.91 before approval.

(1) For every request for program approval under this section, the State shall provide the Administrator, to the extent possible, with an identification of the initial specific source categories listed pursuant to section 112(c) and an identification of all existing and future section 112 emission standards or other requirements for which the State is seeking authority to implement and enforce alternative requirements under this section.

(2) If, after approval of the initial list of specific source categories identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the State adds source categories for approval under this option, the State shall submit an addendum to the approval submission, and identify the addition to the list.

(3) In addition, the State may provide the Administrator with one or more of the following program elements for approval under this paragraph:

(i) Alternative requirements in State rules, regulations, or general permits (or other enforceable mechanisms) that apply generically to one or more categories of sources and for which the State seeks approval to implement and enforce in lieu of specific existing Federal section 112 emission standards or requirements. The Administrator may approve or disapprove the alternative requirements in these rules, regulations, or permits when approving or disapproving the State's up-front submittal under this paragraph. After approval of the alternative generic rules, regulations or general permits, and after new Federal emission standards or requirements are promulgated, the State may extend the applicability of approved generic alternative requirements to additional source categories by repeating the approval process specified in paragraph (a) of this section. To be approvable, any request for approval of generic alternative requirements during the up-front approval process shall meet the criteria in paragraph (d) of this section.

(ii) A description of the mechanisms that are enforceable as a matter of State law that the State will use to implement and enforce alternative requirements for area sources. The mechanisms that may be approved under this paragraph include title V permits, title V general permits, Federal new source review permits, board and administrative orders, permits issued pursuant to permit templates, state permits, and State rules that apply to categories of sources. The State shall demonstrate to the Administrator that the State has adequate resources and authorities to implement and enforce alternative section 112 requirements using the State mechanisms.
