
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### § 63.95 Additional approval criteria for accidental release prevention programs.

(a) A State submission for approval of a part 68 program must meet the criteria and be in accordance with the procedures of this section, § 63.91, and, where appropriate, either § 63.92 or § 63.93.

(b) The State part 68 program application shall contain the following elements consistent with the procedures in § 63.91 and, where appropriate, either § 63.92 or § 63.93 of this subpart, for at least the chemicals listed in part 68 subpart F ("federally-listed chemicals") that an approvable State Accidental Release Prevention program is regulating:

(1)(i) A demonstration of the State's authority and resources to implement and enforce regulations that are no less stringent than the regulations of part 68, subparts A through G and § 68.200 of this chapter; and

(ii) A requirement that any source subject to the State's part 68 program submit a Risk Management Plan (RMP) that reports at least the same information in the same format as required under part 68, subpart G of this chapter.

(2) A State's RMP program may require reporting of information not required by the Federal program, and these requirements (like any other additional State requirements) will become federally enforceable upon approval. The extent to which EPA will be able to help a State collect and report additional information through EPA's electronic RMP submission system will be determined on a case-by-case basis.

(3) Procedures for reviewing risk management plans and providing technical assistance to stationary sources, including small businesses.

(4) A demonstration of the State's authority to enforce all part 68 requirements must be made, including an auditing strategy that complies with § 68.220 of this chapter.

(c) A State may request approval for a program that covers all of the federally-listed chemicals (a "complete program") or a program covering less than all of the federally-listed chemicals (a "partial program") as long as the State takes delegation of the full part 68 program for the federally-listed chemicals it regulates.
