
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.97 Approval of a State program that substitutes for section 112 requirements.
####### Approval criteria for alternative requirements.

(d)Any request for approval under this paragraph shall meet the following criteria. Taken together, the criteria in this paragraph describe the minimum contents of a State's equivalency demonstration for a promulgated Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement. To be approvable, the State submittal must contain sufficient detail to allow the Administrator to make a determination of equivalency between the State's alternative requirements and the Federal requirements. Each submittal of alternative requirements for a category of sources shall:

(1) Include copies of all State rules, regulations, permits, or other enforceable mechanisms that contain the alternative requirements for which the State is seeking approval. These documents shall also contain requirements that reflect all of the requirements of the otherwise applicable Federal section 112 rules, emission standards or requirements for which the State is not submitting alternatives. The State shall identify for the Administrator the specific requirements with which sources in a source category are required to comply, including the specific alternative requirements.

(2) Identify specifically how the alternative requirements are the same as or differ from the requirements in the otherwise applicable Federal rule, emission standards, or requirements (including any applicable requirements in subpart A or other subparts or appendices). The State shall provide this identification in a side-by-side comparison of the State's requirements and the requirements of the Federal rule, emission standards, or requirements.

(3) The State shall provide the Administrator with detailed documentation that demonstrates the State's belief that the alternative requirements meet the criteria specified in ยง 63.93(b) of this subpart, i.e., that the alternative requirements are at least as stringent as the otherwise applicable Federal requirements.
