
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.99 Delegated Federal authorities.
####### Arkansas.

(4)The following table lists the specific standards under this part that have been delegated unchanged to the Arkansas Department of Energy and Environment, Division of Environmental Quality (DEQ) for all sources subject to the Arkansas Title V operating permit program approved by EPA under section 502 of the Clean Air Act. The "X" symbol is used to indicate each subpart that has been delegated. The delegations are subject to all of the conditions and limitations set forth in Federal law, regulations, policy, guidance, determinations, and the Memorandum of Agreement, dated September 17, 2014, entered into between the DEQ and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 6 (hereinafter "EPA") regarding section 112, Clean Air Act Implementation. Some authorities cannot be delegated and are retained by the EPA. These include certain General Provisions authorities and specific parts of some standards. DEQ's authority to implement and enforce a delegated standard under this part is effective when the standard is incorporated into the source's Title V Operating Permit. Any amendments made to these rules after July 21, 2020, are not delegated.
