
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.99 Delegated Federal authorities.
####### Idaho.

(13)(i) The following table lists the specific part 63 subparts that have been delegated unchanged to the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality. The (X) symbol indicates that all or part of the subpart is delegated, subject to the conditions and limits in EPA's action:

(ii) [Reserved]

(14)-(17) [Reserved]

(18) Kentucky.

(i) The following table lists the specific part 63 standards that have been delegated unchanged to the Kentucky Department of Environmental Protection for all sources. The "X" symbol is used to indicate each subpart that has been delegated. The delegations are subject to all of the conditions and limitations set forth in Federal law, regulations, policy, guidance, and determinations. Some authorities cannot be delegated and are retained by EPA. These include certain General Provisions authorities and specific parts of some standards.

(ii) [Reserved]

(19) Louisiana.

(i) The following table lists the specific part 63 standards that have been delegated unchanged to the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality for all sources. The "X" symbol is used to indicate each subpart that has been delegated. The delegations are subject to all of the conditions and limitations set forth in Federal law, regulations, policy, guidance, and determinations. Some authorities cannot be delegated and are retained by EPA. These include certain General Provisions authorities and specific parts of some standards. Any amendments made to these rules after July 1, 2013, are not delegated.

(20) Maine.

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) Maine Department of Environmental Protection (ME DEP) may implement and enforce alternative requirements in the form of title V permit terms and conditions for Lincoln Pulp and Paper, located in Lincoln, Maine, for subpart S-National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Pulp and Paper Industry. This action is contingent upon ME DEP including, in title V permits, terms and conditions that are no less stringent than the federal standard and have been approved by EPA. In addition, the requirement applicable to the source remains the federal section 112 requirement until EPA has approved the alternative permit terms and conditions and the final title V permit is issued.

(iii) Affected area sources within Maine must comply with the Maine Regulations Applicable to Hazardous Air Pollutants (incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 63.14) as described in paragraph (a)(20)(iii)(A) of this section:

(A) The material incorporated into the Maine Department of Environmental Protection regulations at Chapter 125, Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaner Regulation, effective as of June 2, 1991, last amended on June 24, 2009, pertaining to dry cleaning facilities in the State of Maine jurisdiction, and approved under the procedures in ยง 63.93 to be implemented and enforced in place of the Federal NESHAP for Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning Facilities (subpart M of this part), effective as of July 11, 2008, for area sources only, as defined in ยง 63.320(h).
