
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### § 63.99 Delegated Federal authorities.
####### Delaware.

(8)(i) Affected sources must comply with the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, Division of Air and Waste Management, Accidental Release Prevention Regulation, sections 1-5 and sections 7-14, January 11, 1999 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 63.14). The material incorporated in the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, Division of Air and Waste Management, Accidental Release Prevention Regulation, sections 1-5 and sections 7-14 pertains to owners and operators of stationary sources in the State of Delaware that have more than a threshold quantity of a regulated substance in a process, as described in section 5.10 of Delaware's regulation, and has been approved under the procedures in §§ 63.93 and 63.95 to be implemented and enforced in place of 40 CFR part 68-Chemical Accident Prevention Provisions.

(ii) Affected sources must comply with the State of Delaware Regulations Governing the Control of Air Pollution, Regulation No. 38, subpart A, effective September 11, 1999 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 63.14). The material incorporated in the State of Delaware Regulations Governing the Control of Air Pollution, Regulation No. 38, subpart A pertains to owners and operators of stationary sources in the State of Delaware that are subject to emission standard requirements of the State of Delaware Regulations Governing the Control of Air Pollution, Regulation No. 38, subparts M, N and Q and 40 CFR part 63 and has been approved under the procedures in §§ 63.91 and 63.92 to be implemented and enforced in place of 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. Delaware is delegated the authority to implement and enforce its regulation in place of 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, in accordance with the final rule, published in theon October 2, 2001, effective December 3, 2001.

(iii) Affected sources must comply with the State of Delaware Regulations Governing the Control of Air Pollution, Regulation No. 38, subpart M, effective October 11, 2000 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 63.14). The material incorporated in the State of Delaware Regulations Governing the Control of Air Pollution, Regulation No. 38, subpart M pertains to owners and operators of perchloroethylene drycleaning facilities and has been approved under the procedures in § 63.91 and § 63.92 to be implemented and enforced in place of 40 CFR part 63, subpart M. Delaware is delegated the authority to implement and enforce its regulation in place of 40 CFR part 63, subpart M, in accordance with the final rule, published in theon October 2, 2001, effective December 3, 2001.

(iv) Affected sources must comply with the State of Delaware Regulations Governing the Control of Air Pollution, Regulation No. 38, subpart N, effective October 11, 2000 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 63.14). The material incorporated in the State of Delaware Regulations Governing the Control of Air Pollution, Regulation No. 38, subpart N pertains to owners and operators of hard and decorative chromium electroplating and chromium anodizing tanks and has been approved under the procedures in §§ 63.91 and 63.92 to be implemented and enforced in place of 40 CFR part 63, subpart N. Delaware is delegated the authority to implement and enforce its regulation in place of 40 CFR part 63, subpart N, in accordance with the final rule, published in theon October 2, 2001, effective December 3, 2001.

(v) Affected sources must comply with the State of Delaware Regulations Governing the Control of Air Pollution, Regulation No. 38, subpart Q, effective May 11, 1998 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 63.14). The material incorporated in the State of Delaware Regulations Governing the Control of Air Pollution, Regulation No. 38, subpart Q pertains to owners and operators of industrial process cooling towers and has been approved under the procedures in §§ 63.91 and 63.92 to be implemented and enforced in place of 40 CFR part 63, subpart Q. Delaware is delegated the authority to implement and enforce its regulation in place of 40 CFR part 63, subpart Q, in accordance with the final rule, published in theon October 2, 2001, effective December 3, 2001.
