
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.99 Delegated Federal authorities.
####### New Hampshire.

(30)(i) New Hampshire is delegated the authority to implement and enforce all existing and future unchanged 40 CFR part 63 standards in accordance with the delegation procedures in Attachment II of the delegation request letter dated May 9, 2002 submitted by NH DES to EPA and any mutually acceptable amendments to those delegation procedures.

(ii) New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services (NH DES) may implement and enforce alternative requirements in the form of title V permit terms and conditions for Groveton Paper Board Inc. of Groveton, NH and Pulp & Paper of America, LLC of Berlin, NH for subpart S-National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Pulp and Paper Industry and subpart MM-National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Recovery Combustion Sources at Kraft, Soda, Sulfite and Stand-Alone Semi-chemical Pulp Mills. This action is contingent upon NH DES including, in title V permits, terms and conditions that are no less stringent than the Federal standard and have been approved by EPA. In addition, the requirement applicable to the source remains the Federal section 112 requirement until EPA has approved the alternative permit terms and conditions and the final title V permit is issued.

(iii) Affected inactive waste disposal sites not operated after July 9, 1981 within New Hampshire must comply with New Hampshire Regulations Chapter Env-Sw 2100: Management and Control of Asbestos Disposal Sites Not Operated after July 9, 1981, effective February 16, 2010 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 63.14) as described in paragraph (a)(30)(iii)(A) of this section:

(A) The material incorporated by reference from Chapter Env-Sw 2100, Management and Control of Asbestos Disposal Sites Not Operated after July 9, 1981, pertains to inactive waste disposal sites not operated after July 9, 1981 in the State of New Hampshire's jurisdiction, and has been approved under the procedures in ยง 63.93 to be implemented and enforced in place of the Federal NESHAPs for Inactive Waste Disposal Sites (40 CFR 61.151).

(B) [Reserved]
