
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### § 63.99 Delegated Federal authorities.
####### Texas.

(44)(i) The following table lists the specific part 63 standards that have been delegated unchanged to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality for all sources. The "X" symbol is used to indicate each subpart that has been delegated. The delegations are subject to all of the conditions and limitations set forth in Federal law and regulations. Some authorities cannot be delegated and are retained by the EPA. These include certain General Provisions authorities and specific parts of some standards. Any amendments made to these rules after August 3, 2016 are not delegated.

(ii) Affected sources within Texas shall comply with the Federal requirements of 40 CFR part 63-subpart A-General Provisions, adopted by reference by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), with the exception of § 63.5(e)(2)(i), § 63.6(i)(12)(i), § 63.6(i)(13)(i) and (ii), § 63.8(e)(5)(ii), § 63.9(i)(3), and § 63.10(e)(2)(ii). The TCEQ has adopted alternative provisions for the cited exceptions above and affected sources in Texas that are subject to the requirements of Subpart A shall comply with the requirements established at Texas Administrative Code, Title 30, Part 1, Chapter 113, Subchapter C, section 113.100.

(45) [Reserved]
