
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.99 Delegated Federal authorities.
####### South Carolina.

(41)(i) The following table lists the specific part 63 standards that have been delegated unchanged to the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (SCDHEC) for all sources. The "X" symbol is used to indicate each subpart that has been delegated. The delegations are subject to all of the conditions and limitations set forth in Federal law, regulations, policy, guidance, and determinations. Some authorities cannot be delegated and are retained by EPA. These include certain General Provisions authorities and specific parts of some standards.

(ii) South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (SC DHEC) may implement and enforce alternative requirements in the form of title V permit terms and conditions for International Paper Georgetown Mill, Georgetown, South Carolina, for subpart S of this part-National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Pulp and Paper Industry. This action is contingent upon SC DHEC including, in title V permits, terms and conditions that are no less stringent than the Federal standard. In addition, the requirement applicable to the source remains the Federal section 112 requirement until EPA has approved the alternative permit terms and conditions and the final title V permit is issued.

(42) [Reserved]
