
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart E - Approval of State Programs and Delegation of Federal Authorities
###### ยง 63.99 Delegated Federal authorities.
####### Washington.

(48)(i) The following table lists the delegation status of specific part 63 Subparts that have been delegated to state and local air pollution control agencies in Washington. An "X" indicates the subpart has been delegated, subject to all the conditions and limitations set forth in Federal law, regulations, policy, guidance, and determinations. Some authorities cannot be delegated and are retained by EPA. These include certain General Provisions authorities and specific parts of some standards. The dates noted at the end of this table indicate the effective dates of Federal rules that have been delegated. Any amendments made to these rules after this effective date are not delegated.

(ii) Affected area sources within Puget Sound Clean Air's jurisdiction must comply with Puget Sound Clean Air's Regulation III, sections 3.03, Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaners, (incorporated by reference as specified in 40 CFR 63.14) as follows:

(A) The material incorporated in Puget Sound Clean Air's Regulation III, section 3.03, Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaners, pertains to the perchloroethylene dry cleaning source category in the Puget Sound Clean Air jurisdiction, and has been approved under the procedures in 40 CFR 63.93 to be implemented and enforced in place of the federal NESHAPs for Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning Facilities (40 CFR part 63, subpart M), for area sources, as defined in 40 CFR 63.320(h).
