
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart F - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry
###### § 63.100 Applicability and designation of source.

(a) This subpart provides applicability provisions, definitions, and other general provisions that are applicable to subparts G and H of this part.

(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(4) and (c) of this section, the provisions of subparts F, G, and H of this part apply to chemical manufacturing process units that meet all the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section:

(1) Manufacture as a primary product one or more of the chemicals listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) One or more of the chemicals listed in table 1 of this subpart; or

(ii) One or more of the chemicals listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) or (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section:

(A) Tetrahydrobenzaldehyde (CAS Number 100-50-5); or

(B) Crotonaldehyde (CAS Number 123-73-9).

(2) Use as a reactant or manufacture as a product, or co-product, one or more of the organic hazardous air pollutants listed in table 2 of this subpart;

(3) Are located at a plant site that is a major source as defined in section 112(a) of the Act.

(4) The owner or operator of a chemical manufacturing processing unit is exempt from all requirements of subparts F, G, and H of this part until not later than April 22, 1997 if the owner or operator certifies, in a notification to the appropriate EPA Regional Office, not later than May 14, 1996, that the plant site at which the chemical manufacturing processing unit is located emits, and will continue to emit, during any 12-month period, less than 10 tons per year of any individual hazardous air pollutants (HAP), and less than 25 tons per year of any combination of HAP.

(i) If such a determination is based on limitations and conditions that are not federally enforceable (as defined in subpart A of this part), the owner or operator shall document the basis for the determination as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) through (b)(4)(i)(C) and comply with the recordkeeping requirement in 63.103(f).

(A) The owner or operator shall identify all HAP emission points at the plant site, including those emission points subject to and emission points not subject to subparts F, G, and H;

(B) The owner or operator shall calculate the amount of annual HAP emissions released from each emission point at the plant site, using acceptable measurement or estimating techniques for maximum expected operating conditions at the plant site. Examples of estimating procedures that are considered acceptable include the calculation procedures in § 63.150 of subpart G, the early reduction demonstration procedures specified in §§ 63.74 (c)(2), (c)(3), (d)(2), (d)(3), and (g), or accepted engineering practices. If the total annual HAP emissions for the plant site are annually reported under Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA) section 313, then such reported annual emissions may be used to satisfy the requirements of § 63.100(b)(4)(i)(B).

(C) The owner or operator shall sum the amount of annual HAP emissions from all emission points on the plant site. If the total emissions of any one HAP are less than 10 tons per year and the total emissions of any combination of HAP are less than 25 tons per year, the plant site qualifies for the exemption described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, provided that emissions are kept below these thresholds.

(ii) If such a determination is based on limitations and conditions that are federally enforceable (as defined in subpart A of this part), the owner or operator is not subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(c) The owner or operator of a chemical manufacturing process unit that meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this section but does not use as a reactant or manufacture as a product or co-product, any organic hazardous air pollutant listed in table 2 of this subpart shall comply only with the requirements of § 63.103(e) of this subpart. To comply with this subpart, such chemical manufacturing process units shall not be required to comply with the provisions of subpart A of this part.

(d) The primary product of a chemical manufacturing process unit shall be determined according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), and (d)(4) of this section.

(1) If a chemical manufacturing process unit produces more than one intended chemical product, the product with the greatest annual design capacity on a mass basis determines the primary product of the process.

(2) If a chemical manufacturing process unit has two or more products that have the same maximum annual design capacity on a mass basis and if one of those chemicals is listed in table 1 of this subpart, then the listed chemical is considered the primary product and the chemical manufacturing process unit is subject to this subpart. If more than one of the products is listed in table 1 of this subpart, then the owner or operator may designate as the primary product any of the listed chemicals and the chemical manufacturing process unit is subject to this subpart.

(3) For chemical manufacturing process units that are designed and operated as flexible operation units producing one or more chemicals listed in table 1 of this subpart, the primary product shall be determined for existing sources based on the expected utilization for the five years following April 22, 1994 and for new sources based on the expected utilization for the first five years after initial start-up.

(i) If the predominant use of the flexible operation unit, as described in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A) and (d)(3)(i)(B) of this section, is to produce one or more chemicals listed in table 1 of this subpart, then the flexible operation unit shall be subject to the provisions of subparts F, G, and H of this part.

(A) If the flexible operation unit produces one product for the greatest annual operating time, then that product shall represent the primary product of the flexible operation unit.

(B) If the flexible operation unit produces multiple chemicals equally based on operating time, then the product with the greatest annual production on a mass basis shall represent the primary product of the flexible operation unit.

(ii) The determination of applicability of this subpart to chemical manufacturing process units that are designed and operated as flexible operation units shall be reported as part of an operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section, for chemical manufacturing process units that are designed and operated as flexible operation units producing a chemical listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the primary product shall be determined for existing sources based on the expected utilization for the five years following May 12, 1998 and for new sources based on the expected utilization for the first five years after initial start-up.

(i) The predominant use of the flexible operation unit shall be determined according to paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A) and (d)(3)(i)(B) of this section. If the predominant use is to produce one of the chemicals listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, then the flexible operation unit shall be subject to the provisions of this subpart and subparts G and H of this part.

(ii) The determination of applicability of this subpart to chemical manufacturing process units that are designed and operated as flexible operation units shall be reported as part of an operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority.

(e) The source to which this subpart applies is the collection of all chemical manufacturing process units and the associated equipment at a major source that meet the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. The source includes the process vents; storage vessels; transfer racks; waste management units; maintenance wastewater; heat exchange systems; equipment identified in § 63.149; and pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, instrumentation systems, surge control vessels, and bottoms receivers that are associated with that collection of chemical manufacturing process units. The source also includes equipment required by, or utilized as a method of compliance with, subparts F, G, or H of this part which may include control devices and recovery devices.

(1) This subpart applies to maintenance wastewater and heat exchange systems within a source that is subject to this subpart.

(2) This subpart F and subpart G of this part apply to process vents, storage vessels, transfer racks, equipment identified in § 63.149 of subpart G of this part, and wastewater streams and associated treatment residuals within a source that is subject to this subpart.

(3) This subpart F and subpart H of this part apply to pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, instrumentation systems, surge control vessels, and bottoms receivers within a source that is subject to this subpart. If specific items of equipment, comprising part of a chemical manufacturing process unit subject to this subpart, are managed by different administrative organizations (e.g., different companies, affiliates, departments, divisions, etc.), those items of equipment may be aggregated with any chemical manufacturing process unit within the source for all purposes under subpart H of this part, providing there is no delay in the applicable compliance date in § 63.100(k).

(f) The source includes the emission points listed in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(11) of this section, but those emission points are not subject to the requirements of this subpart F and subparts G and H of this part. This subpart does not require emission points that are listed in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(11) of this section to comply with the provisions of subpart A of this part.

(1) Equipment that is located within a chemical manufacturing process unit that is subject to this subpart but the equipment does not contain organic hazardous air pollutants.

(2) Stormwater from segregated sewers;

(3) Water from fire-fighting and deluge systems in segregated sewers;

(4) Spills;

(5) Water from safety showers;

(6) Water from testing of deluge systems;

(7) Water from testing of firefighting systems;

(8) Vessels storing organic liquids that contain organic hazardous air pollutants only as impurities;

(9) Loading racks, loading arms, or loading hoses that only transfer liquids containing organic hazardous air pollutants as impurities;

(10) Loading racks, loading arms, or loading hoses that vapor balance during all loading operations; and

(11) Equipment that is intended to operate in organic hazardous air pollutant service, as defined in § 63.161 of subpart H of this part, for less than 300 hours during the calendar year.

(g) The owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section to determine whether a storage vessel is part of the source to which this subpart applies.

(1) Where a storage vessel is dedicated to a chemical manufacturing process unit, the storage vessel shall be considered part of that chemical manufacturing process unit.

(i) If the chemical manufacturing process unit is subject to this subpart according to the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section, then the storage vessel is part of the source to which this subpart applies.

(ii) If the chemical manufacturing process unit is not subject to this subpart according to the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section, then the storage vessel is not part of the source to which this subpart applies.

(2) If a storage vessel is not dedicated to a single chemical manufacturing process unit, then the applicability of this subpart F and subpart G of this part shall be determined according to the provisions in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) If a storage vessel is shared among chemical manufacturing process units and one of the process units has the predominant use, as determined by paragraph (g)(2)(i)(A) and (g)(2)(i)(B) of this section, then the storage vessel is part of that chemical manufacturing process unit.

(A) If the greatest input into the storage vessel is from a chemical manufacturing process unit that is located on the same plant site, then that chemical manufacturing process unit has the predominant use.

(B) If the greatest input into the storage vessel is provided from a chemical manufacturing process unit that is not located on the same plant site, then the predominant use is the chemical manufacturing process unit on the same plant site that receives the greatest amount of material from the storage vessel.

(ii) If a storage vessel is shared among chemical manufacturing process units so that there is no single predominant use, and at least one of those chemical manufacturing process units is subject to this subpart, the storage vessel shall be considered to be part of the chemical manufacturing process unit that is subject to this subpart. If more than one chemical manufacturing process unit is subject to this subpart, the owner or operator may assign the storage vessel to any of the chemical manufacturing process units subject to this subpart.

(iii) If the predominant use of a storage vessel varies from year to year, then the applicability of this subpart shall be determined according to the criteria in paragraphs (g)(2)(iii)(A) and (g)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, as applicable. This determination shall be reported as part of an operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority.

(A) For chemical manufacturing process units that produce one or more of the chemicals listed in table 1 of this subpart and meet the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the applicability shall be based on the utilization that occurred during the 12-month period preceding April 22, 1994.

(B) For chemical manufacturing process units that produce one or more of the chemicals listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section and meet the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the applicability shall be based on the utilization that occurred during the 12-month period preceding May 12, 1998.

(iv) If there is a change in the material stored in the storage vessel, the owner or operator shall reevaluate the applicability of this subpart to the vessel.

(3) Where a storage vessel is located at a major source that includes one or more chemical manufacturing process units which place material into, or receive materials from the storage vessel, but the storage vessel is located in a tank farm (including a marine tank farm), the applicability of this subpart F and subpart G of this part shall be determined according to the provisions in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) through (g)(3)(iv) of this section.

(i) The storage vessel may only be assigned to a chemical manufacturing process unit that utilizes the storage vessel and does not have an intervening storage vessel for that product (or raw material, as appropriate). With respect to any chemical manufacturing process unit, an intervening storage vessel means a storage vessel connected by hard-piping to the chemical manufacturing process unit and to the storage vessel in the tank farm so that product or raw material entering or leaving the chemical manufacturing process unit flows into (or from) the intervening storage vessel and does not flow directly into (or from) the storage vessel in the tank farm.

(ii) If there is no chemical manufacturing process unit at the major source that meets the criteria of paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section with respect to a storage vessel, this subpart F and subpart G of this part do not apply to the storage vessel.

(iii) If there is only one chemical manufacturing process unit at the major source that meets the criteria of paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section with respect to a storage vessel, the storage vessel shall be assigned to that chemical manufacturing process unit. Applicability of this subpart F and subpart G to this part to the storage vessel shall then be determined according to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section.

(iv) If there are two or more chemical manufacturing process units at the major source that meet the criteria of paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section with respect to a storage vessel, the storage vessel shall be assigned to one of those chemical manufacturing process units according to the provisions of paragraph (g)(2) of this section. The predominant use shall be determined among only those chemical manufacturing process units that meet the criteria of paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section. Applicability of this subpart F and subpart G of this part to the storage vessel shall then be determined according to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section.

(4) If the storage vessel begins receiving material from (or sending material to) another chemical manufacturing process unit, or ceases to receive material from (or send material to) a chemical manufacturing process unit, or if the applicability of this subpart F and subpart G of this part to a storage vessel has been determined according to the provisions of paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section and there is a change so that the predominant use may reasonably have changed, the owner or operator shall reevaluate the applicability of this subpart to the storage vessel.

(h) The owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section to determine whether the arms and hoses in a loading rack are part of the source to which this subpart applies.

(1) Where a loading rack is dedicated to a chemical manufacturing process unit, the loading rack shall be considered part of that specific chemical manufacturing process unit.

(i) If the chemical manufacturing process unit is subject to this subpart according to the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section and the loading rack does not meet the criteria specified in paragraphs (f)(9) and (f)(10) of this section, then the loading rack is considered a transfer rack (as defined in § 63.101 of this subpart) and is part of the source to which this subpart applies.

(ii) If the chemical manufacturing process unit is not subject to this subpart according to the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section, then the loading rack is not considered a transfer rack (as defined in § 63.101 of this subpart) and is not a part of the source to which this subpart applies.

(2) If a loading rack is shared among chemical manufacturing process units, then the applicability of this subpart F and subpart G of this part shall be determined at each loading arm or loading hose according to the provisions in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (h)(2)(iv) of this section.

(i) Each loading arm or loading hose that is dedicated to the transfer of liquid organic hazardous air pollutants listed in table 2 of this subpart from a chemical manufacturing process unit to which this subpart applies is part of that chemical manufacturing process unit and is part of the source to which this subpart applies unless the loading arm or loading hose meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (f)(9) or (f)(10) of this section.

(ii) If a loading arm or loading hose is shared among chemical manufacturing process units, and one of the chemical manufacturing process units provides the greatest amount of the material that is loaded by the loading arm or loading hose, then the loading arm or loading hose is part of that chemical manufacturing process unit.

(A) If the chemical manufacturing process unit is subject to this subpart according to the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section, then the loading arm or loading hose is part of the source to which this subpart applies unless the loading arm or loading hose meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (f)(9) or (f)(10) of this section.

(B) If the chemical manufacturing process unit is not subject to this subpart according to the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section, then the loading arm or loading hose is not part of the source to which this subpart applies.

(iii) If a loading arm or loading hose is shared among chemical manufacturing process units so that there is no single predominant use as described in paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section and at least one of those chemical manufacturing process units is subject to this subpart, then the loading arm or hose is part of the chemical manufacturing process unit that is subject to this subpart. If more than one of the chemical manufacturing process units is subject to this subpart, the owner or operator may assign the loading arm or loading hose to any of the chemical manufacturing process units subject to this subpart.

(iv) If the predominant use of a loading arm or loading hose varies from year to year, then the applicability of this subpart shall be determined according to the criteria in paragraphs (h)(2)(iv)(A) and (h)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, as applicable. This determination shall be reported as part of an operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority.

(A) For chemical manufacturing process units that produce one or more of the chemicals listed in table 1 of this subpart and meet the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the applicability shall be based on the utilization that occurred during the 12-month period preceding April 22, 1994.

(B) For chemical manufacturing process units that produce one or more of the chemicals listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section and meet the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the applicability shall be based on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding May 12, 1998.

(3) If a loading rack that was dedicated to a single chemical manufacturing process unit begins to serve another chemical manufacturing process unit, or if applicability was determined under the provisions of paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (h)(2)(iii) of this section and there is a change so that the predominant use may reasonably have changed, the owner or operator shall reevaluate the applicability of this subpart to the loading rack, loading arm, or loading hose.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(4) of this section, the owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(3) and (i)(5) of this section to determine whether the vent(s) from a distillation unit is part of the source to which this subpart applies.

(1) Where a distillation unit is dedicated to a chemical manufacturing process unit, the distillation column shall be considered part of that chemical manufacturing process unit.

(i) If the chemical manufacturing process unit is subject to this subpart according to the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section, then the distillation unit is part of the source to which this subpart applies.

(ii) If the chemical manufacturing process unit is not subject to this subpart according to the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section, then the distillation unit is not part of the source to which this subpart applies.

(2) If a distillation unit is not dedicated to a single chemical manufacturing process unit, then the applicability of this subpart and subpart G of this part shall be determined according to the provisions in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (i)(2)(iv) of this section.

(i) If the greatest input to the distillation unit is from a chemical manufacturing process unit located on the same plant site, then the distillation unit shall be assigned to that chemical manufacturing process unit.

(ii) If the greatest input to the distillation unit is provided from a chemical manufacturing process unit that is not located on the same plant site, then the distillation unit shall be assigned to the chemical manufacturing process unit located at the same plant site that receives the greatest amount of material from the distillation unit.

(iii) If a distillation unit is shared among chemical manufacturing process units so that there is no single predominant use as described in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) and (i)(2)(ii) of this section, and at least one of those chemical manufacturing process units is subject to this subpart, the distillation unit shall be assigned to the chemical manufacturing process unit that is subject to this subpart. If more than one chemical manufacturing process unit is subject to this subpart, the owner or operator may assign the distillation unit to any of the chemical manufacturing process units subject to this subpart.

(iv) If the predominant use of a distillation unit varies from year to year, then the applicability of this subpart shall be determined according to the criteria in paragraphs (i)(2)(iv)(A) and (i)(2)(iv)(B), as applicable. This determination shall be included as part of an operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority.

(A) For chemical manufacturing process units that produce one or more of the chemicals listed in table 1 of this subpart and meet the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the applicability shall be based on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding April 22, 1994.

(B) For chemical manufacturing process units that produce one or more of the chemicals listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section and meet the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the applicability shall be based on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding May 12, 1998.

(3) If the chemical manufacturing process unit to which the distillation unit is assigned is subject to this subpart, then each vent from the individual distillation unit shall be considered separately to determine whether it is a process vent (as defined in § 63.101 of this subpart). Each vent that is a process vent is part of the source to which this subpart applies.

(4) If the distillation unit is part of one of the chemical manufacturing process units listed in paragraphs (i)(4)(i) through (i)(4)(iii) of this section, then each vent from the individual distillation unit shall be considered separately to determine whether it is a process vent (as defined in § 63.101 of this subpart). Each vent that is a process vent is part of the source to which this subpart applies:

(i) The Aromex unit that produces benzene, toluene, and xylene;

(ii) The unit that produces hexane; or

(iii) The unit that produces cyclohexane.

(5) If a distillation unit that was dedicated to a single chemical manufacturing process unit, or that was part of a chemical manufacturing unit identified in paragraphs (i)(4)(i) through (i)(4)(iii) of this section, begins to serve another chemical manufacturing process unit, or if applicability was determined under the provisions of paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (i)(2)(iii) of this section and there is a change so that the predominant use may reasonably have changed, the owner or operator shall reevaluate the applicability of this subpart to the distillation unit.

(j) The provisions of subparts F, G, and H of this part do not apply to the processes specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (j)(6) of this section. Subparts F, G, and H do not require processes specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (j)(6) to comply with the provisions of subpart A of this part.

(1) Research and development facilities, regardless of whether the facilities are located at the same plant site as a chemical manufacturing process unit that is subject to the provisions of subparts F, G, or H of this part.

(2) Petroleum refining process units, regardless of whether the units supply feedstocks that include chemicals listed in table 1 of this subpart to chemical manufacturing process units that are subject to the provisions of subparts F, G, or H of this part.

(3) Ethylene process units, regardless of whether the units supply feedstocks that include chemicals listed in table 1 of this subpart to chemical manufacturing process units that are subject to the provisions of subpart F, G, or H of this part.

(4) Batch process vents within a chemical manufacturing process unit.

(5) Chemical manufacturing process units that are located in coke by-product recovery plants.

(6) Solvent reclamation, recovery, or recycling operations at hazardous waste TSDF facilities requiring a permit under 40 CFR part 270 that are separate entities and not part of a SOCMI chemical manufacturing process unit.

(k) Except as provided in paragraphs (l), (m), and (p) of this section, sources subject to subparts F, G, or H of this part are required to achieve compliance on or before the dates specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(8) of this section.

(1)(i) New sources that commence construction or reconstruction after December 31, 1992, but before August 27, 1996 shall be in compliance with this subpart F, subparts G and H of this part upon initial start-up or by April 22, 1994, whichever is later, as provided in § 63.6(b) of subpart A of this part, and further, where start-up occurs before January 17, 1997 shall also be in compliance with this subpart F and subparts G and H of this part (as amended on January 17, 1997) by January 17, 1997, except that, with respect to all new sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after December 31, 1992, and before August 27, 1996:

(A) Heat exchange systems and maintenance wastewater, that are part of a new source on which construction or reconstruction commenced after December 31, 1992, but before August 27, 1996, shall be in compliance with this subpart F no later than initial start-up or 180 days after January 17, 1997, whichever is later;

(B) Process wastewater streams and equipment subject to § 63.149, that are part of a new source on which construction or reconstruction commenced after December 31, 1992, but before August 27, 1996, shall be in compliance with this subpart F and subpart G of this part no later than initial start-up or 180 days after January 17, 1997, whichever is later; and

(ii) New sources that commence construction after August 26, 1996 shall be in compliance with this subpart F, subparts G and H of this part upon initial start-up or by January 17, 1997, whichever is later.

(2) Existing sources shall be in compliance with this subpart F and subpart G of this part no later than the dates specified in paragraphs (k)(2)(i) and (k)(2)(ii) of this section, unless an extension has been granted by the Administrator as provided in § 63.151(a)(6) of subpart G of this part or granted by the permitting authority as provided in § 63.6(i) of subpart A of this part.

(i) Process vents, storage vessels, and transfer racks at an existing source shall be in compliance with the applicable sections of this subpart and subpart G of this part no later than April 22, 1997.

(ii) Heat exchange systems and maintenance wastewater shall be in compliance with the applicable sections of this subpart, and equipment subject to § 63.149 and process wastewater streams shall be in compliance with the applicable sections of this subpart and subpart G of this part no later than April 22, 1999, except as provided in paragraphs (k)(2)(ii)(A) and (k)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(A) If a process wastewater stream or equipment subject to § 63.149 is subject to the control requirements of subpart G of this part due to the contribution of nitrobenzene to the total annual average concentration (as determined according to the procedures in § 63.144(b) of subpart G of this part), the wastewater stream shall be in compliance no later than January 18, 2000.

(B) If a process wastewater stream is used to generate credits in an emissions average in accordance with § 63.150 of subpart G of this part, the process wastewater stream shall be in compliance with the applicable sections of subpart G of this part no later than April 22, 1997.

(3) Existing sources shall be in compliance with subpart H of this part no later than the dates specified in paragraphs (k)(3)(i) through (k)(3)(v) of this section, except as provided for in paragraphs (k)(4) through (k)(8) of this section, unless an extension has been granted by the Administrator as provided in § 63.182(a)(6) of this part or granted by the permitting authority as provided in § 63.6(i) of subpart A of this part. The group designation for each process unit is indicated in table 1 of this subpart.

(i) Group I: October 24, 1994.

(ii) Group II: January 23, 1995.

(iii) Group III: April 24, 1995.

(iv) Group IV: July 24, 1995.

(v) Group V: October 23, 1995.

(4) Existing chemical manufacturing process units in Groups I and II as identified in table 1 of this subpart shall be in compliance with the requirements of § 63.164 of subpart H no later than May 10, 1995, for any compressor meeting one or more of the criteria in paragraphs (k)(4)(i) through (k)(4)(iv) of this section, if the work can be accomplished without a process unit shutdown, as defined in § 63.161 in subpart H.

(i) The seal system will be replaced;

(ii) A barrier fluid system will be installed;

(iii) A new barrier fluid will be utilized which requires changes to the existing barrier fluid system; or

(iv) The compressor must be modified to permit connecting the compressor to a closed vent system.

(5) Existing chemical manufacturing process units shall be in compliance with the requirements of § 63.164 in subpart H no later than 1 year after the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (k)(3) of this section, for any compressor meeting the criteria in paragraphs (k)(5)(i) through (k)(5)(iv) of this section.

(i) The compressor meets one or more of the criteria specified in paragraphs (k)(4) (i) through (iv) of this section;

(ii) The work can be accomplished without a process unit shutdown as defined in § 63.161 of subpart H;

(iii) The additional time is actually necessary due to the unavailability of parts beyond the control of the owner or operator; and

(iv) The owner or operator submits a request to the appropriate EPA Regional Office at the addresses listed in § 63.13 of subpart A of this part no later than 45 days before the applicable compliance date in paragraph (k)(3) of this section, but in no event earlier than May 10, 1995. The request shall include the information specified in paragraphs (k)(5)(iv)(A) through (k)(5)(iv)(E) of this section. Unless the EPA Regional Office objects to the request within 30 days after receipt, the request shall be deemed approved.

(A) The name and address of the owner or operator and the address of the existing source if it differs from the address of the owner or operator;

(B) The name, address, and telephone number of a contact person for further information;

(C) An identification of the chemical manufacturing process unit, and of the specific equipment for which additional compliance time is required;

(D) The reason compliance can not reasonably be achieved by the applicable date specified in paragraphs (k)(3)(i) through (k)(3)(v) of this section; and

(E) The date by which the owner or operator expects to achieve compliance.

(6)(i) If compliance with the compressor provisions of § 63.164 of subpart H of this part can not reasonably be achieved without a process unit shutdown, as defined in § 63.161 of subpart H, the owner or operator shall achieve compliance no later than April 22, 1996, except as provided for in paragraph (k)(6)(ii) of this section. The owner or operator who elects to use this provision shall comply with the requirements of § 63.103(g) of this subpart.

(ii) If compliance with the compressor provisions of § 63.164 of subpart H of this part can not be achieved without replacing the compressor or recasting the distance piece, the owner or operator shall achieve compliance no later than April 22, 1997. The owner or operator who elects to use this provision shall also comply with the requirements of § 63.103(g) of this subpart.

(7) Existing sources shall be in compliance with the provisions of § 63.170 of subpart H no later than April 22, 1997.

(8) If an owner or operator of a chemical manufacturing process unit subject to the provisions of subparts F, G, and H of part 63 plans to implement pollution prevention measures to eliminate the use or production of HAP listed in table 2 of this subpart by October 23, 1995, the provisions of subpart H do not apply regardless of the compliance dates specified in paragraph (k)(3) of this section. The owner or operator who elects to use this provision shall comply with the requirements of § 63.103(h) of this subpart.

(9) All terms in this subpart F or subpart G of this part that define a period of time for completion of required tasks (e.g., weekly, monthly, quarterly, annual), unless specified otherwise in the section or subsection that imposes the requirement, refer to the standard calendar periods.

(i) Notwithstanding time periods specified in this subpart F or subpart G of this part for completion of required tasks, such time periods may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator, as specified in subpart A of this part (e.g., a period could begin on the compliance date or another date, rather than on the first day of the standard calendar period). For each time period that is changed by agreement, the revised period shall remain in effect until it is changed. A new request is not necessary for each recurring period.

(ii) Where the period specified for compliance is a standard calendar period, if the initial compliance date occurs after the beginning of the period, compliance shall be required according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (k)(9)(ii)(A) or (k)(9)(ii)(B) of this section, as appropriate.

(A) Compliance shall be required before the end of the standard calendar period within which the compliance deadline occurs, if there remain at least 3 days for tasks that must be performed weekly, at least 2 weeks for tasks that must be performed monthly, at least 1 month for tasks that must be performed each quarter, or at least 3 months for tasks that must be performed annually; or

(B) In all other cases, compliance shall be required before the end of the first full standard calendar period after the period within which the initial compliance deadline occurs.

(iii) In all instances where a provision of this subpart F or subpart G of this part requires completion of a task during each of multiple successive periods, an owner or operator may perform the required task at any time during the specified period, provided the task is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the task during the previous period.

(l)(1) If an additional chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section is added to a plant site that is a major source as defined in section 112(a) of the Act, the addition shall be subject to the requirements for a new source in subparts F, G, and H of this part if:

(i) It is an addition that meets the definition of construction in § 63.2 of subpart A of this part;

(ii)(A) Such construction commenced after December 31, 1992 for chemical manufacturing process units that produce as a primary product one or more of the chemicals listed in table 1 of this subpart;

(B) Such construction commenced after August 22, 1997 for chemical manufacturing process units that produce as a primary product one or more of the chemicals listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section; and

(iii) The addition has the potential to emit 10 tons per year or more of any HAP or 25 tons per year or more of any combination of HAP's, unless the Administrator establishes a lesser quantity.

(2) If any change is made to a chemical manufacturing process unit subject to this subpart, the change shall be subject to the requirements of a new source in subparts F, G, and H of this part if:

(i) It is a change that meets the definition of reconstruction in § 63.2 of subpart A of this part; and

(ii)(A) Such reconstruction commenced after December 31, 1992 for chemical manufacturing process units that produce as a primary product one or more of the chemicals listed in table 1 of this subpart; and

(B) Such construction commenced after August 22, 1997 for chemical manufacturing process units that produce as a primary product one or more of the chemicals listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(3) If an additional chemical manufacturing process unit is added to a plant site or a change is made to a chemical manufacturing process unit and the addition or change is determined to be subject to the new source requirements according to paragraph (l)(1) or (l)(2) of this section:

(i) The new or reconstructed source shall be in compliance with the new source requirements of subparts F, G, and H of this part upon initial start-up of the new or reconstructed source or by April 22, 1994, whichever is later; and

(ii) The owner or operator of the new or reconstructed source shall comply with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in subparts F, G, and H of this part that are applicable to new sources. The applicable reports include, but are not limited to:

(A) The application for approval of construction or reconstruction which shall be submitted by the date specified in § 63.151(b)(2)(ii) of subpart G of this part, or an Initial Notification as specified in § 63.151(b)(2)(iii) of subpart G of this part;

(B) Changes that meet the criteria in § 63.151(j) of subpart G of this part, unless the information has been submitted in an operating permit application or amendment;

(C) The Notification of Compliance Status as required by § 63.152(b) of subpart G of this part for the new or reconstructed source;

(D) Periodic Reports and Other Reports as required by § 63.152(c) and (d) of subpart G of this part;

(E) Reports required by § 63.182 of subpart H of this part; and

(F) Reports and notifications required by sections of subpart A of this part that are applicable to subparts F, G, and H of this part, as identified in table 3 of this subpart.

(4) If an additional chemical manufacturing process unit is added to a plant site, or if an emission point is added to an existing chemical manufacturing process unit, or if another deliberate operational process change creating an additional Group 1 emission point(s) is made to an existing chemical manufacturing process unit, or if a surge control vessel or bottoms receiver becomes subject to § 63.170 of subpart H, or if a compressor becomes subject to § 63.164 of subpart H, and if the addition or change is not subject to the new source requirements as determined according to paragraph (l)(1) or (l)(2) of this section, the requirements in paragraphs (l)(4)(i) through (l)(4)(iii) of this section shall apply. Examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, changes in production capacity, feedstock type, or catalyst type, or whenever there is replacement, removal, or addition of recovery equipment. For purposes of this paragraph and paragraph (m) of this section, process changes do not include: Process upsets, unintentional temporary process changes, and changes that are within the equipment configuration and operating conditions documented in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.152(b) of subpart G of this part.

(i) The added emission point(s) and any emission point(s) within the added or changed chemical manufacturing process unit are subject to the requirements of subparts F, G, and H of this part for an existing source;

(ii) The added emission point(s) and any emission point(s) within the added or changed chemical manufacturing process unit shall be in compliance with subparts F, G, and H of this part by the dates specified in paragraph (l)(4)(ii) (A) or (B) of this section, as applicable.

(A) If a chemical manufacturing process unit is added to a plant site or an emission point(s) is added to an existing chemical manufacturing process unit, the added emission point(s) shall be in compliance upon initial start-up of the added chemical manufacturing process unit or emission point(s) or by 3 years after April 22, 1994, whichever is later.

(B) If a deliberate operational process change to an existing chemical manufacturing process unit causes a Group 2 emission point to become a Group 1 emission point, if a surge control vessel or bottoms receiver becomes subject to § 63.170 of subpart H, or if a compressor becomes subject to § 63.164 of subpart H, the owner or operator shall be in compliance upon initial start-up or by 3 years after April 22, 1994, whichever is later, unless the owner or operator demonstrates to the Administrator that achieving compliance will take longer than making the change. If this demonstration is made to the Administrator's satisfaction, the owner or operator shall follow the procedures in paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(3) of this section to establish a compliance date.

(iii) The owner or operator of a chemical manufacturing process unit or emission point that is added to a plant site and is subject to the requirements for existing sources shall comply with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of subparts F, G, and H of this part that are applicable to existing sources, including, but not limited to, the reports listed in paragraphs (l)(4)(iii) (A) through (E) of this section. A change to an existing chemical manufacturing process unit shall be subject to the reporting requirements for existing sources, including but not limited to, the reports listed in paragraphs (l)(4)(iii)(A) through (E) of this section if the change meets the criteria specified in § 63.118(g), (h), (i), or (j) of subpart G of this part for process vents or the criteria in § 63.155(i) or (j) of subpart G of this part. The applicable reports include, but are not limited to:

(A) Reports specified in § 63.151(i) and (j) of subpart G of this part, unless the information has been submitted in an operating permit application or amendment;

(B) The Notification of Compliance Status as required by § 63.152(b) of subpart G of this part for the emission points that were added or changed;

(C) Periodic Reports and other reports as required by § 63.152 (c) and (d) of subpart G of this part;

(D) Reports required by § 63.182 of subpart H of this part; and

(E) Reports and notifications required by sections of subpart A of this part that are applicable to subparts F, G, and H of this part, as identified in table 3 of this subpart.

(m) If a change that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (l)(4) of this section is made to a chemical manufacturing process unit subject to subparts F and G of this part, and the change causes a Group 2 emission point to become a Group 1 emission point (as defined in § 63.111 of subpart G of this part), then the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of subpart G of this part for the Group 1 emission point as expeditiously as practicable, but in no event later than 3 years after the emission point becomes Group 1.

(1) The owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator for approval a compliance schedule, along with a justification for the schedule.

(2) The compliance schedule shall be submitted with the report required in § 63.151(i)(2) of subpart G of this part for emission points included in an emissions average or § 63.151(j)(1) or subpart G of this part for emission points not in an emissions average, unless the compliance schedule has been submitted in an operating permit application or amendment.

(3) The Administrator shall approve the compliance schedule or request changes within 120 calendar days of receipt of the compliance schedule and justification.
