
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart F - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry
###### § 63.100 Applicability and designation of source.
####### Compliance dates for chemical manufacturing process units that produce crotonaldehyde or tetrahydrobenzaldehyde.

(p)Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (k) of this section, chemical manufacturing process units that meet the criteria in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section shall be in compliance with this subpart and subparts G and H of this part by the dates specified in paragraphs (p)(1) and (p)(2) of this section, as applicable.

(1) If the source consists only of chemical manufacturing process units that produce as a primary product one or more of the chemicals listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, new sources shall comply by the date specified in paragraph (p)(1)(i) of this section and existing sources shall comply by the dates specified in paragraphs (p)(1)(ii) and (p)(1)(iii) of this section.

(i) Upon initial start-up or May 12, 1998, whichever is later.

(ii) This subpart and subpart G of this part by May 14, 2001, unless an extension has been granted by the Administrator as provided in § 63.151(a)(6) or granted by the permitting authority as provided in § 63.6(i) of subpart A of this part. When April 22, 1994 is referred to in this subpart and subpart G of this part, May 12, 1998 shall be used as the applicable date for that provision. When December 31, 1992 is referred to in this subpart and subpart G of this part, August 22, 1997 shall be used as the applicable date for that provision.

(iii) Subpart H of this part by May 12, 1999, unless an extension has been granted by the Administrator as provided in § 63.151(a)(6) or granted by the permitting authority as provided in § 63.6(i) of subpart A of this part. When April 22, 1994 is referred to in subpart H of this part, May 12, 1998 shall be used as the applicable date for that provision. When December 31, 1992 is referred to in subpart H of this part, August 22, 1997 shall be used as the applicable date for that provision.

(2) If the source consists of a combination of chemical manufacturing process units that produce as a primary product one or more of the chemicals listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section, new chemical manufacturing process units that meet the criteria in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section shall comply by the date specified in paragraph (p)(1)(i) of this section and existing chemical manufacturing process units producing crotonaldehyde and/or tetrahydrobenzaldehyde shall comply by the dates specified in paragraphs (p)(1)(ii) and (p)(1)(iii) of this section.

(q) If the owner or operator of a process vent, or of a gas stream transferred subject to § 63.113(i), is unable to comply with the provisions of §§ 63.113 through 63.118 by the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (k),(l), or (m) of this section for the reasons stated in paragraph (q)(1),(3), or (5) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable provisions in §§ 63.113 through 63.118 as expeditiously as practicable, but in no event later than the date approved by the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (q)(2), (4), or (6) of this section, respectively. For requests under paragraph (q)(1) or (3) of this section, the date approved by the Administrator may be earlier than, and shall not be later than, the later of January 22, 2004 or 3 years after the transferee's refusal to accept the stream for disposal. For requests submitted under paragraph (q)(5) of this section, the date approved by the Administrator may be earlier than, and shall not be later than, 3 years after the date of publication of the amendments to this subpart or to subpart G of this part which created the need for an extension of the compliance.

(1) If the owner or operator has been sending a gas stream for disposal as described in § 63.113(i) prior to January 22, 2001, and the transferee does not submit a written certification as described in § 63.113(i)(2) and ceases to accept the gas stream for disposal, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (q)(2) of this section.

(2)(i) An owner or operator directed to comply with paragraph (q)(2) of this section shall submit to the Administrator for approval a compliance schedule, along with a justification for the schedule.

(ii) The compliance schedule and justification shall be submitted no later than 90 days after the transferee ceases to accept the gas stream for disposal.

(iii) The Administrator shall approve the compliance schedule or request changes within 120 days of receipt of the compliance schedule and justification.

(3) If the owner or operator has been sending the gas stream for disposal as described in § 63.113(i) to a transferee who had submitted a written certification as described in § 63.113(i)(2), and the transferee revokes its written certification, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (q)(4) of this section. During the period between the date when the owner or operator receives notice of revocation of the transferee's written certification and the compliance date established under paragraph (q)(4) of this section, the owner or operator shall implement, to the extent reasonably available, measures to prevent or minimize excess emissions to the extent practical. For purposes of this paragraph (q)(3), the term "excess emissions" means emissions in excess of those that would have occurred if the transferee had continued managing the gas stream in compliance with the requirements in §§ 63.113 through 63.118. The measures to be taken shall be identified in the applicable startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan. If the measures that can be reasonably taken will change over time, so that a more effective measure which could not reasonably be taken initially would be reasonable at a later date, the Administrator may require the more effective measure by a specified date (in addition to or instead of any other measures taken sooner or later than that date) as a condition of approval of the compliance schedule.

(4)(i) An owner or operator directed to comply with this paragraph (q)(4) shall submit to the Administrator for approval the documents specified in paragraphs (q)(4)(i)(A) through (E) of this section no later than 90 days after the owner or operator receives notice of revocation of the transferee's written certification.

(A) A request for determination of a compliance date.

(B) A justification for the request for determination of a compliance date.

(C) A compliance schedule.

(D) A justification for the compliance schedule.

(E) A description of the measures that will be taken to minimize excess emissions until the new compliance date, and the date when each measure will first be implemented. The owner or operator shall describe how, and to what extent, each measure will minimize excess emissions, and shall justify any period of time when measures are not in place.

(ii) The Administrator shall approve or disapprove the request for determination of a compliance date and the compliance schedule, or request changes, within 120 days after receipt of the documents specified in paragraphs (q)(4)(i)(A) through (E) of this section. Upon approving the request for determination and compliance schedule, the Administrator shall specify a reasonable compliance date consistent with the introductory text in paragraph (q) of this section.

(5) If the owner's or operator's inability to meet otherwise applicable compliance deadlines is due to amendments of this subpart or of subpart G of this part published on or after January 22, 2001 and neither condition specified in paragraph (q)(1) or (3) of this section is applicable, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (q)(6) of this section.

(6)(i) An owner or operator directed to comply with this paragraph (6)(i) shall submit to the Administrator for approval, a request for determination of a compliance date, a compliance schedule, a justification for the determination of a compliance date, and a justification for the compliance schedule.

(ii) The documents required to be submitted under paragraph (q)(6)(i) of this section shall be submitted no later than 120 days after publication of the amendments of this subpart or of subpart G of this part which necessitate the request for an extension.

(iii) The Administrator shall approve or disapprove the request for a determination of a compliance date, or request changes, within 120 days after receipt of the request for determination of a compliance date, the compliance schedule, and the two justifications. If the request for determination of a compliance date is disapproved, the compliance schedule is disapproved and the owner or operator shall comply by the applicable date specified in paragraph (k),(l), or (m) of this section. If the request for the determination of a compliance date is approved, the Administrator shall specify, at the time of approval, a reasonable compliance date consistent with the introductory text in paragraph (q) of this section.
