
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.110 Applicability.
####### Overlap with other regulations for transfer racks.

(c)(1) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, a Group 1 transfer rack that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart.

(2) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, a Group 2 transfer rack that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB is required to comply with the provisions of either paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (c)(2)(ii) of this subpart.

(i) If the transfer rack is subject to the control requirements specified in § 61.302 of 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB, then the transfer rack is required to comply with the control requirements of § 61.302 of 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB. The owner or operator may elect to comply with either the associated testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements of 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB or with the testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements specified in this subpart for Group 1 transfer racks. The owner or operator shall indicate this decision in either the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.152(b) of this subpart or in an operating permit application or amendment.

(ii) If the transfer rack is subject only to reporting and recordkeeping requirements under 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB, then the transfer rack is required to comply only with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements specified in this subpart for Group 2 transfer racks and is exempt from the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB.
