
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart F - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry
###### ยง 63.105 Maintenance wastewater requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section for maintenance wastewaters containing those organic HAP's listed in table 9 of subpart G of this part.

(b) The owner or operator shall prepare a description of maintenance procedures for management of wastewaters generated from the emptying and purging of equipment in the process during temporary shutdowns for inspections, maintenance, and repair (i.e., a maintenance-turnaround) and during periods which are not shutdowns (i.e., routine maintenance). The descriptions shall:

(1) Specify the process equipment or maintenance tasks that are anticipated to create wastewater during maintenance activities.

(2) Specify the procedures that will be followed to properly manage the wastewater and control organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere; and

(3) Specify the procedures to be followed when clearing materials from process equipment.

(c) The owner or operator shall modify and update the information required by paragraph (b) of this section as needed following each maintenance procedure based on the actions taken and the wastewaters generated in the preceding maintenance procedure.

(d) The owner or operator shall incorporate the procedures described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required under ยง 63.6(e)(3).

(e) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the information required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section as part of the start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan required under ยง 63.6(e)(3) of subpart A of this part.
