
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart F - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry
###### § 63.107 Identification of process vents subject to this subpart.

(a) The owner or operator shall use the criteria specified in this § 63.107 to determine whether there are any process vents associated with an air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor that is in a source subject to this subpart. A process vent is the point of discharge to the atmosphere (or the point of entry into a control device, if any) of a gas stream if the gas stream has the characteristics specified in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section, or meets the criteria specified in paragraph (i) of this section.

(b) Some, or all, of the gas stream originates as a continuous flow from an air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor during operation of the chemical manufacturing process unit.

(c) The discharge to the atmosphere (with or without passing through a control device) meets at least one of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Is directly from an air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor; or

(2) Is from an air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor after passing solely (i.e., without passing through any other unit operation for a process purpose) through one or more recovery devices within the chemical manufacturing process unit; or

(3) Is from a device recovering only mechanical energy from a gas stream that comes either directly from an air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor, or from an air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor after passing solely (i.e., without passing through any other unit operation for a process purpose) through one or more recovery devices within the chemical manufacturing process unit.

(d) The gas stream contains greater than 0.005 weight percent total organic HAP at the point of discharge to the atmosphere (or at the point of entry into a control device, if any).

(e) The air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor is part of a chemical manufacturing process unit that meets the criteria of § 63.100(b).

(f) The gas stream is in the gas phase from the point of origin at the air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor to the point of discharge to the atmosphere (or to the point of entry into a control device, if any).

(g) The gas stream is discharged to the atmosphere either on-site, off-site, or both.

(h) The gas stream is not any of the items identified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (9) of this section.

(1) A relief valve discharge.

(2) A leak from equipment subject to subpart H of this part.

(3) A gas stream going to a fuel gas system as defined in § 63.101.

(4) A gas stream exiting a control device used to comply with § 63.113.

(5) A gas stream transferred to other processes (on-site or off-site) for reaction or other use in another process (i.e., for chemical value as a product, isolated intermediate, byproduct, or coproduct, or for heat value).

(6) A gas stream transferred for fuel value (i.e., net positive heating value), use, reuse, or for sale for fuel value, use, or reuse.

(7) A storage vessel vent or transfer operation vent subject to § 63.119 or § 63.126.

(8) A vent from a waste management unit subject to §§ 63.132 through 63.137.

(9) A gas stream exiting an analyzer.

(i) The gas stream would meet the characteristics specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, but, for purposes of avoiding applicability, has been deliberately interrupted, temporarily liquefied, routed through any item of equipment for no process purpose, or disposed of in a flare that does not meet the criteria in § 63.11(b), or an incinerator that does not reduce emissions of organic HAP by 98 percent or to a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, whichever is less stringent.
