
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### ยง 63.110 Applicability.
####### Overlap with other regulations for wastewater.

(e)(1) After the compliance dates specified in ยง 63.100 of subpart F of this part, the owner or operator of a Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF is required to comply with the provisions of both this subpart and 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF. Alternatively, the owner or operator may elect to comply with the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(1)(ii) of this section, which shall constitute compliance with the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF.

(i) Comply with the provisions of this subpart; and

(ii) For any Group 2 wastewater stream or organic stream whose benzene emissions are subject to control through the use of one or more treatment processes or waste management units under the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF on or after December 31, 1992, comply with the requirements of this subpart for Group 1 wastewater streams.

(2) After the compliance dates specified in ยง 63.100 of subpart F of this part, the owner or operator of any Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream that is also subject to provisions in 40 CFR parts 260 through 272 shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (e)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) For each Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall comply with the more stringent control requirements (e.g., waste management units, numerical treatment standards, etc.) and the more stringent testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that overlap between the provisions of this subpart and the provisions of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272. The owner or operator shall keep a record of the information used to determine which requirements were the most stringent and shall submit this information if requested by the Administrator; or

(ii) The owner or operator shall submit, no later than four months before the applicable compliance date specified in ยง 63.100 of subpart F of this part, a request for a case-by-case determination of requirements. The request shall include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(A) and (e)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(A) Identification of the wastewater streams that are subject to this subpart and to provisions in 40 CFR parts 260 through 272, determination of the Group 1/Group 2 status of those streams, determination of whether or not those streams are listed or exhibit a characteristic as specified in 40 CFR part 261, and determination of whether the waste management unit is subject to permitting under 40 CFR part 270.

(B) Identification of the specific control requirements (e.g., waste management units, numerical treatment standards, etc.) and testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that overlap between the provisions of this subpart and the provisions of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272.
