
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart O - Cooperative Agreements and Superfund State Contracts for Superfund Response Actions
###### General
####### ยง 35.6005 Purpose and scope.

(a) This subpart codifies recipient requirements for administering Cooperative Agreements awarded pursuant to section 104(d)(1) of CERCLA. This subpart also codifies requirements for administering Superfund State Contracts (SSCs) for non-State-lead remedial responses undertaken pursuant to section 104 of CERCLA.

(b) 2 CFR part 200, "Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards to Non-Federal Entities," establishes consistency and uniformity among Federal agencies in the administration of grants and Cooperative Agreements to non-federal entities. For CERCLA-funded Cooperative Agreements, this subpart supplements the requirements contained in 2 CFR parts 200 and 1500 for States, political subdivisions thereof, and Indian Tribes. This subpart references those sections of 2 CFR parts 200 and 1500 that are applicable to CERCLA-funded Cooperative Agreements.

(c) Superfund monies for remedial actions cannot be used by recipients for Federal facility cleanup activities. When a cleanup is undertaken by another Federal entity, the State, political subdivision or Indian Tribe can pursue funding for its involvement in response activities from the appropriate Federal entity.
