
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.113 Process vent provisions - reference control technology.
####### Off-site control or on-site control not owned or operated by the source.

(i)This paragraph (i) applies to gas streams that have the characteristics specified in § 63.107(b) through (h) or meet the criteria specified in § 63.107(i); that are transferred for disposal to an on-site control device (or other compliance equipment) not owned or operated by the owner or operator of the source generating the gas stream, or to an off-site control device or other compliance equipment; and that have the characteristics (e.g., flow rate, total organic HAP concentration, or TRE index value) of a Group 1 process vent, determined at the point of transfer.

(1) The owner or operator transferring the gas stream shall:

(i) Comply with the provisions specified in § 63.114(d) for each gas stream prior to transfer.

(ii) Notify the transferee that the gas stream contains organic hazardous air pollutants that are to be treated in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. The notice shall be submitted to the transferee initially and whenever there is a change in the required control.

(2) The owner or operator may not transfer the gas stream unless the transferee has submitted to the EPA a written certification that the transferee will manage and treat any gas stream transferred under this paragraph (i) and received from a source subject to the requirements of this subpart in accordance with the requirements of either §§ 63.113 through 63.118, or § 63.102(b), or subpart D of this part if alternative emission limitations have been granted the transferor in accordance with those provisions. The certifying entity may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to EPA and the owner or operator giving at least 90 days notice that the certifying entity is rescinding acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the regulatory provisions listed in this paragraph (i). Upon expiration of the notice period, the owner or operator may not transfer the gas stream to the transferee. Records retained by the transferee shall be retained in accordance with § 63.103(c).

(3) By providing this written certification to EPA, the certifying entity accepts responsibility for compliance with the regulatory provisions listed in paragraph (i)(2) of this section with respect to any transfer covered by the written certification. Failure to abide by any of those provisions with respect to such transfers may result in enforcement action by EPA against the certifying entity in accordance with the enforcement provisions applicable to violations of these provisions by owners or operators of sources.

(4) Written certifications and revocation statements to EPA from the transferees of such gas streams shall be signed by a responsible official of the certifying entity, provide the name and address of the certifying entity, and be sent to the appropriate EPA Regional Office at the addresses listed in § 63.13. Such written certifications are not transferable by the transferee.
