
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.113 Process vent provisions - reference control technology.

(a) The owner or operator of a Group 1 process vent as defined in this subpart shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. The owner or operator who transfers a gas stream that has the characteristics specified in § 63.107 (b) through (h) or meets the criteria specified in § 63.107(i) to an off-site location or an on-site location not owned or operated by the owner or operator of the source for disposal shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (i) of this section.

(1) Reduce emissions of organic HAP using a flare.

(i) The flare shall comply with the requirements of § 63.11(b) of subpart A of this part.

(ii) Halogenated vent streams, as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart, shall not be vented to a flare.

(2) Reduce emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants by 98 weight-percent or to a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, whichever is less stringent. For combustion devices, the emission reduction or concentration shall be calculated on a dry basis, corrected to 3-percent oxygen, and compliance can be determined by measuring either organic hazardous air pollutants or total organic carbon using the procedures in § 63.116 of this subpart.

(i) Compliance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be achieved by using any combination of combustion, recovery, and/or recapture devices, except that a recovery device may not be used to comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section by reducing emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants by 98 weight-percent, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) An owner or operator may use a recovery device, alone or in combination with one or more combustion or recapture devices, to reduce emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants by 98 weight-percent if all the conditions of paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (a)(2)(ii)(D) of this section are met.

(A) The recovery device (and any combustion device or recapture device which operates in combination with the recovery device to reduce emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants by 98 weight-percent) was installed before the date of proposal of the subpart of this part 63 that makes this subpart G applicable to process vents in the chemical manufacturing process unit.

(B) The recovery device that will be used to reduce emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants by 98 weight-percent is the last recovery device before emission to the atmosphere.

(C) The recovery device, alone or in combination with one or more combustion or recapture devices, is capable of reducing emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants by 98 weight-percent, but is not capable of reliably reducing emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants to a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume.

(D) If the owner or operator disposed of the recovered material, the recovery device would comply with the requirements of this subpart for recapture devices.

(3) Achieve and maintain a TRE index value greater than 1.0 at the outlet of the final recovery device, or prior to release of the vent stream to the atmosphere if no recovery device is present. If the TRE index value is greater than 1.0, the process vent shall comply with the provisions for a Group 2 process vent specified in either paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, whichever is applicable.

(b) If a boiler or process heater is used to comply with the percent reduction requirement or concentration limit specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, then the vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of such a device.

(c) Halogenated vent streams from Group 1 process vents that are combusted shall be controlled according to paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) If a combustion device is used to comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section for a halogenated vent stream, then the gas stream exiting the combustion device shall be conveyed to a halogen reduction device, such as a scrubber, before it is discharged to the atmosphere.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the halogen reduction device shall reduce overall emissions of hydrogen halides and halogens, as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart, by 99 percent or shall reduce the outlet mass of total hydrogen halides and halogens to less than 0.45 kilogram per hour, whichever is less stringent.

(ii) If a scrubber or other halogen reduction device was installed prior to December 31, 1992, the device shall reduce overall emissions of hydrogen halides and halogens, as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart, by 95 percent or shall reduce the outlet mass of total hydrogen halides and halogens to less than 0.45 kilograms per hour, whichever is less stringent.

(2) A halogen reduction device, such as a scrubber or other technique, may be used to reduce the vent stream halogen atom mass emission rate to less than 0.45 kilogram per hour prior to any combustion control device, and thus make the vent stream nonhalogenated; the vent stream must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.

(d) The owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent having a flow rate greater than or equal to 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute, a HAP concentration greater than or equal to 50 parts per million by volume, and a TRE index value greater than 1.0 but less than or equal to 4.0 shall maintain a TRE index value greater than 1.0 and shall comply with the monitoring of recovery device parameters in § 63.114(b) or (c) of this subpart, the TRE index calculations of § 63.115 of this subpart, and the applicable reporting and recordkeeping provisions of §§ 63.117 and 63.118 of this subpart. Such owner or operator is not subject to any other provisions of §§ 63.114 through 63.118 of this subpart.

(e) The owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent with a TRE index value greater than 4.0 shall maintain a TRE index value greater than 4.0, comply with the provisions for calculation of a TRE index value in § 63.115 and the reporting and recordkeeping provisions in §§ 63.117(b) and 63.118(c) and (h), and is not subject to monitoring or any other provisions of §§ 63.114 through 63.118.

(f) The owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent with a flow rate less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute shall maintain a flow rate less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute; comply with the Group determination procedures in § 63.115 (a), (b), and (e) of this subpart; and the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in § 63.117(c) of this subpart, § 63.118(d) of this subpart, and § 63.118(i) of this subpart; and is not subject to monitoring or any other provisions of §§ 63.114 through 63.118 of this subpart.

(g) The owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent with a total organic HAP concentration less than 50 parts per million by volume shall maintain a total organic HAP concentration less than 50 parts per million by volume; comply with the Group determination procedures in § 63.115(a), (c), and (e); the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in §§ 63.117(d) and 63.118(e) and (j); and is not subject to monitoring or any other provisions of §§ 63.114 through 63.118.

(h) The owner or operator of a process vent complying with paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is not required to perform the group determination described in § 63.115 of this subpart.
