
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.115 Process vent provisions - methods and procedures for process vent group determination.
####### 4

() Any other method or data that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 of appendix A of this part.

(B) The following equation shall be used to calculate the mass emission rate of halogen atoms:

(3) The owner or operator shall calculate the TRE index value of the vent stream using the equations and procedures in this paragraph.

(i) The equation for calculating the TRE index for a vent stream controlled by a flare or incinerator is as follows:

(ii) The owner or operator of a nonhalogenated vent stream shall calculate the TRE index value based on the use of a flare, a thermal incinerator with 0 percent heat recovery, and a thermal incinerator with 70 percent heat recovery and shall select the lowest TRE index value. The owner or operator shall use the applicable coefficients in table 1 of this subpart for nonhalogenated vent streams located within existing sources and the applicable coefficients in table 2 of this subpart for nonhalogenated vent streams located within new sources.

(iii) The owner or operator of a halogenated vent stream shall calculate the TRE index value based on the use of a thermal incinerator with 0 percent heat recovery, and a scrubber. The owner or operator shall use the applicable coefficients in table 1 of this subpart for halogenated vent streams located within existing sources and the applicable coefficients in table 2 of this subpart for halogenated vent streams located within new sources.

(e) The owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent shall recalculate the TRE index value, flow, or organic hazardous air pollutants concentration for each process vent, as necessary to determine whether the vent is Group 1 or Group 2, whenever process changes are made that could reasonably be expected to change the vent to a Group 1 vent. Examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, changes in production capacity, production rate, feedstock type, or catalyst type, or whenever there is replacement, removal, or addition of recovery equipment. For purposes of this paragraph, process changes do not include: Process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; and changes that are within the range on which the original TRE calculation was based.

(1) The TRE index value, flow rate, or organic HAP concentration shall be recalculated based on measurements of vent stream flow rate, TOC, and organic HAP concentrations, and heating values as specified in § 63.115 (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this subpart, as applicable, or on best engineering assessment of the effects of the change. Engineering assessments shall meet the specifications in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(2) Where the recalculated TRE index value is less than or equal to 1.0, or less than or equal to 4.0 but greater than 1.0, the recalculated flow rate is greater than or equal to 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute, or the recalculated concentration is greater than or equal to 50 parts per million by volume, the owner or operator shall submit a report as specified in § 63.118 (g), (h), (i), or (j) of this subpart and shall comply with the appropriate provisions in § 63.113 of this subpart by the dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part.

(f) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subpart, in any case where a process vent includes one or more gas streams that are not from a source subject to this subpart (hereafter called "non-HON streams" for purposes of this paragraph), and one or more gas streams that meet the criteria in § 63.107(b) through (h) or the criteria in § 63.107(i) (hereafter called "HON streams" for purposes of this paragraph), the owner or operator may elect to comply with paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator may determine the characteristics (flow rate, total organic HAP concentration, and TRE index value) for each HON stream, or combination of HON streams, at a representative point as near as practical to, but before, the point at which it is combined with one or more non-HON streams.

(2) If one or more of the HON streams, or combinations of HON streams, has the characteristics (determined at the location specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section) associated with a Group 1 process vent, the combined vent stream is a Group 1 process vent. Except as specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, if none of the HON streams, or combinations of HON streams, when determined at the location specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, has the characteristics associated with a Group 1 process vent, the combined vent stream is a Group 2 process vent regardless of the TRE index value determined at the location specified in § 63.115(a). If the combined vent stream is a Group 2 process vent as determined by the previous sentence, but one or more of the HON streams, or combinations of HON streams, has a TRE index value greater than 1 but less than or equal to 4, the combined vent stream is a process vent with a TRE index value greater than 1 but less than or equal to 4. In this case, the owner or operator shall monitor the combined vent stream as required by § 63.114(b).

(3) Paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section are not intended to apply instead of any other subpart of this part. If another subpart of this part applies to one or more of the non-HON streams contributing to the combined vent stream, that subpart may impose emission control requirements such as, but not limited to, requiring the combined vent stream to be classified and controlled as a Group 1 process vent.
