
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### ยง 63.115 Process vent provisions - methods and procedures for process vent group determination.

(a) For purposes of determining vent stream flow rate, total organic HAP or total organic carbon concentration or TRE index value, as specified under paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section, the sampling site shall be after the last recovery device (if any recovery devices are present) but prior to the inlet of any control device that is present and prior to release to the atmosphere.

(1) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling site.

(2) No traverse site selection method is needed for vents smaller than 0.10 meter in diameter.

(b) To demonstrate that a vent stream flow rate is less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute in accordance with the Group 2 process vent definition of this subpart, the owner or operator shall measure flow rate by the following procedures:

(1) The sampling site shall be selected as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) The gas volumetric flow rate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.

(c) Each owner or operator seeking to demonstrate that a vent stream has an organic HAP concentration below 50 parts per million by volume in accordance with the Group 2 process vent definition of this subpart shall measure either total organic HAP or TOC concentration using the following procedures:

(1) The sampling site shall be selected as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Method 18 or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used to measure concentration; alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of this part may be used.

(3) Where Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is used, the following procedures shall be used to calculate parts per million by volume concentration:

(i) The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15 minute intervals during the run.

(ii) The concentration of either TOC (minus methane and ethane) or organic HAP shall be calculated according to paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) or (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section as applicable.

(A) The TOC concentration (C) is the sum of the concentrations of the individual components and shall be computed for each run using the following equation:

(B) The total organic HAP concentration (C) shall be computed according to the equation in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section except that only the organic HAP species shall be summed. The list of organic HAP's is provided in table 2 of subpart F of this part.

(4) Where Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is used, the following procedures shall be used to calculate parts per million by volume TOC concentration:

(i) Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used only if a single organic HAP compound is greater than 50 percent of total organic HAP, by volume, in the vent stream.

(ii) The vent stream composition may be determined by either process knowledge, test data collected using an appropriate EPA method, or a method or data validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of this part. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current vent stream conditions.

(iii) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be the single organic HAP compound present at greater than 50 percent of the total organic HAP by volume.

(iv) The span value for Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be 50 parts per million by volume.

(v) Use of Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(vi) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the concentration of TOC including methane and ethane measured by Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is below 25 parts per million by volume to be considered a Group 2 vent with an organic HAP concentration below 50 parts per million by volume and to qualify for the low concentration exclusion in ยง 63.113(g) of this subpart.

(d) To determine the TRE index value, the owner or operator shall conduct a TRE determination and calculate the TRE index value according to the procedures in paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section and the TRE equation in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(1) Engineering assessment may be used to determine vent stream flow rate, net heating value, TOC emission rate, and total organic HAP emission rate for the representative operating condition expected to yield the lowest TRE index value.

(i) If the TRE value calculated using such engineering assessment and the TRE equation in paragraph (d)(3) of this section is greater than 4.0, then the owner or operator is not required to perform the measurements specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(ii) If the TRE value calculated using such engineering assessment and the TRE equation in paragraph (d)(3) of this section is less than or equal to 4.0, then the owner or operator is required to perform the measurements specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section for group determination or consider the process vent a Group 1 vent and comply with the emission reduction specified in ยง 63.113(a) of this subpart.

(iii) Engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(A) Previous test results provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit.

(B) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.

(C) Maximum flow rate, TOC emission rate, organic HAP emission rate, or net heating value limit specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.

(D) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:
