
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### ยง 63.115 Process vent provisions - methods and procedures for process vent group determination.
####### 4

() Estimation of maximum expected net heating value based on the vent stream concentration of each organic compound or, alternatively, as if all TOC in the vent stream were the compound with the highest heating value.

(E) All data, assumptions, and procedures used in the engineering assessment shall be documented.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, vent stream flow rate, net heating value, TOC emission rate, and total organic HAP emission rate shall be measured and calculated according to the procedures in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (v) of this section and used as input to the TRE index value calculation in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(i) The vent stream volumetric flow rate (Q), in standard cubic meters per minute at 20 degrees Celcius, shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate. If the vent stream tested passes through a final steam jet ejector and is not condensed, the vent stream volumetric flow shall be corrected to 2.3 percent moisture.

(ii) The molar composition of the vent stream, which is used to calculate net heating value, shall be determined using the following methods:

(A) Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to measure the concentration of each organic compound.

(B) American Society for Testing and Materials D1946-77 to measure the concentration of carbon monoxide and hydrogen.

(C) Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, to measure the moisture content of the vent stream.

(iii) The net heating value of the vent stream shall be calculated using the following equation:

(iv) The emission rate of TOC (minus methane and ethane) (E) and the emission rate of total organic HAP (E) in the vent stream shall both be calculated using the following equation:

(v) In order to determine whether a vent stream is halogenated, the mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds shall be calculated.

(A) The vent stream concentration of each organic compound containing halogen atoms (parts per million by volume, by compound) shall be determined based on the following procedures:
