
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.123 Storage vessel provisions - recordkeeping.

(a) Each owner or operator of a Group 1 or Group 2 storage vessel shall keep readily accessible records showing the dimensions of the storage vessel and an analysis showing the capacity of the storage vessel. This record shall be kept as long as the storage vessel retains Group 1 or Group 2 status and is in operation. For each Group 2 storage vessel, the owner or operator is not required to comply with any other provisions of §§ 63.119 through 63.123 of this subpart other than those required by this paragraph unless such vessel is part of an emissions average as described in § 63.150 of this subpart.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(b) of this subpart shall keep a record that each inspection required by § 63.120(a) of this subpart was performed.

(d) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(c) of this subpart shall keep records describing the results of each seal gap measurement made in accordance with § 63.120(b) of this subpart. The records shall include the date of the measurement, the raw data obtained in the measurement, and the calculations described in § 63.120(b) (3) and (4) of this subpart.

(e) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(d) of this subpart shall keep a record that each inspection required by § 63.120 (a) and (c) of this subpart was performed.

(f) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(e) of this subpart shall keep in a readily accessible location the records specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.

(1) A record of the measured values of the parameters monitored in accordance with § 63.120(d)(5) of this subpart.

(2) A record of the planned routine maintenance performed on the control device including the duration of each time the control device does not meet the specifications of § 63.119 (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this subpart, as applicable, due to the planned routine maintenance. Such a record shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) The first time of day and date the requirements of § 63.119 (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this subpart, as applicable, were not met at the beginning of the planned routine maintenance, and

(ii) The first time of day and date the requirements of § 63.119 (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this subpart, as applicable, were met at the conclusion of the planned routine maintenance.

(g) An owner or operator who elects to utilize an extension in emptying a storage vessel in accordance with § 63.120 (a)(4), (b)(7)(ii), or (b)(8) of this subpart shall keep in a readily accessible location, the documentation specified in § 63.120 (a)(4), (b)(7)(ii), or (b)(8), as applicable.

(h) An owner or operator who uses the by-pass provisions of § 63.119(f)(3) of this subpart shall keep in a readily accessible location the records specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(3) of this section.

(1) The reason it was necessary to by-pass the process equipment or fuel gas system;

(2) The duration of the period when the process equipment or fuel gas system was by-passed;

(3) Documentation or certification of compliance with the applicable provisions of § 63.119(f)(3)(i) through § 63.119(f)(3)(iii).

(i) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(g) shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) A record of the U.S. Department of Transportation certification required by § 63.119(g)(2).

(2) A record of the pressure relief vent setting specified in § 63.119(g)(5).

(3) If complying with § 63.119(g)(6)(ii), keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) A record of the equipment to be used and the procedures to be followed when reloading the railcar, tank truck, or barge and displacing vapors to the storage tank from which the liquid originates.

(ii) A record of each time the vapor balancing system is used to comply with § 63.119(g)(6)(ii).
