
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.118 Process vent provisions - periodic reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator using a control device to comply with § 63.113 (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this subpart shall keep the following records up-to-date and readily accessible:

(1) Continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.114(a) of this subpart and listed in table 3 of this subpart or specified by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.114(c) and § 63.117(e) of this subpart. For flares, the hourly records and records of pilot flame outages specified in table 3 of this subpart shall be maintained in place of continuous records.

(2) Records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.152(f). For flares, records of the times and duration of all periods during which all pilot flames are absent shall be kept rather than daily averages.

(3) Hourly records of whether the flow indicator specified under § 63.114(d)(1) was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour, as well as records of the times and durations of all periods when the gas stream is diverted to the atmosphere or the monitor is not operating.

(4) Where a seal mechanism is used to comply with § 63.114(d)(2) of this subpart, hourly records of flow are not required. In such cases, the owner or operator shall record that the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanism has been done, and shall record the duration of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has broken.

(b) Each owner or operator using a recovery device or other means to achieve and maintain a TRE index value greater than 1.0 but less than 4.0 as specified in § 63.113(a)(3) or § 63.113(d) of this subpart shall keep the following records up-to-date and readily accessible:

(1) Continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.114(b) of this subpart and listed in table 4 of this subpart or specified by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.114(c) of this subpart and § 63.114(e) of this subpart and

(2) Records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.152(f). If carbon adsorber regeneration stream flow and carbon bed regeneration temperature are monitored, the records specified in table 4 of this subpart shall be kept instead of the daily averages.

(c) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart and who elects to demonstrate compliance with the TRE index value greater than 4.0 under § 63.113(e) of this subpart or greater than 1.0 under § 63.113(a)(3) or § 63.113(d) of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of:

(1) Any process changes as defined in § 63.115(e) of this subpart; and

(2) Any recalculation of the TRE index value pursuant to § 63.115(e) of this subpart.

(d) Each owner or operator who elects to comply by maintining a flow rate less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute under § 63.113(f) of this subpart, shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of:

(1) Any process changes as defined in § 63.115(e) of this subpart that increase the vent stream flow rate,

(2) Any recalculation or measurement of the flow rate pursuant to § 63.115(e) of this subpart, and

(3) If the flow rate increases to 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute or greater as a result of the process change, the TRE determination performed according to the procedures of § 63.115(d) of this subpart.

(e) Each owner or operator who elects to comply by maintaining an organic HAP concentration less than 50 parts per million by volume organic HAP concentration under § 63.113(g) of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of:

(1) Any process changes as defined in § 63.115(e) that increase the organic HAP concentration of the vent stream,

(2) Any recalculation or measurement of the concentration pursuant to § 63.115(e) of this subpart, and

(3) If the organic HAP concentration increases to 50 parts per million by volume or greater as a result of the process change, the TRE determination performed according to the procedures of § 63.115(d) of this subpart.

(f) Each owner or operator who elects to comply with the requirements of § 63.113 of this subpart shall submit to the Administrator Periodic Reports of the following recorded information according to the schedule in § 63.152 of this subpart.

(1) Reports of daily average values of monitored parameters for all operating days when the daily average values recorded under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section were outside the ranges established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit.

(2) For Group 1 points, reports of the duration of periods when monitoring data is not collected for each excursion caused by insufficient monitoring data as defined in § 63.152(c)(2)(ii)(A) of this subpart.

(3) Reports of the times and durations of all periods recorded under paragraph (a)(3) of this section when the gas stream is diverted to the atmosphere through a bypass line.

(4) Reports of all periods recorded under paragraph (a)(4) of this section in which the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key to unlock the bypass line valve was checked out.

(5) Reports of the times and durations of all periods recorded under paragraph (a)(2) of this section in which all pilot flames of a flare were absent.

(6) Reports of all carbon bed regeneration cycles during which the parameters recorded under paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section were outside the ranges established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit.

(g) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e) of this subpart, is made that causes a Group 2 process vent to become a Group 1 process vent, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 calendar days after the process change as specified in § 63.151(j) of this subpart. The report shall include:

(1) A description of the process change;

(2) The results of the recalculation of the flow rate, organic HAP concentration, and TRE index value required under § 63.115(e) of this subpart and recorded under paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of this section; and

(3) A statement that the owner or operator will comply with the provisions of § 63.113 of this subpart for Group 1 process vents by the dates specified in subpart F of this part.

(h) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e) of this subpart, is made that causes a Group 2 process vent with a TRE greater than 4.0 to become a Group 2 process vent with a TRE less than 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 calendar days after the process change. The report may be submitted as part of the next periodic report. The report shall include:

(1) A description of the process change,

(2) The results of the recalculation of the TRE index value required under § 63.115(e) of this subpart and recorded under paragraph (c) of this section, and

(3) A statement that the owner or operator will comply with the requirements specified in § 63.113(d) of this subpart.

(i) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e) of this subpart, is made that causes a Group 2 process vent with a flow rate less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute to become a Group 2 process vent with a flow rate of 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute or greater and a TRE index value less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 calendar days after the process change. The report may be submitted as part of the next periodic report. The report shall include:

(1) A description of the process change,

(2) The results of the recalculation of the flow rate and the TRE determination required under § 63.115(e) of this subpart and recorded under paragraph (d) of this section, and

(3) A statement that the owner or operator will comply with the requirements specified in § 63.113(d) of this subpart.

(j) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e) of this subpart, is made that causes a Group 2 process vent with an organic HAP concentration less than 50 parts per million by volume to become a Group 2 process vent with an organic HAP concentration of 50 parts per million by volume or greater and a TRE index value less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 calendar days after the process change. The report may be submitted as part of the next periodic report. The report shall include:

(1) A description of the process change,

(2) The results of the recalculation of the organic HAP concentration and the TRE determination required under § 63.115(e) of this subpart and recorded under paragraph (e) of this section, and

(3) A statement that the owner or operator will comply with the requirements specified in § 63.113(d) of this subpart.

(k) The owner or operator is not required to submit a report of a process change if one of the conditions listed in paragraph (k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(3), or (k)(4) of this section is met.

(1) The process change does not meet the definition of a process change in § 63.115(e) of this subpart, or

(2) The vent stream flow rate is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) of this subpart and the recalculated value is less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute, or

(3) The organic HAP concentration of the vent stream is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) of this subpart and the recalculated value is less than 50 parts per million by volume, or

(4) The TRE index value is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) of this subpart and the recalculated value is greater than 4.0.
