
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.122 Storage vessel provisions - reporting.

(a) For each Group 1 storage vessel, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall submit an Initial Notification as required by § 63.151(b) of this subpart.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The owner or operator shall submit a Notification of Compliance Status as required by § 63.152(b) of this subpart and shall submit as part of the Notification of Compliance Status the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) The owner or operator shall submit Periodic Reports as required by § 63.152(c) of this subpart and shall submit as part of the Periodic Reports the information specified in paragraphs (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this section.

(5) The owner or operator shall submit, as applicable, other reports as required by § 63.152(d) of this subpart, containing the information specified in paragraph (h) of this section.

(b) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(e) of this subpart by using a closed vent system and a control device other than a flare shall submit, as part of the Monitoring Plan, the information specified in § 63.120(d)(2)(i) of this subpart and the information specified in either § 63.120(d)(2)(ii) of this subpart or § 63.120(d)(2)(iii) of this subpart.

(c) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(e) of this subpart by using a closed vent system and a control device shall submit, as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.152(b) of this subpart, the information specified in either paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section. An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(f) of this subpart by routing emissions to a process or to a fuel gas system shall submit, as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.152(b) of this subpart, the information specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(1) If a control device other than a flare is used, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.120(d)(3)(i) and, if applicable, (d)(3)(ii) of this subpart.

(2) If a flare is used, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.120(e)(2)(i), (e)(2)(ii), and (e)(2)(iii) of this subpart.

(3) If emissions are routed to a process, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.120(f). If emissions are routed to a fuel gas system, the owner or operator shall submit a statement that the emission stream is connected to the fuel gas system and whether the conveyance system is subject to the requirements of § 63.148.

(d) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(b) of this subpart by using a fixed roof and an internal floating roof or with § 63.119(d) of this subpart by using an external floating roof converted to an internal floating roof shall submit, as part of the Periodic Report required under § 63.152(c) of this subpart, the results of each inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.120(a) of this subpart in which a failure is detected in the control equipment.

(1) For vessels for which annual inspections are required under § 63.120 (a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(ii) of this subpart, the specifications and requirements listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iii) of this section apply.

(i) A failure is defined as any time in which the internal floating roof is not resting on the surface of the liquid inside the storage vessel and is not resting on the leg supports; or there is liquid on the floating roof; or the seal is detached from the internal floating roof; or there are holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or seal fabric; or there are visible gaps between the seal and the wall of the storage vessel.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, each Periodic Report shall include the date of the inspection, identification of each storage vessel in which a failure was detected, and a description of the failure. The Periodic Report shall also describe the nature of and date the repair was made or the date the storage vessel was emptied.

(iii) If an extension is utilized in accordance with § 63.120(a)(4) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall, in the next Periodic Report, identify the vessel; include the documentation specified in § 63.120(a)(4) of this subpart; and describe the date the storage vessel was emptied and the nature of and date the repair was made.

(2) For vessels for which inspections are required under § 63.120 (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3)(i), or (a)(3)(iii) of this subpart, the specifications and requirements listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section apply.

(i) A failure is defined as any time in which the internal floating roof has defects; or the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric; or the secondary seal (if one has been installed) has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric; or the gaskets no longer close off the liquid surface from the atmosphere; or the slotted membrane has more than 10 percent open area.

(ii) Each Periodic Report required under § 63.152(c) of this subpart shall include the date of the inspection, identification of each storage vessel in which a failure was detected, and a description of the failure. The Periodic Report shall also describe the nature of and date the repair was made.

(e) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(c) of this subpart by using an external floating roof shall meet the periodic reporting requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), and (e)(3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall submit, as part of the Periodic Report required under § 63.152(c) of this subpart, documentation of the results of each seal gap measurement made in accordance with § 63.120(b) of this subpart in which the requirements of § 63.120 (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(5), or (b)(6) of this subpart are not met. This documentation shall include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iv) of this section.

(i) The date of the seal gap measurement.

(ii) The raw data obtained in the seal gap measurement and the calculations described in § 63.120 (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this subpart.

(iii) A description of any condition specified in § 63.120 (b)(5) or (b)(6) of this subpart that is not met.

(iv) A description of the nature of and date the repair was made, or the date the storage vessel was emptied.

(2) If an extension is utilized in accordance with § 63.120(b)(7)(ii) or (b)(8) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall, in the next Periodic Report, identify the vessel; include the documentation specified in § 63.120(b)(7)(ii) or (b)(8) of this subpart, as applicable; and describe the date the vessel was emptied and the nature of and date the repair was made.

(3) The owner or operator shall submit, as part of the Periodic Report required under § 63.152(c) of this subpart, documentation of any failures that are identified during visual inspections required by § 63.120(b)(10) of this subpart. This documentation shall meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (e)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) A failure is defined as any time in which the external floating roof has defects; or the primary seal has holes, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric; or the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric; or the gaskets no longer close off the liquid surface from the atmosphere; or the slotted membrane has more than 10 percent open area.

(ii) Each Periodic Report required under § 63.152(c) of this subpart shall include the date of the inspection, identification of each storage vessel in which a failure was detected, and a description of the failure. The periodic report shall also describe the nature of and date the repair was made.

(f) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(d) of this subpart by using an external floating roof converted to an internal floating roof shall comply with the periodic reporting requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.

(g) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(e) of this subpart by installing a closed vent system and control device shall submit, as part of the next Periodic Report required by § 63.152(c) of this subpart, the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(3) of this section.

(1) As required by § 63.120(d)(4) and § 63.120(e)(3) of this subpart, the Periodic Report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (g)(1)(ii) of this section for those planned routine maintenance operations that would require the control device not to meet the requirements of § 63.119 (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this subpart, as applicable.

(i) A description of the planned routine maintenance that is anticipated to be performed for the control device during the next 6 months. This description shall include the type of maintenance necessary, planned frequency of maintenance, and lengths of maintenance periods.

(ii) A description of the planned routine maintenance that was performed for the control device during the previous 6 months. This description shall include the type of maintenance performed and the total number of hours during those 6 months that the control device did not meet the requirements of § 63.119 (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this subpart, as applicable, due to planned routine maintenance.

(2) If a control device other than a flare is used, the Periodic Report shall describe each occurrence when the monitored parameters were outside of the parameter ranges documented in the Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.120(d)(3)(i) of this subpart. The description shall include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) Identification of the control device for which the measured parameters were outside of the established ranges, and

(ii) Cause for the measured parameters to be outside of the established ranges.

(3) If a flare is used, the Periodic Report shall describe each occurrence when the flare does not meet the general control device requirements specified in § 63.11(b) of subpart A of this part and shall include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) and (g)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) Identification of the flare which does not meet the general requirements specified in § 63.11(b) of subpart A of this part, and

(ii) Reason the flare did not meet the general requirements specified in § 63.11(b) of subpart A of this part.

(h) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119 (b), (c), or (d) of this subpart shall submit, as applicable, the reports specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section.

(1) In order to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the refilling of a storage vessel that has been emptied and degassed.

(i) If the storage vessel is equipped with an internal floating roof as specified in § 63.119(b) of this subpart, the notification shall meet the requirements of either § 63.120 (a)(5) or (a)(6) of this subpart, as applicable.

(ii) If the storage vessel is equipped with an external floating roof as specified in § 63.119(c) of this subpart, the notification shall meet the requirements of either § 63.120 (b)(10)(ii) or (b)(10)(iii) of this subpart, as applicable.

(iii) If the storage vessel is equipped with an external floating roof converted into an internal floating roof as specified in § 63.119(d) of this subpart, the notification shall meet the requirements of either § 63.120 (a)(5) or (a)(6) of this subpart, as applicable.

(2) In order to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present, the owner or operator of a storage vessel equipped with an external floating roof as specified in § 63.119(c) of this subpart shall notify the Administrator of any seal gap measurements. This notification shall meet the requirements of § 63.120(b)(9) of this subpart.
