
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.119 Storage vessel provisions - reference control technology.

(a) For each storage vessel to which this subpart applies, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of this section according to the schedule provisions of § 63.100 of subpart F of this part.

(1) For each Group 1 storage vessel (as defined in table 5 of this subpart for existing sources and table 6 of the subpart for new sources) storing a liquid for which the maximum true vapor pressure of the total organic hazardous air pollutants in the liquid is less than 76.6 kilopascals, the owner or operator shall reduce hazardous air pollutants emissions to the atmosphere either by operating and maintaining a fixed roof and internal floating roof, an external floating roof, an external floating roof converted to an internal floating roof, a closed vent system and control device, routing the emissions to a process or a fuel gas system, or vapor balancing in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), or (g) of this section, or equivalent as provided in § 63.121 of this subpart.

(2) For each Group 1 storage vessel (as defined in table 5 of this subpart for existing sources and table 6 of this subpart for new sources) storing a liquid for which the maximum true vapor pressure of the total organic hazardous air pollutants in the liquid is greater than or equal to 76.6 kilopascals, the owner or operator shall operate and maintain a closed vent system and control device meeting the requirements specified in paragraph (e) of this section, route the emissions to a process or a fuel gas system as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, vapor balance as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, or equivalent as provided in § 63.121 of this subpart.

(3) For each Group 2 storage vessel that is not part of an emissions average as described in § 63.150 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirement in § 63.123(a) of this subpart and is not required to comply with any other provisions in §§ 63.119 through 63.123 of this subpart.

(4) For each Group 2 storage vessel that is part of an emissions average, the owner or operator shall comply with the emissions averaging provisions in § 63.150 of this subpart.

(b) The owner or operator who elects to use a fixed roof and an internal floating roof, as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart, to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section.

(1) The internal floating roof shall be floating on the liquid surface at all times except when the floating roof must be supported by the leg supports during the periods specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iii) of this section.

(i) During the initial fill.

(ii) After the vessel has been completely emptied and degassed.

(iii) When the vessel is completely emptied before being subsequently refilled.

(2) When the floating roof is resting on the leg supports, the process of filling, emptying, or refilling shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as soon as practical.

(3) Each internal floating roof shall be equipped with a closure device between the wall of the storage vessel and the roof edge. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, the closure device shall consist of one of the devices listed in paragraph (b)(3)(i), (b)(3)(ii), or (b)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) A liquid-mounted seal as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart.

(ii) A metallic shoe seal as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart.

(iii) Two seals mounted one above the other so that each forms a continuous closure that completely covers the space between the wall of the storage vessel and the edge of the internal floating roof. The lower seal may be vapor- mounted, but both must be continuous seals.

(iv) If the internal floating roof is equipped with a vapor-mounted seal as of December 31, 1992, the requirement for one of the seal options specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i), (b)(3)(ii), and (b)(3)(iii) of this section does not apply until the earlier of the dates specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(iv)(A) and (b)(3)(iv)(B) of this section.

(A) The next time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed.

(B) No later than 10 years after April 22, 1994.

(4) Automatic bleeder vents are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating, except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(viii) of this section, each internal floating roof shall meet the specifications listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(vii) of this section.

(i) Each opening in a noncontact internal floating roof except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and rim space vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface.

(ii) Each opening in the internal floating roof except for leg sleeves, automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, column wells, ladder wells, sample wells, and stub drains shall be equipped with a cover or lid. The cover or lid shall be equipped with a gasket.

(iii) Each penetration of the internal floating roof for the purposes of sampling shall be a sample well. Each sample well shall have a slit fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the opening.

(iv) Each automatic bleeder vent shall be gasketed.

(v) Each rim space vent shall be gasketed.

(vi) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a ladder shall have a gasketed sliding cover.

(vii) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a column supporting the fixed roof shall have a flexible fabric sleeve seal or a gasketed sliding cover.

(viii) If the internal floating roof does not meet any one of the specifications listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(vii) of this section as of December 31, 1992, the requirement for meeting those specifications does not apply until the earlier of the dates specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(viii)(A) and (b)(5)(viii)(B) of this section.

(A) The next time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed.

(B) No later than 10 years after April 22, 1994.

(6) Each cover or lid on any opening in the internal floating roof shall be closed (i.e., no visible gaps), except when the cover or lid must be open for access. Covers on each access hatch and each gauge float well shall be bolted or fastened so as to be air-tight when they are closed. Rim space vents are to be set to open only when the internal floating roof is not floating or when the pressure beneath the rim seal exceeds the manufacturer's recommended setting.

(c) The owner or operator who elects to use an external floating roof, as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart, to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section.

(1) Each external floating roof shall be equipped with a closure device between the wall of the storage vessel and the roof edge.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, the closure device is to consist of two seals, one above the other. The lower seal is referred to as the primary seal and the upper seal is referred to as the secondary seal.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section, the primary seal shall be either a metallic shoe seal or a liquid-mounted seal.

(iii) Except during the inspections required by § 63.120(b) of this subpart, both the primary seal and the secondary seal shall completely cover the annular space between the external floating roof and the wall of the storage vessel in a continuous fashion.

(iv) If the external floating roof is equipped with a liquid-mounted or metallic shoe primary seal as of December 31, 1992, the requirement for a secondary seal in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section does not apply until the earlier of the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(A) and (c)(1)(iv)(B) of this section.

(A) The next time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed.

(B) No later than 10 years after April 22, 1994.

(v) If the external floating roof is equipped with a vapor-mounted primary seal and a secondary seal as of December 31, 1992, the requirement for a liquid-mounted or metallic shoe primary seal in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section does not apply until the earlier of the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(v)(A) and (c)(1)(v)(B) of this section.

(A) The next time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed.

(B) No later than 10 years after April 22, 1994.

(2) Each external floating roof shall meet the specifications listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(xii) of this section.

(i) Except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and rim space vents, each opening in the noncontact external floating roof shall provide a projection below the liquid surface except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(xii) of this section.

(ii) Except for automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, roof drains, and leg sleeves, each opening in the roof is to be equipped with a gasketed cover, seal or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position (i.e., no visible gap) at all times except when the cover or lid must be open for access. Covers on each access hatch and each gauge float well shall be bolted or fastened so as to be air-tight when they are closed.

(iii) Automatic bleeder vents are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating, except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports.

(iv) Rim space vents are to be set to open only when the roof is being floated off the roof leg supports or when the pressure beneath the rim seal exceeds the manufacturer's recommended setting.

(v) Automatic bleeder vents and rim space vents are to be gasketed.

(vi) Each roof drain that empties into the stored liquid is to be provided with a slotted membrane fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the area of the opening.

(vii) Each unslotted guide pole well shall have a gasketed sliding cover or a flexible fabric sleeve seal.

(viii) Each unslotted guide pole shall have on the end of the pole a gasketed cap which is closed at all times except when gauging the liquid level or taking liquid samples.

(ix) Each slotted guide pole well shall have a gasketed sliding cover or a flexible fabric sleeve seal.

(x) Each slotted guide pole shall have a gasketed float or other device which closes off the liquid surface from the atmosphere.

(xi) Each gauge hatch/sample well shall have a gasketed cover which is closed at all times except when the hatch or well must be open for access.

(xii) If each opening in a noncontact external floating roof except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and rim space vents does not provide a projection below the liquid surface as of December 31, 1992, the requirement for providing these projections below the liquid surface does not apply until the earlier of the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(xii)(A) and (c)(2)(xii)(B) of this section.

(A) The next time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed.

(B) No later than 10 years after April 22, 1994.

(3) The external floating roof shall be floating on the liquid surface at all times except when the floating roof must be supported by the leg supports during the periods specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (c)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) During the initial fill.

(ii) After the vessel has been completely emptied and degassed.

(iii) When the vessel is completely emptied before being subsequently refilled.

(4) When the floating roof is resting on the leg supports, the process of filling, emptying, or refilling shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as soon as practical.

(d) The owner or operator who elects to use an external floating roof converted to an internal floating roof (i.e., fixed roof installed above external floating roof) to comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall comply with paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.

(1) Comply with the requirements for internal floating roof vessels specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section; and

(2) Comply with the requirements for deck fittings that are specified for external floating roof vessels in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(xii) of this section.

(e) The owner or operator who elects to use a closed vent system and control device, as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart, to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(5) of this section.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the control device shall be designed and operated to reduce inlet emissions of total organic HAP by 95 percent or greater. If a flare is used as the control device, it shall meet the specifications described in the general control device requirements of § 63.11(b) of subpart A of this part.

(2) If the owner or operator can demonstrate that a control device installed on a storage vessel on or before December 31, 1992 is designed to reduce inlet emissions of total organic HAP by greater than or equal to 90 percent but less than 95 percent, then the control device is required to be operated to reduce inlet emissions of total organic HAP by 90 percent or greater.

(3) Periods of planned routine maintenance of the control device, during which the control device does not meet the specifications of paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section, as applicable, shall not exceed 240 hours per year.

(4) The specifications and requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section for control devices do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance.

(5) The specifications and requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section for control devices do not apply during a control system malfunction.

(6) An owner or operator may use a combination of control devices to achieve the required reduction of total organic hazardous air pollutants specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. An owner or operator may use a combination of control devices installed on a storage vessel on or before December 31, 1992 to achieve the required reduction of total organic hazardous air pollutants specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(f) The owner or operator who elects to route emissions to a fuel gas system or to a process, as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart, to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section, as applicable.

(1) If emissions are routed to a fuel gas system, there is no requirement to conduct a performance test or design evaluation. If emissions are routed to a process, the organic hazardous air pollutants in the emissions shall predominantly meet one of, or a combination of, the ends specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iv) of this section. The owner or operator shall comply with the compliance demonstration requirements in § 63.120(f).

(i) Recycled and/or consumed in the same manner as a material that fulfills the same function in that process;

(ii) Transformed by chemical reaction into materials that are not organic hazardous air pollutants;

(iii) Incorporated into a product; and/or

(iv) Recovered.

(2) If the emissions are conveyed by a system other than hard-piping, any conveyance system operated under positive pressure shall be subject to the requirements of § 63.148 of this subpart.

(3) The fuel gas system or process shall be operating at all times when organic hazardous air pollutants emissions are routed to it except as provided in § 63.102(a)(1) of subpart F of this part and in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (f)(3)(iii) of this section. Whenever the owner or operator by-passes the fuel gas system or process, the owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirement in § 63.123(h) of this subpart. Bypassing is permitted if the owner or operator complies with one or more of the conditions specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (f)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) The liquid level in the storage vessel is not increased;

(ii) The emissions are routed through a closed-vent system to a control device complying with § 63.119(e) of this subpart; or

(iii) The total aggregate amount of time during which the emissions by-pass the fuel gas system or process during the calendar year without being routed to a control device, for all reasons (except start-ups/shutdowns/malfunctions or product changeovers of flexible operation units and periods when the storage vessel has been emptied and degassed), does not exceed 240 hours.

(g) The owner or operator who elects to vapor balance to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section shall comply with paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section and the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.123(i).

(1) The vapor balancing system must be designed and operated to route organic HAP vapors displaced from loading of the storage tank to the railcar, tank truck, or barge from which the storage tank is filled.

(2) Tank trucks and railcars must have a current certification in accordance with the U.S. Department of Transportation pressure test requirements of 49 CFR part 180 for tank trucks and 49 CFR 173.31 for railcars. Barges must have a current certification of vapor-tightness through testing in accordance with 40 CFR 63.565.

(3) Hazardous air pollutants must only be unloaded from tank trucks or railcars when vapor collection systems are connected to the storage tank's vapor collection system.

(4) No pressure relief device on the storage tank, or on the railcar or tank truck, shall open during loading or as a result of diurnal temperature changes (breathing losses).

(5) Pressure relief devices must be set to no less than 2.5 psig at all times to prevent breathing losses. Pressure relief devices may be set at values less than 2.5 psig if the owner or operator provides rationale in the notification of compliance status report explaining why the alternative value is sufficient to prevent breathing losses at all times. The owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (g)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section for each pressure relief valve.

(i) The pressure relief valve shall be monitored quarterly using the method described in § 63.180(b).

(ii) An instrument reading of 500 ppmv or greater defines a leak.

(iii) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 days after it is detected, and the owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.181(d)(1) through (4).

(6) Railcars, tank trucks, or barges that deliver HAP to a storage tank must be reloaded or cleaned at a facility that utilizes the control techniques specified in paragraph (g)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The railcar, tank truck, or barge must be connected to a closed-vent system with a control device that reduces inlet emissions of HAP by 95 percent by weight or greater.

(ii) A vapor balancing system designed and operated to collect organic HAP vapor displaced from the tank truck, railcar, or barge during reloading must be used to route the collected HAP vapor to the storage tank from which the liquid being transferred originated.

(7) The owner or operator of the facility where the railcar, tank truck, or barge is reloaded or cleaned must comply with paragraphs (g)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Submit to the owner or operator of the storage tank and to the Administrator a written certification that the reloading or cleaning facility will meet the requirements of this section. The certifying entity may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to the owner or operator of the storage tank giving at least 90 days notice that the certifying entity is rescinding acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (g)(7).

(ii) If complying with paragraph (g)(6)(i) of this section, comply with the requirements for closed vent system and control device specified in §§ 63.119 through 63.123. The notification and reporting requirements in § 63.122 do not apply to the owner or operator of the offsite cleaning or reloading facility.

(iii) If complying with paragraph (g)(6)(ii) of this section, keep the records specified in § 63.123(i)(3).

(iv) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k) at an offsite reloading or cleaning facility subject to paragraph (g) of this section, compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions of any other subpart of this part 63 constitutes compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions of paragraph (g)(7)(ii) or paragraph (g)(7)(iii) of this section. You must identify in your Notification of Compliance Status report required by § 63.152(b), the subpart to the part 63 with which the owner or operator of the reloading or cleaning facility complies.
