
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.120 Storage vessel provisions - procedures to determine compliance.

(a) To demonstrate compliance with § 63.119(b) of this subpart (storage vessel equipped with a fixed roof and internal floating roof) or with § 63.119(d) of this subpart (storage vessel equipped with an external floating roof converted to an internal floating roof), the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, and the secondary seal (if one is in service), according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section.

(2) For vessels equipped with a single-seal system, the owner or operator shall perform the inspections specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) Visually inspect the internal floating roof and the seal through manholes and roof hatches on the fixed roof at least once every 12 months after initial fill, or at least once every 12 months after the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part.

(ii) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the seal, gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals (if any) each time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed, and at least once every 10 years after the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part.

(3) For vessels equipped with a double-seal system as specified in § 63.119(b)(3)(iii) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall perform either the inspection required in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section or the inspections required in both paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) and (a)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, the secondary seal, gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals (if any) each time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed and at least once every 5 years after the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part; or

(ii) The owner or operator shall visually inspect the internal floating roof and the secondary seal through manholes and roof hatches on the fixed roof at least once every 12 months after initial fill, or at least once every 12 months after the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, and

(iii) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, the secondary seal, gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals (if any) each time the vessel is emptied and degassed and at least once every 10 years after the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part.

(4) If during the inspections required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(ii) of this section, the internal floating roof is not resting on the surface of the liquid inside the storage vessel and is not resting on the leg supports; or there is liquid on the floating roof; or the seal is detached; or there are holes or tears in the seal fabric; or there are visible gaps between the seal and the wall of the storage vessel, the owner or operator shall repair the items or empty and remove the storage vessel from service within 45 calendar days. If a failure that is detected during inspections required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(ii) of this section cannot be repaired within 45 calendar days and if the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 calendar days, the owner or operator may utilize up to 2 extensions of up to 30 additional calendar days each. Documentation of a decision to utilize an extension shall include a description of the failure, shall document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable, and shall specify a schedule of actions that will ensure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel will be emptied as soon as practical.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, for all the inspections required by paragraphs (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3)(i), and (a)(3)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in writing at least 30 calendar days prior to the refilling of each storage vessel to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.

(6) If the inspection required by paragraph (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3)(i), or (a)(3)(iii) of this section is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 calendar days in advance of refilling the vessel, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 7 calendar days prior to the refilling of the storage vessel. Notification may be made by telephone and immediately followed by written documentation demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned. Alternatively, the notification including the written documentation may be made in writing and sent so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 calendar days prior to refilling.

(7) If during the inspections required by paragraph (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3)(i), or (a)(3)(iii) of this section, the internal floating roof has defects; or the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric; or the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric; or the gaskets no longer close off the liquid surface from the atmosphere; or the slotted membrane has more than 10 percent open area, the owner or operator shall repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph exist before refilling the storage vessel with organic HAP.

(b) To demonstrate compliance with § 63.119(c) of this subpart (storage vessel equipped with an external floating roof), the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(10) of this section.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(7) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine the gap areas and maximum gap widths between the primary seal and the wall of the storage vessel, and the secondary seal and the wall of the storage vessel according to the frequency specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iii) of this section.

(i) For an external floating roof vessel equipped with primary and secondary seals, measurements of gaps between the vessel wall and the primary seal shall be performed during the hydrostatic testing of the vessel or by the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, whichever occurs last, and at least once every 5 years thereafter.

(ii) For an external floating roof vessel equipped with a liquid-mounted or metallic shoe primary seal and without a secondary seal as provided for in § 63.119(c)(1)(iv) of this subpart, measurements of gaps between the vessel wall and the primary seal shall be performed by the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part and at least once per year thereafter, until a secondary seal is installed. When a secondary seal is installed above the primary seal, measurements of gaps between the vessel wall and both the primary and secondary seals shall be performed within 90 calendar days of installation of the secondary seal, and according to the frequency specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(iii) of this section thereafter.

(iii) For an external floating roof vessel equipped with primary and secondary seals, measurements of gaps between the vessel wall and the secondary seal shall be performed by the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part and at least once per year thereafter.

(iv) If any storage vessel ceases to store organic HAP for a period of 1 year or more, or if the maximum true vapor pressure of the total organic HAP's in the stored liquid falls below the values defining Group 1 storage vessels specified in table 5 or table 6 of this subpart for a period of 1 year or more, measurements of gaps between the vessel wall and the primary seal, and gaps between the vessel wall and the secondary seal shall be performed within 90 calendar days of the vessel being refilled with organic HAP.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(7) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine gap widths and gap areas in the primary and secondary seals (seal gaps) individually by the procedures described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) Seal gaps, if any, shall be measured at one or more floating roof levels when the roof is not resting on the roof leg supports.

(ii) Seal gaps, if any, shall be measured around the entire circumference of the vessel in each place where an 0.32 centimeter (inch) diameter uniform probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against the seal) between the seal and the wall of the storage vessel. The circumferential distance of each such location shall also be measured.

(iii) The total surface area of each gap described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section shall be determined by using probes of various widths to measure accurately the actual distance from the vessel wall to the seal and multiplying each such width by its respective circumferential distance.

(3) The owner or operator shall add the gap surface area of each gap location for the primary seal and divide the sum by the nominal diameter of the vessel. The accumulated area of gaps between the vessel wall and the primary seal shall not exceed 212 square centimeters per meter of vessel diameter and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 3.81 centimeters.

(4) The owner or operator shall add the gap surface area of each gap location for the secondary seal and divide the sum by the nominal diameter of the vessel. The accumulated area of gaps between the vessel wall and the secondary seal shall not exceed 21.2 square centimeters per meter of vessel diameter and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 1.27 centimeters. These seal gap requirements may be exceeded during the measurement of primary seal gaps as required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(5) The primary seal shall meet the additional requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (b)(5)(ii) of this section.

(i) Where a metallic shoe seal is in use, one end of the metallic shoe shall extend into the stored liquid and the other end shall extend a minimum vertical distance of 61 centimeters above the stored liquid surface.

(ii) There shall be no holes, tears, or other openings in the shoe, seal fabric, or seal envelope.

(6) The secondary seal shall meet the additional requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (b)(6)(ii) of this section.

(i) The secondary seal shall be installed above the primary seal so that it completely covers the space between the roof edge and the vessel wall except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(ii) There shall be no holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or seal fabric.

(7) If the owner or operator determines that it is unsafe to perform the seal gap measurements required in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section or to inspect the vessel to determine compliance with paragraphs (b)(5) and (b)(6) of this section because the floating roof appears to be structurally unsound and poses an imminent or potential danger to inspecting personnel, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in either paragraph (b)(7)(i) or (b)(7)(ii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall measure the seal gaps or inspect the storage vessel no later than 30 calendar days after the determination that the roof is unsafe, or

(ii) The owner or operator shall empty and remove the storage vessel from service no later than 45 calendar days after determining that the roof is unsafe. If the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 calendar days, the owner or operator may utilize up to 2 extensions of up to 30 additional calendar days each. Documentation of a decision to utilize an extension shall include an explanation of why it was unsafe to perform the inspection or seal gap measurement, shall document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable, and shall specify a schedule of actions that will ensure that the vessel will be emptied as soon as practical.

(8) The owner or operator shall repair conditions that do not meet requirements listed in paragraphs (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(5), and (b)(6) of this section (i.e., failures) no later than 45 calendar days after identification, or shall empty and remove the storage vessel from service no later than 45 calendar days after identification. If during seal gap measurements required in paragraph (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section or during inspections necessary to determine compliance with paragraphs (b)(5) and (b)(6) of this section a failure is detected that cannot be repaired within 45 calendar days and if the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 calendar days, the owner or operator may utilize up to 2 extensions of up to 30 additional calendar days each. Documentation of a decision to utilize an extension shall include a description of the failure, shall document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable, and shall specify a schedule of actions that will ensure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel will be emptied as soon as practical.

(9) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in writing 30 calendar days in advance of any gap measurements required by paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.

(10) The owner or operator shall visually inspect the external floating roof, the primary seal, secondary seal, and fittings each time the vessel is emptied and degassed.

(i) If the external floating roof has defects; the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric; or the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric; or the gaskets no longer close off the liquid surface from the atmosphere; or the slotted membrane has more than 10 percent open area, the owner or operator shall repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph exist before filling or refilling the storage vessel with organic HAP.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(10)(iii) of this section, for all the inspections required by paragraph (b)(10) of this section, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in writing at least 30 calendar days prior to filling or refilling of each storage vessel with organic HAP to afford the Administrator the opportunity to inspect the storage vessel prior to refilling.

(iii) If the inspection required by paragraph (b)(10) of this section is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 calendar days in advance of refilling the vessel with organic HAP, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 7 calendar days prior to refilling of the storage vessel. Notification may be made by telephone and immediately followed by written documentation demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned. Alternatively, this notification including the written documentation may be made in writing and sent so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 calendar days prior to the refilling.

(c) To demonstrate compliance with § 63.119(d) of this subpart (storage vessel equipped with an external floating roof converted to an internal floating roof), the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) To demonstrate compliance with § 63.119(e) of this subpart (storage vessel equipped with a closed vent system and control device) using a control device other than a flare, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(7) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d)(8) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall either prepare a design evaluation, which includes the information specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, or submit the results of a performance test as described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) The design evaluation shall include documentation demonstrating that the control device being used achieves the required control efficiency during reasonably expected maximum filling rate. This documentation is to include a description of the gas stream which enters the control device, including flow and organic HAP content under varying liquid level conditions, and the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) through (d)(1)(i)(E) of this section, as applicable.

(A) If the control device receives vapors, gases or liquids, other than fuels, from emission points other than storage vessels subject to this subpart, the efficiency demonstration is to include consideration of all vapors, gases, and liquids, other than fuels, received by the control device.

(B) If an enclosed combustion device with a minimum residence time of 0.5 seconds and a minimum temperature of 760 &#xB0;C is used to meet the emission reduction requirement specified in § 63.119 (e)(1) or (e)(2), as applicable, documentation that those conditions exist is sufficient to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.

(C) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section, for thermal incinerators, the design evaluation shall include the autoignition temperature of the organic HAP, the flow rate of the organic HAP emission stream, the combustion temperature, and the residence time at the combustion temperature.

(D) For carbon adsorbers, the design evaluation shall include the affinity of the organic HAP vapors for carbon, the amount of carbon in each bed, the number of beds, the humidity of the feed gases, the temperature of the feed gases, the flow rate of the organic HAP emission stream, the desorption schedule, the regeneration stream pressure or temperature, and the flow rate of the regeneration stream. For vacuum desorption, pressure drop shall be included.

(E) For condensers, the design evaluation shall include the final temperature of the organic HAP vapors, the type of condenser, and the design flow rate of the organic HAP emission stream.

(ii) If the control device used to comply with § 63.119(e) of this subpart is also used to comply with § 63.113(a)(2), § 63.126(b)(1), or § 63.139(c) of this subpart, the performance test required by § 63.116(c), § 63.128(a), or § 63.139(d)(1) of this subpart is acceptable to demonstrate compliance with § 63.119(e) of this subpart. The owner or operator is not required to prepare a design evaluation for the control device as described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, if the performance tests meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(A) and (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section.

(A) The performance test demonstrates that the control device achieves greater than or equal to the required control efficiency specified in § 63.119 (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this subpart, as applicable; and

(B) The performance test is submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.151(b) of this subpart.

(2) The owner or operator shall submit, as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.151 (b) of this subpart, a monitoring plan containing the information specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section and in either (d)(2)(ii) or (d)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) A description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control device is being properly operated and maintained, an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters), and the frequency with which monitoring will be performed (e.g., when the liquid level in the storage vessel is being raised); and either

(ii) The documentation specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, if the owner or operator elects to prepare a design evaluation; or

(iii) The information specified in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) (A) and (B) of this section if the owner or operator elects to submit the results of a performance test.

(A) Identification of the storage vessel and control device for which the performance test will be submitted, and

(B) Identification of the emission point(s) that share the control device with the storage vessel and for which the performance test will be conducted.

(3) The owner or operator shall submit, as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.152(b) of this subpart, the information specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and, if applicable, (d)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) The operating range for each monitoring parameter identified in the monitoring plan. The specified operating range shall represent the conditions for which the control device is being properly operated and maintained.

(ii) Results of the performance test described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.

(4) The owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements of § 63.119(e)(3) of this subpart (planned routine maintenance of a control device, during which the control device does not meet the specifications of § 63.119 (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this subpart, as applicable, shall not exceed 240 hours per year) by including in each Periodic Report required by § 63.152(c) of this subpart the information specified in § 63.122(g)(1) of this subpart.

(5) The owner or operator shall monitor the parameters specified in the Notification of Compliance Status required in § 63.152(b) of this subpart or in the operating permit and shall operate and maintain the control device such that the monitored parameters remain within the ranges specified in the Notification of Compliance Status.

(6) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(7) of this section, each closed vent system shall be inspected as specified in § 63.148 of this subpart. The initial and annual inspections required by § 63.148(b) of this subpart shall be done during filling of the storage vessel.

(7) For any fixed roof tank and closed vent system that are operated and maintained under negative pressure, the owner or operator is not required to comply with the requirements specified in § 63.148 of this subpart.

(8) A design evaluation or performance test is not required, if the owner or operator uses a combustion device meeting the criteria in paragraph (d)(8)(i), (d)(8)(ii), (d)(8)(iii), or (d)(8)(iv) of this section.

(i) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts or greater.

(ii) A boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste for which the owner or operator:

(A) Has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H, or

(B) Has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.

(iii) A hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.

(iv) A boiler or process heater into which the vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel.

(e) To demonstrate compliance with § 63.119(e) of this subpart (storage vessel equipped with a closed vent system and control device) using a flare, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(6) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall perform the compliance determination specified in § 63.11(b) of subpart A of this part.

(2) The owner or operator shall submit, as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.152(b) of this subpart, the information specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (e)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) Flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted);

(ii) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section; and

(iii) All periods during the compliance determination when the pilot flame is absent.

(3) The owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements of § 63.119(e)(3) of this subpart (planned routine maintenance of a flare, during which the flare does not meet the specifications of § 63.119(e)(1) of this subpart, shall not exceed 240 hours per year) by including in each Periodic Report required by § 63.152(c) of this subpart the information specified in § 63.122(g)(1) of this subpart.

(4) The owner or operator shall continue to meet the general control device requirements specified in § 63.11(b) of subpart A of this part.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(6) of this section, each closed vent system shall be inspected as specified in § 63.148 of this subpart. The inspections required to be performed in accordance with § 63.148(c) of this subpart shall be done during filling of the storage vessel.

(6) For any fixed roof tank and closed vent system that is operated and maintained under negative pressure, the owner or operator is not required to comply with the requirements specified in § 63.148 of this subpart.

(f) To demonstrate compliance with § 63.119(f) of this subpart (storage vessel routed to a process), the owner or operator shall prepare a design evaluation (or engineering assessment) that demonstrates the extent to which one or more of the ends specified in § 63.119(f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iv) are being met. The owner or operator shall submit the design evaluation as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.152(b) of this subpart.
