
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.132 Process wastewater provisions - general.
####### How to designate a Group 1 wastewater stream.

(e)The owner or operator may elect to designate a wastewater stream a Group 1 wastewater stream in order to comply with paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section. To designate a wastewater stream or a mixture of wastewater streams a Group 1 wastewater stream, the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section and § 63.144(a)(2) of this subpart shall be followed.

(1) From the point of determination for each wastewater stream that is included in the Group 1 designation to the location where the owner or operator elects to designate such wastewater stream(s) as a Group 1 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall comply with all applicable emission suppression requirements specified in §§ 63.133 through 63.137.

(2) From the location where the owner or operator designates a wastewater stream or mixture of wastewater streams to be a Group 1 wastewater stream, such Group 1 wastewater stream shall be managed in accordance with all applicable emission suppression requirements specified in §§ 63.133 through 63.137 and with the treatment requirements in § 63.138 of this part.

(f) Owners or operators of sources subject to this subpart shall not discard liquid or solid organic materials with a concentration of greater than 10,000 parts per million of Table 9 compounds (as determined by analysis of the stream composition, engineering calculations, or process knowledge, according to the provisions of § 63.144(b) of this subpart) from a chemical manufacturing process unit to water or wastewater, unless the receiving stream is managed and treated as a Group 1 wastewater stream. This prohibition does not apply to materials from the activities listed in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(4) of this section.

(1) Equipment leaks;

(2) Activities included in maintenance or startup/shutdown/malfunction plans;

(3) Spills; or

(4) Samples of a size not greater than reasonably necessary for the method of analysis that is used.
