
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.132 Process wastewater provisions - general.
####### Off-site treatment or on-site treatment not owned or operated by the source.

(g)The owner or operator may elect to transfer a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream to an on-site treatment operation not owned or operated by the owner or operator of the source generating the wastewater stream or residual, or to an off-site treatment operation.

(1) The owner or operator transferring the wastewater stream or residual shall:

(i) Comply with the provisions specified in §§ 63.133 through 63.137 of this subpart for each waste management unit that receives or manages a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream prior to shipment or transport.

(ii) Include a notice with the shipment or transport of each Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream. The notice shall state that the wastewater stream or residual contains organic hazardous air pollutants that are to be treated in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. When the transport is continuous or ongoing (for example, discharge to a publicly-owned treatment works), the notice shall be submitted to the treatment operator initially and whenever there is a change in the required treatment.

(2) The owner or operator may not transfer the wastewater stream or residual unless the transferee has submitted to the EPA a written certification that the transferee will manage and treat any Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream received from a source subject to the requirements of this subpart in accordance with the requirements of either §§ 63.133 through 63.147, or § 63.102(b) of subpart F, or subpart D of this part if alternative emission limitations have been granted the transferor in accordance with those provisions. The certifying entity may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to the EPA and the owner or operator giving at least 90 days notice that the certifying entity is rescinding acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the regulatory provisions listed in this paragraph. Upon expiration of the notice period, the owner or operator may not transfer the wastewater stream or residual to the treatment operation.

(3) By providing this written certification to the EPA, the certifying entity accepts responsibility for compliance with the regulatory provisions listed in paragraph (g)(2) of this section with respect to any shipment of wastewater or residual covered by the written certification. Failure to abide by any of those provisions with respect to such shipments may result in enforcement action by the EPA against the certifying entity in accordance with the enforcement provisions applicable to violations of these provisions by owners or operators of sources.

(4) Written certifications and revocation statements, to the EPA from the transferees of wastewater or residuals shall be signed by the responsible official of the certifying entity, provide the name and address of the certifying entity, and be sent to the appropriate EPA Regional Office at the addresses listed in 40 CFR 63.13. Such written certifications are not transferable by the treater.
