
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.132 Process wastewater provisions - general.
####### Requirements for Group 1 wastewater streams.

(3)For wastewater streams that are Group 1 for Table 8 compounds and/or Table 9 compounds, comply with paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (b)(3)(iv) of this section.

(i) Comply with the applicable requirements for wastewater tanks, surface impoundments, containers, individual drain systems, and oil/water separators specified in the requirements of § 63.133 through § 63.137 of this subpart, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) and (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section and § 63.138(a)(3) of this subpart.

(A) The waste management units may be equipped with pressure relief devices that vent directly to the atmosphere provided the pressure relief device is not used for planned or routine venting of emissions.

(B) The pressure relief device remains in a closed position at all times except when it is necessary for the pressure relief device to open for the purpose of preventing physical damage or permanent deformation of the waste management unit in accordance with good engineering and safety practices.

(ii) Comply with the applicable requirements for control of Table 8 compounds specified in § 63.138 of this subpart. Alternatively, the owner or operator may elect to comply with the provisions specified in § 63.132(g) of this subpart.

(iii) Comply with the applicable monitoring and inspection requirements specified in § 63.143 of this subpart.

(iv) Comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in §§ 63.146 and 63.147 of this subpart.
