
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.133 Process wastewater provisions - wastewater tanks.

(a) For each wastewater tank that receives, manages, or treats a Group 1 wastewater stream or a residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section as specified in table 10 of this subpart.

(1) The owner or operator shall operate and maintain a fixed roof except that if the wastewater tank is used for heating wastewater, or treating by means of an exothermic reaction or the contents of the tank is sparged, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section and shall operate and maintain one of the emission control techniques listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(iv) of this section.

(i) A fixed roof and a closed-vent system that routes the organic hazardous air pollutants vapors vented from the wastewater tank to a control device.

(ii) A fixed roof and an internal floating roof that meets the requirements specified in § 63.119(b) of this subpart;

(iii) An external floating roof that meets the requirements specified in §§ 63.119(c), 63.120(b)(5), and 63.120(b)(6) of this subpart; or

(iv) An equivalent means of emission limitation. Determination of equivalence to the reduction in emissions achieved by the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(iii) of this section will be evaluated according to § 63.102(b) of subpart F of this part. The determination will be based on the application to the Administrator which shall include the information specified in either paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(A) or (a)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.

(A) Actual emissions tests that use full-size or scale-model wastewater tanks that accurately collect and measure all organic hazardous air pollutants emissions from a given control technique, and that accurately simulate wind and account for other emission variables such as temperature and barometric pressure, or

(B) An engineering evaluation that the Administrator determines is an accurate method of determining equivalence.

(b) If the owner or operator elects to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, the fixed roof shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the control device shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and the closed-vent system shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(1) The fixed-roof shall meet the following requirements:

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the fixed roof and all openings (e.g., access hatches, sampling ports, and gauge wells) shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.148 of this subpart.

(ii) Each opening shall be maintained in a closed position (e.g., covered by a lid) at all times that the wastewater tank contains a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream except when it is necessary to use the opening for wastewater sampling, removal, or for equipment inspection, maintenance, or repair.

(2) The control device shall be designed, operated, and inspected in accordance with the requirements of § 63.139 of this subpart.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the closed-vent system shall be inspected in accordance with the requirements of § 63.148 of this subpart.

(4) For any fixed roof tank and closed-vent system that is operated and maintained under negative pressure, the owner or operator is not required to comply with the requirements specified in § 63.148 of this subpart.

(c) If the owner or operator elects to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the floating roof shall be inspected according to the procedures specified in § 63.120(a)(2) and (a)(3) of this subpart.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, if the owner or operator elects to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, seal gaps shall be measured according to the procedures specified in § 63.120(b)(2)(i) through (b)(4) of this subpart and the wastewater tank shall be inspected to determine compliance with § 63.120(b)(5) and (b)(6) of this subpart.

(e) If the owner or operator determines that it is unsafe to perform the seal gap measurements specified in § 63.120(b)(2)(i) through (b)(4) of this subpart or to inspect the wastewater tank to determine compliance with § 63.120(b)(5) and (b)(6) of this subpart because the floating roof appears to be structurally unsound and poses an imminent or potential danger to inspecting personnel, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in either paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall measure the seal gaps or inspect the wastewater tank within 30 calendar days of the determination that the floating roof is unsafe, or

(2) The owner or operator shall empty and remove the wastewater tank from service within 45 calendar days of determining that the roof is unsafe. If the wastewater tank cannot be emptied within 45 calendar days, the owner or operator may utilize up to two extensions of up to 30 additional calendar days each. Documentation of a decision to utilize an extension shall include an explanation of why it was unsafe to perform the inspection or seal gap measurement, shall document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable, and shall specify a schedule of actions that will ensure that the wastewater tank will be emptied as soon as practical.

(f) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, each wastewater tank shall be inspected initially, and semi-annually thereafter, for improper work practices in accordance with § 63.143 of this subpart. For wastewater tanks, improper work practice includes, but is not limited to, leaving open any access door or other opening when such door or opening is not in use.

(g) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, each wastewater tank shall be inspected for control equipment failures as defined in paragraph (g)(1) of this section according to the schedule in paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section.

(1) Control equipment failures for wastewater tanks include, but are not limited to, the conditions specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(ix) of this section.

(i) The floating roof is not resting on either the surface of the liquid or on the leg supports.

(ii) There is stored liquid on the floating roof.

(iii) A rim seal is detached from the floating roof.

(iv) There are holes, tears, cracks or gaps in the rim seal or seal fabric of the floating roof.

(v) There are visible gaps between the seal of an internal floating roof and the wall of the wastewater tank.

(vi) There are gaps between the metallic shoe seal or the liquid mounted primary seal of an external floating roof and the wall of the wastewater tank that exceed 212 square centimeters per meter of tank diameter or the width of any portion of any gap between the primary seal and the tank wall exceeds 3.81 centimeters.

(vii) There are gaps between the secondary seal of an external floating roof and the wall of the wastewater tank that exceed 21.2 square centimeters per meter of tank diameter or the width of any portion of any gap between the secondary seal and the tank wall exceeds 1.27 centimeters.

(viii) Where a metallic shoe seal is used on an external floating roof, one end of the metallic shoe does not extend into the stored liquid or one end of the metallic shoe does not extend a minimum vertical distance of 61 centimeters above the surface of the stored liquid.

(ix) A gasket, joint, lid, cover, or door has a crack or gap, or is broken.

(2) The owner or operator shall inspect for the control equipment failures in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(viii) of this section according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(3) The owner or operator shall inspect for the control equipment failures in paragraph (g)(1)(ix) of this section initially, and semi-annually thereafter.

(h) Except as provided in § 63.140 of this subpart, when an improper work practice or a control equipment failure is identified, first efforts at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after identification and repair shall be completed within 45 calendar days after identification. If a failure that is detected during inspections required by this section cannot be repaired within 45 calendar days and if the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 calendar days, the owner or operator may utilize up to 2 extensions of up to 30 additional calendar days each. Documentation of a decision to utilize an extension shall include a description of the failure, shall document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable, and shall specify a schedule of actions that will ensure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel will be emptied as soon as practical.
