
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.135 Process wastewater provisions - containers.

(a) For each container that receives, manages, or treats a Group 1 wastewater stream or a residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.

(b) The owner or operator shall operate and maintain a cover on each container used to handle, transfer, or store a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream in accordance with the following requirements:

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, if the capacity of the container is greater than 0.42 m, the cover and all openings (e.g., bungs, hatches, sampling ports, and pressure relief devices) shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.148 of this subpart.

(2) If the capacity of the container is less than or equal to 0.42 m, the owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) The container must meet existing Department of Transportation specifications and testing requirements under 49 CFR part 178; or

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, the cover and all openings shall be maintained without leaks as specified in § 63.148 of this subpart.

(3) The cover and all openings shall be maintained in a closed position (e.g., covered by a lid) at all times that a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream is in the container except when it is necessary to use the opening for filling, removal, inspection, sampling, or pressure relief events related to safety considerations.

(c) For containers with a capacity greater than or equal to 0.42 m, a submerged fill pipe shall be used when a container is being filled by pumping with a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream.

(1) The submerged fill pipe outlet shall extend to no more than 6 inches or within two fill pipe diameters of the bottom of the container while the container is being filled.

(2) The cover shall remain in place and all openings shall be maintained in a closed position except for those openings required for the submerged fill pipe and for venting of the container to prevent physical damage or permanent deformation of the container or cover.

(d) During treatment of a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, including aeration, thermal or other treatment, in a container, whenever it is necessary for the container to be open, the container shall be located within an enclosure with a closed-vent system that routes the organic hazardous air pollutants vapors vented from the container to a control device.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, the enclosure and all openings (e.g., doors, hatches) shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.148 of this subpart.

(2) The control device shall be designed, operated, and inspected in accordance with § 63.139 of this subpart.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, the closed-vent system shall be inspected in accordance with § 63.148 of this subpart.

(4) For any enclosure and closed-vent system that is operated and maintained under negative pressure, the owner or operator is not required to comply with the requirements specified in § 63.148 of this subpart.

(e) Each container shall be inspected initially, and semi-annually thereafter, for improper work practices and control equipment failures in accordance with § 63.143 of this subpart.

(1) For containers, improper work practice includes, but is not limited to, leaving open any access hatch or other opening when such hatch or opening is not in use.

(2) For containers, control equipment failure includes, but is not limited to, any time a cover or door has a gap or crack, or is broken.

(f) Except as provided in § 63.140 of this subpart, when an improper work practice or a control equipment failure is identified, first efforts at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after identification and repair shall be completed within 15 calendar days after identification.
