
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.136 Process wastewater provisions - individual drain systems.

(a) For each individual drain system that receives or manages a Group 1 wastewater stream or a residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) or with paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section.

(b) If the owner or operator elects to comply with this paragraph, the owner or operator shall operate and maintain on each opening in the individual drain system a cover and if vented, route the vapors to a process or through a closed vent system to a control device. The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.

(1) The cover and all openings shall meet the following requirements:

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the cover and all openings (e.g., access hatches, sampling ports) shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.148 of this subpart.

(ii) The cover and all openings shall be maintained in a closed position at all times that a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream is in the drain system except when it is necessary to use the opening for sampling or removal, or for equipment inspection, maintenance, or repair.

(2) The control device shall be designed, operated, and inspected in accordance with § 63.139 of this subpart.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the closed-vent system shall be inspected in accordance with § 63.148 of this subpart.

(4) For any cover and closed-vent system that is operated and maintained under negative pressure, the owner or operator is not required to comply with the requirements specified in § 63.148 of this subpart.

(5) The individual drain system shall be designed and operated to segregate the vapors within the system from other drain systems and the atmosphere.

(c) Each individual drain system shall be inspected initially, and semi- annually thereafter, for improper work practices and control equipment failures, in accordance with the inspection requirements specified in table 11 of this subpart.

(1) For individual drain systems, improper work practice includes, but is not limited to, leaving open any access hatch or other opening when such hatch or opening is not in use for sampling or removal, or for equipment inspection, maintenance, or repair.

(2) For individual drain systems, control equipment failure includes, but is not limited to, any time a joint, lid, cover, or door has a gap or crack, or is broken.

(d) Except as provided in § 63.140 of this subpart, when an improper work practice or a control equipment failure is identified, first efforts at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after identification and repair shall be completed within 15 calendar days after identification.

(e) If the owner or operator elects to comply with this paragraph, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section:

(1) Each drain shall be equipped with water seal controls or a tightly fitting cap or plug. The owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) For each drain equipped with a water seal, the owner or operator shall ensure that the water seal is maintained. For example, a flow-monitoring device indicating positive flow from a main to a branch water line supplying a trap or water being continuously dripped into the trap by a hose could be used to verify flow of water to the trap. Visual observation is also an acceptable alternative.

(ii) If a water seal is used on a drain receiving a Group 1 wastewater, the owner or operator shall either extend the pipe discharging the wastewater below the liquid surface in the water seal of the receiving drain, or install a flexible shield (or other enclosure which restricts wind motion across the open area between the pipe and the drain) that encloses the space between the pipe discharging the wastewater to the drain receiving the wastewater. (Water seals which are used on hubs receiving Group 2 wastewater for the purpose of eliminating cross ventilation to drains carrying Group 1 wastewater are not required to have a flexible cap or extended subsurface discharging pipe.)

(2) Each junction box shall be equipped with a tightly fitting solid cover (i.e., no visible gaps, cracks, or holes) which shall be kept in place at all times except during inspection and maintenance. If the junction box is vented, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (e)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) The junction box shall be vented to a process or through a closed vent system to a control device. The closed vent system shall be inspected in accordance with the requirements of § 63.148 and the control device shall be designed, operated, and inspected in accordance with the requirements of § 63.139.

(ii) If the junction box is filled and emptied by gravity flow (i.e., there is no pump) or is operated with no more than slight fluctuations in the liquid level, the owner or operator may vent the junction box to the atmosphere provided that the junction box complies with the requirements in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(A) and (e)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(A) The vent pipe shall be at least 90 centimeters in length and no greater than 10.2 centimeters in nominal inside diameter.

(B) Water seals shall be installed and maintained at the wastewater entrance(s) to or exit from the junction box restricting ventilation in the individual drain system and between components in the individual drain system. The owner or operator shall demonstrate (e.g., by visual inspection or smoke test) upon request by the Administrator that the junction box water seal is properly designed and restricts ventilation.

(3) Each sewer line shall not be open to the atmosphere and shall be covered or enclosed in a manner so as to have no visible gaps or cracks in joints, seals, or other emission interfaces.

(f) Equipment used to comply with paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(3) of this section shall be inspected as follows:

(1) Each drain using a tightly fitting cap or plug shall be visually inspected initially, and semi-annually thereafter, to ensure caps or plugs are in place and that there are no gaps, cracks, or other holes in the cap or plug.

(2) Each junction box shall be visually inspected initially, and semi-annually thereafter, to ensure that there are no gaps, cracks, or other holes in the cover.

(3) The unburied portion of each sewer line shall be visually inspected initially, and semi-annually thereafter, for indication of cracks or gaps that could result in air emissions.

(g) Except as provided in § 63.140 of this subpart, when a gap, hole, or crack is identified in a joint or cover, first efforts at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after identification, and repair shall be completed within 15 calendar days after identification.
