
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### ยง 63.132 Process wastewater provisions - general.
####### How to determine Group 1 or Group 2 status for Table 9 compounds.

(c)This paragraph provides instructions for determining whether a wastewater stream is Group 1 or Group 2 for Table 9 compounds. Total annual average concentration shall be determined according to the procedures specified in ยง 63.144(b) of this subpart. Annual average flow rate shall be determined according to the procedures specified in ยง 63.144(c) of this subpart.

(1) A wastewater stream is a Group 1 wastewater stream for Table 9 compounds if:

(i) The total annual average concentration of Table 9 compounds is greater than or equal to 10,000 parts per million by weight at any flow rate; or

(ii) The total annual average concentration of Table 9 compounds is greater than or equal to 1,000 parts per million by weight and the annual average flow rate is greater than or equal to 10 liters per minute.

(2) A wastewater stream is a Group 2 wastewater stream for Table 9 compounds if it is not a Group 1 wastewater stream for Table 9 compounds by the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) The owner or operator of a Group 2 wastewater shall re-determine group status for each Group 2 stream, as necessary, to determine whether the stream is Group 1 or Group 2 whenever process changes are made that could reasonably be expected to change the stream to a Group 1 stream. Examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, changes in production capacity, production rate, feedstock type, or whenever there is a replacement, removal, or addition of recovery or control equipment. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), process changes do not include: Process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; and changes that are within the range on which the original determination was based.
