
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.138 Process wastewater provisions - performance standards for treatment processes managing Group 1 wastewater streams and/or residuals removed from Group 1 wastewater streams.
####### Treatment using a series of treatment processes.

(7)In all cases where the wastewater provisions in this subpart allow or require the use of a treatment process or control device to comply with emissions limitations, the owner or operator may use multiple treatment processes or control devices, respectively. For combinations of treatment processes where the wastewater stream is conveyed by hard-piping, the owner or operator shall comply with either the requirements of paragraph (a)(7)(i) or (a)(7)(ii) of this section. For combinations of treatment processes where the wastewater stream is not conveyed by hard-piping, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of this section. For combinations of control devices, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section.

(i)(A) For combinations of treatment processes, the wastewater stream shall be conveyed by hard-piping between the treatment processes. For combinations of control devices, the vented gas stream shall be conveyed by hard-piping between the control devices.

(B) For combinations of treatment processes, each treatment process shall meet the applicable requirements of § 63.133 through § 63.137 of this subpart except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(C) The owner or operator shall identify, and keep a record of, the combination of treatment processes or of control devices, including identification of the first and last treatment process or control device. The owner or operator shall include this information as part of the treatment process description reported in the Notification of Compliance Status.

(D) The performance test or design evaluation shall determine compliance across the combination of treatment processes or control devices. If a performance test is conducted, the "inlet" shall be the point at which the wastewater stream or residual enters the first treatment process, or the vented gas stream enters the first control device. The "outlet" shall be the point at which the treated wastewater stream exits the last treatment process, or the vented gas stream exits the last control device.

(ii)(A) For combinations of treatment processes, each treatment process shall meet the applicable requirements of § 63.133 through § 63.137 of this subpart except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(B) The owner or operator shall identify, and keep a record of, the combination of treatment processes, including identification of the first and last treatment process. The owner or operator shall include this information as part of the treatment process description reported in the Notification of Compliance Status.

(C) The owner or operator shall determine the mass removed or destroyed by each treatment process. The performance test or design evaluation shall determine compliance for the combination of treatment processes by adding together the mass removed or destroyed by each treatment process.
