
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.137 Process wastewater provisions - oil-water separators.

(a) For each oil-water separator that receives, manages, or treats a Group 1 wastewater stream or a residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and shall operate and maintain one of the following:

(1) A fixed roof and a closed vent system that routes the organic hazardous air pollutants vapors vented from the oil-water separator to a control device. The fixed roof, closed-vent system, and control device shall meet the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section;

(2) A floating roof meeting the requirements in 40 CFR part 60, subpart QQQ § 60.693-2 (a)(1)(i), (a)(1)(ii), (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4). For portions of the oil-water separator where it is infeasible to construct and operate a floating roof, such as over the weir mechanism, the owner or operator shall operate and maintain a fixed roof, closed vent system, and control device that meet the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) An equivalent means of emission limitation. Determination of equivalence to the reduction in emissions achieved by the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section will be evaluated according to § 63.102(b) of subpart F of this part. The determination will be based on the application to the Administrator which shall include the information specified in either paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (a)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) Actual emissions tests that use full-size or scale-model oil-water separators that accurately collect and measure all organic hazardous air pollutants emissions from a given control technique, and that accurately simulate wind and account for other emission variables such as temperature and barometric pressure, or

(ii) An engineering evaluation that the Administrator determines is an accurate method of determining equivalence.

(b) If the owner or operator elects to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, the fixed roof shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the control device shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and the closed-vent system shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(1) The fixed-roof shall meet the following requirements:

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the fixed roof and all openings (e.g., access hatches, sampling ports, and gauge wells) shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.148 of this subpart.

(ii) Each opening shall be maintained in a closed, sealed position (e.g., covered by a lid that is gasketed and latched) at all times that the oil-water separator contains a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream except when it is necessary to use the opening for sampling or removal, or for equipment inspection, maintenance, or repair.

(2) The control device shall be designed, operated, and inspected in accordance with the requirements of § 63.139 of this subpart.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the closed-vent system shall be inspected in accordance with the requirements of § 63.148 of this subpart.

(4) For any fixed roof and closed-vent system that is operated and maintained under negative pressure, the owner or operator is not required to comply with the requirements of § 63.148 of this subpart.

(c) If the owner or operator elects to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, seal gaps shall be measured according to the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart QQQ § 60.696(d)(1) and the schedule specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.

(1) Measurement of primary seal gaps shall be performed within 60 calendar days after installation of the floating roof and introduction of a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream and once every 5 years thereafter.

(2) Measurement of secondary seal gaps shall be performed within 60 calendar days after installation of the floating roof and introduction of a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream and once every year thereafter.

(d) Each oil-water separator shall be inspected initially, and semi-annually thereafter, for improper work practices in accordance with § 63.143 of this subpart. For oil-water separators, improper work practice includes, but is not limited to, leaving open or ungasketed any access door or other opening when such door or opening is not in use.

(e) Each oil-water separator shall be inspected for control equipment failures as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section.

(1) For oil-water separators, control equipment failure includes, but is not limited to, the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(vii) of this section.

(i) The floating roof is not resting on either the surface of the liquid or on the leg supports.

(ii) There is stored liquid on the floating roof.

(iii) A rim seal is detached from the floating roof.

(iv) There are holes, tears, or other open spaces in the rim seal or seal fabric of the floating roof.

(v) There are gaps between the primary seal and the separator wall that exceed 67 square centimeters per meter of separator wall perimeter or the width of any portion of any gap between the primary seal and the separator wall exceeds 3.8 centimeters.

(vi) There are gaps between the secondary seal and the separator wall that exceed 6.7 square centimeters per meter of separator wall perimeter or the width of any portion of any gap between the secondary seal and the separator wall exceeds 1.3 centimeters.

(vii) A gasket, joint, lid, cover, or door has a gap or crack, or is broken.

(2) The owner or operator shall inspect for the control equipment failures in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(vi) of this section according to the schedule specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) The owner or operator shall inspect for control equipment failures in paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section initially, and semi-annually thereafter.

(f) Except as provided in § 63.140 of this subpart, when an improper work practice or a control equipment failure is identified, first efforts at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after identification and repair shall be completed within 45 calendar days after identification.
