
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.138 Process wastewater provisions - performance standards for treatment processes managing Group 1 wastewater streams and/or residuals removed from Group 1 wastewater streams.
####### 95-percent RMR option, for biological treatment processes.

(g)The owner or operator of a new or existing source using biological treatment for at least one wastewater stream that is Group 1 for Table 9 compounds shall achieve a RMR of at least 95 percent for all Table 9 compounds. The owner or operator of a new source using biological treatment for at least one wastewater stream that is Group 1 for Table 8 compounds shall achieve a RMR of at least 95 percent for all Table 8 compounds. All Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams entering a biological treatment unit that are from chemical manufacturing process units subject to subpart F shall be included in the demonstration of the 95-percent mass removal. The owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(4) of this section, the owner or operator shall ensure that all Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams from chemical manufacturing process units subject to this rule entering a biological treatment unit are treated to destroy at least 95-percent total mass of all Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds.

(2) For open biological treatment processes compliance shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.145(g) of this subpart. For closed aerobic biological treatment processes compliance shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.145 (e) or (g) of this subpart. For closed anaerobic biological treatment processes compliance shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.145(e) of this subpart.

(3) For each treatment process or waste management unit that receives, manages, or treats wastewater streams subject to this paragraph, from the point of determination of each Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream to the biological treatment unit, the owner or operator shall comply with §§ 63.133 through § 63.137 of this subpart for control of air emissions. When complying with this paragraph, the term Group 1, whether used alone or in combination with other terms, in § 63.133 through § 63.137 of this subpart shall mean both Group 1 and Group 2.

(4) If a wastewater stream is in compliance with the requirements in paragraph (b)(1), (c)(1), (d), (e), (f), or (h) of this section before entering the biological treatment unit, the hazardous air pollutants mass of that wastewater is not required to be included in the total mass flow rate entering the biological treatment unit for the purpose of demonstrating compliance.
