
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.143 Process wastewater provisions - inspections and monitoring of operations.

(a) For each wastewater tank, surface impoundment, container, individual drain system, and oil-water separator that receives, manages, or treats a Group 1 wastewater stream, a residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, a recycled Group 1 wastewater stream, or a recycled residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall comply with the inspection requirements specified in table 11 of this subpart.

(b) For each design steam stripper and biological treatment unit used to comply with § 63.138 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall comply with the monitoring requirements specified in table 12 of this subpart.

(c) If the owner or operator elects to comply with Item 1 in table 12 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall request approval to monitor appropriate parameters that demonstrate proper operation of the biological treatment unit. The request shall be submitted according to the procedures specified in § 63.151(f) of this subpart, and shall include a discription of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures. The owner or operator shall include as part of the submittal the basis for the selected monitoring frequencies and the methods that will be used. The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the permit application or by other appropriate means.

(d) If the owner or operator elects to comply with Item 3 in table 12 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall request approval to monitor appropriate parameters that demonstrate proper operation of the selected treatment process. The request shall be submitted according to the procedures specified in § 63.151(f) of this subpart, and shall include a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures. The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the permit application or by other appropriate means.

(e) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(4) and (e)(5) of this section, for each control device used to comply with the requirements of §§ 63.133 through 63.139 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in § 63.139(d) of this subpart, and with the requirements specified in paragraph (e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall comply with the monitoring requirements specified in table 13 of this subpart; or

(2) The owner or operator shall use an organic monitoring device installed at the outlet of the control device and equipped with a continuous recorder. Continuous recorder is defined in § 63.111 of this subpart; or

(3) The owner or operator shall request approval to monitor parameters other than those specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section. The request shall be submitted according to the procedures specified in § 63.151(f) of this subpart, and shall include a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures. The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the permit application or by other appropriate means.

(4) For a boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced with primary fuel, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in § 63.139(d) of this subpart but the owner or operator is exempt from the monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section.

(5) For a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts or greater, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in § 63.139(d) of this subpart but the owner or operator is exempt from the monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section.

(f) For each parameter monitored in accordance with paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall establish a range that indicates proper operation of the treatment process or control device. In order to establish the range, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in §§ 63.146(b)(7)(ii)(A) and (b)(8)(ii) of this subpart.

(g) Monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.
