
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.138 Process wastewater provisions - performance standards for treatment processes managing Group 1 wastewater streams and/or residuals removed from Group 1 wastewater streams.
####### All Group 1 wastewater streams at the source.

(1)The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the total source mass flow rate for Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds is less than 1 megagram per year using the procedures in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) and (i)(1)(ii) of this section. The owner or operator shall include all Group 1 wastewater streams at the source in the total source mass flow rate. The total source mass flow rate shall be based on the mass as calculated before the wastewater stream is treated. The owner or operator who meets the requirements of this paragraph (i)(1) is exempt from the requirements of §§ 63.133 through 63.137.

(i) Calculate the annual average mass flow rate for each Group 1 wastewater stream by multiplying the annual average flow rate of the wastewater stream, as determined by procedures specified in § 63.144(c), times the total annual average concentration of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds, as determined by procedures specified in § 63.144(b) of this subpart. (The mass flow rate of compounds in a wastewater stream that is Group 1 for both Table 8 and Table 9 compounds should be included in the annual average mass flow rate only once.)

(ii) Calculate the total source mass flow rate from all Group 1 wastewater streams by adding together the annual average mass flow rate calculated for each Group 1 wastewater stream.
