
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.138 Process wastewater provisions - performance standards for treatment processes managing Group 1 wastewater streams and/or residuals removed from Group 1 wastewater streams.
####### Untreated and partially treated Group 1 wastewater streams.

(2)The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the total source mass flow rate for untreated Group 1 wastewater streams and Group 1 wastewater streams treated to levels less stringent than required in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section is less than 1 megagram per year using the procedures in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) and (i)(2)(ii) of this section. The owner or operator shall manage these wastewater streams in accordance with paragraph (i)(2)(iii) of this section, and shall comply with paragraph (i)(3) of this section.

(i) Calculate the annual average mass flow rate in each wastewater stream by multiplying the annual average flow rate of the wastewater stream, as determined by procedures specified in § 63.144(c), times the total annual average concentration of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds, as determined by procedures specified in § 63.144(b). (The mass flow rate of compounds in a wastewater stream that are Group 1 for both Table 8 and Table 9 compounds should be included in the annual average mass flow rate only once.) When determining the total source mass flow rate for the purposes of paragraph (i)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the concentration and flow rate shall be determined at the location specified in paragraph (i)(2)(i)(B) of this section and not at the location specified in § 63.144(b) and (c).

(A) For each untreated Group 1 wastewater stream, the annual average flow rate and the total annual average concentration shall be determined for that stream's point of determination.

(B) For each Group 1 wastewater stream that is treated to levels less stringent than those required by paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the annual average flow rate and total annual average concentration shall be determined at the discharge from the treatment process or series of treatment processes.

(C) The annual average mass flow rate for Group 1 wastewater streams treated to the levels required by paragraph (b) or (c) of this section is not included in the calculation of the total source mass flow rate.

(ii) The total source mass flow rate shall be calculated by summing the annual average mass flow rates from all Group 1 wastewater streams, except those excluded by paragraph (i)(2)(i)(C) of this section.

(iii) The owner or operator of each waste management unit that receives, manages, or treats a partially treated wastewater stream prior to or during treatment shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.133 through 63.137, as applicable. For a partially treated wastewater stream that is stored, conveyed, treated, or managed in a waste management unit meeting the requirements of §§ 63.133 through 63.137, the owner or operator shall follow the procedures in paragraph (i)(2)(i)(B) of this section to calculate mass flow rate. A wastewater stream, either untreated or partially treated, where the mass flow rate has been calculated following the procedures in paragraph (i)(2)(i)(A) of this section, is exempt from the requirements of §§ 63.133 through 63.137.

(3) Wastewater streams included in this option shall be identified in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.152(b).
