
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.138 Process wastewater provisions - performance standards for treatment processes managing Group 1 wastewater streams and/or residuals removed from Group 1 wastewater streams.
####### Design evaluations or performance tests for treatment processes.

(j)Except as provided in paragraph (j)(3) or (h) of this section, the owner or operator shall demonstrate by the procedures in either paragraph (j)(1) or (j)(2) of this section that each nonbiological treatment process used to comply with paragraphs (b)(1), (c)(1), (e), and/or (f) of this section achieves the conditions specified for compliance. The owner or operator shall demonstrate by the procedures in either paragraph (j)(1) or (j)(2) of this section that each closed biological treatment process used to comply with paragraphs (f) or (g) of this section achieves the conditions specified for compliance. If an open biological treatment unit is used to comply with paragraph (f) or (g) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with § 63.145(f) or § 63.145(g), respectively, of this subpart. Some biological treatment processes may not require a performance test. Refer to § 63.145(h) and table 36 of this subpart to determine whether the open biological treatment process meets the criteria that exempt the owner or operator from conducting a performance test.

(1) A design evaluation and supporting documentation that addresses the operating characteristics of the treatment process and that is based on operation at a representative wastewater stream flow rate and a concentration under which it would be most difficult to demonstrate compliance. For closed biological treatment processes, the actual mass removal shall be determined by a mass balance over the unit. The mass flow rate of Table 8 or Table 9 compounds exiting the treatment process shall be the sum of the mass flow rate of Table 8 or Table 9 compounds in the wastewater stream exiting the biological treatment process and the mass flow rate of the vented gas stream exiting the control device. The mass flow rate entering the treatment process minus the mass flow rate exiting the process determines the actual mass removal.

(2) Performance tests conducted using test methods and procedures that meet the applicable requirements specified in § 63.145 of this subpart.

(3) The provisions of paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section do not apply to design stream strippers which meet the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
