
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### ยง 63.144 Process wastewater provisions - test methods and procedures for determining applicability and Group 1/Group 2 determinations (determining which wastewater streams require control).
####### New sources.

(2)An owner or operator of a new source who elects to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall determine both the flow weighted total annual average concentration for Table 9 compounds and the flow weighted annual average concentration for each Table 8 compound. For the purposes of this section, the term concentration, whether concentration is used alone or with other terms, may be adjusted by multiplying by the compound-specific Fm factors listed in table 34 of this subpart unless determined by the methods in ยง 63.144(b)(5)(i)(A) and/or (B). When concentration is determined by Method 305 as specified in ยง 63.144(b)(5)(i)(B), concentration may be adjusted by dividing by the compound-specific Fm factors listed in table 34 of this subpart. When concentration is determined by Method 25D as specified in ยง 63.144(b)(5)(i)(A), concentration may not be adjusted by the compound-specific Fm factors listed in table 34 of this subpart. Compound-specific fraction measured factors are compound specific and shall be used only when concentration of individual compounds are determined or when only one compound is in the wastewater stream. The flow weighted annual average concentration of each Table 8 compound means the mass of each Table 8 compound occurring in the wastewater stream during the designated 12-month period divided by the total mass of the wastewater stream during the same designated 12-month period. Flow weighted total annual average concentration for Table 9 compounds means the total mass of Table 9 compounds occurring in the wastewater stream during the designated 12-month period divided by the total mass of the wastewater stream during the same designated 12-month period. The annual average concentration shall be determined for each wastewater stream either at the point of determination, or downstream of the point of determination with adjustment for concentration changes made according to paragraph (b)(6) of this section. Procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(3), (b)(4), and (b)(5) of this section are considered acceptable procedures for determining the annual average concentration. They may be used in combination, and no one procedure shall take precedence over another.
