
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### ยง 63.144 Process wastewater provisions - test methods and procedures for determining applicability and Group 1/Group 2 determinations (determining which wastewater streams require control).
####### Procedures to determine flow rate, when evaluating Group status under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(c)An owner or operator who elects to comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall determine the annual average flow rate of the wastewater stream either at the point of determination for each wastewater stream, or downstream of the point of determination with adjustment for flow rate changes made according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section. These procedures may be used in combination for different wastewater streams at the source. The annual average flow rate for the wastewater stream shall be representative of actual or anticipated operation of the chemical manufacturing process unit generating the wastewater over a designated 12-month period. The owner or operator shall consider the total annual wastewater volume generated by the chemical manufacturing process unit. If the chemical manufacturing process unit is a flexible operation unit, the owner or operator shall consider all anticipated production in the process equipment over the designated 12-month period. The procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section are considered acceptable procedures for determining the flow rate. They may be used in combination, and no one procedure shall take precedence over another.
