
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.145 Process wastewater provisions - test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
####### Noncombustion treatment process-concentration limits.

(b)This paragraph applies to performance tests that are conducted to demonstrate compliance of a noncombustion treatment process with the parts per million by weight wastewater stream concentration limits at the outlet of the treatment process. This compliance option is specified in § 63.138(b)(1) and § 63.138(c)(1). Wastewater samples shall be collected using sampling procedures which minimize loss of organic compounds during sample collection and analysis and maintain sample integrity per § 63.144(b)(5)(ii). Samples shall be collected and analyzed using the procedures specified in § 63.144 (b)(5)(i), (b)(5)(ii), and (b)(5)(iii) of this subpart. Samples may be grab samples or composite samples. Samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of 3 runs. Concentration measurements based on Method 305 may be adjusted by dividing each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in Table 34 of this subpart. Concentration measurements based on methods other than Method 305 may be adjusted by multiplying each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart. (For wastewater streams that are Group 1 for both Table 8 and Table 9 compounds, compliance is demonstrated only if the sum of the concentrations of Table 9 compounds is less than 50 ppmw, and the concentration of each Table 8 compound is less than 10 ppmw.)
