
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.145 Process wastewater provisions - test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
####### Treatment using a series of treatment processes.

(7)In all cases where the wastewater provisions in this subpart allow or require the use of a treatment process to comply with emissions limitations, the owner or operator may use multiple treatment processes. The owner or operator complying with the requirements of § 63.138(a)(7)(i), when wastewater is conveyed by hard-piping, shall comply with either §§ 63.145(a)(7)(i) or 63.145(a)(7)(ii) of this subpart. The owner or operator complying with the requirements of § 63.138(a)(7)(ii) of this subpart shall comply with the requirements of § 63.145(a)(7)(ii) of this subpart.

(i) The owner or operator shall conduct the performance test across each series of treatment processes. For each series of treatment processes, inlet concentration and flow rate shall be measured either where the wastewater stream enters the first treatment process in a series of treatment processes, or prior to the first treatment process as specified in § 63.145(a)(9) of this subpart. For each series of treatment processes, outlet concentration and flow rate shall be measured where the wastewater stream exits the last treatment process in the series of treatment processes, except when the last treatment process is an open or a closed aerobic biological treatment process demonstrating compliance by using the procedures in § 63.145 (f) or (g) of this subpart. When the last treatment process is either an open or a closed aerobic biological treatment process demonstrating compliance by using the procedures in § 63.145 (f) or (g) of this subpart, inlet and outlet concentrations and flow rates shall be measured as provided in paragraphs (a)(7)(i)(A) and (a)(7)(i)(B) of this section. The mass flow rates removed or destroyed by the series of treatment processes and by the biological treatment process are all used to calculate actual mass removal (AMR) as specified in § 63.145(f)(5)(ii) of this subpart.

(A) The inlet and outlet to the series of treatment processes prior to the biological treatment process are the points at which the wastewater enters the first treatment process and exits the last treatment process in the series, respectively, except as provided in paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section.

(B) The inlet to the biological treatment process shall be the point at which the wastewater enters the biological treatment process or the outlet from the series of treatment processes identified in paragraph (a)(7)(i)(A) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section.

(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct the performance test across each treatment process in the series of treatment processes. The mass flow rate removed or destroyed by each treatment process shall be added together to determine whether compliance has been demonstrated using § 63.145 (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g), as applicable. If a biological treatment process is one of the treatment processes in the series of treatment processes, the inlet to the biological treatment process shall be the point at which the wastewater enters the biological treatment process, or the inlet to the equalization tank if all the criteria of paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section are met.

(8) When using a biological treatment process to comply with § 63.138 of this subpart, the owner or operator may elect to calculate the AMR using a subset of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds determined at the point of determination or downstream of the point of determination with adjustment for concentration and flowrate changes made according to § 63.144(b)(6) and § 63.144(c)(4) of this subpart, respectively. All Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds measured to determine the RMR, except as provided by § 63.145(a)(6), shall be included in the RMR calculation.

(9) The owner or operator determining the inlet for purposes of demonstrating compliance with § 63.145 (e), (f), or (g) of this subpart may elect to comply with paragraph (a)(9)(i) or (a)(9)(ii) of this section.

(i) When wastewater is conveyed exclusively by hard-piping from the point of determination to a treatment process that is either the only treatment process or the first in a series of treatment processes (i.e., no treatment processes or other waste management units are used upstream of this treatment process to store, handle, or convey the wastewater), the inlet to the treatment process shall be at any location from the point of determination to where the wastewater stream enters the treatment process. When samples are taken upstream of the treatment process and before wastewater streams have converged, the owner or operator shall ensure that the mass flow rate of all Group 1 wastewater streams is accounted for when using § 63.138 (e) or (f) to comply and that the mass flow rate of all Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams is accounted for when using § 63.138(g) to comply, except as provided in § 63.145(a)(6).

(ii) The owner or operator may consider the inlet to the equalization tank as the inlet to the biological treatment process if all the criteria in paragraphs (a)(9)(ii)(A) through (a)(9)(ii)(C) of this section are met. The outlet from the series of treatment processes prior to the biological treatment process is the point at which the wastewater exits the last treatment process in the series prior to the equalization tank, if the equalization tank and biological treatment process are part of a series of treatment processes. The owner or operator shall ensure that the mass flow rate of all Group 1 wastewater streams is accounted for when using § 63.138 (e) or (f) to comply and that the mass flow rate of all Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams is accounted for when using § 63.138(g) to comply, except as provided in § 63.145(a)(6).

(A) The wastewater is conveyed by hard-piping from either the last previous treatment process or the point of determination to the equalization tank.

(B) The wastewater is conveyed from the equalization tank exclusively by hard-piping to the biological treatment process and no treatment processes or other waste management units are used to store, handle, or convey the wastewater between the equalization tank and the biological treatment process.

(C) The equalization tank is equipped with a fixed roof and a closed vent system that routes emissions to a control device that meets the requirements of § 63.133(a)(2)(i) and § 63.133 (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this subpart.
