
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### ยง 63.145 Process wastewater provisions - test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
####### Concentration in wastewater stream.

(1)The concentration of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds shall be determined as provided in this paragraph. Concentration measurements to determine RMR shall be taken at the point of determination or downstream of the point of determination with adjustment for concentration change made according to ยง 63.144(b)(6) of this subpart. Concentration measurements to determine AMR shall be taken at the inlet and outlet to the treatment process and as provided in ยง 63.145(a)(7) for a series of treatment processes. Wastewater samples shall be collected using sampling procedures which minimize loss of organic compounds during sample collection and analysis and maintain sample integrity per ยง 63.144(b)(5)(ii). The method shall be an analytical method for wastewater which has that compound as a target analyte. Samples may be grab samples or composite samples. Samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of 3 runs. Concentration measurements based on Method 305 shall be adjusted by dividing each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart. Concentration measurements based on methods other than Method 305 shall not adjust by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart.
