
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.145 Process wastewater provisions - test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
####### Open or closed aerobic biological treatment processes: 95-percent mass removal option.

(g)This paragraph applies to performance tests that are conducted for open or closed aerobic biological treatment processes to demonstrate compliance with the 95-percent mass removal provisions for Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds. This compliance option is specified in § 63.138(g) of this subpart. The RMR for this option is 95-percent mass removal. The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in § 63.145(g)(1) to determine AMR, § 63.145 (e)(3)(ii) and (e)(4)(ii) to determine RMR, and (g)(2) of this subpart to determine whether compliance has been demonstrated. Some compounds may not require a performance test. Refer to § 63.145(h) and table 36 of this subpart to determine which compounds may be exempt from the requirements of this paragraph. (Wastewater streams that are Group 1 for both Table 8 and Table 9 compounds need only do the compliance demonstration for Table 9 compounds.)

(1) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1), (f)(2), and (f)(5) of this section to determine AMR. References to Group 1 wastewater streams shall be deemed Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams for the purposes of this paragraph.
