
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.145 Process wastewater provisions - test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
####### Calculation of RMR for non-combustion treatment processes including closed biological treatment processes.

(3)When using § 63.138(f) to comply, the required mass removal of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds for each Group 1 wastewater stream shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section. When using § 63.138(g) to comply, the required mass removal shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) When using § 63.138(f) to comply, the required mass removal of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds for each Group 1 wastewater stream shall be calculated using Equation WW9.

(ii) When using § 63.138(g) to comply, the required mass removal is 95 percent of the mass flow rate for all Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams combined for treatment. The required mass removal of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds for all Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams combined for treatment when complying with § 63.138(g) shall be calculated using the following equation:

(4)(i) The required mass removal is calculated by summing the required mass removal for each Group 1 wastewater stream to be combined for treatment when complying with § 63.138(f).

(ii) The required mass removal is calculated by summing the required mass removal for all Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams combined for treatment when complying with § 63.138(g).
