
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.146 Process wastewater provisions - reporting.
####### Requirements for Group 2 wastewater streams.

(1)This paragraph does not apply to Group 2 wastewater streams that are used to comply with § 63.138(g). For Group 2 wastewater streams, the owner or operator shall include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section in the Notification of Compliance Status Report. This information may be submitted in any form. Table 15 of this subpart is an example.

(i) Process unit identification and description of the process unit.

(ii) Stream identification code.

(iii) For existing sources, concentration of table 9 compound(s) in parts per million, by weight. For new sources, concentration of table 8 and/or table 9 compound(s) in parts per million, by weight. Include documentation of the methodology used to determine concentration.

(iv) Flow rate in liter per minute.

(2) For each new and existing source, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in table 15 of this subpart for Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) For each treatment process identified in table 15 of this subpart that receives, manages, or treats a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in table 17 of this subpart.

(5) For each waste management unit identified in table 15 of this subpart that receives or manages a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in table 18 of this subpart.

(6) For each residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall report the information specified in table 19 of this subpart.

(7) For each control device used to comply with §§ 63.133 through 63.139 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall report the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) and (b)(7)(ii) of this section.

(i) For each flare, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(i)(A) through (b)(7)(i)(C) of this section.

(A) Flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted);

(B) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by § 63.139(c)(3) of this subpart; and

(C) Reports of the times and durations of all periods during the compliance determination when the pilot flame is absent or the monitor is not operating.

(ii) For each control device other than a flare, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraph (b)(7)(ii)(A) of this section and in either paragraph (b)(7)(ii)(B) or (b)(7)(ii)(C) of this section.

(A) The information on parameter ranges specified in § 63.152(b)(2) of this subpart for the applicable parameters specified in table 13 of this subpart, unless the parameter range has already been established in the operating permit; and either

(B) The design evaluation specified in § 63.139(d)(2) of this subpart; or

(C) Results of the performance test specified in § 63.139(d)(1) of this subpart. Performance test results shall include operating ranges of key process and control parameters during the performance test; the value of each parameter being monitored in accordance with § 63.143 of this subpart; and applicable supporting calculations.

(8) For each treatment process used to comply with § 63.138(b)(1), (c)(1), (d), (e), (f), or (g) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) and (b)(8)(ii) of this section.

(i) For Items 1 and 2 in table 12 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i)(A) and (b)(8)(i)(B) of this section. An owner or operator using the design steam stripper compliance option specified § 63.138(d) of this subpart does not have to submit the information specified in paragraph (b)(8)(i)(A) or (b)(8)(i)(B) of this section. However, the monitoring requirements specified in Item 2 of table 12 of this subpart still apply.

(A) The information on parameter ranges specified in § 63.152(b)(2) of this subpart for the parameters approved by the Administrator, unless the parameter range has already been established in the operating permit.

(B) Results of the initial measurements of the parameters approved by the Administrator and any applicable supporting calculations.

(ii) For Item 3 in table 12 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit the information on parameter ranges specified in § 63.152(b)(2) of this subpart for the parameters specified in Item 3 of table 12 of this subpart, unless the parameter range has already been established in the operating permit.

(9) For each waste management unit or treatment process used to comply with § 63.138(b)(1), (c)(1), (e), (f), or (g), the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in either paragraph (b)(9)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The design evaluation and supporting documentation specified in § 63.138(j)(1) of this subpart.

(ii) Results of the performance test specified in § 63.138(j)(2) of this subpart. Performance test results shall include operating ranges of key process and control parameters during the performance test; the value of each parameter being monitored in accordance with § 63.143 of this subpart; and applicable supporting calculations.

(c) For each waste management unit that receives, manages, or treats a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall submit as part of the next Periodic Report required by § 63.152(c) of this subpart the results of each inspection required by § 63.143(a) of this subpart in which a control equipment failure was identified. Control equipment failure is defined for each waste management unit in §§ 63.133 through 63.137 of this subpart. Each Periodic Report shall include the date of the inspection, identification of each waste management unit in which a control equipment failure was detected, description of the failure, and description of the nature of and date the repair was made.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, for each treatment process used to comply with § 63.138(b)(1), (c)(1), (d), (e) , (f), or (g), the owner or operator shall submit as part of the next Periodic Report required by § 63.152(c) the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1), (2), and (3) of this section for the monitoring required by § 63.143(b), (c), and (d).

(1) For Item 1 in table 12, the owner or operator shall submit the results of measurements that indicate that the biological treatment unit is outside the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit.

(2) For Item 2 in table 12, the owner or operator shall submit the monitoring results for each operating day during which the daily average value of a continuously monitored parameter is outside the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit.

(3) For Item 3 in table 12 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit the monitoring results for each operating day during which the daily average value of any monitored parameter approved in accordance with § 63.151 (f) was outside the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, for each control device used to comply with §§ 63.133 through 63.139 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit as part of the next Periodic Report required by § 63.152(c) of this subpart the information specified in either paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section.

(1) The information specified in table 20 of this subpart, or

(2) If the owner or operator elects to comply with § 63.143(e)(2) of this subpart, i.e., an organic monitoring device installed at the outlet of the control device, the owner or operator shall submit the monitoring results for each operating day during which the daily average concentration level or reading is outside the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit.

(f) Where the owner or operator obtains approval to use a treatment process or control device other than one for which monitoring requirements are specified in § 63.143 of this subpart, or to monitor parameters other than those specified in table 12 or 13 of this subpart, the Administrator will specify appropriate reporting requirements.

(g) If an extension is utilized in accordance with § 63.133(e)(2) or § 63.133(h) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall include in the next periodic report the information specified in § 63.133 (e)(2) or § 63.133(h).
