
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.145 Process wastewater provisions - test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
####### Compare mass destruction efficiency to required efficiency.

(9)If complying with the 95 percent reduction efficiency requirement, compliance is demonstrated if the mass destruction efficiency (calculated in Equation WW18) is 95 percent or greater. If complying with the 20 parts per million by volume limit in § 63.139 (c)(1)(ii) of this subpart, compliance is demonstrated if the outlet total organic compound concentration, less methane and ethane, or total organic hazardous air pollutants concentration is 20 parts per million by volume, or less. For combustion control devices, the concentration shall be calculated on a dry basis, corrected to 3 percent oxygen.

(j) When a flare is used to comply with § 63.139(c), the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section. The owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test to determine percent emission reduction or outlet organic HAP or TOC concentration.

(1) Conduct a visible emission test using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(4).

(2) Determine the net heating value of the gas being combusted using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(6).

(3) Determine the exit velocity using the techniques specified in either § 63.11(b)(7)(i) (and § 63.11(b)(7)(iii), where applicable) or § 63.11(b)(8), as appropriate.
