
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.147 Process wastewater provisions - recordkeeping.

(a) The owner or operator transferring a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream in accordance with § 63.132(g) of this subpart shall keep a record of the notice sent to the treatment operator stating that the wastewater stream or residual contains organic hazardous air pollutants which are required to be managed and treated in accordance with the provisions of this subpart.

(b) The owner or operator shall keep in a readily accessible location the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of the section.

(1) A record that each waste management unit inspection required by §§ 63.133 through 63.137 of this subpart was performed.

(2) A record that each inspection for control devices required by § 63.139 of this subpart was performed.

(3) A record of the results of each seal gap measurement required by §§ 63.133(d) and 63.137(c) of this subpart. The records shall include the date of the measurement, the raw data obtained in the measurement, and the calculations described in § 63.120(b)(2), (3), and (4) of this subpart.

(4) For Item 1 and Item 3 of table 12 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall keep the records approved by the Administrator.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, continuous records of the monitored parameters specified in Item 2 of table 12 and table 13 of this subpart, and in § 63.143(e)(2) of this subpart.

(6) Documentation of a decision to use an extension, as specified in § 63.133(e)(2) or (h) of this subpart, which shall include a description of the failure, documentation that alternate storage capacity is unavailable, and specification of a schedule of actions that will ensure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel will be emptied as soon as practical.

(7) Documentation of a decision to use a delay of repair due to unavailability of parts, as specified in § 63.140(c), shall include a description of the failure, the reason additional time was necessary (including a statement of why replacement parts were not kept on site and when the manufacturer promised delivery), and the date when repair was completed.
