
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.150 Emissions averaging provisions.

(a) This section applies to owners or operators of existing sources who seek to comply with the emission standard in § 63.112(a) of this subpart by using emissions averaging according to § 63.112(f) of this subpart rather than following the provisions of §§ 63.113 through 63.148 of this subpart. Notwithstanding the definition of process vent in § 63.101 and the sampling site designation in § 63.115(a), for purposes of this section the location of a process vent shall be defined, and the characteristics of its gas stream shall be determined, consistent with paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section.

(b) Unless an operating permit application has been submitted, the owner or operator shall develop and submit for approval an Implementation Plan containing all of the information required in § 63.151(d) of this subpart for all points to be included in an emissions average. The Implementation Plan or operating permit application shall identify all emission points to be included in the emissions average. This must include any Group 1 emission points to which the reference control technology (defined in § 63.111 of this subpart) is not applied and all other emission points being controlled as part of the average.

(c) The following emission points can be used to generate emissions averaging credits, if control was applied after November 15, 1990 and if sufficient information is available to determine the appropriate value of credits for the emission point:

(1) Group 2 emission points.

(2) Group 1 emission points that are controlled by a technology that the Administrator or permitting authority agrees has a higher nominal efficiency than the reference control technology. Information on the nominal efficiencies for such technologies must be submitted and approved as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.

(3) Emission points from which emissions are reduced by pollution prevention measures. Percent reductions for pollution prevention measures shall be determined as specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(i) For a Group 1 emission point, the pollution prevention measure must reduce emissions more than the reference control technology would have had the reference control technology been applied to the emission point instead of the pollution prevention measure except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.

(ii) If a pollution prevention measure is used in conjunction with other controls for a Group 1 emission point, the pollution prevention measure alone does not have to reduce emissions more than the reference control technology, but the combination of the pollution prevention measure and other controls must reduce emissions more than the reference control technology would have had it been applied instead.

(d) The following emission points cannot be used to generate emissions averaging credits:

(1) Emission points already controlled on or before November 15, 1990, unless the level of control is increased after November 15, 1990, in which case credit will be allowed only for the increase in control after November 15, 1990.

(2) Group 1 emission points that are controlled by a reference control technology, unless the reference control technology has been approved for use in a different manner and a higher nominal efficiency has been assigned according to the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section. For example, it is not allowable to claim that an internal floating roof meeting the specifications of § 63.119(b) of this subpart applied to a storage vessel is achieving greater than 95 percent control.

(3) Emission points on shut-down process units. Process units that are shut down cannot be used to generate credits or debits.

(4) Wastewater that is not process wastewater or wastewater streams treated in biological treatment units. These two types of wastewater cannot be used to generate credits or debits. For the purposes of this section, the terms wastewater and wastewater stream are used to mean process wastewater.

(5) Emission points controlled to comply with a State or Federal rule other than this subpart, unless the level of control has been increased after November 15, 1990 above what is required by the other State or Federal rule. Only the control above what is required by the other State or Federal rule will be credited. However, if an emission point has been used to generate emissions averaging credit in an approved emissions average, and the point is subsequently made subject to a State or Federal rule other than this subpart, the point can continue to generate emissions averaging credit for the purpose of complying with the previously approved average.

(e) For all points included in an emissions average, the owner or operator shall:

(1) Calculate and record monthly debits for all Group 1 emission points that are controlled to a level less stringent than the reference control technology for those emission points. Equations in paragraph (g) of this section shall be used to calculate debits.

(2) Calculate and record monthly credits for all Group 1 or Group 2 emission points that are overcontrolled to compensate for the debits. Equations in paragraph (h) of this section shall be used to calculate credits. Emission points and controls that meet the criteria of paragraph (c) of this section may be included in the credit calculation, whereas those described in paragraph (d) of this section shall not be included.

(3) Demonstrate that annual credits calculated according to paragraph (h) of this section are greater than or equal to debits calculated for the same annual compliance period according to paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator may choose to include more than the required number of credit-generating emission points in an average in order to increase the likelihood of being in compliance.

(ii) The initial demonstration in the Implementation Plan or operating permit application that credit-generating emission points will be capable of generating sufficient credits to offset the debits from the debit-generating emission points must be made under representative operating conditions. After the compliance date, actual operating data will be used for all debit and credit calculations.

(4) Demonstrate that debits calculated for a quarterly (3-month) period according to paragraph (g) of this section are not more than 1.30 times the credits for the same period calculated according to paragraph (h) of this section. Compliance for the quarter shall be determined based on the ratio of credits and debits from that quarter, with 30 percent more debits than credits allowed on a quarterly basis.

(5) Record and report quarterly and annual credits and debits in the Periodic Reports as specified in § 63.152(c) of this subpart. Every fourth Periodic Report shall include a certification of compliance with the emissions averaging provisions as required by § 63.152(c)(5)(iv)(B) of this subpart.

(f) Debits and credits shall be calculated in accordance with the methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, respectively, and shall not include emissions from the following:

(1) More than 20 individual Group 1 or Group 2 emission points. Where pollution prevention measures (as specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section) are used to control emission points to be included in an emissions average, no more than 25 emission points may be included in the average. For example, if two emission points to be included in an emissions average are controlled by pollution prevention measures, the average may include up to 22 emission points.

(2) Periods of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction as described in the source's start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan required by § 63.6(e)(3) of subpart A of this part.

(3) Periods of monitoring excursions as defined in § 63.152(c)(2)(ii)(A) of this subpart. For these periods, the calculation of monthly credits and debits shall be adjusted as specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (f)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) No credits would be assigned to the credit-generating emission point.

(ii) Maximum debits would be assigned to the debit-generating emission point.

(iii) The owner or operator may demonstrate to the Administrator that full or partial credits or debits should be assigned using the procedures in paragraph (l) of this section.

(g) Debits are generated by the difference between the actual emissions from a Group 1 emission point that is uncontrolled or is controlled to a level less stringent than the reference control technology, and the emissions allowed for the Group 1 emission point. Debits shall be calculated as follows:

(1) The overall equation for calculating source-wide debits is:

(2) Emissions from process vents shall be calculated according to paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The location of a process vent shall be defined, and the characteristics of its gas stream shall be determined at a point that meets the conditions in either paragraph (g)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section and the conditions in paragraphs (g)(2)(i)(C) through (E) of this section.

(A) The point is after the final recovery device (if any recovery devices are present).

(B) If a gas stream included in an emissions average is combined with one or more other gas streams after a final recovery device (if any recovery devices are present), then for each gas stream, the point is at a representative point after any final recovery device and as near as feasible to, but before, the point of combination of the gas streams.

(C) The point is before any control device (for process vents, recovery devices shall not be considered control devices).

(D) The point is before discharge to the atmosphere.

(E) The measurement site for determination of the characteristics of the gas stream was selected using Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(ii) The following equation shall be used for each process vent i to calculate EPV:

(A) The values of Q, C, and Mshall be determined during a performance test conducted under representative operating conditions. The values of Q, C, and Mshall be established in the Notification of Compliance Status and must be updated as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(B) If there is a change in capacity utilization other than a change in monthly operating hours, or if any other change is made to the process or product recovery equipment or operation such that the previously measured values of Q, C, and Mare no longer representative, a new performance test shall be conducted to determine new representative values of Q, C, and M. These new values shall be used to calculate debits and credits from the time of the change forward, and the new values shall be reported in the next Periodic Report.

(iii) The following procedures and equations shall be used to calculate EPV:

(A) If the vent is not controlled by a control device or pollution prevention measure, EPV= EPV, where EPVis calculated according to the procedures in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section.

(B) If the vent is controlled using a control device or a pollution prevention measure achieving less than 98-percent reduction,
