
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.147 Process wastewater provisions - recordkeeping.
####### Requirements for Group 2 wastewater streams.

(8)This paragraph (b)(8) does not apply to Group 2 wastewater streams that are used to comply with § 63.138(g). For all other Group 2 wastewater streams, the owner or operator shall keep in a readily accessible location the records specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Process unit identification and description of the process unit.

(ii) Stream identification code.

(iii) For existing sources, concentration of table 9 compound(s) in parts per million, by weight. For new sources, concentration of table 8 and/or table 9 compound(s) in parts per million, by weight. Include documentation of the methodology used to determine concentration.

(iv) Flow rate in liter per minute.

(c) For each boiler or process heater used to comply with §§ 63.133 through 63.139 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall keep a record of any changes in the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the flame zone as required in § 63.139(c)(1) of this subpart.

(d) The owner or operator shall keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day as specified in § 63.152(f), except as provided in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) For flares, records of the times and duration of all periods during which the pilot flame is absent shall be kept rather than daily averages.
