
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### ยง 63.147 Process wastewater provisions - recordkeeping.
####### Non-regenerative carbon adsorbers.

(3)For non-regenerative carbon adsorbers using organic monitoring equipment, the owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section instead of daily averages. For non-regenerative carbon adsorbers replacing the carbon adsorption system with fresh carbon at a regular predetermined time interval that is less than the carbon replacement interval that is determined by the maximum design flow rate and organic concentration in the gas stream vented to the carbon adsorption system, the owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section instead of daily averages.

(i)(A) Record of how the monitoring frequency, as specified in table 13 of this subpart, was determined.

(B) Records of when organic compound concentration of adsorber exhaust was monitored.

(C) Records of when the carbon was replaced.

(ii)(A) Record of how the carbon replacement interval, as specified in table 13 of this subpart, was determined.

(B) Records of when the carbon was replaced.

(e) Where the owner or operator obtains approval to use a control device other than one for which monitoring requirements are specified in ยง 63.143 of this subpart, or to monitor parameters other than those specified in table 12 or table 13 of this subpart, the Administrator will specify appropriate recordkeeping requirements.

(f) If the owner or operator uses process knowledge to determine the annual average concentration of a wastewater stream as specified in ยง 63.144(b)(3) of this subpart and/or uses process knowledge to determine the annual average flow rate as specified in ยง 63.144(c)(1) of this subpart, and determines that the wastewater stream is not a Group 1 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall keep in a readily accessible location the documentation of how process knowledge was used to determine the annual average concentration and/or the annual average flow rate of the wastewater stream.
