
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.150 Emissions averaging provisions.
####### 2

() Procedures for calculating the percent reduction for pollution prevention measures are specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(5) Emissions from wastewater shall be calculated as follows:

(i) The following equation shall be used for each wastewater stream i to calculate EWW:

(A) HAPshall be determined for the point of determination or, at a location downstream of the point of determination and adjusted according as specified in § 63.144(b)(6) of this subpart, by developing and using the sampling plan specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(ii) of this subpart. The samples collected may be analyzed by any of the methods specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(i)(B) through (b)(5)(i)(F) of this subpart. Concentration measurements based on Method 305 shall be adjusted by dividing each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed on table 34 of this subpart. Concentration measurements other than Method 305 shall not be adjusted by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart.

(B) Values for Q, HAP, and Cshall be determined during a performance test conducted under representative conditions as specified in § 63.145(a)(3) and (a)(4) of this subpart. The average value obtained from three test runs shall be used. The values of Q, HAP, and Cshall be established in the Notification of Compliance Status and must be updated as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(i)(C) of this section.

(C) If there is a change to the process or operation such that the previously measured values of Q, HAP, and Care no longer representative, a new performance test shall be conducted to determine new representative values of Q, HAP, and C. These new values shall be used to calculate debits and credits from the time of the change forward, and the new values shall be reported in the next Periodic Report.

(ii) The following equation shall be used to calculate EWWfor each wastewater stream i that is not managed according to the provisions for waste management units of §§ 63.133 through 63.137 of this subpart, as applicable, which specify equipment and work practices for suppressing and controlling vapors. Q, H, s, Fe, and HAPare as defined and determined according to paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section.

(iii) The following equation shall be used to calculate EWWfor each wastewater stream i that is managed according to the requirements of §§ 63.133 through 63.137 of this subpart, as applicable, and wastewater stream i is uncontrolled or is controlled to a level less stringent than the reference control technology (for the purposes of the wastewater emissions averaging provisions, the term control is used to mean treatment). Q, H, s, Fe, and HAPare as defined and determined according to paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section.

(h) Credits are generated by the difference between emissions that are allowed for each Group 1 and Group 2 emission point and the actual emissions from a Group 1 or Group 2 emission point that has been controlled after November 15, 1990 to a level more stringent than what is required by this subpart or any other State or Federal rule or statute. Credits shall be calculated as follows:

(1) The overall equation for calculating source-wide credits is:

(i) For an emission point controlled using a reference control technology, the percent reduction for calculating credits shall be no greater than the nominal efficiency associated with the reference control technology, unless a higher nominal efficiency is assigned as specified in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) For an emission point controlled to a level more stringent than the reference control technology, the nominal efficiency for calculating credits shall be assigned as described in paragraph (i) of this section. A reference control technology may be approved for use in a different manner and assigned a higher nominal efficiency according to the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.

(iii) For an emission point controlled using a pollution prevention measure, the nominal efficiency for calculating credits shall be as determined as described in paragraph (j) of this section.

(2) Emissions from process vents shall be determined as follows:

(i) Uncontrolled emissions from Group 1 process vents, EPV1, shall be calculated according to the procedures and equation for EPVin paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Actual emissions from Group 1 process vents controlled using a technology with an approved nominal efficiency greater than 98 percent or a pollution prevention measure achieving greater than 98 percent emission reduction, EPV1, shall be calculated according to the following equation:

(iii) The following procedures shall be used to calculate actual emissions from Group 2 process vents, EPV2:

(A) For a Group 2 process vent controlled by a control device, a recovery device applied as a pollution prevention project, or a pollution prevention measure, if the control achieves a percent reduction less than or equal to 98 percent reduction,
