
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.151 Initial notification.

(a) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section. Owners or operators requesting an extension of compliance shall also submit the report listed in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.

(1) An Initial Notification described in paragraph (b) of this section, and

(2) An Implementation Plan for new sources subject to this subpart or for emission points to be included in an emissions average, unless an operating permit application has been submitted prior to the date the Implementation Plan is due and the owner or operator has elected to include the information specified in § 63.152(e) in that application. The submittal date and contents of the Implementation Plan are specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(3) A Notification of Compliance Status described in § 63.152 of this subpart,

(4) Periodic Reports described in § 63.152 of this subpart, and

(5) Other reports described in § 63.152 of this subpart.

(6) Pursuant to section 112(i)(3)(B) of the Act, an owner or operator may request an extension allowing the existing source up to 1 additional year to comply with section 112(d) standards.

(i) For purposes of this subpart, a request for an extension shall be submitted to the permitting authority as part of the operating permit application or as part of the Initial Notification or as a separate submittal. Requests for extensions shall be submitted no later than 120 days prior to the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(2), § 63.100(l)(4), and § 63.100(m) of subpart F of this part, except as provided for in paragraph (a)(6)(iv) of this section. The dates specified in § 63.6(i) of subpart A of this part for submittal of requests for extensions shall not apply to sources subject to this subpart G.

(ii) A request for an extension of compliance must include the data described in § 63.6(i)(6)(i) (A), (B), and (D) of subpart A of this part.

(iii) The requirements in § 63.6(i)(8) through (i)(14) of subpart A will govern the review and approval of requests for extensions of compliance with this subpart.

(iv) An owner or operator may submit a compliance extension request after the date specified in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section provided the need for the compliance extension arose after that date and before the otherwise applicable compliance date, and the need arose due to circumstances beyond reasonable control of the owner or operator. This request shall include, in addition to the information in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section, a statement of the reasons additional time is needed and the date when the owner or operator first learned of the problem.

(7) The reporting requirements for storage vessels are located in § 63.122 of this subpart.

(b) Each owner or operator of an existing or new source subject to subpart G shall submit a written Initial Notification to the Administrator, containing the information described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, according to the schedule in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The Initial Notification provisions in § 63.9(b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(6) of subpart A shall not apply to owners or operators of sources subject to subpart G.

(1) The Initial Notification shall include the following information:

(i) The name and address of the owner or operator;

(ii) The address (physical location) of the affected source;

(iii) An identification of the kinds of emission points within the source that are subject to this subpart;

(iv) An identification of the chemical manufacturing processes subject to subpart G; and

(v) A statement of whether the source can achieve compliance by the relevant compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F.

(2) The Initial Notification shall be submitted according to the schedule in paragraph (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), or (b)(2)(iii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) For an existing source, the Initial Notification shall be submitted within 120 calendar days after the date of promulgation, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(ii) For a new source that has an initial start-up 90 calendar days after the date of promulgation of this subpart or later, the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required by § 63.5(d) of subpart A shall be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification. The application shall be submitted as soon as practicable before construction or reconstruction is planned to commence (but it need not be sooner than 90 calendar days after the date of promulgation of this subpart). For a new source that reclassifies to major source status after January 19, 2021 and greater than 90 days after the initial start-up, the source shall submit the initial notification required by § 63.9(b) no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart.

(iii) For a new source that has an initial start-up prior to 90 calendar days after the date of promulgation, the Initial Notification shall be submitted within 90 calendar days after the date of promulgation of this subpart, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The application for approval of construction or reconstruction described in § 63.5(d) of subpart A is not required for these sources.

(c) Each owner or operator of an existing source with emission points that will be included in an emissions average or new source subject to this subpart must submit an Implementation Plan to the Administrator by the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, unless an operating permit application accompanied by the information specified in § 63.152(e) of this subpart has been submitted. The Implementation Plan for emissions averaging is subject to Administrator approval.

(1) Each owner or operator of an existing source subject to this subpart who elects to comply with § 63.112 of this subpart by using emissions averaging for any emission points, and who has not submitted an operating permit application accompanied by the information specified in § 63.152(e) of this subpart at least 18 months prior to the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, shall develop an Implementation Plan for emissions averaging. For existing sources, the Implementation Plan for those emission points to be included in an emissions average shall be submitted no later than 18 months prior to the compliance dates in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part.

(2) Each owner or operator of a new source shall submit an Implementation Plan by the date specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) or (c)(2)(ii) of this section, as applicable, unless an operating permit application containing the information in paragraph (e) of this section has been submitted by that date.

(i) For a new source that has an initial start-up 90 calendar days after the date of promulgation of this subpart or later, the Implementation Plan shall be submitted with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction by the date specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) For a new source that has an initial start-up prior to 90 calendar days after the date of promulgation, the Implementation Plan shall be submitted within 90 calendar days after the date of promulgation of this subpart.

(3) The Administrator shall determine within 120 calendar days whether the Implementation Plan submitted by sources using emissions averaging presents sufficient information. The Administrator shall either approve the Implementation Plan, request changes, or request that the owner or operator submit additional information. Once the Administrator receives sufficient information, the Administrator shall approve, disapprove, or request changes to the plan within 120 calendar days.

(d) Each owner or operator required to submit an Implementation Plan for emissions averaging shall include in the plan, for all emission points included in the emissions average, the information listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(8) of this section.

(1) The identification of all emission points in the planned emissions average and notation of whether each point is a Group 1 or Group 2 emission point as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart.

(2) The projected emission debits and credits for each emission point and the sum for the emission points involved in the average calculated according to § 63.150 of this subpart. The projected credits must be greater than the projected debits, as required under § 63.150(e)(3) of this subpart.

(3) The specific control technology or pollution prevention measure that will be used for each emission point included in the average and date of application or expected date of application.

(4) The specific identification of each emission point affected by a pollution prevention measure. To be considered a pollution prevention measure, the criteria in § 63.150(j)(1) of this subpart must be met. If the same pollution prevention measure reduces or eliminates emissions from multiple emission points in the average, the owner or operator must identify each of these emission points.

(5) A statement that the compliance demonstration, monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions in § 63.150(m), (n), and (o) of this subpart that are applicable to each emission point in the emissions average will be implemented beginning on the date of compliance.

(6) Documentation of the information listed in paragraph (d)(6)(i) through (d)(6)(v) of this section for each process vent, storage vessel, or transfer rack included in the average.

(i) The values of the parameters used to determine whether the emission point is Group 1 or Group 2. Where TRE index value is used for process vent group determination, the estimated or measured values of the parameters used in the TRE equation in § 63.115(d) of this subpart (flow rate, organic HAP emission rate, TOC emission rate, and net heating value) and the resulting TRE index value shall be submitted.

(ii) The estimated values of all parameters needed for input to the emission debit and credit calculations in § 63.150 (g) and (h) of this subpart. These parameter values, or as appropriate, limited ranges for the parameter values, shall be specified in the source's Implementation Plan (or operating permit) as enforceable operating conditions. Changes to these parameters must be reported as required by paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section.

(iii) The estimated percent reduction if a control technology achieving a lower percent reduction than the efficiency of the reference control technology, as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart, is or will be applied to the emission point.

(iv) The anticipated nominal efficiency if a control technology achieving a greater percent emission reduction than the efficiency of the reference control technology is or will be applied to the emission point. The procedures in § 63.150(i) of this subpart shall be followed to apply for a nominal efficiency.

(v) The operating plan required in § 63.122(a)(2) and (b) of this subpart for each storage vessel controlled with a closed-vent system with a control device other than a flare.

(7) The information specified in § 63.151(f) of this subpart shall be included in the Implementation Plan for:

(i) Each process vent or transfer rack controlled by a pollution prevention measure or control technique for which monitoring parameters or inspection procedures are not specified in § 63.114, § 63.126(b)(3), or § 63.127 of this subpart, and

(ii) Each storage vessel controlled by pollution prevention or a control technique other than an internal or external floating roof or a closed vent system with a control device.

(8) Documentation of the information listed in paragraph (d)(8)(i) through (d)(8)(iv) for each process wastewater stream included in the average.

(i) The information used to determine whether the wastewater stream is a Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream.

(ii) The estimated values of all parameters needed for input to the wastewater emission credit and debit calculations in § 63.150 (g)(5) and (h)(5) of this subpart.

(iii) The estimated percent reduction if:

(A) A control technology that achieves an emission reduction less than or equal to the emission reduction achieved by the design steam stripper, as specified in § 63.138(g) of this subpart, is or will be applied to the wastewater stream, or

(B) A control technology achieving less than or equal to 95 percent emission reduction is or will be applied to the vapor stream(s) vented and collected from the treatment processes, or

(C) A pollution prevention measure is or will be applied.

(iv) The anticipated nominal efficiency if the owner or operator plans to apply for a nominal efficiency under § 63.150(i) of this subpart. A nominal efficiency shall be applied for if:

(A) A control technology is or will be applied to the wastewater stream and achieves an emission reduction greater than the emission reduction achieved by the design steam stripper as specified in § 63.138(g) of this subpart, or

(B) A control technology achieving greater than 95 percent emission reduction is or will be applied to the vapor stream(s) vented and collected from the treatment processes.

(v) For each pollution prevention measure, treatment process, or control device used to reduce air emissions of organic HAP's from wastewater and for which no monitoring parameters or inspection procedures are specified in § 63.143 of this subpart, the information specified in § 63.151(f) of this subpart shall be included in the Implementation Plan.

(e) An owner or operator expressly referred to this paragraph shall report, in an Implementation Plan, operating permit application, or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority, the information listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(5) of this section.

(1) A list designating each emission point complying with §§ 63.113 through 63.149 and whether each emission point is Group 1 or Group 2, as defined in § 63.111. For each process vent within the source, provide the information listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The chemical manufacturing process unit(s) that is the origin of all or part of the vent stream that exits the process vent.

(ii) The type(s) of unit operations (i.e., an air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor) that creates the vent stream that exits the process vent.

(iii) For a Group 2 process vent, the last recovery device, if any.

(iv) For a Group 1 process vent, the control device, or other equipment used for compliance.

(2) The control technology or method of compliance that will be applied to each Group 1 emission point.

(3) A statement that the compliance demonstration, monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions in §§ 63.113 through 63.149 of this subpart that are applicable to each emission point will be implemented beginning on the date of compliance.

(4) The operating plan required in § 63.122(a)(2) and (b) of this subpart for each storage vessel controlled with a closed vent system with a control device other than a flare.

(5) The monitoring information in § 63.151(f) of this subpart if, for any emission point, the owner or operator of a source seeks to comply through use of a control technique other than those for which monitoring parameters are specified in § 63.114 for process vents, § 63.127 for transfer, and § 63.143 for process wastewater.

(f) The owner or operator who has been directed by any section of this subpart that expressly references this paragraph to set unique monitoring parameters or who requests approval to monitor a different parameter than those listed in § 63.114 for process vents, § 63.127 for transfer, or § 63.143 for process wastewater of this subpart shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1), (f)(2), and (f)(3) of this section with the operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority.

(1) A description of the parameter(s) to be monitored to ensure the control technology or pollution prevention measure is operated in conformance with its design and achieves the specified emission limit, percent reduction, or nominal efficiency, and an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s).

(2) A description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter indicates proper operation of the control device, the schedule for this demonstration, and a statement that the owner or operator will establish a range for the monitored parameter as part of the Notification of Compliance Status report required in § 63.152(b) of this subpart, unless this information has already been included in the operating permit application.

(3) The frequency and content of monitoring, recording, and reporting if monitoring and recording is not continuous, or if reports of daily average values when the monitored parameter value is outside the range established in the operating permit or Notification of Compliance Status will not be included in Periodic Reports required under § 63.152(c) of this subpart. The rationale for the proposed monitoring, recording, and reporting system shall be included.

(g) An owner or operator may request approval to use alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions listed in §§ 63.114, 63.117, and 63.118 for process vents, §§ 63.127, 63.129, and 63.130 for transfer operations, and §§ 63.143, 63.146, and 63.147 for wastewater.

(1) Requests shall be included in the operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority and shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (g)(3) through (g)(5) of this section, as applicable.

(2) The provisions in § 63.8(f)(5)(i) of subpart A shall govern the review and approval of requests.

(3) An owner or operator of a source that does not have an automated monitoring and recording system capable of measuring parameter values at least once every 15 minutes and generating continuous records may request approval to use a non-automated system with less frequent monitoring.

(i) The requested system shall include manual reading and recording of the value of the relevant operating parameter no less frequently than once per hour. Daily average values shall be calculated from these hourly values and recorded.

(ii) The request shall contain:

(A) A description of the planned monitoring and recordkeeping system;

(B) Documentation that the source does not have an automated monitoring and recording system;

(C) Justification for requesting an alternative monitoring and recordkeeping system; and

(D) Demonstration to the Administrator's satisfaction that the proposed monitoring frequency is sufficient to represent control device operating conditions considering typical variability of the specific process and control device operating parameter being monitored.

(4) An owner or operator may request approval to use an automated data compression recording system that does not record monitored operating parameter values at a set frequency (for example once every 15 minutes) but records all values that meet set criteria for variation from previously recorded values.

(i) The requested system shall be designed to:

(A) Measure the operating parameter value at least once every 15 minutes.

(B) Record at least four values each hour during periods of operation.

(C) Record the date and time when monitors are turned off or on.

(D) Recognize unchanging data that may indicate the monitor is not functioning properly, alert the operator, and record the incident.

(E) Compute daily average values of the monitored operating parameter based on recorded data.

(F) If the daily average is not an excursion, as defined in § 63.152(c)(2)(ii), the data for that operating day may be converted to hourly average values and the four or more individual records for each hour in the operating day may be discarded.

(ii) The request shall contain a description of the monitoring system and data compression recording system, including the criteria used to determine which monitored values are recorded and retained, the method for calculating daily averages, and a demonstration that the system meets all criteria in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.

(5) An owner or operator may request approval to use other alternative monitoring systems according to the procedures specified in § 63.8(f) of subpart A of this part.

(h) The owner or operator required to prepare an Implementation Plan, or otherwise required to submit a report, under paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of this section shall also submit a supplement for any additional alternative controls or operating scenarios that may be used to achieve compliance.

(i) The owner or operator of a source required to submit an Implementation Plan for emissions averaging under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section shall also submit written updates of the Implementation Plan to the Administrator for approval under the circumstances described in paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section unless the relevant information has been included and submitted in an operating permit application or amendment.

(1) The owner or operator who plans to make a change listed in paragraph (i)(1)(i) or (i)(1)(ii) of this section shall submit an Implementation Plan update at least 120 calendar days prior to making the change.

(i) Whenever an owner or operator elects to achieve compliance with the emissions averaging provisions in § 63.150 of this subpart by using a control technique other than that specified in the Implementation Plan or plans to monitor a different parameter or operate a control device in a manner other than that specified in the Implementation Plan.

(ii) Whenever an emission point or a chemical manufacturing process unit is added to an existing source and is planned to be included in an emissions average, or whenever an emission point not included in the emissions average described in the Implementation Plan is to be added to an emissions average. The information in paragraph (d) of this section shall be updated to include the additional emission point.

(2) The owner or operator who has made a change listed in paragraph (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) of this section shall submit an Implementation Plan update within 90 calendar days after the information regarding the change is known to the source. The update may be submitted in the next quarterly Periodic Report if the change is made after the date the Notification of Compliance status is due.

(i) Whenever a process change is made such that the group status of any emission point in an emissions average changes.

(ii) Whenever a value of a parameter in the emission credit or debit equations in § 63.150(g) or (h) changes such that it is outside the range specified in the Implementation Plan and causes a decrease in the projected credits or an increase in the projected debits.

(3) The Administrator shall approve or request changes to the Implementation Plan update within 120 calendar days of receipt of sufficient information regarding the change for emission points included in emissions averages.

(j) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart, for emission points that are not included in an emissions average, shall report to the Administrator under the circumstances described in paragraphs (j)(1), (j)(2), and (j)(3) of this section unless the relevant information has been included and submitted in an operating permit application or amendment, or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority. The information shall be submitted within 180 calendar days after the change is made or the information regarding the change is known to the source. The update may be submitted in the next Periodic Report if the change is made after the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due.

(1) Whenever a deliberate change is made such that the group status of any emission point changes. The information submitted shall include a compliance schedule as specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part if the emission point becomes Group 1.

(2) Whenever an owner or operator elects to achieve compliance with this subpart by using a control technique other than that previously reported to the Administrator or to the permitting authority, or plans to monitor a different parameter, or operate a control device in a manner other than that previously reported.

(3) Whenever an emission point or a chemical manufacturing process unit is added to a source, written information specified under paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(5) of this section, containing information on the new emission point(s) shall be submitted to the EPA regional office where the source is located.
