
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.150 Emissions averaging provisions.
####### 2,1,2

() The percent reduction shall be calculated according to the procedures in paragraph (g)(4)(v)(B)() and (g)(4)(v)(B)() of this section.

(B) For a Group 2 transfer rack controlled using a technology with an approved nominal efficiency greater than 98 percent or a pollution prevention measure achieving greater than 98 percent reduction,

(iv) Emissions from Group 2 transfer racks at baseline, ETR2, shall be calculated as follows:

(A) If the transfer rack was uncontrolled on November 15, 1990, ETR2= ETR2and shall be calculated according to the procedures and equations for ETRin paragraphs (g)(4)(i) through (g)(4)(iv) of this section.

(B) If the transfer rack was controlled on November 15, 1990,

(5) Emissions from wastewater shall be determined as follows:

(i) EWW1shall be calculated according to the equation for EWWin paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section.

(ii) EWW2shall be calculated according to the equation for EWWin paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section for each Group 2 wastewater stream i, which on November 15, 1990, was not managed according to the requirements of §§ 63.133 through 63.137 of this subpart, as applicable.

(iii) EWW2shall be calculated according to the equation for EWWin paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section for each Group 2 wastewater stream i, which on November 15, 1990, was managed according to the requirements of §§ 63.133 through 63.137 of this subpart, as applicable, and was uncontrolled or controlled to a level less stringent than the reference control technology.

(iv) For Group 2 wastewater streams that are managed according to the requirements of §§ 63.133 through 63.137 of this subpart, as applicable, EWW2shall be calculated as follows:

(A) EWW2shall be calculated according to the equation for EWWin paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section for each Group 2 wastewater stream i that is controlled to a level less stringent than, or equivalent to, the reference control technology.

(B) EWW2shall be calculated according to the procedures for calculating EWW1in paragraph (h)(5)(v) of this section for each Group 2 wastewater stream that is controlled to a level more stringent than the reference control technology.

(v) The following equations for EWW1iACTUAL shall be used to calculate emissions from each Group 1 wastewater stream i that is managed according to the requirements of §§ 63.133 through 63.137 of this subpart, as applicable, and is controlled to a level more stringent than the reference control technology.

(A) If the Group 1 wastewater stream i is controlled using a treatment process or series of treatment processes with an approved nominal reduction efficiency in the concentration of table 9 HAP for stream i greater than that of the design steam stripper specified in § 63.138(d) of this subpart, and the control device used to reduce table 9 HAP emissions from the vapor stream(s) vented from the treatment process(es) achieves a percent reduction equal to 95 percent, the following equation shall be used. All terms in this equation are as defined and determined in paragraph (g)(5) of this section.

(B) If the Group 1 wastewater stream i is not controlled using a treatment process or series of treatment processes with a nominal reduction efficiency in the table 9 HAP concentration greater than that of the design steam stripper specified in § 63.138(d) of this subpart, but the vapor stream(s) vented from the treatment process(es) are controlled using a device with an approved nominal efficiency greater than 95 percent, the following equation shall be used. All terms other than nominal efficiency are as defined and determined in paragraph (g)(5) of this section.

(C) If the Group 1 wastewater stream i is controlled using a treatment process or series of treatment processes with an approved nominal reduction efficiency in the table 9 HAP concentration greater than that of the design steam stripper specified in § 63.138(d) of this subpart, and the vapor stream(s) vented from the treatment process are controlled using a device with an approved nominal efficiency greater than 95 percent, the following equation shall be used. All terms other than nominal efficiency are as defined and determined in paragraph (g)(5) of this section.

(i) The following procedures shall be followed to establish nominal efficiencies. The procedures in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(6) of this section shall be followed for control technologies that are different in use or design from the reference control technologies and achieve greater percent reductions than the percent efficiencies assigned to the reference control technologies in § 63.111 of this subpart.

(1) In those cases where the owner or operator is seeking permission to take credit for use of a control technology that is different in use or design from the reference control technology, and the different control technology will be used in more than three applications at a single plant-site, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (i)(1)(iv) of this section to the Director of the EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards in writing:

(i) Emission stream characteristics of each emission point to which the control technology is or will be applied including the kind of emission point, flow, organic HAP concentration, and all other stream characteristics necessary to design the control technology or determine its performance.

(ii) Description of the control technology including design specifications.

(iii) Documentation demonstrating to the Administrator's satisfaction the control efficiency of the control technology. This may include performance test data collected using an appropriate EPA method or any other method validated according to Method 301 of appendix A of this part. If it is infeasible to obtain test data, documentation may include a design evaluation and calculations. The engineering basis of the calculation procedures and all inputs and assumptions made in the calculations shall be documented.

(iv) A description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control technology will be operated in conformance with its design and an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters).

(2) The Administrator shall determine within 120 calendar days whether an application presents sufficient information to determine nominal efficiency. The Administrator reserves the right to request specific data in addition to the items listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.

(3) The Administrator shall determine within 120 calendar days of the submittal of sufficient data whether a control technology shall have a nominal efficiency and the level of that nominal efficiency. If, in the Administrator's judgment, the control technology achieves a level of emission reduction greater than the reference control technology for a particular kind of emission point, the Administrator will publish anotice establishing a nominal efficiency for the control technology.

(4) The Administrator may condition permission to take emission credits for use of the control technology on requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the specified nominal efficiency.

(5) In those cases where the owner or operator is seeking permission to take credit for use of a control technology that is different in use or design from the reference control technology and the different control technology will be used in no more than three applications at a single plant site, the information listed in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (i)(1)(iv) can be submitted to the permitting authority for the source for approval instead of the Administrator.

(i) In these instances, use and conditions for use of the control technology can be approved by the permitting authority as part of an operating permit application or modification. The permitting authority shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(2) through (i)(4) of this section except that, in these instances, anotice is not required to establish the nominal efficiency for the different technology.

(ii) If, in reviewing the application, the permitting authority believes the control technology has broad applicability for use by other sources, the permitting authority shall submit the information provided in the application to the Director of the EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards. The Administrator shall review the technology for broad applicability and may publish anotice; however, this review shall not affect the permitting authority's approval of the nominal efficiency of the control technology for the specific application.

(6) If, in reviewing an application for a control technology for an emission point, the Administrator or permitting authority determines the control technology is not different in use or design from the reference control technology, the Administrator or permitting authority shall deny the application.

(j) The following procedures shall be used for calculating the efficiency (percent reduction) of pollution prevention measures:

(1) A pollution prevention measure is any practice which meets the criteria of paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (j)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) A pollution prevention measure is any practice that results in a lesser quantity of organic HAP emissions per unit of product released to the atmosphere prior to out-of-process recycling, treatment, or control of emissions, while the same product is produced.

(ii) Pollution prevention measures may include: substitution of feedstocks that reduce HAP emissions; alterations to the production process to reduce the volume of materials released to the environment; equipment modifications; housekeeping measures; and in-process recycling that returns waste materials directly to production as raw materials. Production cutbacks do not qualify as pollution prevention.

(2) The emission reduction efficiency of pollution prevention measures implemented after November 15, 1990, can be used in calculating the actual emissions from an emission point in the debit and credit equations in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section. When the term "organic HAP" is used in § 63.150(j)(2) in reference to wastewater emission points, the term "table 9 HAP" shall apply for the purposes of this paragraph.

(i) For pollution prevention measures, the percent reduction used in the equations in paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(5) of this section and paragraphs (h)(2) through (h)(5) of this section is the percent difference between the monthly organic HAP emissions for each emission point after the pollution prevention measure for the most recent month versus monthly emissions from the same emission point before the pollution prevention measure, adjusted by the volume of product produced during the two monthly periods.

(ii) The following equation shall be used to calculate the percent reduction of a pollution prevention measure for each emission point.

(A) The monthly emissions before the pollution prevention measure, E, shall be determined in a manner consistent with the equations and procedures in paragraphs (g)(2), (g)(3), and (g)(4) of this section for process vents, storage vessels, and transfer operations.

(B) For wastewater, Eshall be calculated as follows:

(C) If the pollution prevention measure was implemented prior to April 22, 1994, records may be used to determine E.

(D) The monthly emissions after the pollution prevention measure, E, may be determined during a performance test or by a design evaluation and documented engineering calculations. Once an emissions-to-production ratio has been established, the ratio can be used to estimate monthly emissions from monthly production records.

(E) For wastewater, Eshall be calculated using the following equation:

(iii) All equations, calculations, test procedures, test results, and other information used to determine the percent reduction achieved by a pollution prevention measure for each emission point shall be fully documented.

(iv) The same pollution prevention measure may reduce emissions from multiple emission points. In such cases, the percent reduction in emissions for each emission point must be calculated.

(v) For the purposes of the equations in paragraphs (h)(2) through (h)(5) of this section, used to calculate credits for emission points controlled more stringently than the reference control technology, the nominal efficiency of a pollution prevention measure is equivalent to the percent reduction of the pollution prevention measure. When a pollution prevention measure is used, the owner or operator of a source is not required to apply to the Administrator for a nominal efficiency and is not subject to paragraph (i) of this section.

(k) The owner or operator must demonstrate that the emissions from the emission points proposed to be included in the average will not result in greater hazard or, at the option of the operating permit authority, greater risk to human health or the environment than if the emission points were controlled according to the provisions in §§ 63.113 through 63.148.

(1) This demonstration of hazard or risk equivalency shall be made to the satisfaction of the operating permit authority.

(i) The Administrator may require owners and operators to use specific methodologies and procedures for making a hazard or risk determination.

(ii) The demonstration and approval of hazard or risk equivalency shall be made according to any guidance that the Administrator makes available for use.

(2) Owners and operators shall provide documentation demonstrating the hazard or risk equivalency of their proposed emissions average in their operating permit application or in their Implementation Plan if an operating permit application has not yet been submitted.

(3) An emissions averaging plan that does not demonstrate hazard or risk equivalency to the satisfaction of the Administrator shall not be approved. The Administrator may require such adjustments to the emissions averaging plan as are necessary in order to ensure that the average will not result in greater hazard or risk to human health or the environment than would result if the emission points were controlled according to §§ 63.113 through 63.148 of this subpart.

(4) A hazard or risk equivalency demonstration must:

(i) Be a quantitative, bona fide chemical hazard or risk assessment;

(ii) Account for differences in chemical hazard or risk to human health or the environment; and

(iii) Meet any requirements set by the Administrator for such demonstrations.

(l) For periods of excursions, an owner or operator may request that the provisions of paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(4) of this section be followed instead of the procedures in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (f)(3)(ii) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of excursions in the Periodic Reports as required in § 63.152 of this subpart.

(2) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that other types of monitoring data or engineering calculations are appropriate to establish that the control device for the emission point was operating in such a fashion to warrant assigning full or partial credits and debits. This demonstration shall be made to the Administrator's satisfaction, and the Administrator may establish procedures of demonstrating compliance that are acceptable.

(3) The owner or operator shall provide documentation of the excursion and the other type of monitoring data or engineering calculations to be used to demonstrate that the control device for the emission point was operating in such a fashion to warrant assigning full or partial credits and debits.

(4) The Administrator may assign full or partial credit and debits upon review of the information provided.

(m) For each Group 1 or Group 2 emission point included in an emissions average, the owner or operator shall perform testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting equivalent to that required for Group 1 emission points complying with §§ 63.113 through 63.148 of this subpart. The specific requirements for process vents, storage vessels, transfer racks, and wastewater are identified in paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(6) of this section.

(1) The source shall implement the following testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting procedures for each process vent equipped with a flare, incinerator, boiler, or process heater.

(i) Determine, consistent with paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, whether the process vent is Group 1 or Group 2 according to the procedures in § 63.115.

(ii) Conduct initial performance tests to determine percent reduction as specified in § 63.116 of this subpart;

(iii) Monitor the operating parameters, keep records, and submit reports specified in § 63.114, § 63.117(a), and § 63.118 (a), (f), and (g) of this subpart, as appropriate for the specific control device.

(2) The source shall implement the following procedures for each process vent equipped with a carbon adsorber, absorber, or condenser but not equipped with a control device:

(i) Determine, consistent with paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, the flow rate, organic HAP concentration, and TRE index value using the methods specified in § 63.115;

(ii) Monitor the operating parameters, keep records, and submit reports specified in § 63.114, § 63.117(a), and § 63.118(b), (f), and (g) of this subpart, as appropriate for the specific recovery device.

(3) The source shall implement the following procedures for each storage vessel controlled with an internal floating roof, external roof, or a closed vent system with a control device, as appropriate to the control technique:

(i) Perform the monitoring or inspection procedures in § 63.120 of this subpart,

(ii) Perform the reporting and recordkeeping procedures in §§ 63.122 and 63.123 of this subpart, and

(iii) For closed vent systems with control devices, conduct an initial design evaluation and submit an operating plan as specified in § 63.120(d) and § 63.122(a)(2) and (b) of this subpart.

(4) The source shall implement the following procedures for each transfer rack controlled with a vapor balancing system, or a vapor collection system and an incinerator, flare, boiler, process heater, adsorber, condenser, or absorber, as appropriate to the control technique:

(i) The monitoring and inspection procedures in § 63.127 of this subpart,

(ii) The testing and compliance procedures in § 63.128 of this subpart, and

(iii) The reporting and recordkeeping procedures in § 63.129 and § 63.130 of this subpart.

(5) The source shall implement the following procedures for wastewater emission points, as appropriate to the control techniques:

(i) For wastewater treatment processes, conduct tests as specified in § 63.138(j) of this subpart.

(ii) Conduct inspections and monitoring as specified in § 63.143 of this subpart.

(iii) A recordkeeping program as specified in § 63.147 of this subpart.

(iv) A reporting program as specified in § 63.146 of this subpart.

(6) If an emission point in an emissions average is controlled using a pollution prevention measure or a device or technique for which no monitoring parameters or inspection procedures are specified in § 63.114, § 63.120, § 63.127, or § 63.143 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.151(f) of this subpart in the Implementation Plan or operating permit application.

(n) Records of all information required to calculate emission debits and credits shall be retained for five years.

(o) Initial Notifications, Implementation Plans, Notifications of Compliance Status, Periodic Reports, and other reports shall be submitted as required by § 63.151 and § 63.152 of this subpart.
