
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.152 General reporting and continuous records.

(a) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section and keep continuous records of monitored parameters as specified in paragraph (f) of this section. Owners or operators requesting an extension of compliance shall also submit the report described in § 63.151(a)(6) of this subpart.

(1) An Initial Notification described in § 63.151(b) of this subpart.

(2) An Implementation Plan described in § 63.151(c), (d), and (e) of this subpart for existing sources with emission points that are included in an emissions average or for new sources.

(3) A Notification of Compliance Status described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(4) Periodic Reports described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(5) Other reports described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(b) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 150 calendar days after the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part.

(1) The notification shall include the results of any emission point group determinations, performance tests, inspections, continuous monitoring system performance evaluations, values of monitored parameters established during performance tests, and any other information used to demonstrate compliance or required to be included in the Notification of Compliance Status under § 63.110 (h) for regulatory overlaps, under § 63.117 for process vents, § 63.122 for storage vessels, § 63.129 for transfer operations, § 63.146 for process wastewater, and § 63.150 for emission points included in an emissions average.

(i) For performance tests and group determinations that are based on measurements, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include one complete test report for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other information required in § 63.117 for process vents, § 63.129 for transfer, and § 63.146 for process wastewater shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(ii) A complete test report shall include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method.

(2) For each monitored parameter for which a range is required to be established under § 63.114 for process vents, § 63.127 for transfer, § 63.143 for process wastewater, § 63.150(m) for emission points in emissions averages, or § 63.151(f), or § 63.152(e), the Notification of Compliance Status shall include the information in paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), and (b)(2)(iii) of this section, unless the range and the operating day definition have been established in the operating permit. The recordkeeping and reporting requirements applicable to storage vessels are located in §§ 63.122 and 63.123.

(i) The specific range of the monitored parameter(s) for each emission point;

(ii) The rationale for the specific range for each parameter for each emission point, including any data and calculations used to develop the range and a description of why the range indicates proper operation of the control device.

(A) If a performance test is required by this subpart for a control device, the range shall be based on the parameter values measured during the performance test and may be supplemented by engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations. Performance testing is not required to be conducted over the entire range of permitted parameter values.

(B) If a performance test is not required by this subpart for a control device, the range may be based solely on engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations.

(iii) A definition of the source's operating day for purposes of determining daily average values of monitored parameters. The definition shall specify the times at which an operating day begins and ends.

(3) For emission points included in an emissions average, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include the values of all parameters needed for input to the emission credit and debit equations in § 63.150 (g) and (h), calculated or measured according to the procedures in § 63.150 (g) and (h) of this subpart, and the resulting calculation of credits and debits for the first quarter of the year. The first quarter begins on the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F.

(4) If any emission point is subject to this subpart and to other standards as specified in § 63.110 of this subpart and if the provisions of § 63.110 of this subpart allow the owner or operator to choose which testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions will be followed, then the Notification of Compliance Status shall indicate which rule's requirements will be followed for testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping.

(5) An owner or operator who transfers a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g) shall include in the Notification of Compliance Status the name and location of the transferee and a description of the Group 1 wastewater stream or residual sent to the treatment facility.

(6) An owner or operator complying with § 63.113(i) shall include in the Notification of Compliance Status, or where applicable, a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status, the name and location of the transferee, and the identification of the Group 1 process vent.

(c) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit Periodic Reports.

(1) Except as specified under paragraphs (c)(5) and (c)(6) of this section, a report containing the information in paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(4) of this section shall be submitted semiannually no later than 60 calendar days after the end of each 6-month period. The first report shall be submitted no later than 8 months after the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, for an owner or operator of a source complying with the provisions of §§ 63.113 through 63.147 for any emission points, Periodic Reports shall include all information specified in §§ 63.117 and 63.118 for process vents, § 63.122 for storage vessels, §§ 63.129 and 63.130 for transfer operations, and § 63.146 for process wastewater, including reports of periods when monitored parameters are outside their established ranges.

(i) For each parameter or parameters required to be monitored for a control device, the owner or operator shall establish a range of parameter values to ensure that the device is being applied, operated and maintained properly. As specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, these parameter values and the definition of an operating day shall be approved as part of and incorporated into the source's Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, as appropriate.

(ii) The parameter monitoring data for Group 1 emission points and emission points included in emissions averages that are required to perform continuous monitoring shall be used to determine compliance with the required operating conditions for the monitored control devices or recovery devices. For each excursion, except for excused excursions, the owner or operator shall be deemed to have failed to have applied the control in a manner that achieves the required operating conditions.
