
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart G - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry for Process Vents, Storage Vessels, Transfer Operations, and Wastewater
###### § 63.152 General reporting and continuous records.
####### 2,Periods of nonoperation.

()During periods of nonoperation of the chemical manufacturing process unit, or portion thereof, that results in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.

(D) Nothing in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section shall be construed to allow or excuse a monitoring parameter excursion caused by any activity that violates other applicable provisions of subpart A, F, or G of this part.

(E) Paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, except paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, shall apply only to emission points and control devices or recovery devices for which continuous monitoring is required by §§ 63.113 through 63.150.

(iii) Periodic Reports shall include the daily average values of monitored parameters for both excused and unexcused excursions, as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. For excursions caused by lack of monitoring data, the duration of periods when monitoring data were not collected shall be specified.

(iv) The provisions of paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(2)(i), (c)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(iii) of this section do not apply to any storage vessel for which the owner or operator is not required, by the applicable monitoring plan established under § 63.120(d)(2), to keep continuous records. If continuous records are required, the owner or operator shall specify, in the monitoring plan, whether the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(2)(i), (c)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(iii) of this section apply.

(3) If any performance tests are reported in a Periodic Report, the following information shall be included:

(i) One complete test report shall be submitted for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point tested. A complete test report shall contain the information specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, results and any other information required in § 63.117 for process vents, § 63.129 for transfer, and § 63.146 for process wastewater shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(4) Periodic Reports shall include the information in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (c)(4)(iv) of this section, as applicable:

(i) For process vents, reports of process changes as required under § 63.118 (g), (h), (i), and (j) of this subpart,

(ii) Any supplements required under § 63.151(i) and (j) of this subpart,

(iii) Notification if any Group 2 emission point becomes a Group 1 emission point, including a compliance schedule as required in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, and

(iv) For gas streams sent for disposal pursuant to § 63.113(i) or for process wastewater streams sent for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g), reports of changes in the identity of the transferee.

(5) The owner or operator of a source shall submit quarterly reports for all emission points included in an emissions average.

(i) The quarterly reports shall be submitted no later than 60 calendar days after the end of each quarter. The first report shall be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status no later than 5 months after the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F.

(ii) The quarterly reports shall include the information specified in this paragraph for all emission points included in an emissions average.

(A) The credits and debits calculated each month during the quarter;

(B) A demonstration that debits calculated for the quarter are not more than 1.30 times the credits calculated for the quarter, as required under § 63.150(e)(4) of this subpart.

(C) The values of any inputs to the credit and debit equations in § 63.150 (g) and (h) of this subpart that change from month to month during the quarter or that have changed since the previous quarter;

(D) Results of any performance tests conducted during the reporting period including one complete report for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section;

(E) Reports of daily average values of monitored parameters for both excused and unexcused excursions as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. For excursions caused by lack of monitoring data, the duration of periods when monitoring data were not collected shall be specified.

(iii) Paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section shall govern the use of monitoring data to determine compliance for Group 1 and Group 2 points included in emissions averages. For storage vessels to which the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section do not apply (as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section), the owner or operator is required to comply with the provisions of the applicable monitoring plan, and monitoring records may be used to determine compliance.

(iv) Every fourth quarterly report shall include the following:

(A) A demonstration that annual credits are greater than or equal to annual debits as required by § 63.150(e)(3) of this subpart; and

(B) A certification of compliance with all the emissions averaging provisions in § 63.150 of this subpart.

(6) The owner or operator of a source shall submit reports quarterly for particular emission points not included in an emissions average under the circumstances described in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (c)(6)(v) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit quarterly reports for a period of one year for an emission point that is not included in an emissions average if:

(A) The emission point has more excursions, as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, than the number of excused excursions allowed under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section for a semiannual reporting period; and

(B) The Administrator requests the owner or operator to submit quarterly reports for the emission point.

(ii) The quarterly reports shall include all information in paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(4) of this section applicable to the emission point(s) for which quarterly reporting is required under paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section. Information applicable to other emission points within the source shall be submitted in the semiannual reports required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(iii) Quarterly reports shall be submitted no later than 60 calendar days after the end of each quarter.

(iv) After quarterly reports have been submitted for an emission point for one year, the owner or operator may return to semiannual reporting for the emission point unless the Administrator requests the owner or operator to continue to submit quarterly reports.

(v) Paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section shall govern the use of monitoring data to determine compliance for Group 1 emission points. For storage vessels to which the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section do not apply (as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section), the owner or operator is required to comply with the provisions of the applicable monitoring plan, and monitoring records may be used to determine compliance.

(d) Other reports shall be submitted as specified in subpart A of this part or in §§ 63.113 through 63.151 of this subpart. These reports are:

(1) Reports of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction required by § 63.10(d)(5) of subpart A. The start-up, shutdown and malfunction reports may be submitted on the same schedule as the Periodic Reports required under paragraph (c) of this section instead of the schedule specified in § 63.10(d)(5) of subpart A.

(2) For storage vessels, the notifications of inspections required by § 63.122 (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this subpart.

(3) For owners or operators of sources required to request approval for a nominal control efficiency for use in calculating credits for an emissions average, the information specified in § 63.150(i) of this subpart.

(4) If an owner or operator transfers for disposal a gas stream that has the characteristics specified in § 63.107(b) through (h) or meets the criteria specified in § 63.107(i) to an off-site location or an on-site location not owned or operated by the owner or operator of the source and the vent stream was not included in the information submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status or a previous periodic report, the owner or operator shall submit a supplemental report. The supplemental report shall be submitted no later than July 23, 2001 or with the next periodic report, whichever is later. The report shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The chemical manufacturing process unit(s) that is the origin of all or part of the vent stream that exits the process vent.

(ii) The type(s) of unit operations (i.e., an air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor) that creates the vent stream that exits the process vent.

(iii) For a Group 2 process vent, the last recovery device, if any.

(iv) For a Group 1 process vent, the identity of the transferee.

(e) An owner or operator subject to this subpart shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(4) of this section with the operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority. The owner or operator shall submit written updates as amendments to the operating permit application on the schedule and under the circumstances described in § 63.151(j) of this subpart. Notwithstanding, if the owner or operator has an operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, the owner or operator shall follow the schedule and format required by the permitting authority.

(1) The information specified in § 63.151 (f) or (g) of this subpart for any emission points for which the owner or operator requests approval to monitor a unique parameter or use an alternative monitoring and recording system, and

(2) The information specified in § 63.151(d) of this subpart for points included in an emissions average.

(3) The information specified in § 63.151(e) of this subpart for points not included in an emissions average.

(4) The information specified in § 63.151(h) as applicable.

(f) Owners or operators required to keep continuous records by §§ 63.118, 63.130, 63.147, 63.150, or other sections of this subpart shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(7) of this section, unless an alternative recordkeeping system has been requested and approved under § 63.151(f) or (g) or § 63.152(e) or under § 63.8(f) of subpart A of this part, and except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section or in paragraph (g) of this section. If a monitoring plan for storage vessels pursuant to § 63.120(d)(2)(i) requires continuous records, the monitoring plan shall specify which provisions, if any, of paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(7) of this section apply.

(1) The monitoring system shall measure data values at least once every 15 minutes.

(2) The owner or operator shall record either:

(i) Each measured data value; or

(ii) Block average values for 15-minute or shorter periods calculated from all measured data values during each period or at least one measured data value per minute if measured more frequently than once per minute.

(3) If the daily average value of a monitored parameter for a given operating day is within the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, the owner or operator shall either:

(i) Retain block hourly average values for that operating day for 5 years and discard, at or after the end of that operating day, the 15-minute or more frequent average values and readings recorded under paragraph (f)(2) of this section; or

(ii) Retain the data recorded in paragraph (f)(2) of this section for 5 years.

(4) If the daily average value of a monitored parameter for a given operating day is outside the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, the owner or operator shall retain the data recorded that operating day under paragraph (f)(2) of this section for 5 years.

(5) Daily average values of each continuously monitored parameter shall be calculated for each operating day, and retained for 5 years, except as specified in paragraphs (f)(6) and (f)(7) of this section.

(i) The daily average shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter recorded during the operating day. The average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous, or the number of hours of operation per operating day if operation is not continuous.

(ii) The operating day shall be the period defined in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status. It may be from midnight to midnight or another daily period.

(6) If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day are within the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, the owner or operator may record that all values were within the range and retain this record for 5 years rather than calculating and recording a daily average for that operating day. For these operating days, the records required in paragraph (f)(3) of this section shall also be retained for 5 years.

(7) Monitoring data recorded during periods identified in paragraphs (f)(7)(i) through (f)(7)(v) of this section shall not be included in any average computed under this subpart. Records shall be kept of the times and durations of all such periods and any other periods during process or control device operation when monitors are not operating.

(i) Monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments;

(ii) Start-ups;

(iii) Shutdowns;

(iv) Malfunctions;

(v) Periods of non-operation of the chemical manufacturing process unit (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.

(g) For any parameter with respect to any item of equipment, the owner or operator may implement the recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section as alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions listed in §§ 63.114, 63.117, and 63.118 for process vents, §§ 63.127, 63.129, and 63.130 for transfer operations, §§ 63.143, 63.146, and 63.147 for wastewater, and/or § 63.152(f), except that § 63.152(f)(7) shall apply. The owner or operator shall retain each record required by paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section as provided in § 63.103(c) of subpart F of this part, except as provided otherwise in paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator may retain only the daily average value, and is not required to retain more frequent monitored operating parameter values, for a monitored parameter with respect to an item of equipment, if the requirements of paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(vi) of this section are met. An owner or operator electing to comply with the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall notify the Administrator in the Notification of Compliance Status or, if the Notification of Compliance Status has already been submitted, in the periodic report immediately preceding implementation of the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(i) The monitoring system is capable of detecting unrealistic or impossible data during periods of operation other than startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions (e.g., a temperature reading of -200 &#xB0;C on a boiler), and will alert the operator by alarm or other means. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.

(ii) The monitoring system generates, updated at least hourly throughout each operating day, a running average of the monitoring values that have been obtained during that operating day, and the capability to observe this average is readily available to the Administrator on-site during the operating day. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence of any period meeting the criteria in paragraphs (g)(1)(ii)(A) through (g)(1)(iii)(C) of this section. All instances in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.

(A) The running average is above the maximum or below the minimum established limits;

(B) The running average is based on at least 6 1-hour average values; and

(C) The running average reflects a period of operation other than a startup, shutdown, or malfunction.

(iii) The monitoring system is capable of detecting unchanging data during periods of operation other than startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions, except in circumstances where the presence of unchanging data is the expected operating condition based on past experience (e.g., pH in some scrubbers), and will alert the operator by alarm or other means. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.

(iv) The monitoring system will alert the owner or operator by an alarm or other means, if the running average parameter value calculated under paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section reaches a set point that is appropriately related to the established limit for the parameter that is being monitored.

(v) The owner or operator shall verify the proper functioning of the monitoring system, including its ability to comply with the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, at the times specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(v)(A) through (g)(1)(v)(C) of this section. The owner or operator shall document that the required verifications occurred.

(A) Upon initial installation.

(B) Annually after initial installation.

(C) After any change to the programming or equipment constituting the monitoring system, which might reasonably be expected to alter the monitoring system's ability to comply with the requirements of this section.

(vi) The owner or operator shall retain the records identified in paragraphs (g)(1)(vi) (A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Identification of each parameter, for each item of equipment, for which the owner or operator has elected to comply with the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section.

(B) A description of the applicable monitoring system(s), and of how compliance will be achieved with each requirement of paragraph (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(v) of this section. The description shall identify the location and format (e.g., on-line storage; log entries) for each required record. If the description changes, the owner or operator shall retain both the current and the most recent superseded description. The description, and the most recent superseded description, shall be retained as provided in § 63.103(c) of subpart F of this part, except as provided in paragraph (g)(1)(vi)(D) of this section.

(C) A description, and the date, of any change to the monitoring system that would reasonably be expected to affect its ability to comply with the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(D) Owners and operators subject to paragraph (g)(1)(vi)(B) of this section shall retain the current description of the monitoring system as long as the description is current, but not less than 5 years from the date of its creation. The current description shall, at all times, be retained on-site or be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request. The owner or operator shall retain the most recent superseded description at least until 5 years from the date of its creation. The superseded description shall be retained on-site (or accessible from a central location by computer that provides access within 2 hours after a request) at least 6 months after its creation. Thereafter, the superseded description may be stored off-site.

(2) If an owner or operator has elected to implement the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and a period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (g)(2)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator is no longer required to record the daily average value for that parameter for that unit of equipment, for any operating day when the daily average value is less than the maximum, or greater than the minimum established limit. With approval by the Administrator, monitoring data generated prior to the compliance date of this subpart shall be credited toward the period of 6 consecutive months, if the parameter limit and the monitoring was required and/or approved by the Administrator.

(i) If the owner or operator elects not to retain the daily average values, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in the next periodic report. The notification shall identify the parameter and unit of equipment.

(ii) If, on any operating day after the owner or operator has ceased recording daily averages as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, there is an excursion as defined in paragraph (g)(2)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator shall immediately resume retaining the daily average value for each day, and shall notify the Administrator in the next periodic report. The owner or operator shall continue to retain each daily average value until another period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (g)(2)(iv) of this section.

(iii) The owner or operator shall retain the records specified in paragraphs (g)(1) (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of this section. For any calendar week, if compliance with paragraphs (g)(1) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section does not result in retention of a record of at least one occurrence or measured parameter value, the owner or operator shall record and retain at least one parameter value during a period of operation other than a startup, shutdown, or malfunction.

(iv) For purposes of paragraph (g) of this section, an excursion means that the daily average value of monitoring data for a parameter is greater than the maximum, or less than the minimum established value, except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2)(iv)(A) and (g)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.

(A) The daily average value during any startup, shutdown, or malfunction shall not be considered an excursion for purposes of this paragraph (g)(2), if the owner or operator operates the source during such periods in accordance with § 63.102(a)(4).

(B) An excused excursion, as described in § 63.152(c)(2)(ii) (B) and (C), shall not be considered an excursion for purposes of this paragraph (g)(2).
