
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart H - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants for Equipment Leaks
###### ยง 63.160 Applicability and designation of source.

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, surge control vessels, bottoms receivers, instrumentation systems, and control devices or closed vent systems required by this subpart that are intended to operate in organic hazardous air pollutant service 300 hours or more during the calendar year within a source subject to the provisions of a specific subpart in 40 CFR part 63 that references this subpart.

(b) After the compliance date for a process unit, equipment to which this subpart applies that are also subject to the provisions of:

(1) 40 CFR part 60 will be required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart.

(2) 40 CFR part 61 will be required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart.

(c) If a process unit subject to the provisions of this subpart has equipment to which this subpart does not apply, but which is subject to a standard identified in paragraph (c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)(3) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to apply this subpart to all such equipment in the process unit. If the owner or operator elects this method of compliance, all VOC in such equipment shall be considered, for purposes of applicability and compliance with this subpart, as if it were organic hazardous air pollutant (HAP). Compliance with the provisions of this subpart, in the manner described in this paragraph, shall be deemed to constitute compliance with the standard identified in paragraph (c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)(3) of this section.

(1) 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV, GGG, or KKK; (2) 40 CFR part 61, subpart F or J; or (3) 40 CFR part 264, subpart BB or 40 CFR part 265, subpart BB.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) The provisions in ยง 63.1(a)(3) of subpart A of this part do not alter the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section.

(e) Except as provided in any subpart that references this subpart, lines and equipment not containing process fluids are not subject to the provisions of this subpart. Utilities, and other non-process lines, such as heating and cooling systems which do not combine their materials with those in the processes they serve, are not considered to be part of a process unit.

(f) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to research and development facilities or to bench-scale batch processes, regardless of whether the facilities or processes are located at the same plant site as a process subject to the provisions of this subpart.
