
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart H - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants for Equipment Leaks
###### § 63.164 Standards: Compressors.

(a) Each compressor shall be equipped with a seal system that includes a barrier fluid system and that prevents leakage of process fluid to the atmosphere, except as provided in § 63.162(b) of this subpart and paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section.

(b) Each compressor seal system as required in paragraph (a) of this section shall be:

(1) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is greater than the compressor stuffing box pressure; or

(2) Equipped with a barrier fluid system degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed-vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 63.172 of this subpart; or

(3) Equipped with a closed-loop system that purges the barrier fluid directly into a process stream.

(c) The barrier fluid shall not be in light liquid service.

(d) Each barrier fluid system as described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall be equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, barrier fluid system, or both.

(e)(1) Each sensor as required in paragraph (d) of this section shall be observed daily or shall be equipped with an alarm unless the compressor is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site.

(2) The owner or operator shall determine, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.

(f) If the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both based on the criterion determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a leak is detected.

(g)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 63.171 of this subpart.

(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.

(h) A compressor is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section if it is equipped with a closed-vent system to capture and transport leakage from the compressor drive shaft seal back to a process or a fuel gas system or to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 63.172 of this subpart.

(i) Any compressor that is designated, as described in § 63.181(b)(2)(ii) of this subpart, to operate with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section if the compressor:

(1) Is demonstrated to be operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million above background, as measured by the method specified in § 63.180(c) of this subpart; and

(2) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
