
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart H - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants for Equipment Leaks
###### § 63.163 Standards: Pumps in light liquid service.

(a) The provisions of this section apply to each pump that is in light liquid service.

(1) The provisions are to be implemented on the dates specified in the specific subpart in 40 CFR part 63 that references this subpart in the phases specified below:

(i) For each group of existing process units at existing sources subject to the provisions of subparts F or I of this part, the phases of the standard are:

(A) Phase I, beginning on the compliance date;

(B) Phase II, beginning no later than 1 year after the compliance date; and

(C) Phase III, beginning no later than 2years after the compliance date.

(ii) For new sources subject to the provisions of subparts F or I of this part, the applicable phases of the standard are:

(A) After initial start-up, comply with the Phase II requirements; and

(B) Beginning no later than 1 year after initial start-up, comply with the Phase III requirements.

(2) The owner or operator of a source subject to the provisions of subparts F or I of this part may elect to meet the requirements of a later phase during the time period specified for an earlier phase.

(3) Sources subject to other subparts in 40 CFR part 63 that reference this subpart shall comply on the dates specified in the applicable subpart.

(b)(1) The owner or operator of a process unit subject to this subpart shall monitor each pump monthly to detect leaks by the method specified in § 63.180(b) of this subpart and shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, except as provided in § 63.162(b) of this subpart and paragraphs (e) through (j) of this section.

(2) The instrument reading, as determined by the method as specified in § 63.180(b) of this subpart, that defines a leak in each phase of the standard is:

(i) For Phase I, an instrument reading of 10,000 parts per million or greater.

(ii) For Phase II, an instrument reading of 5,000 parts per million or greater.

(iii) For Phase III, an instrument reading of:

(A) 5,000 parts per million or greater for pumps handling polymerizing monomers;

(B) 2,000 parts per million or greater for pumps in food/medical service; and

(C) 1,000 parts per million or greater for all other pumps.

(3) Each pump shall be checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal. If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal, a leak is detected.

(c)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section or § 63.171 of this subpart.

(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following practices where practicable:

(i) Tightening of packing gland nuts.

(ii) Ensuring that the seal flush is operating at design pressure and temperature.

(3) For pumps in Phase III to which a 1,000 parts per million leak definition applies, repair is not required unless an instrument reading of 2,000 parts per million or greater is detected.

(d)(1) The owner or operator shall decide no later than the first monitoring period whether to calculate percent leaking pumps on a process unit basis or on a source-wide basis. Once the owner or operator has decided, all subsequent percent calculations shall be made on the same basis.

(2) If, in Phase III, calculated on a 6-month rolling average, the greater of either 10 percent of the pumps in a process unit or three pumps in a process unit leak, the owner or operator shall implement a quality improvement program for pumps that complies with the requirements of § 63.176 of this subpart.

(3) The number of pumps at a process unit shall be the sum of all the pumps in organic HAP service, except that pumps found leaking in a continuous process unit within 1 month after start-up of the pump shall not count in the percent leaking pumps calculation for that one monitoring period only.

(4) Percent leaking pumps shall be determined by the following equation:

(e) Each pump equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, provided the following requirements are met:

(1) Each dual mechanical seal system is:

(i) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times greater than the pump stuffing box pressure; or

(ii) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed-vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 63.172 of this subpart; or

(iii) Equipped with a closed-loop system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream.

(2) The barrier fluid is not in light liquid service.

(3) Each barrier fluid system is equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.

(4) Each pump is checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal.

(i) If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal at the time of the weekly inspection, the pump shall be monitored as specified in § 63.180(b) of this subpart to determine if there is a leak of organic HAP in the barrier fluid.

(ii) If an instrument reading of 1,000 parts per million or greater is measured, a leak is detected.

(5) Each sensor as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section is observed daily or is equipped with an alarm unless the pump is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site.

(6)(i) The owner or operator determines, based on design considerations and operating experience, criteria applicable to the presence and frequency of drips and to the sensor that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.

(ii) If indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal exceed the criteria established in paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section, or if, based on the criteria established in paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section, the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both, a leak is detected.

(iii) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 63.171 of this subpart.

(iv) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.

(f) Any pump that is designed with no externally actuated shaft penetrating the pump housing is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

(g) Any pump equipped with a closed-vent system capable of capturing and transporting any leakage from the seal or seals to a process or to a fuel gas system or to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 63.172 of this subpart is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.

(h) Any pump that is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site is exempt from the weekly visual inspection requirement of paragraphs (b)(3) and (e)(4) of this section, and the daily requirements of paragraph (e)(5) of this section, provided that each pump is visually inspected as often as practicable and at least monthly.

(i) If more than 90 percent of the pumps at a process unit meet the criteria in either paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, the process unit is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.

(j) Any pump that is designated, as described in § 63.181(b)(7)(i) of this subpart, as an unsafe-to-monitor pump is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section if:

(1) The owner or operator of the pump determines that the pump is unsafe to monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section; and

(2) The owner or operator of the pump has a written plan that requires monitoring of the pump as frequently as practical during safe-to-monitor times, but not more frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable.
