
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart H - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants for Equipment Leaks
###### § 63.168 Standards: Valves in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service.

(a) The provisions of this section apply to valves that are either in gas service or in light liquid service.

(1) The provisions are to be implemented on the dates set forth in the specific subpart in 40 CFR part 63 that references this subpart as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i), (a)(1)(ii), or (a)(1)(iii) of this section.

(i) For each group of existing process units at existing sources subject to the provisions of subpart F or I of this part, the phases of the standard are:

(A) Phase I, beginning on the compliance date;

(B) Phase II, beginning no later than 1 year after the compliance date; and

(C) Phase III, beginning no later than 2years after the compliance date.

(ii) For new sources subject to the provisions of subpart F or I of this part, the applicable phases of the standard are:

(A) After initial start-up, comply with the Phase II requirements; and

(B) Beginning no later than 1 year after initial start-up, comply with the Phase III requirements.

(iii) Sources subject to other subparts in 40 CFR part 63 that reference this subpart shall comply on the dates specified in the applicable subpart.

(2) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart may elect to meet the requirements of a later phase during the time period specified for an earlier phase.

(3) The use of monitoring data generated before April 22, 1994 to qualify for less frequent monitoring is governed by the provisions of § 63.180(b)(6) of this subpart.

(b) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall monitor all valves, except as provided in § 63.162(b) of this subpart and paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, at the intervals specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and shall comply with all other provisions of this section, except as provided in § 63.171, § 63.177, § 63.178, and § 63.179 of this subpart.

(1) The valves shall be monitored to detect leaks by the method specified in § 63.180(b) of this subpart.

(2) The instrument reading that defines a leak in each phase of the standard is:

(i) For Phase I, an instrument reading of 10,000 parts per million or greater.

(ii) For Phase II, an instrument reading of 500 parts per million or greater.

(iii) For Phase III, an instrument reading of 500 parts per million or greater.

(c) In Phases I and II, each valve shall be monitored quarterly.

(d) In Phase III, the owner or operator shall monitor valves for leaks at the intervals specified below:

(1) At process units with 2 percent or greater leaking valves, calculated according to paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall either:

(i) Monitor each valve once per month; or

(ii) Within the first year after the onset of Phase III, implement a quality improvement program for valves that complies with the requirements of § 63.175 (d) or (e) of this subpart and monitor quarterly.

(2) At process units with less than 2 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator shall monitor each valve once each quarter, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) of this section.

(3) At process units with less than 1 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every 2 quarters.

(4) At process units with less than 0.5 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every 4 quarters.

(e)(1) Percent leaking valves at a process unit shall be determined by the following equation:

(2) For use in determining monitoring frequency, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the percent leaking valves shall be calculated as a rolling average of two consecutive monitoring periods for monthly, quarterly, or semiannual monitoring programs; and as an average of any three out of four consecutive monitoring periods for annual monitoring programs.

(3)(i) Nonrepairable valves shall be included in the calculation of percent leaking valves the first time the valve is identified as leaking and nonrepairable and as required to comply with paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section. Otherwise, a number of nonrepairable valves (identified and included in the percent leaking calculation in a previous period) up to a maximum of 1 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service at a process unit may be excluded from calculation of percent leaking valves for subsequent monitoring periods.

(ii) If the number of nonrepairable valves exceeds 1 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service at a process unit, the number of nonrepairable valves exceeding 1 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service shall be included in the calculation of percent leaking valves.

(f)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in § 63.171 of this subpart.

(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.

(3) When a leak has been repaired, the valve shall be monitored at least once within the first 3 months after its repair.

(i) The monitoring shall be conducted as specified in § 63.180 (b) and (c), as appropriate, to determine whether the valve has resumed leaking.

(ii) Periodic monitoring required by paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section may be used to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (f)(3), if the timing of the monitoring period coincides with the time specified in this paragraph (f)(3). Alternatively, other monitoring may be performed to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (f)(3), regardless of whether the timing of the monitoring period for periodic monitoring coincides with the time specified in this paragraph (f)(3).

(iii) If a leak is detected by monitoring that is conducted pursuant to paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall follow the provisions of paragraphs (f)(3)(iii)(A) and (f)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, to determine whether that valve must be counted as a leaking valve for purposes of § 63.168(e) of this subpart.

(A) If the owner or operator elected to use periodic monitoring required by paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section, then the valve shall be counted as a leaking valve.

(B) If the owner or operator elected to use other monitoring, prior to the periodic monitoring required by paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section, then the valve shall be counted as a leaking valve unless it is repaired and shown by periodic monitoring not to be leaking.

(g) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following practices where practicable:

(1) Tightening of bonnet bolts,

(2) Replacement of bonnet bolts,

(3) Tightening of packing gland nuts, and

(4) Injection of lubricant into lubricated packing.

(h) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 63.181(b)(7)(i) of this subpart, as an unsafe-to-monitor valve is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section if:

(1) The owner or operator of the valve determines that the valve is unsafe to monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section; and

(2) The owner or operator of the valve has a written plan that requires monitoring of the valve as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times, but not more frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable.

(i) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 63.181(b)(7)(ii) of this subpart, as a difficult-to-monitor valve is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section if:

(1) The owner or operator of the valve determines that the valve cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface or it is not accessible at anytime in a safe manner;

(2) The process unit within which the valve is located is an existing source or the owner or operator designates less than 3 percent of the total number of valves in a new source as difficult-to-monitor; and

(3) The owner or operator of the valve follows a written plan that requires monitoring of the valve at least once per calendar year.

(j) Any equipment located at a plant site with fewer than 250 valves in organic HAP service is exempt from the requirements for monthly monitoring and a quality improvement program specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Instead, the owner or operator shall monitor each valve in organic HAP service for leaks once each quarter, or comply with paragraph (d)(3) or (d)(4) of this section except as provided in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section.
