
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart H - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants for Equipment Leaks
###### § 63.169 Standards: Pumps, valves, connectors, and agitators in heavy liquid service; instrumentation systems; and pressure relief devices in liquid service.

(a) Pumps, valves, connectors, and agitators in heavy liquid service, pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service, and instrumentation systems shall be monitored within 5 calendar days by the method specified in § 63.180(b) of this subpart if evidence of a potential leak to the atmosphere is found by visual, audible, olfactory, or any other detection method. If such a potential leak is repaired as required in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, it is not necessary to monitor the system for leaks by the method specified in § 63.180(b) of this subpart.

(b) If an instrument reading of 10,000 parts per million or greater for agitators, 5,000 parts per million or greater for pumps handling polymerizing monomers, 2,000 parts per million or greater for all other pumps (including pumps in food/medical service), or 500 parts per million or greater for valves, connectors, instrumentation systems, and pressure relief devices is measured, a leak is detected.

(c)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 63.171 of this subpart.

(2) The first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.

(3) For equipment identified in paragraph (a) of this section that is not monitored by the method specified in § 63.180(b), repaired shall mean that the visual, audible, olfactory, or other indications of a leak to the atmosphere have been eliminated; that no bubbles are observed at potential leak sites during a leak check using soap solution; or that the system will hold a test pressure.

(d) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the practices described under §§ 63.163(c)(2) and 63.168(g) of this subpart, for pumps and valves, respectively.
