
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart H - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants for Equipment Leaks
###### ยง 63.177 Alternative means of emission limitation: General.

(a) Permission to use an alternative means of emission limitation under section 112(h)(3) of the Act shall be governed by the following procedures in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.

(b) Where the standard is an equipment, design, or operational requirement:

(1) Each owner or operator applying for permission to use an alternative means of emission limitation under ยง 63.6(g) of subpart A of this part shall be responsible for collecting and verifying emission performance test data for an alternative means of emission limitation.

(2) The Administrator will compare test data for the means of emission limitation to test data for the equipment, design, and operational requirements.

(3) The Administrator may condition the permission on requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emission reduction as the equipment, design, and operational requirements.

(c) Where the standard is a work practice:

(1) Each owner or operator applying for permission shall be responsible for collecting and verifying test data for an alternative means of emission limitation.

(2) For each kind of equipment for which permission is requested, the emission reduction achieved by the required work practices shall be demonstrated for a minimum period of 12 months.

(3) For each kind of equipment for which permission is requested, the emission reduction achieved by the alternative means of emission limitation shall be demonstrated.

(4) Each owner or operator applying for permission shall commit, in writing, for each kind of equipment to work practices that provide for emission reductions equal to or greater than the emission reductions achieved by the required work practices.

(5) The Administrator will compare the demonstrated emission reduction for the alternative means of emission limitation to the demonstrated emission reduction for the required work practices and will consider the commitment in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(6) The Administrator may condition the permission on requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the same or greater emission reduction as the required work practices of this subpart.

(d) An owner or operator may offer a unique approach to demonstrate the alternative means of emission limitation.

(e)(1) Manufacturers of equipment used to control equipment leaks of an organic HAP may apply to the Administrator for permission for an alternative means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of the organic HAP achieved by the equipment, design, and operational requirements of this subpart.

(2) The Administrator will grant permission according to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
