
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart H - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants for Equipment Leaks
###### § 63.178 Alternative means of emission limitation: Batch processes.

(a) As an alternative to complying with the requirements of §§ 63.163 through 63.171 and §§ 63.173 through 63.176, an owner or operator of a batch process that operates in organic HAP service during the calendar year may comply with one of the standards specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, or the owner or operator may petition for approval of an alternative standard under the provisions of § 63.177 of this subpart. The alternative standards of this section provide the options of pressure testing or monitoring the equipment for leaks. The owner or operator may switch among the alternatives provided the change is documented as specified in § 63.181.

(b) The following requirements shall be met if an owner or operator elects to use pressure testing of batch product-process equipment to demonstrate compliance with this subpart. An owner or operator who complies with the provisions of this paragraph is exempt from the monitoring provisions of § 63.163, §§ 63.168 and 63.169, and §§ 63.173 through 63.176 of this subpart.

(1) Each time equipment is reconfigured for production of a different product or intermediate, the batch product-process equipment train shall be pressure-tested for leaks before organic HAP is first fed to the equipment and the equipment is placed in organic HAP service.

(i) When the batch product-process train is reconfigured to produce a different product, pressure testing is required only for the new or disturbed equipment.

(ii) Each batch product process that operates in organic HAP service during a calendar year shall be pressure tested at least once during that calendar year.

(iii) Pressure testing is not required for routine seal breaks, such as changing hoses or filters, which are not part of the reconfiguration to produce a different product or intermediate.

(2) The batch product process equipment shall be tested either using the procedures specified in § 63.180(f) of this subpart for pressure or vacuum loss or with a liquid using the procedures specified in § 63.180(g) of this subpart.

(3)(i) For pressure or vacuum tests, a leak is detected if the rate of change in pressure is greater than 6.9 kilopascals (1 psig) in 1 hour or if there is visible, audible, or olfactory evidence of fluid loss.

(ii) For pressure tests using a liquid, a leak is detected if there are indications of liquids dripping or if there is other evidence of fluid loss.

(4)(i) If a leak is detected, it shall be repaired and the batch product-process equipment shall be retested before start-up of the process.

(ii) If a batch product-process fails the retest or the second of two consecutive pressure tests, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 30 calendar days after the second pressure test, provided the conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section are met.

(c) The following requirements shall be met if an owner or operator elects to monitor the equipment to detect leaks by the method specified in § 63.180(b) of this subpart to demonstrate compliance with this subpart.

(1) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.163 through 63.170, and §§ 63.172 through 63.176 of this subpart.

(2) The equipment shall be monitored for leaks by the method specified in § 63.180(b) of this subpart when the equipment is in organic HAP service, in use with an acceptable surrogate volatile organic compound which is not an organic HAP, or is in use with any other detectable gas or vapor.

(3) The equipment shall be monitored for leaks as specified below:

(i) Each time the equipment is reconfigured for the production of a new product, the reconfigured equipment shall be monitored for leaks within 30 days of start-up of the process. This initial monitoring of reconfigured equipment shall not be included in determining percent leaking equipment in the process unit.

(ii) Connectors shall be monitored in accordance with the requirements in § 63.174 of this subpart.

(iii) Equipment other than connectors shall be monitored at the frequencies specified in table 1 of this subpart. The operating time shall be determined as the proportion of the year the batch product-process that is subject to the provisions of this subpart is operating.

(iv) The monitoring frequencies specified in table 1 of this subpart are not requirements for monitoring at specific intervals and can be adjusted to accommodate process operations. An owner or operator may monitor anytime during the specified monitoring period (e.g., month, quarter, year), provided the monitoring is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the last monitoring campaign. For example, if the equipment is not operating during the scheduled monitoring period, the monitoring can be done during the next period when the process is operating.

(4) If a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected is allowed if the replacement equipment is not available providing the following conditions are met:

(1) Equipment supplies have been depleted and supplies had been sufficiently stocked before the supplies were depleted.

(2) The repair is made no later than 10 calendar days after delivery of the replacement equipment.
