
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart H - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants for Equipment Leaks
###### § 63.172 Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.

(a) Owners or operators of closed-vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall comply with the provisions of this section, except as provided in § 63.162(b) of this subpart.

(b) Recovery or recapture devices (e.g., condensers and absorbers) shall be designed and operated to recover the organic hazardous air pollutant emissions or volatile organic compounds emissions vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 parts par million by volume, whichever is less stringent. The 20 parts per million by volume performance standard is not applicable to the provisions of § 63.179.

(c) Enclosed combustion devices shall be designed and operated to reduce the organic hazardous air pollutant emissions or volatile organic compounds emissions vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, on a dry basis, corrected to 3 percent oxygen, whichever is less stringent, or to provide a minimum residence time of 0.50 seconds at a minimum temperature of 760 &#xB0;C.

(d) Flares used to comply with this subpart shall comply with the requirements of § 63.11(b) of subpart A of this part.

(e) Owners or operators of control devices that are used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall monitor these control devices to ensure that they are operated and maintained in conformance with their design.

(f) Except as provided in paragraphs (k) and (l) of this section, each closed-vent system shall be inspected according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.

(1) If the closed-vent system is constructed of hard-piping, the owner or operator shall:

(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in paragraph (g) of this section, and

(ii) Conduct annual visual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.

(2) If the vapor collection system or closed-vent system is constructed of duct work, the owner or operator shall:

(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in paragraph (g) of this section, and

(ii) Conduct annual inspections according to the procedures in paragraph (g) of this section.

(g) Each closed-vent system shall be inspected according to the procedures in § 63.180(b) of this subpart.

(h) Leaks, as indicated by an instrument reading greater than 500 parts per million above background or by visual inspections, shall be repaired as soon as practicable, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.

(1) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.

(2) Repair shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.

(i) Delay of repair of a closed-vent system for which leaks have been detected is allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown or if the owner or operator determines that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be complete by the end of the next process unit shutdown.

(j) For each closed-vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream away from the control device and to the atmosphere, the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of either paragraph (j)(1) or (j)(2) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (j)(3) of this section.

(1) Install, set or adjust, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes. Records shall be generated as specified in § 63.118(a)(3) of subpart G of this part. The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line; or

(2) Secure the bypass line valve in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure the valve is maintained in the non-diverting position and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass line.

(3) Equipment such as low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and pressure relief valves needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph.

(k) Any parts of the closed-vent system that are designated, as described in paragraph 63.181(b)(7)(i), as unsafe to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section if:

(1) The owner or operator determines that the equipment is unsafe to inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section; and

(2) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practicable during safe-to-inspect times, but not more frequently than annually.

(l) Any parts of the closed-vent system that are designated, as described in § 63.181 (b)(7)(i) of this subpart, as difficult to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section if:

(1) The owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface; and

(2) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 5 years.

(m) Whenever organic HAP emissions are vented to a closed-vent system or control device used to comply with the provisions of this subpart, such system or control device shall be operating.

(n) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, the owner or operator of any control device subject to this subpart that is also subject to monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in 40 CFR part 264, subpart BB, or is subject to monitoring and recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR part 265, subpart BB, may elect to comply either with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this subpart, or with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in 40 CFR parts 264 and/or 265, as described in this paragraph, which shall constitute compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart. The owner or operator shall identify which option has been chosen, in the next periodic report required by § 63.182(d).
