
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart H - National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants for Equipment Leaks
###### § 63.182 Reporting requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section. Owners or operators requesting an extension of compliance shall also submit the report listed in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.

(1) An Initial Notification described in paragraph (b) of this section, and

(2) A Notification of Compliance Status described in paragraph (c) of this section,

(3) Periodic Reports described in paragraph (d) of this section, and

(4)-(5) [Reserved]

(6) Pursuant to section 112(i)(3)(B) of the Act, an owner or operator may request an extension allowing an existing source up to 1 additional year beyond the compliance date specified in the subpart that references this subpart.

(i) For purposes of this subpart, a request for an extension shall be submitted to the operating permit authority as part of the operating permit application. If the State in which the source is located does not have an approved operating permit program, a request for an extension shall be submitted to the Administrator as a separate submittal. The dates specified in § 63.6(i) of subpart A of this part for submittal of requests for extensions shall not apply to sources subject to this subpart.

(ii) A request for an extension of compliance must include the data described in § 63.6(i)(6)(i) (A), (B), and (D) of subpart A of this part.

(iii) The requirements in § 63.6(i)(8) through (i)(14) of subpart A of this part will govern the review and approval of requests for extensions of compliance with this subpart.

(b) Each owner or operator of an existing or new source subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit a written Initial Notification to the Administrator, containing the information described in paragraph (b)(1), according to the schedule in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The Initial Notification provisions in § 63.9(b)(1) through (b)(3) of subpart A of this part shall not apply to owners or operators of sources subject to this subpart.

(1) The Initial Notification shall include the following information:

(i) The name and address of the owner or operator;

(ii) The address (physical location) of the affected source;

(iii) An identification of the chemical manufacturing processes subject to this subpart; and

(iv) A statement of whether the source can achieve compliance by the applicable compliance date specified in the subpart in 40 CFR part 63 that references this subpart.

(2) The Initial Notification shall be submitted according to the schedule in paragraph (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), or (b)(2)(iii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) For an existing source, the Initial Notification shall be submitted within 120 calendar days after the date of promulgation or no later than 120 calendar days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(ii) For a new source that has an initial start-up 90 days after the date of promulgation of this subpart or later, the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required by § 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part shall be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification. The application shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence (but it need not be sooner than 90 days after the date of promulgation of the subpart that references this subpart). For a new source that reclassifies to major source status after January 19, 2021 and greater than 90 days after the initial start-up, the source shall submit the initial notification required by § 63.9(b) no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart.

(iii) For a new source that has an initial start-up prior to 90 days after the date of promulgation of the applicable subpart, the Initial Notification shall be submitted within 90 days after the date of promulgation of the subpart that references this subpart, or no later than 120 calendar days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(c) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 90 days after the compliance dates specified in the subpart in 40 CFR part 63 that references this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(1) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this section for each process unit subject to the requirements of § 63.163 through § 63.174 of this subpart.

(i) Process unit identification.

(ii) Number of each equipment type (e.g., valves, pumps) excluding equipment in vacuum service.

(iii) Method of compliance with the standard (for example, "monthly leak detection and repair" or "equipped with dual mechanical seals").

(iv) Planned schedule for each phase of the requirements in § 63.163 and § 63.168 of this subpart.

(2) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section for each process unit subject to the requirements of § 63.178(b) of this subpart.

(i) Batch products or product codes subject to the provisions of this subpart, and

(ii) Planned schedule for pressure testing when equipment is configured for production of products subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(3) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section for each process unit subject to the requirements in § 63.179 of this subpart.

(i) Process unit identification.

(ii) A description of the system used to create a negative pressure in the enclosure and the control device used to comply with the requirements of § 63.172 of this subpart.

(4) For existing sources subject to subpart F of this part, the Notification of Compliance Status shall be submitted for the group of process units with the earliest compliance date specified in § 63.100(k) of subpart F of this part, by no later than 90 days after the compliance date for that group. The Notification of Compliance Status for each subsequent group shall be submitted as part of the first periodic report that is due not less than 90 days after the compliance date for that group.

(d) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit Periodic Reports.

(1) A report containing the information in paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3), and (d)(4) of this section shall be submitted semiannually starting 6 months after the Notification of Compliance Status, as required in paragraph (c) of this section. The first periodic report shall cover the first 6 months after the compliance date specified in § 63.100(k)(3) of subpart F. Each subsequent periodic report shall cover the 6 month period following the preceding period.

(2) For each process unit complying with the provisions of § 63.163 through § 63.174 of this subpart, the summary information listed in paragraphs (i) through (xvi) of this paragraph for each monitoring period during the 6-month period.

(i) The number of valves for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.168(b) of this subpart, the percent leakers, and the total number of valves monitored;

(ii) The number of valves for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.168(f) of this subpart, identifying the number of those that are determined nonrepairable;

(iii) The number of pumps for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.163(b) of this subpart, the percent leakers, and the total number of pumps monitored;

(iv) The number of pumps for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.163(c) of this subpart;

(v) The number of compressors for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.164(f) of this subpart;

(vi) The number of compressors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.164(g) of this subpart;

(vii) The number of agitators for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.173(a) and (b) of this subpart;

(viii) The number of agitators for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.173(c) of this subpart;

(ix) The number of connectors for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.174(a) of this subpart, the percent of connectors leaking, and the total number of connectors monitored;

(x) [Reserved]

(xi) The number of connectors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.174(d) of this subpart, identifying the number of those that are determined nonrepairable;

(xii) [Reserved]

(xiii) The facts that explain any delay of repairs and, where appropriate, why a process unit shutdown was technically infeasible.

(xiv) The results of all monitoring to show compliance with §§ 63.164(i), 63.165(a), and 63.172(f) of this subpart conducted within the semiannual reporting period.

(xv) If applicable, the initiation of a monthly monitoring program under § 63.168(d)(1)(i) of this subpart, or a quality improvement program under either §§ 63.175 or 63.176 of this subpart.

(xvi) If applicable, notification of a change in connector monitoring alternatives as described in § 63.174(c)(1) of this subpart.

(xvii) If applicable, the compliance option that has been selected under § 63.172(n).

(3) For owners or operators electing to meet the requirements of § 63.178(b) of this subpart, the report shall include the information listed in paragraphs (i) through (v) of this paragraph for each process unit.

(i) Batch product process equipment train identification;

(ii) The number of pressure tests conducted;

(iii) The number of pressure tests where the equipment train failed the pressure test;

(iv) The facts that explain any delay of repairs; and

(v) The results of all monitoring to determine compliance with § 63.172(f) of this subpart.

(4) The information listed in paragraph (c) of this section for the Notification of Compliance Status for process units with later compliance dates. Any revisions to items reported in earlier Notification of Compliance Status, if the method of compliance has changed since the last report.
