
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Headquarters
###### ยง 1.37 Office of External Affairs.
####### Office of Public Affairs.

(b)The Office of Public Affairs is under the supervision of a Director who serves as chief spokesperson for the Agency and as a principal adviser, along with the Assistant Administrator for External Affairs, to the Adminstrator, Deputy Administrator, and Senior Management Officials, on public affairs aspects of the Agency's activities and programs. The Office of Public Affairs provides to the media adequate and timely information as well as responses to queries from the media on all EPA program activities. It assures that the policy of openness in all information matters, as enunciated by the Administrator, is honored in all respects. Develops publications to inform the general public of major EPA programs and activities; it also develops informational materials for internal EPA use in Headquarters and at the Regions, Labs and Field Offices. It maintains clearance systems and procedures for periodicals and nontechnical information developed by EPA for public distribution, and reviews all publications for public affairs interests. The Office of Public Affairs provides policy direction for, and coordination and oversight of EPA's community relations program. It provides a system for ensuring that EPA educates citizens and responds to their concerns about all environmental issues and assures that there are opportunities for public involvement in the resolution of problems. The Office supervises the production of audio-visual materials, including graphics, radio and video materials, for the general public and for internal audiences, in support of EPA policies and programs. The Office provides program direction and professional review of the performance of public affairs functions in the Regional Offices of EPA, as well as at laboratories and other field offices. The Office of Public Affairs is responsible for reviewing interagency agreements and Headquarters purchase request requisitions expected to result in contracts in the area of public information and community relations. It develops proposals and reviews Headquarters grant applications under consideration when public affairs goals are involved.
