
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart J - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### § 63.216 Who administers this subpart?

(a) This subpart can be administered by us, the EPA, or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency has the primary authority to administer and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if the authority to implement and enforce this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.

(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are retained by the Administrator of EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.

(1) Approval of alternatives to the non-opacity emissions standards in §§ 63.211, 63.212 and 63.214 under 40 CFR 61.12(d) of this chapter. Where these standards reference another subpart, the cited provisions will be delegated according to the delegation provisions of the referenced subpart.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under 40 CFR 61.13(h) of this chapter and as defined in § 63.90.

(4) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under 40 CFR 61.14(g) of this chapter and as defined in § 63.90.

(5) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under 40 CFR 61.10 of this chapter and as defined in § 63.90.
