
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart L - National Emission Standards for Coke Oven Batteries
###### ยง 63.306 Work practice standards.
####### Work practice plan.

(a)On or before November 15, 1993, each owner or operator shall prepare and submit a written emission control work practice plan for each coke oven battery. The plan shall be designed to achieve compliance with visible emission limitations for coke oven doors, topside port lids, offtake systems, and charging operations under this subpart, or, for a coke oven battery not subject to visible emission limitations under this subpart, other federally enforceable visible emission limitations for these emission points.

(1) The work practice plan must address each of the topics specified in paragraph (b) of this section in sufficient detail and with sufficient specificity to allow the reviewing authority to evaluate the plan for completeness and enforceability.

(2) The initial plan and any revisions shall be submitted to the Administrator or the delegated State, local, or Tribal authority. The Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) may require revisions to the initial plan only where the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) finds either that the plan does not address each subject area listed in paragraph (b) of this section for each emission point subject to a visible emission standard under this subpart, or that the plan in unenforceable because it contains requirements that are unclear.

(3) During any period of time that an owner or operator is required to implement the provisions of a plan for a particular emission point, the failure to implement one or more obligations under the plan and/or any recordkeeping requirement(s) under ยง 63.311(f)(4) for the emission point during a particular day is a single violation.
