
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart L - National Emission Standards for Coke Oven Batteries
###### ยง 63.306 Work practice standards.
####### Revisions to plan.

(d)Revisions to the work practice emission control plan will be governed by the provisions in this paragraph (d) and in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The reviewing authority is the Administrator or the delegated State, local, or Tribal authority.

(1) The reviewing authority may request the owner or operator to review and revise as needed the work practice emission control plan for a particular emission point if there are 2 exceedances of the applicable visible emission limitation in the 6-month period that starts 30 days after the owner or operator is required to implement work practices under paragraph (c) of this section. In the case of a coke oven battery subject to visual emission limitations under this subpart, the second exceedance must be independent of the criteria in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.

(2) The reviewing authority may not request the owner or operator to review and revise the plan more than twice in any 12 consecutive month period for any particular emission point unless the reviewing authority disapproves the plan according to the provisions in paragraph (d)(6) of this section.

(3) If the certified observer calculates that a second exceedance (or, if applicable, a second independent exceedance) has occurred, the certified observer shall notify the owner or operator. No later than 10 days after receipt of such a notification, the owner or operator shall notify the reviewing authority of any finding of whether work practices are related to the cause or the solution of the problem. The notification is subject to review by the reviewing authority according to the provisions in paragraph (d)(6) of this section.

(4) The owner or operator shall submit a revised work practice plan within 60 days of notification from the reviewing authority under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, unless the reviewing authority grants an extension of time to submit the revised plan.

(5) If the reviewing authority requires a plan revision, the reviewing authority may require the plan to address a subject area or areas in addition to those in paragraph (b) of this section, if the reviewing authority determines that without plan coverage of such an additional subject area, there is a reasonable probability of further exceedances of the visible emission limitation for the emission point for which a plan revision is required.

(6) The reviewing authority may disapprove a plan revision required under paragraph (d) of this section if the reviewing authority determines that the revised plan is inadequate to prevent exceedances of the visible emission limitation under this subpart for the emission point for which a plan revision is required or, in the case of a battery not subject to visual emission limitations under this subpart, other federally enforceable emission limitations for such emission point. The reviewing authority may also disapprove the finding that may be submitted pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section if the reviewing authority determines that a revised plan is needed to prevent exceedances of the applicable visible emission limitations.
