
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart L - National Emission Standards for Coke Oven Batteries
###### ยง 63.307 Standards for bypass/bleeder stacks.

(a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, on or before March 31, 1994, the owner or operator of an existing by-product recovery battery for which a notification was not submitted under paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall install a bypass/bleeder stack flare system that is capable of controlling 120 percent of the normal gas flow generated by the battery, which shall thereafter be operated and maintained.

(2) Coke oven emissions shall not be vented to the atmosphere through bypass/bleeder stacks, except through the flare system or the alternative control device as described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) The owner or operator of a brownfield coke oven battery or a padup rebuild shall install such a flare system before startup, and shall properly operate and maintain the flare system.

(b) Each flare installed pursuant to this section shall meet the following requirements:

(1) Each flare shall be designed for a net heating value of 8.9 MJ/scm (240 Btu/scf) if a flare is steam-assisted or air-assisted, or a net value of 7.45 MJ/scm (200 Btu/scf) if the flare is non-assisted.

(2) Each flare shall have either a continuously operable pilot flame or an electronic igniter that meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section.

(3) Each electronic igniter shall meet the following requirements:

(i) Each flare shall be equipped with at least two igniter plugs with redundant igniter transformers;

(ii) The ignition units shall be designed failsafe with respect to flame detection thermocouples (i.e., any flame detection thermocouples are used only to indicate the presence of a flame, are not interlocked with the ignition unit, and cannot deactivate the ignition system); and

(iii) Integral battery backup shall be provided to maintain active ignition operation for a minimum of 15 minutes during a power failure.

(iv) Each electronic igniter shall be operated to initiate ignition when the bleeder valve is not fully closed as indicated by an "OPEN" limit switch.

(4) Each flare installed to meet the requirements of this paragraph (b) that does not have an electronic igniter shall be operated with a pilot flame present at all times as determined by ยง 63.309(h)(2).

(c) Each flare installed to meet the requirements of this section shall be operated with no visible emissions, as determined by the methods specified in ยง 63.309(h)(1), except for periods not to exceed a total of 5 minutes during any 2 consecutive hours.

(d) As an alternative to the installation, operation, and maintenance of a flare system as required in paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator may petition the Administrator for approval of an alternative control device or system that achieves at least 98 percent destruction or control of coke oven emissions vented to the alternative control device or system.

(e) The owner or operator of a by-product coke oven battery is exempt from the requirements of this section if the owner or operator:

(1) Submits to the Administrator, no later than November 10, 1993, a formal commitment to close the battery permanently; and

(2) Closes the battery permanently no later than December 31, 1995. In no case may the owner or operator continue to operate a battery for which a closure commitment is submitted, past December 31, 1995.

(f) Any emissions resulting from the installation of flares (or other pollution control devices or systems approved pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section) shall not be used in making new source review determinations under part C and part D of title I of the Act.
