
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart L - National Emission Standards for Coke Oven Batteries
###### § 63.305 Alternative standards for coke oven doors equipped with sheds.

(a) The owner or operator of a new or existing coke oven battery equipped with a shed for the capture of coke oven emissions from coke oven doors and an emission control device for the collection of the emissions may comply with an alternative to the applicable visible emission limitations for coke oven doors in §§ 63.302 and 63.304 according to the procedures and requirements in this section.

(b) To qualify for approval of an alternative standard, the owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator a test plan for the measurement of emissions. A copy of the request shall also be sent to the Director, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. The plan shall describe the procedures to be used for the measurement of particulate matter; the parameters to be measured that affect the shed exhaust rate (e.g., damper settings, fan power) and the procedures for measuring such parameters; and if applicable under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, the procedures to be used for the measurement of benzene soluble organics, benzene, toluene, and xylene emitted from the control device for the shed. The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 30 days before any performance test is conducted.

(c) A complete test plan is deemed approved if no disapproval is received within 60 days of the submittal to the Administrator. After approval of the test plan, the owner or operator shall;

(1) Determine the efficiency of the control device for removal of particulate matter by conducting measurements at the inlet and the outlet of the emission control device using Method 5 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, with the filter box operated at ambient temperature and in a manner to avoid condensation, with a backup filter;

(2) Measure the visible emissions from coke oven doors that escape capture by the shed using Method 22 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter. For the purpose of approval of an alternative standard, no visible emissions may escape capture from the shed.

(i) Visible emission observations shall be taken during conditions representative of normal operations, except that pushing shall be suspended and pushing emissions shall have cleared the shed; and

(ii) Method 22 observations shall be performed by an observer certified according to the requirements of Method 9 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter. The observer shall allow pushing emissions to be evacuated (typically 1 to 2 minutes) before making observations;

(3) Measure the opacity of emissions from the control device using Method 9 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter during conditions representative of normal operations, including pushing; and

(i) If the control device has multiple stacks, the owner or operator shall use an evaluation based on visible emissions and opacity to select the stack with the highest opacity for testing under this section;

(ii) The highest opacity, expressed as a 6-minute average, shall be used as the opacity standard for the control device.

(4) Thoroughly inspect all compartments of each air cleaning device prior to the performance test for proper operation and for changes that signal the potential for malfunction, including the presence of tears, holes, and abrasions in filter bags; damaged seals; and for dust deposits on the clean side of bags; and

(5) Determine the allowable percent leaking doors under the shed using either of the following procedures:

(i) Calculate the allowable percent leaking doors using the following equation:

(ii) Calculate the allowable percent leaking doors using the following procedures:

(A) Measure the total emission rate of benzene, toluene, and xylene exiting the control device using Method 18 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter and the emission rate of benzene soluble organics entering the control device as described in the test plan submitted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section; or

(B) Measure benzene, toluene, xylene, and benzene soluble organics in the gas in the collector main as described in the test plan submitted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section; and

(C) Calculate the ratio (R) of benzene, toluene, and xylene to benzene soluble organics for the gas in the collector main, or as the sum of the outlet emission rates of benzene, toluene, and xylene, divided by the emission rate of benzene soluble organics as measured at the inlet to the control device; and

(D) Calculate the allowable percent leaking doors limit under the shed using the following equation:

(iii) If the allowable percent leaking coke oven doors is calculated to exceed 15 percent leaking coke oven doors under paragraphs (c)(5)(i) or (c)(5)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall use 15 percent leaking coke oven doors for the purposes of this section.

(6) Monitor the parameters that affect the shed exhaust flow rate.

(7) The owner or operator may request alternative sampling procedures to those specified in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) (A) and (B) of this section by submitting details on the procedures and the rationale for their use to the Administrator. Alternative procedures shall not be used without approval from the Administrator.

(8) The owner or operator shall inform the Administrator of the schedule for conducting testing under the approved test plan and give the Administrator the opportunity to observe the tests.

(d) After calculating the alternative standard for allowable percent leaking coke oven doors, the owner or operator shall submit the following information to the Administrator:

(1) Identity of the coke oven battery;

(2) Visible emission limitation(s) for percent leaking doors currently applicable to the coke oven battery under this subpart and known future limitations for percent leaking coke oven doors;

(3) A written report including:

(i) Appropriate measurements and calculations used to derive the allowable percent leaking coke oven doors requested as the alternative standard;

(ii) Appropriate visible emission observations for the shed and opacity observations for the control device for the shed, including an alternative opacity standard, if applicable, as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section based on the highest 6-minute average; and

(iii) The parameter or parameters (e.g., fan power, damper position, or other) to be monitored and recorded to demonstrate that the exhaust flow rate measured during the test required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section is maintained, and the monitoring plan for such parameter(s).

(iv) If the application is for a new shed, one of the following demonstrations:

(A) A demonstration, using modeling procedures acceptable to the Administrator, that the expected concentrations of particulate emissions (including benzene soluble organics) under the shed at the bench level, when the proposed alternative standard was being met, would not exceed the expected concentrations of particulate emissions (including benzene soluble organics) if the shed were not present, the regulations under this subpart were met, and the battery was in compliance with federally enforceable limitations on pushing emissions; or

(B) A demonstration that the shed (including the evacuation system) has been designed in accordance with generally accepted engineering principles for the effective capture and control of particulate emissions (including benzene soluble organics) as measured at the shed's perimeter, its control device, and at the bench level.

(e) The Administrator will review the information and data submitted according to paragraph (d) of this section and may request additional information and data within 60 days of receipt of a complete request.

(1) Except for applications subject to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the Administrator shall approve or disapprove an alternative standard as expeditiously as practicable. The Administrator shall approve an alternative standard, unless the Administrator determines that the approved test plan has not been followed, or any required calculations are incorrect, or any demonstration required under paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section does not satisfy the applicable criteria under that paragraph. If the alternative standard is disapproved, the Administrator will issue a written notification to the owner or operator within the 60-day period.

(2) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable visible emission limitation for coke oven doors and all other requirements in this subpart prior to approval of an alternative standard. The owner or operator may apply for an alternative standard at any time after December 4, 1992.

(3) An application for an alternative standard to the standard in § 63.304(b)(1)(i) for any shed that is not a new shed that is filed on or before June 15, 1993, is deemed approved if a notice of disapproval has not been received 60 days after submission of a complete request. An approval under paragraph (e)(3) of this section shall be valid for a period of 1 year.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section, no alternative standard shall be approved that exceeds 15 percent leaking coke oven doors (yard equivalent).

(f) After approval of an alternative standard, the owner or operator shall comply with the following requirements:

(1) The owner or operator shall not discharge or allow to be discharged to the atmosphere coke oven emissions from coke oven doors under sheds that exceed an approved alternative standard for percent leaking coke oven doors under sheds.

(i) All visible emission observations for compliance determinations shall be performed by a certified observer.

(ii) Compliance with the alternative standard for doors shall be determined by a weekly performance test conducted according to the procedures and requirements in § 63.309(d)(5) and Method 303 in appendix A to this part.

(iii) If the visible emission limitation is achieved for 12 consecutive observations, compliance shall be determined by monthly rather than weekly performance tests. If any exceedance occurs during a performance test, weekly performance tests shall be resumed.

(iv) Observations taken at times other than those specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(ii) and (f)(1)(iii) of this section shall be subject to the provisions of § 63.309(f).

(2) The certified observer shall monitor the visible coke oven emissions escaping capture by the shed on a weekly basis. The provision in paragraph (f)(6) of this section is applicable if visible coke oven emissions are observed during periods when pushing emissions have cleared the shed.

(3) The owner or operator shall not discharge or allow to be discharged to the atmosphere any visible emissions from the shed's control device exhibiting more than 0 percent opacity unless an alternative limit has been approved under paragraph (e) of this section.

(4) The opacity of emissions from the control device for the shed shall be monitored in accordance with the requirements of either paragraph (f)(4)(i) or (f)(4)(ii) of this section, at the election of the owner or operator.

(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain a continuous opacity monitor, and record the output of the system, for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged from the emission control system.

(A) Each continuous opacity monitoring system shall meet the requirements of Performance Specification 1 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter; and

(B) Each continuous opacity monitoring system shall be operated, calibrated, and maintained according to the procedures and requirements specified in part 52 of this chapter; or

(ii) A certified observer shall monitor and record at least once each day during daylight hours, opacity observations for the control device for the shed using Method 9 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter.

(5) The owner or operator shall visually inspect the structural integrity of the shed at least once a quarter for defects, such as deterioration of sheet metal (e.g., holes in the shed), that may allow the escape of visible emissions.

(i) The owner or operator shall record the time and date a defect is first observed, the time and date the defect is corrected or repaired, and a brief description of repairs or corrective actions taken;

(ii) The owner or operator shall temporarily repair the defect as soon as possible, but no later than 5 days after detection of the defect;

(iii) Unless a major repair is required, the owner or operator shall perform a complete repair of the defect within 15 days of detection of the defect. If a major repair is required (e.g., replacement of large sections of the shed), the owner or operator shall submit a repair schedule to the enforcement agency.

(6) If the no visible emission limit for the shed specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section is exceeded, the Administrator may require another test for the shed according to the approved test plan as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. If the certified observer observes visible coke oven emissions from the shed, except during periods of pushing or when pushing emissions have not cleared the shed, the owner or operator shall check to ensure that the shed and control device are working properly.

(7) The owner or operator shall monitor the parameter(s) affecting shed exhaust flow rate, and record data, in accordance with the approved monitoring plan for these parameters.

(8) The owner or operator shall not operate the exhaust system of the shed at an exhaust flow rate lower than that measured during the test required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, as indicated by the monitored parameters.

(g) Each side of a battery subject to an alternative standard for doors under this section shall be treated separately for purposes of §§ 63.306(c) (plan implementation) and 63.306(d) (plan revisions) of this subpart. In making determinations under these provisions for the side of the battery subject to an alternative standard, the requirement that exceedances be independent shall not apply. During any period when work practices for doors for both sides of the battery are required to be implemented, § 63.306(a)(3) shall apply in the same manner as if the provisions of a plan for a single emissions point were required to be implemented. Exceedances of the alternative standard for percent leaking doors under a shed is the only provision in this section implicating implementation of work practice requirements.

(h) Multiple exceedances of the visible emission limitation for door leaks and/or the provisions of an alternative standard under this section for door leaks at a battery on a single day shall be considered a single violation.
