
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart L - National Emission Standards for Coke Oven Batteries
###### § 63.311 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Initial compliance certification.

(b)The owner or operator of an existing or new coke oven battery shall provide a written statement(s) to certify compliance to the Administrator within 45 days of the applicable compliance date for the emission limitations or requirements in this subpart. The owner or operator shall include the following information in the initial compliance certification:

(1) Statement signed by the owner or operator, certifying that a bypass/bleeder stack flare system or an approved alternative control device or system has been installed as required in § 63.307.

(2) Statement, signed by the owner or operator, certifying that a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan has been prepared as required in § 63.310.

(3) Statement, signed by the owner or operator, certifying that all work practice standards for charging operations have been met as required in § 63.303(b)(3).

(4) Statement, signed by the owner or operator, certifying that all work practice standards for door leaks have been met as required in § 63.303(c).

(5) Statement, signed by the owner or operator, certifying that the information on potential malfunctions has been added to the startup, shutdown and malfunction plan as required in § 63.310(j).

(6) Statement, signed by the owner or operator, that all applicable emission limitations in § 63.303(d)(1) and (2) for a new nonrecovery coke oven battery have been met. The owner or operator shall also include the results of the PM performance test required in § 63.309(k).

(7) Statement, signed by the owner or operator, certifying that all work practice standards in § 63.303(d)(3) and (4) for a new nonrecovery coke oven battery have been met.
