
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart L - National Emission Standards for Coke Oven Batteries
###### § 63.313 Implementation and enforcement.

(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.

(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (d) of this section are retained by the Administrator and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.

(c) Withdrawal of authority:

(1) Whenever the Administrator learns that a delegated agency has not fully carried out the inspections and performance tests required under § 63.309 for each applicable emission point of each battery each day, the Administrator shall immediately notify the agency. Unless the delegated agency demonstrates to the Administrator's satisfaction within 15 days of notification that the agency is consistently carrying out the inspections and performance tests required under § 63.309 in the manner specified in the preceding sentence, the Administrator shall notify the coke oven battery owner or operator that inspections and performance tests shall be carried out according to § 63.309(a)(5). When the Administrator determines that the delegated agency is prepared to consistently perform all the required inspections and performance tests each day, the Administrator shall give the coke oven battery owner or operator at least 15 days notice that implementation will revert to the previously delegated agency.

(2) In addition to the provisions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Administrator may also withdraw delegation of authority pursuant to the provisions of § 63.96 of subpart E of this part.

(d) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.300 and 63.302 through 63.308 (except the authorities in 63.306(a)(2) and (d)).

(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.

(3) Approval of any changes to section 2 of Method 303 in appendix A of this part.

(4) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.

(5) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
