
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart L - National Emission Standards for Coke Oven Batteries
###### § 63.311 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Semiannual compliance certification.

(d)The owner or operator of a coke oven battery shall include the following information in the semiannual compliance certification:

(1) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that no coke oven gas was vented, except through the bypass/bleeder stack flare system of a by-product coke oven battery during the reporting period or that a venting report has been submitted according to the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that a startup, shutdown, or malfunction event did not occur for a coke oven battery during the reporting period or that a startup, shutdown, and malfunction event did occur and a report was submitted according to the requirements in § 63.310(e).

(3) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that work practices were implemented if applicable under § 63.306.

(4) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that all work practices for nonrecovery coke oven batteries were implemented as required in § 63.303(b)(3).

(5) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that all coke oven door leaks on a nonrecovery battery were stopped according to the requirements in § 63.303(c)(2) and (3). If a coke oven door leak was not stopped according to the requirements in § 63.303(c)(2) and (3), or if the door leak occurred again during the coking cycle, the owner or operator must report the information in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The oven number of each coke oven door for which a leak was not stopped according to the requirements in § 63.303(c)(2) and (3) or for a door leak that occurred again during the coking cycle.

(ii) The total duration of the leak from the time the leak was first observed.

(iii) The cause of the leak (including unknown cause, if applicable) and the corrective action taken to stop the leak.

(6) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that the opacity of emissions from charging operations for a new nonrecovery coke oven battery did not exceed 20 percent. If the opacity limit in § 63.303(d)(1) was exceeded, the owner or operator must report the number, duration, and cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), and the corrective action taken.

(7) Results of any PM performance test for a charging emissions control device for a new nonrecovery coke oven battery conducted during the reporting period as required in § 63.309(l).

(8) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that all work practices for a charging emissions control device for a new nonrecovery coke oven battery were implemented as required in § 63.303(d)(3). If a Method 9 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) visible emissions observation exceeds 10 percent, the owner or operator must report the duration and cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), and the corrective action taken.

(9) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that all work practices for oven dampers on a new nonrecovery coke oven battery were implemented as required in § 63.303(d)(4).
