
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart L - National Emission Standards for Coke Oven Batteries
###### § 63.311 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Recordkeeping.

(f)The owner or operator shall maintain files of all required information in a permanent form suitable for inspection at an onsite location for at least 1 year and must thereafter be accessible within 3 working days to the Administrator for the time period specified in § 70.6(a)(3)(ii)(B) of this chapter. Copies of the work practice plan developed under § 63.306 and the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan developed under § 63.310 shall be kept onsite at all times. The owner or operator shall maintain the following information:

(1) For nonrecovery coke oven batteries,

(i) Records of daily pressure monitoring, if applicable according to § 63.303(a)(1)(ii) or § 63.303(b)(1)(ii).

(ii) Records demonstrating the performance of work practice requirements according to § 63.306(b)(7). This requirement applies to nonrecovery coke oven batteries subject to the work practice requirements in § 63.303(a)(2) or § 63.303(b)(3).

(iii) Design characteristics of each emission control system for the capture and collection of charging emissions, as required by § 63.303(b)(2).

(iv) Records to demonstrate compliance with the work practice requirement for door leaks in § 63.303(c). These records must include the oven number of each leaking door, total duration of the leak from the time the leak was first observed, the cause of the leak (including unknown cause, if applicable), the corrective action taken, and the amount of time taken to stop the leak from the time the leak was first observed.

(v) Records to demonstrate compliance with the work practice requirements for oven uptake damper monitoring and adjustments in § 63.303(c)(1)(iv).

(vi) Records of weekly performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the opacity limit for charging operations in § 63.303(d)(1). These records must include calculations of the highest 3-minute averages for each charge, the average opacity of five charges, and, if applicable, records demonstrating why five consecutive charges were not observed (e.g., the battery was charged only at night).

(vii) Records of all PM performance tests for a charging emissions control device to demonstrate compliance with the limit in § 63.303(d)(2).

(viii) Records of all daily visible emission observations for a charging emission control device to demonstrate compliance with the requirements limit in § 63.303(d)(3).

(ix) Records to demonstrate compliance with the work practice requirements for oven uptake damper monitoring and adjustments in § 63.303(d)(4).

(2) For an approved alternative emission limitation according to § 63.305;

(i) Monitoring records for parameter(s) that indicate the exhaust flow rate is maintained;

(ii) If applicable under § 63.305(f)(4)(i);

(A) Records of opacity readings from the continuous opacity monitor for the control device for the shed; and

(B) Records that demonstrate the continuous opacity monitoring system meets the requirements of Performance Specification 1 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter and the operation and maintenance requirements in part 52 of this chapter; and

(iii) Records of quarterly visual inspections as specified in § 63.305(f)(5), including the time and date a defect is detected and repaired.

(3) A copy of the work practice plan required by § 63.306 and any revision to the plan;

(4) If the owner or operator is required under § 63.306(c) to implement the provisions of a work practice plan for a particular emission point, the following records regarding the implementation of plan requirements for that emission point during the implementation period;

(i) Copies of all written and audiovisual materials used in the training, the dates of each class, the names of the participants in each class, and documentation that all appropriate personnel have successfully completed the training required under § 63.306(b)(1);

(ii) The records required to be maintained by the plan provisions implementing § 63.306(b)(7);

(iii) Records resulting from audits of the effectiveness of the work practice program for the particular emission point, as required under § 63.306(b)(2)(i), 63.306(b)(3)(i), 63.306(b)(4)(i), or 63.306(b)(5)(i); and

(iv) If the plan provisions for coke oven doors must be implemented, records of the inventory of doors and jambs as required under § 63.306(b)(2)(vi); and

(5) The design drawings and engineering specifications for the bypass/bleeder stack flare system or approved alternative control device or system as required under § 63.307.

(6) Records specified in § 63.310(f) regarding the basis of each malfunction notification.

(g) Records required to be maintained and reports required to be filed with the Administrator under this subpart shall be made available in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph by the owner or operator to the authorized collective bargaining representative of the employees at a coke oven battery, for inspection and copying.

(1) Requests under paragraph (g) of this section shall be submitted in writing, and shall identify the records or reports that are subject to the request with reasonable specificity;

(2) The owner or operator shall produce the reports for inspection and copying within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 30 days. A reasonable fee may be charged for copying (except for the first copy of any document), which shall not exceed the copying fee charged by the Administrator under part 2 of this chapter;

(3) Nothing in paragraph (g) of this section shall require the production for inspection or copying of any portion of a document that contains trade secrets or confidential business information that the Administrator would be prohibited from disclosing to the public under part 2 of this chapter; and

(4) The inspection or copying of a document under paragraph (g) of this section shall not in any way affect any property right of the owner or operator in such document under laws for the protection of intellectual property, including the copyright laws.
