
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart M - National Perchloroethylene Air Emission Standards for Dry Cleaning Facilities
###### § 63.320 Applicability.

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to the owner or operator of each dry cleaning facility that uses perchloroethylene.

(b) The compliance date for a new dry cleaning system depends on the date that construction or reconstruction commences.

(1) Each dry cleaning system that commences construction or reconstruction on or after December 9, 1991 and before December 21, 2005, shall be in compliance with the provisions of this subpart except § 63.322(o) beginning on September 22, 1993 or immediately upon startup, whichever is later, except for dry cleaning systems complying with section 112(i)(2) of the Clean Air Act; and shall be in compliance with the provisions of § 63.322(o) beginning on July 28, 2008, except as provided by § 63.6(b)(4), as applicable.

(2)(i) Each dry cleaning system that commences construction or reconstruction on or after December 21, 2005 shall be in compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except § 63.322(o), immediately upon startup; and shall be in compliance with the provisions of § 63.322(o) beginning on July 27, 2006 or immediately upon startup, whichever is later.

(ii) Each dry cleaning system that commences construction or reconstruction on or after December 21, 2005, but before July 13, 2006, and is located in a building with a residence, shall be in compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except § 63.322(o), immediately upon startup; shall be in compliance with the provisions of § 63.322(o)(5)(ii) beginning on July 27, 2006; and shall be in compliance with the provisions of § 63.322(o)(5)(i) beginning on July 27, 2009.

(3) Each dry cleaning system that commences construction or reconstruction on or after July 27, 2006, shall be in compliance with the provisions of this subpart, including § 63.322(o), immediately upon startup.

(c) Each dry cleaning system that commenced construction or reconstruction before December 9, 1991, and each new transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment that commenced construction or reconstruction on or after December 9, 1991 and before September 22, 1993, shall comply with §§ 63.322(c), (d), (i), (j), (k), (l), and (m); 63.323(d); and 63.324(a), (b), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), and (e) beginning on December 20, 1993, and shall comply with other provisions of this subpart except § 63.322(o) by September 23, 1996; and shall comply with § 63.322(o) by July 28, 2008.

(d) Each existing dry-to-dry machine and its ancillary equipment located in a dry cleaning facility that includes only dry-to-dry machines, and each existing transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment, and each new transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment installed between December 9, 1991, and September 22, 1993, as well as each existing dry-to-dry machine and its ancillary equipment, located in a dry cleaning facility that includes both transfer machine system(s) and dry-to-dry machine(s) is exempt from §§ 63.322, 63.323, and 63.324, except §§ 63.322(c), (d), (i), (j), (k), (l), (m), (o)(1), (o)(3), (o)(4) and (o)(5)(i); 63.323(d); and 63.324(a), (b), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), and (e) if the total PCE consumption of the dry cleaning facility is less than 530 liters (140 gallons) per year. Consumption is determined according to § 63.323(d).

(e) Each existing transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment, and each new transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment installed between December 9, 1991, and September 22, 1993, located in a dry cleaning facility that includes only transfer machine system(s), is exempt from §§ 63.322, 63.323, and 63.324, except §§ 63.322(c), (d), (i), (j), (k), (l), (m), (o)(1), (o)(3) and (o)(4); 63.323(d); and 63.324(a), (b), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), and (e) if the PCE consumption of the dry cleaning facility is less than 760 liters (200 gallons) per year. Consumption is determined according to § 63.323(d).

(f) If the total yearly perchloroethylene consumption of a dry cleaning facility determined according to § 63.323(d) is initially less than the amounts specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, but later exceeds those amounts, the existing dry cleaning system(s) and new transfer machine system(s) and its (their) ancillary equipment installed between December 9, 1991 and September 22, 1993 in the dry cleaning facility must comply with § 63.322, § 63.323, and § 63.324 by 180 calendar days from the date that the facility determines it has exceeded the amounts specified, or by September 23, 1996, whichever is later.

(g) A dry cleaning facility is a major source if the facility emits or has the potential to emit more than 9.1 megagrams per year (10 tons per year) of perchloroethylene to the atmosphere. In lieu of measuring a facility's potential to emit perchloroethylene emissions or determining a facility's potential to emit perchloroethylene emissions, a dry cleaning facility is a major source if:

(1) It includes only dry-to-dry machine(s) and has a total yearly perchloroethylene consumption greater than 8,000 liters (2,100 gallons) as determined according to § 63.323(d); or

(2) It includes only transfer machine system(s) or both dry-to-dry machine(s) and transfer machine system(s) and has a total yearly perchloroethylene consumption greater than 6,800 liters (1,800 gallons) as determined according to § 63.323(d).

(h) A dry cleaning facility is an area source if it does not meet the conditions of paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) If the total yearly perchloroethylene consumption of a dry cleaning facility determined according to § 63.323(d) is initially less than the amounts specified in paragraph (g) of this section, but then exceeds those amounts, the dry cleaning facility becomes a major source and all dry cleaning systems located at that dry cleaning facility must comply with the appropriate requirements for major sources under §§ 63.322, 63.323, and 63.324 by 180 calendar days from the date that the facility determines it has exceeded the amount specified, or by September 23, 1996, whichever is later.

(j) All coin-operated dry cleaning machines are exempt from the requirements of this subpart.

(k) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
