
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart M - National Perchloroethylene Air Emission Standards for Dry Cleaning Facilities
###### § 63.323 Test methods and monitoring.

(a) When a refrigerated condenser is used to comply with § 63.322(a)(1) or (b)(1):

(1) The owner or operator shall monitor on a weekly basis the parameters in either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The refrigeration system high pressure and low pressure during the drying phase to determine if they are in the range specified in the manufacturer's operating instructions.

(ii) The temperature of the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream on the outlet side of the refrigerated condenser on a dry-to-dry machine, dryer, or reclaimer with a temperature sensor to determine if it is equal to or less than 7.2 &#xB0;C (45 &#xB0;F) before the end of the cool-down or drying cycle while the gas-vapor stream is flowing through the condenser. The temperature sensor shall be used according to the manufacturer's instructions and shall be designed to measure a temperature of 7.2 &#xB0;C (45 &#xB0;F) to an accuracy of +/-1.1 &#xB0;C (+/-2 &#xB0;F).

(2) The owner or operator shall calculate the difference between the temperature of the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream entering the refrigerated condenser on a washer and the temperature of the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream exiting the refrigerated condenser on the washer weekly to determine that the difference is greater than or equal to 11.1 &#xB0;C (20 &#xB0;F).

(i) Measurements of the inlet and outlet streams shall be made with a temperature sensor. Each temperature sensor shall be used according to the manufacturer's instructions, and designed to measure at least a temperature range from 0 &#xB0;C (32 &#xB0;F) to 48.9 &#xB0;C (120 &#xB0;F) to an accuracy of +/-1.1 &#xB0;C (+/-2 &#xB0;F).

(ii) The difference between the inlet and outlet temperatures shall be calculated weekly from the measured values.

(b) When a carbon adsorber is used to comply with § 63.322(a)(2) or exhaust is passed through a carbon adsorber immediately upon machine door opening to comply with § 63.322(b)(3), the owner or operator shall measure the concentration of PCE in the exhaust of the carbon adsorber weekly with a colorimetric detector tube or PCE gas analyzer. The measurement shall be taken while the dry cleaning machine is venting to that carbon adsorber at the end of the last dry cleaning cycle prior to desorption of that carbon adsorber or removal of the activated carbon to determine that the PCE concentration in the exhaust is equal to or less than 100 parts per million by volume. The owner or operator shall:

(1) Use a colorimetric detector tube or PCE gas analyzer designed to measure a concentration of 100 parts per million by volume of PCE in air to an accuracy of +/-25 parts per million by volume; and

(2) Use the colorimetric detector tube or PCE gas analyzer according to the manufacturer's instructions; and

(3) Provide a sampling port for monitoring within the exhaust outlet of the carbon adsorber that is easily accessible and located at least 8 stack or duct diameters downstream from any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, contraction, or outlet; downstream from no other inlet; and 2 stack or duct diameters upstream from any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, contraction, inlet, or outlet.

(c) If the air-PCE gas vapor stream is passed through a carbon adsorber prior to machine door opening to comply with § 63.322(b)(3), the owner or operator of an affected facility shall measure the concentration of PCE in the dry cleaning machine drum at the end of the dry cleaning cycle weekly with a colorimetric detector tube or PCE gas analyzer to determine that the PCE concentration is equal to or less than 300 parts per million by volume. The owner or operator shall:

(1) Use a colorimetric detector tube or PCE gas analyzer designed to measure a concentration of 300 parts per million by volume of PCE in air to an accuracy of +/-75 parts per million by volume; and

(2) Use the colorimetric detector tube or PCE gas analyzer according to the manufacturer's instructions; and

(3) Conduct the weekly monitoring by inserting the colorimetric detector or PCE gas analyzer tube into the open space above the articles at the rear of the dry cleaning machine drum immediately upon opening the dry cleaning machine door.

(d) When calculating yearly perchloroethylene consumption for the purpose of demonstrating applicability according to § 63.320, the owner or operator shall perform the following calculation on the first day of every month:

(1) Sum the volume of all perchloroethylene purchases made in each of the previous 12 months, as recorded in the log described in § 63.324(d)(1).

(2) If no perchloroethylene purchases were made in a given month, then the perchloroethylene consumption for that month is zero gallons.

(3) The total sum calculated in paragraph (d) of this section is the yearly perchloroethylene consumption at the facility.
