
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart M - National Perchloroethylene Air Emission Standards for Dry Cleaning Facilities
###### § 63.322 Standards.

(a) The owner or operator of each existing dry cleaning system and of each new transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment installed between December 9, 1991 and September 22, 1993 shall comply with either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section and shall comply with paragraph (a)(3) of this section if applicable.

(1) Route the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream contained within each dry cleaning machine through a refrigerated condenser or an equivalent control device.

(2) Route the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream contained within each dry cleaning machine through a carbon adsorber installed on the dry cleaning machine prior to September 22, 1993.

(3) Contain the dry cleaning machine inside a room enclosure if the dry cleaning machine is a transfer machine system located at a major source. Each room enclosure shall be:

(i) Constructed of materials impermeable to perchloroethylene; and

(ii) Designed and operated to maintain a negative pressure at each opening at all times that the machine is operating.

(b) The owner or operator of each new dry-to-dry machine and its ancillary equipment and of each new transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment installed after September 22, 1993:

(1) Shall route the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream contained within each dry cleaning machine through a refrigerated condenser or an equivalent control device;

(2) Shall eliminate any emission of perchloroethylene during the transfer of articles between the washer and dryer(s); and

(3) Shall pass the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream from inside the dry cleaning machine drum through a carbon adsorber or equivalent control device immediately before or as the door of the dry cleaning machine is opened if the dry cleaning machine is located at a major source.

(c) The owner or operator shall close the door of each dry cleaning machine immediately after transferring articles to or from the machine, and shall keep the door closed at all other times.

(d) The owner or operator of each dry cleaning system shall operate and maintain the system according to the manufacturers' specifications and recommendations.

(e) Each refrigerated condenser used for the purposes of complying with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and installed on a dry-to-dry machine, dryer, or reclaimer:

(1) Shall be operated to not vent or release the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream contained within the dry cleaning machine to the atmosphere while the dry cleaning machine drum is rotating;

(2) Shall be monitored according to § 63.323(a)(1); and

(3) Shall prevent air drawn into the dry cleaning machine when the door of the machine is open from passing through the refrigerated condenser.

(f) Each refrigerated condenser used for the purpose of complying with paragraph (a) of this section and installed on a washer:

(1) Shall be operated to not vent the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor contained within the washer to the atmosphere until the washer door is opened;

(2) Shall be monitored according to § 63.323(a)(2); and

(3) Shall not use the same refrigerated condenser coil for the washer that is used by a dry-to-dry machine, dryer, or reclaimer.

(g) Each carbon adsorber used for the purposes of complying with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section:

(1) Shall not be bypassed to vent or release any air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream to the atmosphere at any time; and

(2) Shall be monitored according to the applicable requirements in § 63.323 (b) or (c).

(h) Each room enclosure used for the purposes of complying with paragraph (a)(3) of this section:

(1) Shall be operated to vent all air from the room enclosure through a carbon adsorber or an equivalent control device; and

(2) Shall be equipped with a carbon adsorber that is not the same carbon adsorber used to comply with paragraph (a)(2) or (b)(3) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall drain all cartridge filters in their housing, or other sealed container, for a minimum of 24 hours, or shall treat such filters in an equivalent manner, before removal from the dry cleaning facility.

(j) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall store all PCE and wastes that contain PCE in solvent tanks or solvent containers with no perceptible leaks. The exception to this requirement is that containers for separator water may be uncovered, as necessary, for proper operation of the machine and still.

(k) The owner or operator of a dry cleaning system shall inspect the system weekly for perceptible leaks while the dry cleaning system is operating. Inspection with a halogenated hydrocarbon detector or PCE gas analyzer also fulfills the requirement for inspection for perceptible leaks. The following components shall be inspected:

(1) Hose and pipe connections, fittings, couplings, and valves;

(2) Door gaskets and seatings;

(3) Filter gaskets and seatings;

(4) Pumps;

(5) Solvent tanks and containers;

(6) Water separators;

(7) Muck cookers;

(8) Stills;

(9) Exhaust dampers;

(10) Diverter valves; and

(11) All Filter housings.

(l) The owner or operator of a dry cleaning facility with a total facility consumption below the applicable consumption levels of § 63.320(d) or (e) shall inspect the components listed in paragraph (k) of this section biweekly for perceptible leaks while the dry cleaning system is operating.

(m) The owner or operator of a dry cleaning system shall repair all leaks detected under paragraph (k) or (o)(1) of this section within 24 hours. If repair parts must be ordered, either a written or verbal order for those parts shall be initiated within 2 working days of detecting such a leak. Such repair parts shall be installed within 5 working days after receipt.

(n) If parameter values monitored under paragraphs (e), (f), or (g) of this section do not meet the values specified in § 63.323(a), (b), or (c), adjustments or repairs shall be made to the dry cleaning system or control device to meet those values. If repair parts must be ordered, either a written or verbal order for such parts shall be initiated within 2 working days of detecting such a parameter value. Such repair parts shall be installed within 5 working days after receipt.

(o) Additional requirements:

(1) The owner or operator of a dry cleaning system shall inspect the components listed in paragraph (k) of this section for vapor leaks monthly while the component is in operation.

(i) Area sources shall conduct the inspections using a halogenated hydrocarbon detector or PCE gas analyzer that is operated according to the manufacturer's instructions. The operator shall place the probe inlet at the surface of each component interface where leakage could occur and move it slowly along the interface periphery.

(ii) Major sources shall conduct the inspections using a PCE gas analyzer operated according to EPA Method 21.

(iii) Any inspection conducted according to this paragraph shall satisfy the requirements to conduct an inspection for perceptible leaks under § 63.322(k) or (l) of this subpart.

(2) The owner or operator of each dry cleaning system installed after December 21, 2005, at an area source shall route the air-PCE gas-vapor stream contained within each dry cleaning machine through a refrigerated condenser and pass the air-PCE gas-vapor stream from inside the dry cleaning machine drum through a non-vented carbon adsorber or equivalent control device immediately before the door of the dry cleaning machine is opened. The carbon adsorber must be desorbed in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.

(3) The owner or operator of any dry cleaning system shall eliminate any emission of PCE during the transfer of articles between the washer and the dryer(s) or reclaimer(s).

(4) The owner or operator shall eliminate any emission of PCE from any dry cleaning system that is installed (including relocation of a used machine) after December 21, 2005, and that is located in a building with a residence.

(5)(i) After December 21, 2020, the owner or operator shall eliminate any emission of PCE from any dry cleaning system that is located in a building with a residence.

(ii) Sources demonstrating compliance under Section 63.320(b)(2)(ii) shall comply with paragraph (o)(5)(ii)(A) through (C), in addition to the other applicable requirements of this section:

(A) Operate the dry cleaning system inside a vapor barrier enclosure. The exhaust system for the enclosure shall be operated at all times that the dry cleaning system is in operation and during maintenance. The entry door to the enclosure may be open only when a person is entering or exiting the enclosure.

(B) Route the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream contained within each dry cleaning machine through a refrigerated condenser and pass the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream from inside the dry cleaning drum through a carbon adsorber or equivalent control device immediately before the door of the dry cleaning machine is opened. The carbon adsorber must be desorbed in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.

(C) Inspect the machine components listed in paragraph (k) of this section for vapor leaks weekly while the component is in operation. These inspections shall be conducted using a halogenated hydrocarbon detector or PCE gas analyzer that is operated according to the manufacturer's instructions. The operator shall place the probe inlet at the surface of each component interface where leakage could occur and move it slowly along the interface periphery.
