
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart N - National Emission Standards for Chromium Emissions From Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks
###### ยง 63.340 Applicability and designation of sources.

(a) The affected source to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each chromium electroplating or chromium anodizing tank at facilities performing hard chromium electroplating, decorative chromium electroplating, or chromium anodizing.

(b) Owners or operators of affected sources subject to the provisions of this subpart must also comply with the requirements of subpart A of this part, according to the applicability of subpart A of this part to such sources, as identified in Table 1 of this subpart.

(c) Process tanks associated with a chromium electroplating or chromium anodizing process, but in which neither chromium electroplating nor chromium anodizing is taking place, are not subject to the provisions of this subpart. Examples of such tanks include, but are not limited to, rinse tanks, etching tanks, and cleaning tanks. Likewise, tanks that contain a chromium solution, but in which no electrolytic process occurs, are not subject to this subpart. An example of such a tank is a chrome conversion coating tank where no electrical current is applied.

(d) Affected sources in which research and laboratory operations are performed are exempt from the provisions of this subpart when such operations are taking place.

(e) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
