
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart N - National Emission Standards for Chromium Emissions From Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks
###### ยง 63.341 Definitions and nomenclature.
####### Nomenclature.

(b)The nomenclature used in this subpart has the following meaning:

(1) AMR = the allowable mass emission rate from each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation in milligrams per hour (mg/hr).

(2) AMR= the allowable mass emission rate from affected sources controlled by an add-on air pollution control device controlling emissions from multiple sources in mg/hr.

(3) EL = the applicable emission limitation from ยง 63.342 in milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (mg/dscm).

(4) IA= the sum of all inlet duct areas from both affected and nonaffected sources in meters squared.

(5) IDA= the total inlet area for all ducts associated with affected sources in meters squared.

(6) IDA= the total inlet duct area for all ducts conveying chromic acid from each type of affected source performing the same operation, or each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation in meters squared.

(7) VR = the total of ventilation rates for each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation in dry standard cubic meters per minute (dscm/min).

(8) VR= the total ventilation rate from all inlet ducts associated with affected sources in dscm/min.

(9) VR= the total ventilation rate from all inlet ducts conveying chromic acid from each type of affected source performing the same operation, or each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation in dscm/min.

(10) VR= the average total ventilation rate for the three test runs as determined at the outlet by means of the Method 306 or 306A testing specified in appendix A of this part in dscm/min.
