
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart N - National Emission Standards for Chromium Emissions From Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks
###### ยง 63.343 Compliance provisions.
####### Request for an extension of compliance.

(6)An owner or operator of an affected source or sources that requests an extension of compliance shall do so in accordance with this paragraph and the applicable paragraphs of ยง 63.6(i). When the owner or operator is requesting the extension for more than one affected source located at the facility, then only one request may be submitted for all affected sources at the facility.

(i) The owner or operator of an existing affected source who is unable to comply with a relevant standard under this subpart may request that the Administrator (or a State, when the State has an approved part 70 permit program and the source is required to obtain a part 70 permit under that program, or a State, when the State has been delegated the authority to implement and enforce the emission standard for that source) grant an extension allowing the owner or operator up to 1 additional year to comply with the standard for the affected source. The owner or operator of an affected source who has requested an extension of compliance under this paragraph and is otherwise required to obtain a title V permit for the source shall apply for such permit or apply to have the title V permit revised to incorporate the conditions of the extension of compliance. The conditions of an extension of compliance granted under this paragraph will be incorporated into the owner or operator's title V permit for the affected source(s) according to the provisions of 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, whichever is applicable.

(ii) Any request under this paragraph for an extension of compliance with a relevant standard shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate authority not later than 6 months before the affected source's compliance date as specified in this section.

(7) An owner or operator of a decorative chromium electroplating tank that uses a trivalent chromium bath that incorporates a wetting agent, and that ceases using the trivalent chromium process, must comply with the emission limitation now applicable to the tank within 1 year of switching bath operation.

(8) After March 19, 2013, the owner or operator of an affected source that is subject to the standards in paragraphs ยง 63.342(c) or (d) shall implement the housekeeping procedures specified in Table 2 of ยง 63.342.
