
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart N - National Emission Standards for Chromium Emissions From Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks
###### ยง 63.342 Standards.
####### Operation and maintenance plan.

(3)(i) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to paragraph (f) of this section shall prepare an operation and maintenance plan no later than the compliance date, except for hard chromium electroplaters and the chromium anodizing operations in California which have until January 25, 1998. The plan shall be incorporated by reference into the source's title V permit, if and when a title V permit is required. The plan shall include the following elements:

(A) The plan shall specify the operation and maintenance criteria for the affected source, the add-on air pollution control device (if such a device is used to comply with the emission limits), and the process and control system monitoring equipment, and shall include a standardized checklist to document the operation and maintenance of this equipment;

(B) For sources using an add-on control device or monitoring equipment to comply with this subpart, the plan shall incorporate the operation and maintenance practices for that device or monitoring equipment, as identified in Table 1 of this section, if the specific equipment used is identified in Table 1 of this section;

(C) If the specific equipment used is not identified in Table 1 of this section, the plan shall incorporate proposed operation and maintenance practices. These proposed operation and maintenance practices shall be submitted for approval as part of the submittal required under ยง 63.343(d);

(D) The plan shall specify procedures to be followed to ensure that equipment or process malfunctions due to poor maintenance or other preventable conditions do not occur; and

(E) The plan shall include a systematic procedure for identifying malfunctions of process equipment, add-on air pollution control devices, and process and control system monitoring equipment and for implementing corrective actions to address such malfunctions.

(F) The plan shall include housekeeping procedures, as specified in Table 2 of this section.

(ii) If the operation and maintenance plan fails to address or inadequately addresses an event that meets the characteristics of a malfunction at the time the plan is initially developed, the owner or operator shall revise the operation and maintenance plan within 45 days after such an event occurs. The revised plan shall include procedures for operating and maintaining the process equipment, add-on air pollution control device, or monitoring equipment during similar malfunction events, and a program for corrective action for such events.

(iii) Recordkeeping associated with the operation and maintenance plan is identified in ยง 63.346(b). Reporting associated with the operation and maintenance plan is identified in ยง 63.347 (g) and (h) and paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section.

(iv) If actions taken by the owner or operator during periods of malfunction are inconsistent with the procedures specified in the operation and maintenance plan required by paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section, the owner or operator shall record the actions taken for that event and shall report by phone such actions within 2 working days after commencing actions inconsistent with the plan. This report shall be followed by a letter within 7 working days after the end of the event, unless the owner or operator makes alternative reporting arrangements, in advance, with the Administrator.

(v) The owner or operator shall keep the written operation and maintenance plan on record after it is developed to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator for the life of the affected source or until the source is no longer subject to the provisions of this subpart. In addition, if the operation and maintenance plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (i.e., superseded) versions of the operation and maintenance plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan.

(vi) To satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the owner or operator may use applicable standard operating procedure (SOP) manuals, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) plans, or other existing plans, provided the alternative plans meet the requirements of this section.

(g) The standards in this section that apply to chromic acid baths shall not be met by using a reducing agent to change the form of chromium from hexavalent to trivalent.
