
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart N - National Emission Standards for Chromium Emissions From Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks
###### ยง 63.342 Standards.
####### Operation and maintenance practices.

(f)All owners or operators subject to the standards in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section are subject to these operation and maintenance practices.

(1)(i) At all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, owners or operators shall operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control devices and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices.

(ii) Malfunctions shall be corrected as soon as practicable after their occurrence.

(iii) Operation and maintenance requirements established pursuant to section 112 of the Act are enforceable independent of emissions limitations or other requirements in relevant standards.

(2)(i) Determination of whether acceptable operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results; review of the operation and maintenance plan, procedures, and records; and inspection of the source.

(ii) Based on the results of a determination made under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, the Administrator may require that an owner or operator of an affected source make changes to the operation and maintenance plan required by paragraph (f)(3) of this section for that source. Revisions may be required if the Administrator finds that the plan:

(A) Does not address a malfunction that has occurred;

(B) Fails to provide for the proper operation of the affected source, the air pollution control techniques, or the control system and process monitoring equipment during a malfunction in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices; or

(C) Does not provide adequate procedures for correcting malfunctioning process equipment, air pollution control techniques, or monitoring equipment as quickly as practicable.
