
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart N - National Emission Standards for Chromium Emissions From Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks
###### § 63.343 Compliance provisions.
####### Composite mesh-pad systems.

(1)(i) During the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected source, or a group of affected sources under common control, complying with the emission limitations in § 63.342 through the use of a composite mesh-pad system shall determine the outlet chromium concentration using the test methods and procedures in § 63.344(c), and shall establish as a site-specific operating parameter the pressure drop across the system, setting the value that corresponds to compliance with the applicable emission limitation, using the procedures in § 63.344(d)(5). An owner or operator may conduct multiple performance tests to establish a range of compliant pressure drop values, or may set as the compliant value the average pressure drop measured over the three test runs of one performance test and accept +/-2 inches of water column from this value as the compliant range.

(ii) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is required to be completed under § 63.7, the owner or operator of an affected source, or group of affected sources under common control, shall monitor and record the pressure drop across the composite mesh-pad system once each day that any affected source is operating. To be in compliance with the standards, the composite mesh-pad system shall be operated within +/-2 inches of water column of the pressure drop value established during the initial performance test, or shall be operated within the range of compliant values for pressure drop established during multiple performance tests.

(iii) The owner or operator of an affected source complying with the emission limitations in § 63.343 through the use of a composite mesh-pad system may repeat the performance test and establish as a new site-specific operating parameter the pressure drop across the composite mesh-pad system according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. To establish a new site-specific operating parameter for pressure drop, the owner or operator shall satisfy the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Determine the outlet chromium concentration using the test methods and procedures in § 63.344(c);

(B) Establish the site-specific operating parameter value using the procedures § 63.344(d)(5);

(C) Satisfy the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.346(b)(6) through (8); and

(D) Satisfy the reporting requirements in § 63.347(d) and (f).

(iv) The requirement to operate a composite mesh-pad system within the range of pressure drop values established under paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section does not apply during automatic washdown cycles of the composite mesh-pad system.
