
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart N - National Emission Standards for Chromium Emissions From Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks
###### ยง 63.343 Compliance provisions.
####### Foam blanket-type fume suppressants.

(6)(i) During the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected source complying with the emission limitations in ยง 63.342 through the use of a foam blanket in the electroplating or anodizing bath shall determine the outlet chromium concentration using the procedures in ยง 63.344(c), and shall establish as the site-specific operating parameter the thickness of the foam blanket, setting the minimum thickness that corresponds to compliance with the applicable emission limitation. In lieu of establishing the minimum foam blanket thickness during the performance test, the owner or operator may accept 2.54 centimeters (1 inch) as the minimum foam blanket thickness that corresponds to compliance with the applicable emission limitation. All foam blanket measurements must be taken in close proximity to the workpiece or cathode area in the plating tank(s).

(ii) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is required to be completed under ยง 63.7, the owner or operator of an affected source shall monitor the foam blanket thickness of the electroplating or anodizing bath. Operation of the affected source at a foam blanket thickness less than the value established during the performance test, or less than 2.54 cm (1 inch) if the owner or operator is using this value in accordance with paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, shall constitute noncompliance with the standards. The foam blanket thickness shall be measured according to the following schedule:

(iii) Once a bath solution is drained from the affected tank and a new solution added, the original monitoring schedule of once every hour must be resumed, with a decrease in monitoring frequency allowed following the procedures of paragraphs (c)(6)(ii) (B) and (C) of this section.
