
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart N - National Emission Standards for Chromium Emissions From Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks
###### § 63.344 Performance test requirements and test methods.
####### Test methods.

(c)Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart and required by § 63.343(b) to conduct an initial performance test shall use the test methods identified in this section to demonstrate compliance with the standards in § 63.342.

(1) Method 306 or Method 306A, "Determination of Chromium Emissions From Decorative and Hard Chromium Electroplating and Anodizing Operations," appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the chromium concentration from hard or decorative chromium electroplating tanks or chromium anodizing tanks. The sampling time and sample volume for each run of Methods 306 and 306A, appendix A of this part shall be at least 120 minutes and 1.70 dscm (60 dscf), respectively. Methods 306 and 306A, appendix A of this part allow the measurement of either total chromium or hexavalent chromium emissions. For the purposes of this standard, sources using chromic acid baths must demonstrate compliance with the emission limits of § 63.342 by measuring the total chromium.

(2) The California Air Resources Board (CARB) Method 425 (which is available by contacting the California Air Resources Board, 1102 Q Street, Sacramento, California 95814) may be used to determine the chromium concentration from hard and decorative chromium electroplating tanks and chromium anodizing tanks if the following conditions are met:

(i) If a colorimetric analysis method is used, the sampling time and volume shall be sufficient to result in 33 to 66 micrograms of catch in the sampling train.

(ii) If Atomic Absorption Graphite Furnace (AAGF) or Ion Chromatography with a Post-column Reactor (ICPCR) analyses were used, the sampling time and volume should be sufficient to result in a sample catch that is 5 to 10 times the minimum detection limit of the analytical method (i.e., 1.0 microgram per liter of sample for AAGF and 0.5 microgram per liter of sample for ICPCR).

(iii) In the case of either paragraph (c)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section, a minimum of 3 separate runs must be conducted. The other requirements of § 63.7 that apply to affected sources, as indicated in Table 1 of this subpart, must also be met.

(3) Method 306B, "Surface Tension Measurement and Recordkeeping for Tanks Used at Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Anodizing Facilities," appendix A of this part shall be used to measure the surface tension of electroplating and anodizing baths.

(4) Alternate test methods may also be used if the method has been validated using Method 301, appendix A of this part and if approved by the Administrator. Procedures for requesting and obtaining approval are contained in § 63.7(f).

(5) The South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) Method 205.1 (which is available by contacting the South Coast AQMD, 21865 Copley Dr, Diamond Bar, CA 91765) may be used to determine the total chromium concentration from hard and decorative chromium electroplating tanks and chromium anodizing tanks.
