
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart N - National Emission Standards for Chromium Emissions From Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks
###### ยง 63.347 Reporting requirements.
####### Request to reduce frequency of ongoing compliance status reports.

(2)(i) An owner or operator who is required to submit ongoing compliance status reports on a quarterly (or more frequent basis) may reduce the frequency of reporting to semiannual if all of the following conditions are met:

(A) For 1 full year (e.g., 4 quarterly or 12 monthly reporting periods), the ongoing compliance status reports demonstrate that the affected source is in compliance with the relevant emission limit;

(B) The owner or operator continues to comply with all applicable recordkeeping and monitoring requirements of subpart A of this part and this subpart; and

(C) The Administrator does not object to a reduced reporting frequency for the affected source, as provided in paragraphs (g)(2) (ii) and (iii) of this section.

(ii) The frequency of submitting ongoing compliance status reports may be reduced only after the owner or operator notifies the Administrator in writing of his or her intention to make such a change, and the Administrator does not object to the intended change. In deciding whether to approve a reduced reporting frequency, the Administrator may review information concerning the source's entire previous performance history during the 5-year recordkeeping period prior to the intended change, or the recordkeeping period since the source's compliance date, whichever is shorter. Records subject to review may include performance test results, monitoring data, and evaluations of an owner or operator's conformance with emission limitations and work practice standards. Such information may be used by the Administrator to make a judgment about the source's potential for noncompliance in the future. If the Administrator disapproves the owner or operator's request to reduce reporting frequency, the Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing within 45 days after receiving notice of the owner or operator's intention. The notification from the Administrator to the owner or operator will specify the grounds on which the disapproval is based. In the absence of a notice of disapproval within 45 days, approval is automatically granted.

(iii) As soon as the monitoring data required by ยง 63.343(c) show that the source is not in compliance with the relevant emission limit, the frequency of reporting shall revert to quarterly, and the owner shall state this exceedance in the ongoing compliance status report for the next reporting period. After demonstrating ongoing compliance with the relevant emission limit for another full year, the owner or operator may again request approval from the Administrator to reduce the reporting frequency as allowed by paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
