
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart O - Ethylene Oxide Emissions Standards for Sterilization Facilities
###### § 63.360 Applicability.

(a) All sterilization sources using 1 ton (see definition) in sterilization or fumigation operations are subject to the emissions standards in § 63.362, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. Owners or operators of sources using 1 ton (see definition) subject to the provisions of this subpart must comply with the requirements of subpart A, of this part according to the applicability of subpart A of this part to such sources in Table 1 of this section.

(b) Sterilization sources using less than 1 ton (see definition) are not subject to the emissions standards in § 63.362. The recordkeeping requirements of § 63.367(c) apply.

(c) This subpart does not apply to beehive fumigators.

(d) This subpart does not apply to research or laboratory facilities as defined in section 112(c)(7) of title III of the Clean Air Act Amendment of 1990.

(e) This subpart does not apply to ethylene oxide sterilization operations at stationary sources such as hospitals, doctors offices, clinics, or other facilities whose primary purpose is to provide medical services to humans or animals.

(f) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.

(g) The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of this subpart as follows:

(1) All sterilization chamber vents subject to the emissions standards in § 63.362 with an initial startup date before December 6, 1998, no later than December 6, 1998.

(2) All sterilization chamber vents subject to the emissions standards in § 63.362 with an initial startup date on or after December 6, 1998, immediately upon initial startup of the source.

(3) All sterilization chamber vents at sources using less than 1 ton of ethylene oxide that increase their ethylene oxide usage after December 6, 1998 such that the sterilization chamber vent becomes subject to the emissions standards in § 63.362(c), immediately upon becoming subject to the emission standards.

(4) All aeration room vents subject to the emissions standards in § 63.362 with an initial startup date before December 6, 2000, no later than December 6, 2000.

(5) All aeration room vents subject to the emissions standards in § 63.362 with an initial startup date on or after December 6, 2000, immediately upon initial startup of the source.

(6) All aeration room vents at sources using less than 10 tons that increase their ethylene oxide usage after December 6, 2000, such that the aeration room vents become subject to the emissions standards in § 63.362, immediately upon becoming subject to the emission standards.

(7)-(10) [Reserved]
