
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart O - Ethylene Oxide Emissions Standards for Sterilization Facilities
###### § 63.363 Compliance and performance provisions.

(a)(1) The owner or operator of a source subject to emissions standards in § 63.362 shall conduct an initial performance test using the procedures listed in § 63.7 according to the applicability in Table 1 of § 63.360, the procedures listed in this section, and the test methods listed in § 63.365.

(2) The owner or operator of all sources subject to these emissions standards shall complete the performance test within 180 days after the compliance date for the specific source as determined in § 63.360(g).

(b) The procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section shall be used to determine initial compliance with the emission limits under § 63.362(c), the sterilization chamber vent standard and to establish operating limits for the control devices:

(1) The owner or operator shall determine the efficiency of control devices used to comply with § 63.362(c) using the test methods and procedures in § 63.365(b).

(2) For facilities with acid-water scrubbers, the owner or operator shall establish as an operating limit either:

(i) The maximum ethylene glycol concentration using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(1); or

(ii) The maximum liquor tank level using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(2).

(3) For facilities with catalytic oxidizers or thermal oxidizers, the operating limit consists of the recommended minimum oxidation temperature provided by the oxidation unit manufacturer for an operating limit.

(4) Facilities with catalytic oxidizers shall comply with one of the following work practices:

(i) Once per year after the initial compliance test, conduct a performance test during routine operations, i.e., with product in the chamber using the procedures described in § 63.365(b) or (d) as appropriate. If the percent efficiency is less than 99 percent, restore the catalyst as soon as practicable but no later than 180 days after conducting the performance test; or

(ii) Once per year after the initial compliance test, analyze ethylene oxide concentration data from § 63.364(e) or a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) and restore the catalyst as soon as practicable but no later than 180 days after data analysis; or,

(iii) Every 5 years, beginning 5 years after the initial compliance test (or by December 6, 2002, whichever is later), replace the catalyst bed with new catalyst material.

(c) The procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section shall be used to determine initial compliance with the emission limits under § 63.362(d), the aeration room vent standard:

(1) The owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section.

(2) Determine the concentration of ethylene oxide emitted from the aeration room into the atmosphere (after any control device used to comply with § 63.362(d)) using the methods in § 63.365(c)(1); or

(3) Determine the efficiency of the control device used to comply with § 63.362(d) using the test methods and procedures in § 63.365(d)(2).

(d) [Reserved]

(e) For facilities complying with the emissions limits under § 63.362 with a control technology other than acid-water scrubbers or catalytic or thermal oxidizers, the owner or operator of the facility shall provide to the Administrator or delegated authority information describing the design and operation of the air pollution control system, including recommendations for the operating parameters to be monitored to demonstrate continuous compliance. Based on this information, the Administrator will determine the operating parameter(s) to be measured during the performance test. During the performance test required in paragraph (a) of this section, using the methods approved in § 63.365(g), the owner or operator shall determine the site-specific operating limit(s)for the operating parameters approved by the Administrator.

(f) A facility must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit and work practice standard required under this section, except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, according to the methods specified in § 63.364.
