
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart O - Ethylene Oxide Emissions Standards for Sterilization Facilities
###### ยง 63.365 Test methods and procedures.
####### First evacuation of the sterilization chamber.

(1)These procedures shall be performed on an empty sterilization chamber, charged with a typical amount of ethylene oxide, for the duration of the first evacuation under normal operating conditions (i.e., sterilization pressure and temperature).

(i) The amount of ethylene oxide loaded into the sterilizer (W) shall be determined by either:

(A) Weighing the ethylene oxide gas cylinder(s) used to charge the sterilizer before and after charging. Record these weights to the nearest 45 g (0.1 lb). Multiply the total mass of gas charged by the weight percent ethylene oxide present in the gas.

(B) Installing calibrated rotameters at the sterilizer inlet and measuring flow rate and duration of sterilizer charge. Use the following equation to convert flow rate to weight of ethylene oxide:

(C) Calculating the mass based on the conditions of the chamber immediately after it has been charged using the following equation:

(ii) The residual mass of ethylene oxide in the sterilizer shall be determined by recording the chamber temperature, pressure, and volume after the completion of the first evacuation and using the following equation:

(iii) Calculate the total mass of ethylene oxide at the inlet to the control device (W) by subtracting the residual mass (W) calculated in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section from the charged weight (W) calculated in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(iv) The mass of ethylene oxide emitted from the control device outlet (W) shall be calculated by continuously monitoring the flow rate and concentration using the following procedure.

(A) Measure the flow rate through the control device exhaust continuously during the first evacuation using the procedure found in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Test Methods 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D, as appropriate. (Method 2D (using orifice plates or Rootstype meters) is recommended for measuring flow rates from sterilizer control devices.) Record the flow rate at 1-minute intervals throughout the test cycle, taking the first reading within 15 seconds after time zero. Time zero is defined as the moment when the pressure in the sterilizer is released. Correct the flow to standard conditions (20 &#xB0;C and 101.325 kPa (68 &#xB0;F and 1 atm)) and determine the flow rate for the run as outlined in the test methods listed in paragraph (b) of this section.

(B) Test Method 18 or 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A (hereafter referred to as Method 18 or 25A, respectively), shall be used to measure the concentration of ethylene oxide.
