
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart O - Ethylene Oxide Emissions Standards for Sterilization Facilities
###### § 63.365 Test methods and procedures.
####### Scrubber liquor tank level.

(2)For determining the scrubber liquor tank level, the sterilization facility owner or operator shall establish the maximum liquor tank level based on a single measurement of the liquor tank level during one test run.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) An owner or operator of a sterilization facility seeking to demonstrate compliance with the standards found at § 63.362(c), (d), or (e) with a control device other than an acid-water scrubber or catalytic or thermal oxidation unit shall provide to the Administrator the information requested under § 63.363(f). The owner or operator shall submit: a description of the device; test results collected in accordance with § 63.363(f) verifying the performance of the device for controlling ethylene oxide emissions to the atmosphere to the levels required by the applicable standards; the appropriate operating parameters that will be monitored; and the frequency of measuring and recording to establish continuous compliance with the standards. The monitoring plan submitted identifying the compliance monitoring is subject to the Administrator's approval. The owner or operator of the sterilization facility shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain the monitor(s) approved by the Administrator based on the information submitted by the owner or operator. The owner or operator shall include in the information submitted to the Administrator proposed performance specifications and quality assurance procedures for their monitors. The Administrator may request further information and shall approve appropriate test methods and procedures.

(h) An owner or operator of a sterilization facility seeking to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of § 63.363 or § 63.364, with a monitoring device or procedure other than a gas chromatograph or a flame ionization analyzer, shall provide to the Administrator information describing the operation of the monitoring device or procedure and the parameter(s) that would demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit. The Administrator may request further information and will specify appropriate test methods and procedures.
