
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart O - Ethylene Oxide Emissions Standards for Sterilization Facilities
###### § 63.366 Reporting requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of a source subject to the emissions standards in § 63.362 shall fulfill all reporting requirements in §§ 63.10(a), (d), (e), and (f) of subpart A, according to the applicability in Table 1 of § 63.360. These reports will be made to the Administrator at the appropriate address identified in § 63.13 of subpart A of this part.

(1) Reports required by subpart A and this section may be sent by U.S. mail, fax, or by another courier.

(i) Submittals sent by U.S. mail shall be postmarked on or before the specified date.

(ii) Submittals sent by other methods shall be received by the Administrator on or before the specified date.

(2) If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, reports may be submitted on electronic media.

(3) Content and submittal dates for deviations and monitoring system performance reports. All deviations and monitoring system performance reports and all summary reports, if required per § 63.10(e)(3)(vii) and (viii), shall be delivered or postmarked within 30 days following the end of each calendar half or quarter as appropriate (see § 63.10(e)(3)(i) through (iv) for applicability). Written reports of deviations from an operating limit shall include all information required in § 63.10(c)(5) through (13), as applicable in Table 1 of § 63.360, and information from any calibration tests in which the monitoring equipment is not in compliance with PS 9 or the method used for temperature calibration. The written report shall also include the name, title, and signature of the responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report. When no deviations have occurred or monitoring equipment has not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted, such information shall be stated in the report.
