
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart O - Ethylene Oxide Emissions Standards for Sterilization Facilities
###### § 63.367 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of a source subject to § 63.362 shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.10(b) and (c), according to the applicability in Table 1 of § 63.360, and in this section. All records required to be maintained by this subpart or a subpart referenced by this subpart shall be maintained in such a manner that they can be readily accessed and are suitable for inspection. The most recent 2 years of records shall be retained onsite or shall be accessible to an inspector while onsite. The records of the preceding 3 years, where required, may be retained offsite. Records may be maintained in hard copy or computer-readable form including, but not limited to, on paper, microfilm, computer, computer disk, magnetic tape, or microfiche.

(b) The owners or operators of a source using 1 to 10 tons not subject to § 63.362 shall maintain records of ethylene oxide use on a 12-month rolling average basis (until the source changes its operations to become a source subject to § 63.362).

(c) The owners or operators of a source using less than 1 ton shall maintain records of ethylene oxide use on a 12-month rolling average basis (until the source changes its operations to become a source subject to § 63.362).

(d) The owners or operators complying with § 63.363(b) (4) shall maintain records of the compliance test, data analysis, and if catalyst is replaced, proof of replacement.
