
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart Q - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial Process Cooling Towers
###### ยง 63.404 Compliance demonstrations.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) The water sample analysis shall be conducted in accordance with Method 7196, Chromium, Hexavalent (Colorimetric), contained in the Third Edition of "Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods," EPA Publication SW-846, (November 1986) and its Revision I, (December 1987), which are available for the cost of $110.00 from the Government Printing Office, Superintendent of Documents, Washington, DC 20402, (202) 783-3238 (document number 955-001-00000-1; or Method 3500-Cr D, Colorimetric Method, contained in the 18th Edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewaster" (1992), which is available from the American Public Health Association, 1015 15th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005. These methods were approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be inspected as a part of Docket A-91-65, located at the Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, room M1500, EPA Central Docket Section, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC. Copies may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(b) On or after 3 months after the compliance date, a cooling water sample residual hexavalent chromium concentration equal to or less than 0.5 parts per million by weight shall indicate compliance with ยง 63.402. Alternatively, an owner or operator may demonstrate compliance through record keeping in accordance with paragraph (c).

(c) To demonstrate compliance with ยง 63.402, in lieu of the water sample analysis provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator of each IPCT may maintain records of water treatment chemical purchases, including invoices and other documentation that includes invoices and other documentation that includes date(s) of purchase or shipment, trade name or other information to identify composition of the product, and quantity of the product.

(d) Following a request, by the Administrator or delegated authority, under paragraph (a) for a water sample analysis, failure to either meet the concentration level specified in paragraph (b) or provide the records specified in paragraph (c) shall indicate a violation of ยง 63.402.
