
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart R - National Emission Standards for Gasoline Distribution Facilities (Bulk Gasoline Terminals and Pipeline Breakout Stations)
###### § 63.422 Standards: Loading racks.

(a) Each owner or operator of loading racks at a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements in § 60.502 of this chapter except for paragraphs (b), (c), and (j) of that section. For purposes of this section, the term "affected facility" used in § 60.502 of this chapter means the loading racks that load gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminals subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(b) Emissions to the atmosphere from the vapor collection and processing systems due to the loading of gasoline cargo tanks shall not exceed 10 milligrams of total organic compounds per liter of gasoline loaded.

(c) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with § 60.502(e) of this chapter as follows:

(1) For the purposes of this section, the term "tank truck" as used in § 60.502(e) of this chapter means "cargo tank."

(2) Section 60.502(e)(5) of this chapter is changed to read: The terminal owner or operator shall take steps assuring that the nonvapor-tight gasoline cargo tank will not be reloaded at the facility until vapor tightness documentation for that gasoline cargo tank is obtained which documents that:

(i) The tank truck or railcar gasoline cargo tank meets the test requirements in § 63.425(e), or the railcar gasoline cargo tank meets applicable test requirements in § 63.425(i);

(ii) For each gasoline cargo tank failing the test in § 63.425 (f) or (g) at the facility, the cargo tank either:

(A) Before repair work is performed on the cargo tank, meets the test requirements in § 63.425 (g) or (h), or

(B) After repair work is performed on the cargo tank before or during the tests in § 63.425 (g) or (h), subsequently passes the annual certification test described in § 63.425(e).

(d) Each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in all paragraphs of this section as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than December 15, 1997, at existing facilities and upon startup for new facilities.

(e) As an alternative to 40 CFR 60.502(h) and (i) as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator may comply with paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall design and operate the vapor processing system, vapor collection system, and liquid loading equipment to prevent gauge pressure in the railcar gasoline cargo tank from exceeding the applicable test limits in § 63.425(e) and (i) during product loading. This level is not to be exceeded when measured by the procedures specified in 40 CFR 60.503(d) of this chapter.

(2) No pressure-vacuum vent in the bulk gasoline terminal's vapor processing system or vapor collection system may begin to open at a system pressure less than the applicable test limits in § 63.425(e) or (i).
