
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart R - National Emission Standards for Gasoline Distribution Facilities (Bulk Gasoline Terminals and Pipeline Breakout Stations)
###### ยง 63.424 Standards: Equipment leaks.

(a) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall perform a monthly leak inspection of all equipment in gasoline service. For this inspection, detection methods incorporating sight, sound, and smell are acceptable. Each piece of equipment shall be inspected during the loading of a gasoline cargo tank.

(b) A log book shall be used and shall be signed by the owner or operator at the completion of each inspection. A section of the log shall contain a list, summary description, or diagram(s) showing the location of all equipment in gasoline service at the facility.

(c) Each detection of a liquid or vapor leak shall be recorded in the log book. When a leak is detected, an initial attempt at repair shall be made as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. Repair or replacement of leaking equipment shall be completed within 15 calendar days after detection of each leak, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) Delay of repair of leaking equipment will be allowed upon a demonstration to the Administrator that repair within 15 days is not feasible. The owner or operator shall provide the reason(s) a delay is needed and the date by which each repair is expected to be completed.

(e) Initial compliance with the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section shall be achieved by existing sources as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than December 15, 1997. For new sources, initial compliance shall be achieved upon startup.

(f) As an alternative to compliance with the provisions in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, owners or operators may implement an instrument leak monitoring program that has been demonstrated to the Administrator as at least equivalent.

(g) Owners and operators shall not allow gasoline to be handled in a manner that would result in vapor releases to the atmosphere for extended periods of time. Measures to be taken include, but are not limited to, the following:

(1) Minimize gasoline spills;

(2) Clean up spills as expeditiously as practicable;

(3) Cover all open gasoline containers with a gasketed seal when not in use;

(4) Minimize gasoline sent to open waste collection systems that collect and transport gasoline to reclamation and recycling devices, such as oil/water separators.
