
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart R - National Emission Standards for Gasoline Distribution Facilities (Bulk Gasoline Terminals and Pipeline Breakout Stations)
###### § 63.425 Test methods and procedures.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the emission standard in § 63.422(b) or 40 CFR 60.112b(a)(3)(ii) shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Conduct a performance test on the vapor processing and collection systems according to either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Use the test methods and procedures in 40 CFR 60.503 of this chapter, except a reading of 500 ppm shall be used to determine the level of leaks to be repaired under 40 CFR 60.503(b), or

(ii) Use alternative test methods and procedures in accordance with the alternative test method requirements in § 63.7(f).

(2) The performance test requirements of 40 CFR 60.503(c) do not apply to flares defined in § 63.421 and meeting the flare requirements in § 63.11(b). The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the flare and associated vapor collection system is in compliance with the requirements in § 63.11(b) and 40 CFR 60.503(a), (b), and (d), respectively.

(b) For each performance test conducted under paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine a monitored operating parameter value for the vapor processing system using the following procedure:

(1) During the performance test, continuously record the operating parameter under § 63.427(a);

(2) Determine an operating parameter value based on the parameter data monitored during the performance test, supplemented by engineering assessments and the manufacturer's recommendations; and

(3) Provide for the Administrator's approval the rationale for the selected operating parameter value, and monitoring frequency and averaging time, including data and calculations used to develop the value and a description of why the value, monitoring frequency, and averaging time demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission standard in § 63.422(b) or § 60.112b(a)(3)(ii) of this chapter.

(c) For performance tests performed after the initial test, the owner or operator shall document the reasons for any change in the operating parameter value since the previous performance test.

(d) The owner or operator of each gasoline storage vessel subject to the provisions of § 63.423 shall comply with § 60.113b of this chapter. If a closed vent system and control device are used, as specified in § 60.112b(a)(3) of this chapter, to comply with the requirements in § 63.423, the owner or operator shall also comply with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.
