
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart R - National Emission Standards for Gasoline Distribution Facilities (Bulk Gasoline Terminals and Pipeline Breakout Stations)
###### § 63.427 Continuous monitoring.

(a) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, certify, operate, and maintain, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a continuous monitoring system (CMS) as specified in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(4) of this section, except as allowed in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.

(1) Where a carbon adsorption system is used, a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) capable of measuring organic compound concentration shall be installed in the exhaust air stream.

(2) Where a refrigeration condenser system is used, a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) capable of measuring temperature shall be installed immediately downstream from the outlet to the condenser section. Alternatively, a CEMS capable of measuring organic compound concentration may be installed in the exhaust air stream.

(3) Where a thermal oxidation system other than a flare is used, a CPMS capable of measuring temperature must be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream from the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.

(4) Where a flare meeting the requirements in § 63.11(b) is used, a heat-sensing device, such as an ultraviolet beam sensor or a thermocouple, must be installed in proximity to the pilot light to indicate the presence of a flame.

(5) Monitoring an alternative operating parameter or a parameter of a vapor processing system other than those listed in this paragraph will be allowed upon demonstrating to the Administrator's satisfaction that the alternative parameter demonstrates continuous compliance with the emission standard in § 63.422(b) or § 60.112b(a)(3)(ii) of this chapter.

(b) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall operate the vapor processing system in a manner not to exceed the operating parameter value for the parameter described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, or to go below the operating parameter value for the parameter described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, and established using the procedures in § 63.425(b). In cases where an alternative parameter pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section is approved, each owner or operator shall operate the vapor processing system in a manner not to exceed or not to go below, as appropriate, the alternative operating parameter value. Operation of the vapor processing system in a manner exceeding or going below the operating parameter value, as specified above, shall constitute a violation of the emission standard in § 63.422(b).

(c) Each owner or operator of gasoline storage vessels subject to the provisions of § 63.423 shall comply with the monitoring requirements in § 60.116b of this chapter, except records shall be kept for at least 5 years. If a closed vent system and control device are used, as specified in § 60.112b(a)(3) of this chapter, to comply with the requirements in § 63.423, the owner or operator shall also comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.
