
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart R - National Emission Standards for Gasoline Distribution Facilities (Bulk Gasoline Terminals and Pipeline Breakout Stations)
###### ยง 63.425 Test methods and procedures.
####### Nitrogen pressure decay field test.

(g)For those cargo tanks with manifolded product lines, this test procedure shall be conducted on each compartment.

(1) Record the cargo tank capacity. Upon completion of the loading operation, record the total volume loaded. Seal the cargo tank vapor collection system at the vapor coupler. The sealing apparatus shall have a pressure tap. Open the internal vapor valve(s) of the cargo tank and record the initial headspace pressure. Reduce or increase, as necessary, the initial headspace pressure to 460 mm HO (18.0 in. HO), gauge by releasing pressure or by adding commercial grade nitrogen gas from a high pressure cylinder capable of maintaining a pressure of 2,000 psig.

(i) The cylinder shall be equipped with a compatible two-stage regulator with a relief valve and a flow control metering valve. The flow rate of the nitrogen shall be no less than 2 cfm. The maximum allowable time to pressurize cargo tanks with headspace volumes of 1,000 gallons or less to the appropriate pressure is 4 minutes. For cargo tanks with a headspace of greater than 1,000 gallons, use as a maximum allowable time to pressurize 4 minutes or the result from the equation below, whichever is greater.

(2) It is recommended that after the cargo tank headspace pressure reaches approximately 460 mm HO (18 in. H0), gauge, a fine adjust valve be used to adjust the headspace pressure to 460 mm HO (18.0 in. HO), gauge for the next 30 +/-5 seconds.

(3) Reseal the cargo tank vapor collection system and record the headspace pressure after 1 minute. The measured headspace pressure after 1 minute shall be greater than the minimum allowable final headspace pressure (P) as calculated from the following equation:

(4) Conduct the internal vapor valve portion of this test by repressurizing the cargo tank headspace with nitrogen to 460 mm HO (18 in. HO), gauge. Close the internal vapor valve(s), wait for 30 +/-5 seconds, then relieve the pressure downstream of the vapor valve in the vapor collection system to atmospheric pressure. Wait 15 seconds, then reseal the vapor collection system. Measure and record the pressure every minute for 5 minutes. Within 5 seconds of the pressure measurement at the end of 5 minutes, open the vapor valve and record the headspace pressure as the "final pressure."

(5) If the decrease in pressure in the vapor collection system is less than at least one of the interval pressure change values in Table 3 of this paragraph, or if the final pressure is equal to or greater than 20 percent of the 1-minute final headspace pressure determined in the test in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, then the cargo tank is considered to be a vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank.
