
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart R - National Emission Standards for Gasoline Distribution Facilities (Bulk Gasoline Terminals and Pipeline Breakout Stations)
###### § 63.425 Test methods and procedures.
####### Annual certification test.

(e)The annual certification test for gasoline cargo tanks shall consist of the following test methods and procedures:

(1) Method 27, appendix A, 40 CFR part 60. Conduct the test using a time period (t) for the pressure and vacuum tests of 5 minutes. The initial pressure (P) for the pressure test shall be 460 mm HO (18 in. HO), gauge. The initial vacuum (V) for the vacuum test shall be 150 mm HO (6 in. HO), gauge. The maximum allowable pressure and vacuum changes (Δ p, Δ v) are as shown in the second column of Table 2 of this paragraph.

(2) Pressure test of the cargo tank's internal vapor valve as follows:

(i) After completing the tests under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, use the procedures in Method 27 to repressurize the tank to 460 mm HO (18 in. HO), gauge. Close the tank's internal vapor valve(s), thereby isolating the vapor return line and manifold from the tank.

(ii) Relieve the pressure in the vapor return line to atmospheric pressure, then reseal the line. After 5 minutes, record the gauge pressure in the vapor return line and manifold. The maximum allowable 5-minute pressure increase is 130 mm HO (5 in. HO).
