
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart R - National Emission Standards for Gasoline Distribution Facilities (Bulk Gasoline Terminals and Pipeline Breakout Stations)
###### ยง 63.425 Test methods and procedures.
####### Leak detection test.

(f)The leak detection test shall be performed using Method 21, appendix A, 40 CFR part 60, except omit section 4.3.2 of Method 21. A vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank shall have no leaks at any time when tested according to the procedures in this paragraph.

(1) The leak definition shall be 21,000 ppm as propane. Use propane to calibrate the instrument, setting the span at the leak definition. The response time to 90 percent of the final stable reading shall be less than 8 seconds for the detector with the sampling line and probe attached.

(2) In addition to the procedures in Method 21, include the following procedures:

(i) Perform the test on each compartment during loading of that compartment or while the compartment is still under pressure.

(ii) To eliminate a positive instrument drift, the dwell time for each leak detection shall not exceed two times the instrument response time. Purge the instrument with ambient air between each leak detection. The duration of the purge shall be in excess of two instrument response times.

(iii) Attempt to block the wind from the area being monitored. Record the highest detector reading and location for each leak.
