
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart S - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Pulp and Paper Industry
###### ยง 63.445 Standards for the bleaching system.

(a) Each bleaching system that does not use any chlorine or chlorinated compounds for bleaching is exempt from the requirements of this section. Owners or operators of the following bleaching systems shall meet all the provisions of this section:

(1) Bleaching systems that use chlorine;

(2) Bleaching systems bleaching pulp from kraft, sulfite, or soda pulping processes that use any chlorinated compounds; or

(3) Bleaching systems bleaching pulp from mechanical pulping processes using wood or from any process using secondary or non-wood fibers, that use chlorine dioxide.

(b) The equipment at each bleaching stage, of the bleaching systems listed in paragraph (a) of this section, where chlorinated compounds are introduced shall be enclosed and vented into a closed-vent system and routed to a control device that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section. The enclosures and closed-vent system shall meet the requirements specified in ยง 63.450. If process modifications are used to achieve compliance with the emission limits specified in paragraphs (c)(2) or (c)(3), enclosures and closed-vent systems are not required, unless appropriate.

(c) The control device used to reduce chlorinated HAP emissions (not including chloroform) from the equipment specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall:

(1) Reduce the total chlorinated HAP mass in the vent stream entering the control device by 99 percent or more by weight;

(2) Achieve a treatment device outlet concentration of 10 parts per million or less by volume of total chlorinated HAP; or

(3) Achieve a treatment device outlet mass emission rate of 0.001 kg of total chlorinated HAP mass per megagram (0.002 pounds per ton) of ODP.

(d) The owner or operator of each bleaching system subject to paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall comply with paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section to reduce chloroform air emissions to the atmosphere, except the owner or operator of each bleaching system complying with extended compliance under ยง 63.440(d)(3)(ii) shall comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(1) Comply with the following applicable effluent limitation guidelines and standards specified in 40 CFR part 430:

(i) Dissolving-grade kraft bleaching systems and lines, 40 CFR 430.14 through 430.17;

(ii) Paper-grade kraft and soda bleaching systems and lines, 40 CFR 430.24(a)(1) and (e), and 40 CFR 430.26 (a) and (c);

(iii) Dissolving-grade sulfite bleaching systems and lines, 40 CFR 430.44 through 430.47; or

(iv) Paper-grade sulfite bleaching systems and lines, 40 CFR 430.54(a) and (c), and 430.56(a) and (c).

(2) Use no hypochlorite or chlorine for bleaching in the bleaching system or line.
