
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart S - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Pulp and Paper Industry
###### ยง 63.443 Standards for the pulping system at kraft, soda, and semi-chemical processes.

(a) The owner or operator of each pulping system using the kraft process subject to the requirements of this subpart shall control the total HAP emissions from the following equipment systems, as specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(1) At existing affected sources, the total HAP emissions from the following equipment systems shall be controlled:

(i) Each LVHC system;

(ii) Each knotter or screen system with total HAP mass emission rates greater than or equal to the rates specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) or (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section or the combined rate specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(C) of this section.

(A) Each knotter system with emissions of 0.05 kilograms or more of total HAP per megagram of ODP (0.1 pounds per ton).

(B) Each screen system with emissions of 0.10 kilograms or more of total HAP per megagram of ODP (0.2 pounds per ton).

(C) Each knotter and screen system with emissions of 0.15 kilograms or more of total HAP per megagram of ODP (0.3 pounds per ton).

(iii) Each pulp washing system;

(iv) Each decker system that:

(A) Uses any process water other than fresh water or paper machine white water; or

(B) Uses any process water with a total HAP concentration greater than 400 parts per million by weight; and

(v) Each oxygen delignification system.

(2) At new affected sources, the total HAP emissions from the equipment systems listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (a)(1)(iii), and (a)(1)(v) of this section and the following equipment systems shall be controlled:

(i) Each knotter system;

(ii) Each screen system;

(iii) Each decker system; and

(iv) Each weak liquor storage tank.

(b) The owner or operator of each pulping system using a semi-chemical or soda process subject to the requirements of this subpart shall control the total HAP emissions from the following equipment systems as specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(1) At each existing affected source, the total HAP emissions from each LVHC system shall be controlled.

(2) At each new affected source, the total HAP emissions from each LVHC system and each pulp washing system shall be controlled.

(c) Equipment systems listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be enclosed and vented into a closed-vent system and routed to a control device that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (d) of this section. The enclosures and closed-vent system shall meet the requirements specified in ยง 63.450.

(d) The control device used to reduce total HAP emissions from each equipment system listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall:

(1) Reduce total HAP emissions by 98 percent or more by weight; or

(2) Reduce the total HAP concentration at the outlet of the thermal oxidizer to 20 parts per million or less by volume, corrected to 10 percent oxygen on a dry basis; or

(3) Reduce total HAP emissions using a thermal oxidizer designed and operated at a minimum temperature of 871 &#xB0;C (1600 &#xB0;F) and a minimum residence time of 0.75 seconds; or

(4) Reduce total HAP emissions using one of the following:

(i) A boiler, lime kiln, or recovery furnace by introducing the HAP emission stream with the primary fuel or into the flame zone; or

(ii) A boiler or recovery furnace with a heat input capacity greater than or equal to 44 megawatts (150 million British thermal units per hour) by introducing the HAP emission stream with the combustion air.

(e) Periods of excess emissions reported under ยง 63.455 shall not be a violation of ยง 63.443(c) and (d) provided that the time of excess emissions divided by the total process operating time in a semi-annual reporting period does not exceed the following levels:

(1) One percent for control devices used to reduce the total HAP emissions from the LVHC system; and

(2) Four percent for control devices used to reduce the total HAP emissions from the HVLC system; and

(3) Four percent for control devices used to reduce the total HAP emissions from both the LVHC and HVLC systems.
