
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart S - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Pulp and Paper Industry
###### § 63.457 Test methods and procedures.
####### Vent sampling port locations and gas stream properties.

(b)For purposes of selecting vent sampling port locations and determining vent gas stream properties, required in §§ 63.443, 63.444, 63.445, and 63.447, each owner or operator shall comply with the applicable procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section.

(1) Method 1 or 1A of part 60, appendix A-1, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling site as follows:

(i) To sample for vent gas concentrations and volumetric flow rates, the sampling site shall be located prior to dilution of the vent gas stream and prior to release to the atmosphere;

(ii) For determining compliance with percent reduction requirements, sampling sites shall be located prior to the inlet of the control device and at the outlet of the control device; measurements shall be performed simultaneously at the two sampling sites; and

(iii) For determining compliance with concentration limits or mass emission rate limits, the sampling site shall be located at the outlet of the control device.

(2) No traverse site selection method is needed for vents smaller than 0.10 meter (4.0 inches) in diameter.

(3) The vent gas volumetric flow rate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of part 60, appendix A-1, as appropriate.

(4) The moisture content of the vent gas shall be measured using Method 4 of part 60, appendix A-3.

(5) To determine vent gas concentrations, the owner or operator shall conduct a minimum of three test runs that are representative of normal conditions and average the resulting pollutant concentrations using the following procedures.

(i) Method 308 in Appendix A of this part; Method 320 in Appendix A of this part; Method 18 in appendix A-6 of part 60; ASTM D6420-99 (Reapproved 2004) (incorporated by reference in § 63.14(b)(28) of subpart A of this part); or ASTM D6348-03 (incorporated by reference in § 63.14(b)(54) of subpart A of this part) shall be used to determine the methanol concentration. If ASTM D6348-03 is used, the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) though (b)(5)(i)(B) must be met.

(A) The test plan preparation and implementation in the Annexes to ASTM D6348-03, sections A1 through A8 are required.

(B) In ASTM D6348-03 Annex A5 (Analyte Spiking Technique), the percent (%) R must be determined for each target analyte (Equation A5.5 of ASTM D6348-03). In order for the test data to be acceptable for a compound, %R must be between 70 and 130 percent. If the %R value does not meet this criterion for a target compound, the test data is not acceptable for that compound and the test must be repeated for that analyte following adjustment of the sampling or analytical procedure before the retest. The %R value for each compound must be reported in the test report, and all field measurements must be corrected with the calculated %R value for that compound using the following equation: Reported Result = Measured Concentration in the Stack x 100)/%R.

(ii) Except for the modifications specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(ii)(A) through (b)(5)(ii)(K) of this section, Method 26A of part 60, appendix A-8 shall be used to determine chlorine concentration in the vent stream.
