
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart S - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Pulp and Paper Industry
###### § 63.453 Monitoring requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the standards specified in §§ 63.443(c) and (d), 63.444(b) and (c), 63.445(b) and (c), 63.446(c), (d), and (e), 63.447(b) or § 63.450(d), shall install, calibrate, certify, operate, and maintain according to the manufacturer's specifications, a continuous monitoring system (CMS, as defined in § 63.2 of this part) as specified in paragraphs (b) through (m) of this section, except as allowed in paragraph (m) of this section. The CMS shall include a continuous recorder.

(b) A CMS shall be operated to measure the temperature in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox and before any substantial heat exchange occurs for each thermal oxidizer used to comply with the requirements of § 63.443(d)(1) through (d)(3). Owners and operators complying with the HAP concentration requirements in § 63.443(d)(2) may install a CMS to monitor the thermal oxidizer outlet total HAP or methanol concentration, as an alternative to monitoring thermal oxidizer operating temperature.

(c) A CMS shall be operated to measure the following parameters for each gas scrubber used to comply with the bleaching system requirements of § 63.445(c) or the sulfite pulping system requirements of § 63.444(c).

(1) The pH or the oxidation/reduction potential of the gas scrubber effluent;

(2) The gas scrubber vent gas inlet flow rate; and

(3) The gas scrubber liquid influent flow rate.

(d) As an option to the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, a CMS shall be operated to measure the chlorine outlet concentration of each gas scrubber used to comply with the bleaching system outlet concentration requirement specified in § 63.445(c)(2).

(e) The owner or operator of a bleaching system complying with 40 CFR 430.24, shall monitor the chlorine and hypochlorite application rates, in kg of bleaching agent per megagram of ODP, of the bleaching system during the extended compliance period specified in § 63.440(d)(3).

(f) A CMS shall be operated to measure the gas scrubber parameters specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section or those site specific parameters determined according to the procedures specified in paragraph (n) of this section to comply with the sulfite pulping system requirements specified in § 63.444(c).

(g) A CMS shall be operated to measure the following parameters for each steam stripper used to comply with the treatment requirements in § 63.446(e) (3), (4), or (5):

(1) The process wastewater feed rate;

(2) The steam feed rate; and

(3) The process wastewater column feed temperature.

(h) As an option to the requirements specified in paragraph (g) of this section, a CMS shall be operated to measure the methanol outlet concentration to comply with the steam stripper outlet concentration requirement specified in § 63.446 (e)(4) or (e)(5).

(i) A CMS shall be operated to measure the appropriate parameters determined according to the procedures specified in paragraph (n) of this section to comply with the condensate applicability requirements specified in § 63.446(c).

(j) Each owner or operator using an open biological treatment system to comply with § 63.446(e)(2) shall perform the daily monitoring procedures specified in either paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section and shall conduct a performance test each quarter using the procedures specified in paragraph (j)(3) of this section.

(1) Comply with the monitoring and sampling requirements specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) On a daily basis, monitor the following parameters for each open biological treatment unit:

(A) Composite daily sample of outlet soluble BODconcentration to monitor for maximum daily and maximum monthly average;

(B) Mixed liquor volatile suspended solids;

(C) Horsepower of aerator unit(s);

(D) Inlet liquid flow; and

(E) Liquid temperature.

(ii) If the Inlet and Outlet Concentration Measurement Procedure (Procedure 3) in appendix C of this part is used to determine the fraction of HAP compounds degraded in the biological treatment system as specified in § 63.457(l), conduct the sampling and archival requirements specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) Obtain daily inlet and outlet liquid grab samples from each biological treatment unit to have HAP data available to perform quarterly performance tests specified in paragraph (j)(3) of this section and the compliance tests specified in paragraph (p) of this section.

(B) Store the samples as specified in § 63.457(n) until after the results of the soluble BODtest required in paragraph (j)(1)(i)(A) of this section are obtained. The storage requirement is needed since the soluble BODtest requires 5 days or more to obtain results. If the results of the soluble BODtest are outside of the range established during the initial performance test, then the archive sample shall be used to perform the mass removal or percent reduction determinations.

(2) As an alternative to the monitoring requirements of paragraph (j)(1) of this section, conduct daily monitoring of the site-specific parameters established according to the procedures specified in paragraph (n) of this section.

(3) Conduct a performance test as specified in § 63.457(l) within 45 days after the beginning of each quarter and meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.446(e)(2).

(i) The performance test conducted in the first quarter (annually) shall be performed for total HAP as specified in § 63.457(g) and meet the percent reduction or mass removal emission limit specified in § 63.446(e)(2).

(ii) The remaining quarterly performance tests shall be performed as specified in paragraph (j)(3)(i) of this section except owners or operators may use the applicable methanol procedure in § 63.457(l)(1) or (2) and the value of r determined during the first quarter test instead of measuring the additional HAP to determine a new value of r.

(k) Each enclosure and closed-vent system used to comply with § 63.450(a) shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(6) of this section.

(1) For each enclosure opening, a visual inspection of the closure mechanism specified in § 63.450(b) shall be performed at least once every 30 days to ensure the opening is maintained in the closed position and sealed.

(2) Each closed-vent system required by § 63.450(a) shall be visually inspected every 30 days and at other times as requested by the Administrator. The visual inspection shall include inspection of ductwork, piping, enclosures, and connections to covers for visible evidence of defects.

(3) For positive pressure closed-vent systems or portions of closed-vent systems, demonstrate no detectable leaks as specified in § 63.450(c) measured initially and annually by the procedures in § 63.457(d).

(4) Demonstrate initially and annually that each enclosure opening is maintained at negative pressure as specified in § 63.457(e).

(5) The valve or closure mechanism specified in § 63.450(d)(2) shall be inspected at least once every 30 days to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and the emission point gas stream is not diverted through the bypass line.

(6) If an inspection required by paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(5) of this section identifies visible defects in ductwork, piping, enclosures or connections to covers required by § 63.450, or if an instrument reading of 500 parts per million by volume or greater above background is measured, or if enclosure openings are not maintained at negative pressure, then the following corrective actions shall be taken as soon as practicable.

(i) A first effort to repair or correct the closed-vent system shall be made as soon as practicable but no later than 5 calendar days after the problem is identified.

(ii) The repair or corrective action shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the problem is identified. Delay of repair or corrective action is allowed if the repair or corrective action is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown or if the owner or operator determines that the emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be completed by the end of the next process unit shutdown.

(l) Each pulping process condensate closed collection system used to comply with § 63.446(d) shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(3) of this section.

(1) Each pulping process condensate closed collection system shall be visually inspected every 30 days and shall comply with the inspection and monitoring requirements specified in § 63.964 of subpart RR of this part, except:

(i) Owners or operators shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.454 instead of the requirements specified in § 63.964(a)(1)(vi) and (b)(3) of subpart RR of this part.

(ii) Owners or operators shall comply with the inspection and monitoring requirements for closed-vent systems and control devices specified in paragraphs (a) and (k) of this section instead of the requirements specified in § 63.964(a)(2) of subpart RR of this part.

(2) Each condensate tank used in the closed collection system shall be operated with no detectable leaks as specified in § 63.446(d)(2)(i) measured initially and annually by the procedures specified in § 63.457(d).

(3) If an inspection required by this section identifies visible defects in the closed collection system, or if an instrument reading of 500 parts per million or greater above background is measured, then corrective actions specified in § 63.964(b) of subpart RR of this part shall be taken.

(m) Each owner or operator using a control device, technique or an alternative parameter other than those specified in paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section shall install a CMS and establish appropriate operating parameters to be monitored that demonstrate, to the Administrator's satisfaction, continuous compliance with the applicable control requirements.

(n) To establish or reestablish the value for each operating parameter required to be monitored under paragraphs (b) through (j), (l), and (m) of this section or to establish appropriate parameters for paragraphs (f), (i), (j)(2), and (m) of this section, each owner or operator shall use the following procedures:

(1) During the initial performance test required in § 63.457(a) or any subsequent performance test, continuously record the operating parameter;

(2) Determinations shall be based on the control performance and parameter data monitored during the performance test, supplemented if necessary by engineering assessments and the manufacturer's recommendations;

(3) The owner or operator shall provide for the Administrator's approval the rationale for selecting the monitoring parameters necessary to comply with paragraphs (f), (i), and (m) of this section; and

(4) Provide for the Administrator's approval the rationale for the selected operating parameter value, and monitoring frequency, and averaging time. Include all data and calculations used to develop the value and a description of why the value, monitoring frequency, and averaging time demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission standard.

(o) Each owner or operator of a control device subject to the monitoring provisions of this section shall operate the control device in a manner consistent with the minimum or maximum (as appropriate) operating parameter value or procedure required to be monitored under paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section and established under this subpart. Except as provided in paragraph (p) of this section, § 63.443(e), or § 63.446(g), operation of the control device below minimum operating parameter values or above maximum operating parameter values established under this subpart or failure to perform procedures required by this subpart shall constitute a violation of the applicable emission standard of this subpart and be reported as a period of excess emissions.

(p) The procedures of this paragraph apply to each owner or operator of an open biological treatment system complying with paragraph (j) of this section whenever a monitoring parameter excursion occurs, and the owner or operator chooses to conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit. A monitoring parameter excursion occurs whenever the monitoring parameters specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section or any of the monitoring parameters specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section are below minimum operating parameter values or above maximum operating parameter values established in paragraph (n) of this section.

(1) As soon as practical after the beginning of the monitoring parameter excursion, the following requirements shall be met:

(i) Before the steps in paragraph (p)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section are performed, all sampling and measurements necessary to meet the requirements in paragraph (p)(2) of this section shall be conducted.

(ii) Steps shall be taken to repair or adjust the operation of the process to end the parameter excursion period.

(iii) Steps shall be taken to minimize total HAP emissions to the atmosphere during the parameter excursion period.

(2) A parameter excursion is not a violation of the applicable emission standard if the results of the performance test conducted using the procedures in this paragraph demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.446(e)(2).

(i) Conduct a performance test as specified in § 63.457 using the monitoring data specified in paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section that coincides with the time of the parameter excursion. No maintenance or changes shall be made to the open biological treatment system after the beginning of a parameter excursion that would influence the results of the performance test.

(ii) If the results of the performance test specified in paragraph (p)(2)(i) of this section demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.446(e)(2), then the parameter excursion is not a violation of the applicable emission limit.

(iii) If the results of the performance test specified in paragraph (p)(2)(i) of this section do not demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.446(e)(2) because the total HAP mass entering the open biological treatment system is below the level needed to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.446(e)(2), then the owner or operator shall perform the following comparisons:

(A) If the value of f(MeOH) determined during the performance test specified in paragraph (p)(2)(i) of this section is within the range of values established during the initial and subsequent performance tests approved by the Administrator, then the parameter excursion is not a violation of the applicable standard.

(B) If the value of f(MeOH) determined during the performance test specified in paragraph (p)(2)(i) of this section is not within the range of values established during the initial and subsequent performance tests approved by the Administrator, then the parameter excursion is a violation of the applicable standard.

(iv) The results of the performance test specified in paragraph (p)(2)(i) of this section shall be recorded as specified in § 63.454(f).

(3) If an owner or operator determines that performing the required procedures under paragraph (p)(2) of this section for a nonthoroughly mixed open biological system would expose a worker to dangerous, hazardous, or otherwise unsafe conditions, all of the following procedures shall be performed:

(i) Calculate the mass removal or percent reduction value using the procedures specified in § 63.457(l) except the value for f(MeOH) shall be determined using the procedures in appendix E to this part.

(ii) Repeat the procedures in paragraph (p)(3)(i) of this section for every day until the unsafe conditions have passed.

(iii) A parameter excursion is a violation of the standard if the percent reduction or mass removal determined in paragraph (p)(3)(i) of this section is less than the percent reduction or mass removal standards specified in § 63.446(e)(2), as appropriate, unless the value of f(MeOH) determined using the procedures in appendix E of this section, as specified in paragraph (p)(3)(i), is within the range of f(MeOH) values established during the initial and subsequent performance tests previously approved by the Administrator.

(iv) The determination that there is a condition that exposes a worker to dangerous, hazardous, or otherwise unsafe conditions shall be documented according to requirements in § 63.454(e) and reporting in § 63.455(f).

(v) The requirements of paragraphs (p)(1) and (2) of this section shall be performed and met as soon as practical but no later than 24 hours after the conditions have passed that exposed a worker to dangerous, hazardous, or otherwise unsafe conditions.

(q) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
