
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart S - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Pulp and Paper Industry
###### ยง 63.457 Test methods and procedures.
####### 5,Interferences.

()Known interfering agents of this method are sulfur dioxide and hydrogen peroxide. Sulfur dioxide, which is used to reduce oxidant residuals in some bleaching systems, reduces formed iodine to iodide in the capture solution. It is therefore a negative interference for chlorine, and in some cases could result in erroneous negative chlorine concentrations. Any agent capable of reducing iodine to iodide could interfere in this manner. A chromium trioxide impregnated filter will capture sulfur dioxide and pass chlorine and chlorine dioxide. Hydrogen peroxide, which is commonly used as a bleaching agent in modern bleaching systems, reacts with iodide to form iodine and thus can cause a positive interference in the chlorine measurement. Due to the chemistry involved, the precision of the chlorine analysis will decrease as the ratio of chlorine dioxide to chlorine increases. Slightly negative calculated concentrations of chlorine may occur when sampling a vent gas with high concentrations of chlorine dioxide and very low concentrations of chlorine.

(G) The following calculation shall be performed to determine the corrected sampling flow rate:

(H) The following calculation shall be performed to determine the moles of chlorine in the sample:

(I) The following calculation shall be performed to determine the concentration of chlorine in the sample:

(J) The following calculation shall be performed to determine the moles of chlorine dioxide in the sample:

(K) The following calculation shall be performed to determine the concentration of chlorine dioxide in the sample:

(iii) Any other method that measures the total HAP or methanol concentration that has been demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction.

(6) The minimum sampling time for each of the three test runs shall be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15 minute intervals during the test run.
