
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart S - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Pulp and Paper Industry
###### § 63.457 Test methods and procedures.
####### Liquid sampling locations and properties.

(c)For purposes of selecting liquid sampling locations and for determining properties of liquid streams such as wastewaters, process waters, and condensates required in §§ 63.444, 63.446, and 63.447, the owner or operator shall comply with the following procedures:

(1) Samples shall be collected using the sampling procedures of the test method listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section selected to determine liquid stream HAP concentrations;

(i) Where feasible, samples shall be taken from an enclosed pipe prior to the liquid stream being exposed to the atmosphere; and

(ii) When sampling from an enclosed pipe is not feasible, samples shall be collected in a manner to minimize exposure of the sample to the atmosphere and loss of HAP compounds prior to sampling.

(2) The volumetric flow rate of the entering and exiting liquid streams shall be determined using the inlet and outlet flow meters or other methods demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction. The volumetric flow rate measurements to determine actual mass removal shall be taken at the same time as the concentration measurements.

(3) The owner or operator shall conduct a minimum of three test runs that are representative of normal conditions and average the resulting pollutant concentrations. The minimum sampling time for each test run shall be 1 hour and the grab or composite samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced intervals over the 1-hour test run period. The owner or operator shall use one of the following procedures to determine total HAP or methanol concentration:

(i) Method 305 in Appendix A of this part, adjusted using the following equation:

(ii) For determining methanol concentrations, NCASI Method DI/MEOH-94.03. This test method is incorporated by reference in § 63.14(f)(1) of subpart A of this part.

(iii) Any other method that measures total HAP concentration that has been demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction.

(4) To determine soluble BODin the effluent stream from an open biological treatment unit used to comply with §§ 63.446(e)(2) and 63.453(j), the owner or operator shall use Method 405.1 of part 136 of this chapter with the following modifications:

(i) Filter the sample through the filter paper, into an Erlenmeyer flask by applying a vacuum to the flask sidearm. Minimize the time for which vacuum is applied to prevent stripping of volatile organics from the sample. Replace filter paper as often as needed in order to maintain filter times of less than approximately 30 seconds per filter paper. No rinsing of sample container or filter bowl into the Erlenmeyer flask is allowed.

(ii) Perform Method 405.1 on the filtrate obtained in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Dilution water shall be seeded with 1 milliliter of final effluent per liter of dilution water. Dilution ratios may require adjustment to reflect the lower oxygen demand of the filtered sample in comparison to the total BOD. Three BOD bottles and different dilutions shall be used for each sample.

(5) If the test method used to determine HAP concentration indicates that a specific HAP is not detectable, the value determined as the minimum measurement level (MML) of the selected test method for the specific HAP shall be used in the compliance demonstration calculations. To determine the MML for a specific HAP using one of the test methods specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, one of the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section shall be performed. The MML for a particular HAP must be determined only if the HAP is not detected in the normal working range of the method.

(i) To determine the MML for a specific HAP, the following procedures shall be performed each time the method is set up. Set up is defined as the first time the analytical apparatus is placed in operation, after any shut down of 6 months or more, or any time a major component of the analytical apparatus is replaced.

(A) Select a concentration value for the specific HAP in question to represent the MML. The value of the MML selected shall not be below the calibration standard of the selected test method.

(B) Measure the concentration of the specific HAP in a minimum of three replicate samples using the selected test method. All replicate samples shall be run through the entire analytical procedure. The samples must contain the specific HAP at the selected MML concentration and should be representative of the liquid streams to be analyzed in the compliance demonstration. Spiking of the liquid samples with a known concentration of the target HAP may be necessary to ensure that the HAP concentration in the three replicate samples is at the selected MML. The concentration of the HAP in the spiked sample must be within 50 percent of the proposed MML for the demonstration to be valid. As an alternative to spiking, a field sample above the MML may be diluted to produce a HAP concentration at the MML. To be a valid demonstration, the diluted sample must have a HAP concentration within 20 percent of the proposed MML, and the field sample must not be diluted by more than a factor of five.

(C) Calculate the relative standard deviation (RSD) and the upper confidence limit at the 95 percent confidence level using the measured HAP concentrations determined in paragraph (c)(5)(i)(B) of this section. If the upper confidence limit of the RSD is less than 30 percent, then the selected MML is acceptable. If the upper confidence limit of the RSD is greater than or equal to 30 percent, then the selected MML is too low, and the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A) through (C) of this section must be repeated.

(ii) Provide for the Administrator's approval the selected value of the MML for a specific HAP and the rationale for selecting the MML including all data and calculations used to determine the MML. The approved MML must be used in all applicable compliance demonstration calculations.

(6) When using the MML determined using the procedures in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section or when using the MML determined using the procedures in paragraph (c)(5)(i), except during set up, the analytical laboratory conducting the analysis must perform and meet the following quality assurance procedures each time a set of samples is analyzed to determine compliance.

(i) Using the selected test method, analyze in triplicate the concentration of the specific HAP in a representative sample. The sample must contain the specific HAP at a concentration that is within a factor of two of the MML. If there are no samples in the set being analyzed that contain the specific HAP at an appropriate concentration, then a sample below the MML may be spiked to produce the appropriate concentration, or a sample at a higher level may be diluted. After spiking, the sample must contain the specific HAP within 50 percent of the MML. If dilution is used instead, the diluted sample must contain the specific HAP within 20 percent of the MML and must not be diluted by more than a factor of five.

(ii) Calculate the RSD using the measured HAP concentrations determined in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section. If the RSD is less than 20 percent, then the laboratory is performing acceptably.
