
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart S - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Pulp and Paper Industry
###### § 63.457 Test methods and procedures.
####### Condensate segregation procedures.

(m)The following procedures shall be used to demonstrate compliance with the condensate segregation requirements specified in § 63.446(c).

(1) To demonstrate compliance with the percent mass requirements specified in § 63.446(c)(2), the procedures specified in paragraphs (m)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section shall be performed.

(i) Determine the total HAP mass of all condensates from each equipment system listed in § 63.446 (b)(1) through (b)(3) using the procedures specified in paragraphs (c) and (j) of this section.

(ii) Multiply the total HAP mass determined in paragraph (m)(1)(i) of this section by 0.65 to determine the target HAP mass for the high-HAP fraction condensate stream or streams.

(iii) Compliance with the segregation requirements specified in § 63.446(c)(2) is demonstrated if the condensate stream or streams from each equipment system listed in § 63.446(b)(1) through (3) being treated as specified in § 63.446(e) contain at least as much total HAP mass as the target total HAP mass determined in paragraph (m)(1)(ii) of this section.

(2) To demonstrate compliance with the percent mass requirements specified in § 63.446(c)(3), the procedures specified in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) through (ii) of this section shall be performed.

(i) Determine the total HAP mass contained in the high-HAP fraction condensates from each equipment system listed in § 63.446(b)(1) through (b)(3) and the total condensates streams from the equipment systems listed in § 63.446(b)(4) and (b)(5), using the procedures specified in paragraphs (c) and (j) of this section.

(ii) Compliance with the segregation requirements specified in § 63.446(c)(3) is demonstrated if the total HAP mass determined in paragraph (m)(2)(i) of this section is equal to or greater than the appropriate mass requirements specified in § 63.446(c)(3).
