
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart T - National Emission Standards for Halogenated Solvent Cleaning
###### § 63.460 Applicability and designation of source.

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to each individual batch vapor, in-line vapor, in-line cold, and batch cold solvent cleaning machine that uses any solvent containing methylene chloride (CAS No. 75-09-2), perchloroethylene (CAS No. 127-18-4), trichloroethylene (CAS No. 79-01-6), 1,1,1-trichloroethane (CAS No. 71-55-6), carbon tetrachloride (CAS No. 56-23-5) or chloroform (CAS No. 67-66-3), or any combination of these halogenated HAP solvents, in a total concentration greater than 5 percent by weight, as a cleaning and/or drying agent. The concentration of these solvents may be determined using EPA test method 18, material safety data sheets, or engineering calculations. Wipe cleaning activities, such as using a rag containing halogenated solvent or a spray cleaner containing halogenated solvent are not covered under the provisions of this subpart.

(b) Except as noted in appendix C (General Provisions Applicability to subpart T) of this subpart, the provisions of subpart A of this part (General Provisions) apply to owners or operators of any solvent cleaning machine meeting the applicability criteria of paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each solvent cleaning machine subject to this subpart that commenced construction or reconstruction after November 29, 1993 shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except for § 63.471, immediately upon start-up or by December 2, 1994, whichever is later.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each solvent cleaning machine subject to this subpart that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before November 29, 1993 shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except for § 63.471, no later than December 2, 1997.

(e) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority to a State under section 112(d) of the Act, the authority contained in paragraph (f) of this section shall be retained by the Administrator and not transferred to a State.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) Each continuous web cleaning machine subject to this subpart shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except for § 63.471, no later than December 2, 1999.

(h) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.

(i) The compliance date for the requirements in § 63.471 depends on the date that construction or reconstruction of the affected facility commences. For purposes of this paragraph, affected facility means all solvent cleaning machines, except solvent cleaning machines used in the manufacture and maintenance of aerospace products, solvent cleaning machines used in the manufacture of narrow tubing, and continuous web cleaning machines, located at a major source that are subject to the facility-wide limits in table 1 of § 63.471(b)(2), and for area sources, affected facility means all solvent cleaning machines, except cold batch cleaning machines, located at an area source that are subject to the facility-wide limits in table 1 of § 63.471(b)(2).

(1) Each affected facility that was constructed or reconstructed on or before August 17, 2006, shall be in compliance with the provisions of this subpart no later than May 3, 2010.

(2) Each affected facility that was constructed or reconstructed on or after August 17, 2006, shall be in compliance with the provisions of this subpart on May 3, 2007 or immediately upon startup, whichever is later.
