
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart T - National Emission Standards for Halogenated Solvent Cleaning
###### § 63.465 Test methods.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section for continuous web cleaning machines, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with an idling emission limit standard in § 63.463(b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(2)(ii) shall determine the idling emission rate of the solvent cleaning machine using Reference Method 307 in appendix A of this part.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section for continuous web cleaning machines, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with § 63.464 shall, on the first operating day of every month ensure that the solvent cleaning machine system contains only clean liquid solvent. This includes, but is not limited to, fresh unused solvent, recycled solvent, and used solvent that has been cleaned of soils. A fill line must be indicated during the first month the measurements are made. The solvent level within the machine must be returned to the same fill-line each month, immediately prior to calculating monthly emissions as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. The solvent cleaning machine does not have to be emptied and filled with fresh unused solvent prior to the calculations.

(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section for continuous web cleaning machines, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with § 63.464 shall, on the first operating day of the month, comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Using the records of all solvent additions and deletions for the previous monthly reporting period required under § 63.464(a), determine solvent emissions (Ei) using equation 2 for cleaning machines with a solvent/air interface and equation 3 for cleaning machines without a solvent/air interface:

(2) Determine SSRusing the method specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) From tests conducted using EPA reference method 25d.

(ii) By engineering calculations included in the compliance report.

(3) Determine the monthly rolling average, EA, for the 3-month period ending with the most recent reporting period using equation 4 for cleaning machines with a solvent/air interface or equation 5 for cleaning machines without a solvent/air interface:

(d) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine using a dwell to comply with § 63.463 shall determine the appropriate dwell time for each part or parts basket using the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.

(1) Determine the amount of time for the part or parts basket to cease dripping once placed in the vapor zone. The part or parts basket used for this determination must be at room temperature before being placed in the vapor zone.

(2) The proper dwell time for parts to remain in the freeboard area above the vapor zone is no less than 35 percent of the time determined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(e) An owner or operator of a source shall determine their potential to emit from all solvent cleaning operations, using the procedures described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section. A facility's total potential to emit is the sum of the HAP emissions from all solvent cleaning operations, plus all HAP emissions from other sources within the facility.

(1) Determine the potential to emit for each individual solvent cleaning using equation 6.

(2) Cleaning machines that do not have a solvent/air interface shall calculate a solvent/air interface area using equation 7.

(3) Sum the PTEfor all solvent cleaning operations to obtain the total potential to emit for solvent cleaning operations at the facility.

(f) Each owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine using a squeegee system to comply with § 63.463(g)(3) shall determine the maximum product throughput using the method in this paragraph. The maximum product throughput for each squeegee type used at a facility must be determined prior to December 2, 1999, the compliance date for these units.

(1) Conduct daily visual inspections of the continuous web part. This monitoring shall be conducted at the point where the continuous web part exits the squeegee system. It is not necessary for the squeegees to be new at the time monitoring is begun if the following two conditions are met:

(i) The continuous web part leaving the squeegee system has no visible solvent film.

(ii) The amount of continuous web that has been processed through the squeegees since the last replacement is known.

(2) Continue daily monitoring until a visible solvent film is noted on the continuous web part.

(3) Determine the length of continuous web product that has been cleaned using the squeegee since it was installed.

(4) The maximum product throughput for the purposes of this rule is equal to the time it takes to clean 95 percent of the length of product determined in paragraph (f)(3) of this section. This time period, in days, may vary depending on the amount of continuous web product cleaned each day.

(g) Each owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine demonstrating compliance with the alternative standard of § 63.464(d) shall, on the first day of every month, ensure that the solvent cleaning machine contains only clean liquid solvent. This includes, but is not limited to, fresh unused solvent, recycled solvent, and used solvent that has been cleaned of soils. A fill-line must be indicated during the first month the measurements are made. The solvent level with the machine must be returned to the same fill-line each month, immediately prior to calculating overall cleaning system control efficiency emissions as specified in paragraph (h) in this section. The solvent cleaning machine does not need to be emptied and filled with fresh unused solvent prior to the calculation.

(h) Each owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machines complying with § 63.464(d) shall, on the first operating day of the month, comply with the following requirements.

(1) Using the records of all solvent additions, solvent deletions, and solvent recovered from the carbon adsorption system for the previous monthly reporting period required under § 63.467(e), determine the overall cleaning system control efficiency (E) using Equation 8 of this section as follows:
