
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart T - National Emission Standards for Halogenated Solvent Cleaning
###### ยง 63.462 Batch cold cleaning machine standards.

(a) Each owner or operator of an immersion batch cold solvent cleaning machine shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.

(1) Employ a tightly fitting cover that shall be closed at all times except during parts entry and removal, and a water layer at a minimum thickness of 2.5 centimeters (1.0 inch) on the surface of the solvent within the cleaning machine, or

(2) Employ a tightly fitting cover that shall be closed at all times except during parts entry and removal and a freeboard ratio of 0.75 or greater.

(b) Each owner or operator of a remote-reservoir batch cold solvent cleaning machine shall employ a tightly fitting cover over the solvent sump that shall be closed at all times except during the cleaning of parts.

(c) Each owner or operator of a batch cold solvent cleaning machine complying with paragraph (a)(2) or (b) of this section shall comply with the work and operational practice requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(9) of this section as applicable.

(1) All waste solvent shall be collected and stored in closed containers. The closed container may contain a device that allows pressure relief, but does not allow liquid solvent to drain from the container.

(2) If a flexible hose or flushing device is used, flushing shall be performed only within the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine.

(3) The owner or operator shall drain solvent cleaned parts for 15 seconds or until dripping has stopped, whichever is longer. Parts having cavities or blind holes shall be tipped or rotated while draining.

(4) The owner or operator shall ensure that the solvent level does not exceed the fill line.

(5) Spills during solvent transfer shall be wiped up immediately. The wipe rags shall be stored in covered containers meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(6) When an air- or pump-agitated solvent bath is used, the owner or operator shall ensure that the agitator is operated to produce a rolling motion of the solvent but not observable splashing against tank walls or parts being cleaned.

(7) The owner or operator shall ensure that, when the cover is open, the cold cleaning machine is not exposed to drafts greater than 40 meters per minute (132 feet per minute), as measured between 1 and 2 meters (3.3 and 6.6 feet) upwind and at the same elevation as the tank lip.

(8) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(9) of this section, sponges, fabric, wood, and paper products shall not be cleaned.

(9) The prohibition in paragraph (c)(8) of this section does not apply to the cleaning of porous materials that are part of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) laden transformers if those transformers are handled throughout the cleaning process and disposed of in compliance with an approved PCB disposal permit issued in accordance with the Toxic Substances Control Act.

(d) Each owner or operator of a batch cold cleaning machine shall submit an initial notification report as described in ยง 63.468 (a) and (b) and a compliance report as described in ยง 63.468(c).

(e) Each owner or operator subject to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) through (8) of this section may request to use measures other than those described in these paragraphs. The owner or operator must demonstrate to the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) that the alternative measures will result in equivalent or better emissions control compared to the measures described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section. For example, storing solvent and solvent-laden materials in an enclosed area that is ventilated to a solvent recovery or destruction device may be considered an acceptable alternative.
