
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart T - National Emission Standards for Halogenated Solvent Cleaning
###### § 63.464 Alternative standards.

(a) As an alternative to meeting the requirements in § 63.463, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine can elect to comply with the requirements of § 63.464. An owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine who elects to comply with § 63.464 shall comply with the requirements specified in either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.

(1) If the cleaning machine has a solvent/air interface, as defined in § 63.461, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) Maintain a log of solvent additions and deletions for each solvent cleaning machine.

(ii) Ensure that the emissions from each solvent cleaning machine are equal to or less than the applicable emission limit presented in table 5 of this subpart as determined using the procedures in § 63.465(b) and (c).

(2) If the cleaning machine is a batch vapor cleaning machine and does not have a solvent/air interface, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) Maintain a log of solvent additions and deletions for each solvent cleaning machine.

(ii) Ensure that the emissions from each solvent cleaning machine are equal to or less than the appropriate limits as described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(A) For cleaning machines with a cleaning capacity, as reported in § 63.468(d), that is less than or equal to 2.95 cubic meters, the emission limit shall be determined using table 6 or equation 1. If using table 6, and the cleaning capacity of the cleaning machine falls between two cleaning capacity sizes, then the lower of the two emission limits applies.

(B) For cleaning machines with a cleaning capacity as reported in § 63.468(d), that is greater than 2.95 cubic meters, the emission limit shall be determined using equation 1.

(b) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with § 63.464(a) shall demonstrate compliance with the applicable 3-month rolling average monthly emission limit on a monthly basis as described in § 63.465(b) and (c).

(c) If the applicable 3-month rolling average emission limit is not met, an exceedance has occurred. All exceedances shall be reported as required in § 63.468(h).

(d) As an alternative to meeting the requirements in § 63.463, each owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine can demonstrate an overall cleaning system control efficiency of 70 percent or greater using the procedures in § 63.465(g). This demonstration can be made for either a single cleaning machine or for a solvent cleaning system that contains one or more cleaning machines and ancillary equipment, such as storage tanks and distillation units. If the demonstration is made for a cleaning system, the facility must identify any modifications required to the procedures in § 63.465(g) and they must be approved by the Administrator.
