
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart T - National Emission Standards for Halogenated Solvent Cleaning
###### § 63.467 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.463 shall maintain records in written or electronic form specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section for the lifetime of the machine.

(1) Owner's manuals, or if not available, written maintenance and operating procedures, for the solvent cleaning machine and control equipment.

(2) The date of installation for the solvent cleaning machine and all of its control devices. If the exact date for installation is not known, a letter certifying that the cleaning machine and its control devices were installed prior to, or on, November 29, 1993, or after November 29, 1993, may be substituted.

(3) If a dwell is used to comply with these standards, records of the tests required in § 63.465(d) to determine an appropriate dwell time for each part or parts basket.

(4) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the idling emission limit standards of § 63.463(b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(2)(ii) shall maintain records of the initial performance test, including the idling emission rate and values of the monitoring parameters measured during the test.

(5) Records of the halogenated HAP solvent content for each solvent used in a solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(6) If a squeegee system is used to comply with these standards, records of the test required by § 63.466(f) to determine the maximum product throughput for the squeegees and records of both the weekly monitoring required by § 63.466(a)(3) for visual inspection and the length of continuous web product cleaned during the previous week.

(7) If an air knife system or a combination squeegee and air knife system is used to comply with these standards, records of the determination of the proper operating parameter and parameter value for the air knife system.

(b) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with § 63.463 shall maintain records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section either in electronic or written form for a period of 5 years.

(1) The results of control device monitoring required under § 63.466.

(2) Information on the actions taken to comply with § 63.463(e) and (f). This information shall include records of written or verbal orders for replacement parts, a description of the repairs made, and additional monitoring conducted to demonstrate that monitored parameters have returned to accepted levels.

(3) Estimates of annual solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine.

(4) If a carbon adsorber is used to comply with these standards, records of the date and results of the weekly measurement of the halogenated HAP solvent concentration in the carbon adsorber exhaust required in § 63.466(e).

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section for continuous web cleaning machines, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.464 shall maintain records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section either in electronic or written form for a period of 5 years.

(1) The dates and amounts of solvent that are added to the solvent cleaning machine.

(2) The solvent composition of wastes removed from cleaning machines as determined using the procedure described in § 63.465(c)(2).

(3) Calculation sheets showing how monthly emissions and the rolling 3-month average emissions from the solvent cleaning machine were determined, and the results of all calculations.

(d) Each owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine without a solvent/air interface complying with the provisions of § 63.464 shall maintain records on the method used to determine the cleaning capacity of the cleaning machine.

(e) Each owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.464(d) shall maintain the following records in either electronic or written form for a period of 5 years.

(1) The dates and amounts of solvent that are added to the solvent cleaning machine.

(2) The dates and amounts of solvent that are recovered from the desorption of the carbon adsorber system.

(3) The solvent composition of wastes removed from each cleaning machine as determined using the procedures in § 63.465(c)(2).

(4) Calculation sheets showing the calculation and results of determining the overall cleaning system control efficiency, as required by § 63.465.
