
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart T - National Emission Standards for Halogenated Solvent Cleaning
###### § 63.468 Reporting requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of an existing solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit an initial notification report to the Administrator no later than August 29, 1995, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. This report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the solvent cleaning machine(s).

(3) A brief description of each solvent cleaning machine including machine type (batch vapor, batch cold, vapor in-line or cold in-line), solvent/air interface area, and existing controls.

(4) The date of installation for each solvent cleaning machine or a letter certifying that the solvent cleaning machine was installed prior to, or after, November 29, 1993.

(5) The anticipated compliance approach for each solvent cleaning machine.

(6) An estimate of annual halogenated HAP solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine.

(b) Each owner or operator of a new solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit an initial notification report to the Administrator. New sources for which construction or reconstruction had commenced and initial startup had not occurred before December 2, 1994, shall submit this report as soon as practicable before startup but no later than January 31, 1995, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. New sources for which the construction or reconstruction commenced after December 2, 1994, shall submit this report as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence or for sources which reclassify to major source status, no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart. This report shall include all of the information required in § 63.5(d)(1) of subpart A (General Provisions), with the revisions and additions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.

(1) The report shall include a brief description of each solvent cleaning machine including machine type (batch vapor, batch cold, vapor in-line, or cold-line), solvent/air interface area, and existing controls.

(2) The report shall include the anticipated compliance approach for each solvent cleaning machine.

(3) In lieu of § 63.5(d)(1)(ii)(H) of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator must report an estimate of annual halogenated HAP solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine.

(c) Each owner or operator of a batch cold solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit a compliance report to the Administrator. For existing sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.460(d), or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. For new sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after startup or May 1, 1995, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. This report shall include the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the solvent cleaning machine(s).

(3) A statement, signed by the owner or operator of the solvent cleaning machine, stating that the solvent cleaning machine for which the report is being submitted is in compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(4) The compliance approach for each solvent cleaning machine.

(d) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.463 shall submit to the Administrator an initial statement of compliance for each solvent cleaning machine. For existing sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.460(d), or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. For new sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after startup or May 1, 1995, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. This statement shall include the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the solvent cleaning machine(s).

(3) A list of the control equipment used to achieve compliance for each solvent cleaning machine.

(4) For each piece of control equipment required to be monitored, a list of the parameters that are monitored and the values of these parameters measured on or during the first month after the compliance date.

(5) Conditions to maintain the wind speed requirements of § 63.463(e)(2)(ii), if applicable.

(6) Each owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine complying with the idling emission limit standards of § 63.463(b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), and (c)(2)(ii) shall submit a test report for tests of idling emissions meeting the specifications in Method 307 of appendix A to this subpart. This report shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (d)(6)(iv) of this section.

(i) This test must be on the same specific model cleaner used at the source. The test can be done by the owner or operator of the affected machine or can be supplied by the vendor of that solvent cleaning machine or a third party.

(ii) This report must clearly state the monitoring parameters, monitoring frequency and the delineation of exceedances for each parameter.

(iii) If a solvent cleaning machine vendor or third party test report is used to demonstrate compliance, it shall include the following for the solvent cleaning machine tested: Name of person(s) or company that performed the test, model name, the date the solvent cleaning machine was tested, serial number, and a diagram of the solvent cleaning machine tested.

(iv) If a solvent cleaning machine vendor or third party test report is used, the owner or operator of the solvent cleaning machine shall comply with the requirements specified in either paragraphs (d)(6)(iv)(A) and (d)(6)(iv)(B) of this section.

(A) Submit a statement by the solvent cleaning machine vendor that the unit tested is the same as the unit the report is being submitted for.

(B) Demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the solvent emissions from the solvent cleaning machine for which the test report is being submitted are equal to or less than the solvent emissions from the solvent cleaning machine in the vendor test report.

(7) If a carbon adsorber is used to comply with these standards, the date and results of the weekly measurement of the halogenated HAP solvent concentration in the carbon adsorber exhaust required in § 63.466(e).

(e) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.464 shall submit to the Administrator an initial statement of compliance for each solvent cleaning machine. For existing sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.460(d). For new sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after startup or May 1, 1995, whichever is later. The statement shall include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(4) of this section.

(1) The name and address of the solvent cleaning machine owner or operator.

(2) The address of the solvent cleaning machine(s).

(3) The solvent/air interface area for each solvent cleaning machine or, for cleaning machines without a solvent/air interface, a description of the method used to determine the cleaning capacity and the results.

(4) The results of the first 3-month average emissions calculation.

(f) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.463 shall submit an annual report by February 1 of the year following the one for which the reporting is being made. This report shall include the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section.

(1) A signed statement from the facility owner or his designee stating that, "All operators of solvent cleaning machines have received training on the proper operation of solvent cleaning machines and their control devices sufficient to pass the test required in § 63.463(d)(10)."

(2) An estimate of solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine during the reporting period.

(3) The reports required under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section can be combined into a single report for each facility.

(g) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.464 shall submit a solvent emission report every year. This solvent emission report shall contain the requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section.

(1) The size and type of each unit subject to this subpart (solvent/air interface area or cleaning capacity).

(2) The average monthly solvent consumption for the solvent cleaning machine in kilograms per month.

(3) The 3-month monthly rolling average solvent emission estimates calculated each month using the method as described in § 63.465(c).

(4) The reports required under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section can be combined into a single report for each facility.

(h) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine shall submit an exceedance report to the Administrator semiannually except when, the Administrator determines on a case-by-case basis that more frequent reporting is necessary to accurately assess the compliance status of the source or, an exceedance occurs. Once an exceedance has occurred the owner or operator shall follow a quarterly reporting format until a request to reduce reporting frequency under paragraph (i) of this section is approved. Exceedance reports shall be delivered or postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each calendar half or quarter, as appropriate. The exceedance report shall include the applicable information in paragraphs (h) (1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Information on the actions taken to comply with § 63.463 (e) and (f). This information shall include records of written or verbal orders for replacement parts, a description of the repairs made, and additional monitoring conducted to demonstrate that monitored parameters have returned to accepted levels.

(2) If an exceedance has occurred, the reason for the exceedance and a description of the actions taken.

(3) If no exceedances of a parameter have occurred, or a piece of equipment has not been inoperative, out of control, repaired, or adjusted, such information shall be stated in the report.

(i) An owner or operator who is required to submit an exceedance report on a quarterly (or more frequent) basis may reduce the frequency of reporting to semiannual if the conditions in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(3) of this section are met.

(1) The source has demonstrated a full year of compliance without an exceedance.

(2) The owner or operator continues to comply with all relevant recordkeeping and monitoring requirements specified subpart A (General Provisions) and in this subpart.

(3) The Administrator does not object to a reduced frequency of reporting for the affected source as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of subpart A (General Provisions).

(j) [Reserved]

(k) Each owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine requesting an equivalency determination, as described in § 63.469 shall submit an equivalency request report to the Administrator. For existing sources, this report must be submitted to the Administrator no later than June 3, 1996. For new sources, this report must be submitted and approved by the Administrator prior to startup.
