
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart T - National Emission Standards for Halogenated Solvent Cleaning
###### § 63.466 Monitoring procedures.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the equipment standards in § 63.463(b)(1)(i), (b)(2)(i), (c)(1)(i), (c)(2)(i), (g)(1), or (g)(2) shall conduct monitoring and record the results on a weekly basis for the control devices, as appropriate, specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) If a freeboard refrigeration device is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall use a thermometer or thermocouple to measure the temperature at the center of the air blanket during the idling mode.

(2) If a superheated vapor system is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall use a thermometer or thermocouple to measure the temperature at the center of the superheated solvent vapor zone while the solvent cleaning machine is in the idling mode.

(3) If a squeegee system, air knife system, or combination squeegee and air knife system is used to comply with the requirements of § 63.463(g) or (h), the owner or operator shall visually inspect the continuous web part exiting the solvent cleaning machine to ensure that no solvent film is visible on the part.

(4) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, if a superheated part system is used to comply with the requirements of § 63.463(g) or (h), the owner or operator shall use a thermometer, thermocouple, or other temperature measurement device to measure the temperature of the continuous web part while it is in the solvent cleaning machine. This measurement can also be taken at the exit of the solvent cleaning machine.

(5) As an alternative to complying with paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the owner or operator can provide data, sufficient to satisfy the Administrator, that demonstrate that the part temperature remains above the boiling point of the solvent at all times that the part is within the continuous web solvent cleaning machine. This data could include design and operating conditions such as information supporting any exothermic reaction inherent in the processing.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the equipment standards of § 63.463 (b)(1)(i), (b)(2)(i), (c)(1)(i), or (c)(2)(i) shall conduct monitoring and record the results on a monthly basis for the control devices, as appropriate, specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.

(1) If a cover (working-mode, downtime-mode, and/or idling-mode cover) is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall conduct a visual inspection to determine if the cover is opening and closing properly, completely covers the cleaning machine openings when closed, and is free of cracks, holes, and other defects.

(2) If a dwell is used, the owner or operator shall determine the actual dwell time by measuring the period of time that parts are held within the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine after cleaning.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the equipment or idling standards in § 63.463 shall monitor the hoist speed as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall determine the hoist speed by measuring the time it takes for the hoist to travel a measured distance. The speed is equal to the distance in meters divided by the time in minutes (meters per minute).

(2) The monitoring shall be conducted monthly. If after the first year, no exceedances of the hoist speed are measured, the owner or operator may begin monitoring the hoist speed quarterly.

(3) If an exceedance of the hoist speed occurs during quarterly monitoring, the monitoring frequency returns to monthly until another year of compliance without an exceedance is demonstrated.

(4) If an owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction in the initial compliance report that the hoist cannot exceed a speed of 3.4 meters per minute (11 feet per minute), the required monitoring frequency is quarterly, including during the first year of compliance.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the equipment standards in § 63.463 (b)(1)(i), (b)(2)(i), (c)(1)(i), or (c)(2)(i) using a reduced room draft shall conduct monitoring and record the results as specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section.

(1) If the reduced room draft is maintained by controlling room parameters (i.e., redirecting fans, closing doors and windows, etc.), the owner or operator shall conduct an initial monitoring test of the windspeed and of room parameters, quarterly monitoring of windspeed, and weekly monitoring of room parameters as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) Measure the windspeed within 6 inches above the top of the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine using the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) through (d)(1)(i)(D) of this section.

(A) Determine the direction of the wind current by slowly rotating a velometer or similar device until the maximum speed is located.

(B) Orient a velometer in the direction of the wind current at each of the four corners of the machine.

(C) Record the reading for each corner.

(D) Average the values obtained at each corner and record the average wind speed.

(ii) Monitor on a weekly basis the room parameters established during the initial compliance test that are used to achieve the reduced room draft.

(2) If an enclosure (full or partial) is used to achieve a reduced room draft, the owner or operator shall conduct an initial monitoring test and, thereafter, monthly monitoring tests of the windspeed within the enclosure using the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section and a monthly visual inspection of the enclosure to determine if it is free of cracks, holes and other defects.

(i) Determine the direction of the wind current in the enclosure by slowly rotating a velometer inside the entrance to the enclosure until the maximum speed is located.

(ii) Record the maximum wind speed.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator using a carbon adsorber to comply with this subpart shall measure and record the concentration of halogenated HAP solvent in the exhaust of the carbon adsorber weekly with a colorimetric detector tube. This test shall be conducted while the solvent cleaning machine is in the working mode and is venting to the carbon adsorber. The exhaust concentration shall be determined using the procedure specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section.

(1) Use a colorimetric detector tube designed to measure a concentration of 100 parts per million by volume of solvent in air to an accuracy of +/-25 parts per million by volume.

(2) Use the colorimetric detector tube according to the manufacturer's instructions.

(3) Provide a sampling port for monitoring within the exhaust outlet of the carbon adsorber that is easily accessible and located at least 8 stack or duct diameters downstream from any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, contraction, or outlet; downstream from no other inlet; and 2 stack or duct diameters upstream from any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, contraction, inlet or outlet.

(f) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the idling emission limit standards of § 63.463 (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(2)(ii) shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.

(1) If using controls listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the monitoring frequency requirements in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.

(2) If using controls not listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall establish the monitoring frequency for each control and submit it to the Administrator for approval in the initial test report.

(g) Each owner or operator using a control device listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section can use alternative monitoring procedures approved by the Administrator.
