
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart T - National Emission Standards for Halogenated Solvent Cleaning
###### Appendix A to Subpart T of Part 63 - Test of Solvent Cleaning Procedures

A. 8.5 meters per minute (28 feet per minute).

B. 3.4 meters per minute (11 feet per minute).

C. 11 meters per minute (36 feet per minute).

D. No limit.

A. Program on computerized hoist monitors speed.

B. Can judge the speed by looking at it.

C. Measure the time it takes the parts to travel a measured distance.

A. Fans

B. Open doors

C. Open windows

D. Ventilation vents

E. All of the above

A. Idling, working and downtime

B. Precleaning, cleaning, and drying

C. Startup, shutdown, off

D. None of the above

A. When they are clean

B. At any time

C. When dripping stops

D. Either A or C is correct

A. It does not matter as long as they fit in the parts basket.

B. So that the solvent pools in the cavities where the dirt is concentrated.

C. So that solvent drains from them freely.

A. Primary condenser

B. Sump heater

C. Turn both on at same time

D. Either A or B is correct

A. Primary condenser

B. Sump heater

C. Turn both off at same time

D. Either A or B is correct

A. With leak proof couplings

B. With the end of the pipe in the solvent sump below the liquid solvent surface.

C. So long as the solvent does not spill, the method does not matter.

D. A and B

A. Pour down the drain

B. Store in closed container

C. Store in a bucket

D. A or B

A. Sponges

B. Fabrics

C. Paper

D. All of the above

A. Below room temperature

B. 50 &#xB0;F

C. Below the solvent boiling point

D. 30 percent below the solvent boiling point

A. While parts are in the cleaning machine

B. During parts entry and removal

C. During maintenance

D. During measurements for compliance purposes

E. A and C

F. B, C, and D

A. Free of holes

B. Free of cracks

C. So that they completely seal cleaner opening

D. All of the above

A. In the vapor zone

B. In the freeboard area above the vapor zone

C. Above the cleaning machine

D. In the immersion sump
