
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart T - National Emission Standards for Halogenated Solvent Cleaning
###### ยง 63.471 Facility-wide standards.

(a) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall comply with the requirements specified in this section. For purposes of this section, affected facility means all solvent cleaning machines, except solvent cleaning machines used in the manufacture and maintenance of aerospace products, solvent cleaning machines used in the manufacture of narrow tubing, and continuous web cleaning machines, located at a major source that are subject to the facility-wide limits in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and for area sources, affected facility means all solvent cleaning machines, except cold batch cleaning machines, located at an area source that are subject to the facility-wide limits in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(b)(1) Each owner or operator of an affected facility must maintain a log of solvent additions and deletions for each solvent cleaning machine.

(2) Each owner or operator of an affected facility must ensure that the total emissions of perchloroethylene (PCE), trichloroethylene (TCE) and methylene chloride (MC) used at the affected facility are equal to or less than the applicable facility-wide 12-month rolling total emission limit presented in Table 1 of this section as determined using the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall on the first operating day of every month, demonstrate compliance with the applicable facility-wide emission limit on a 12-month rolling total basis using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph, "each solvent cleaning machine" means each solvent cleaning machine that is part of an affected facility regulated by this section.

(1) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall, on the first operating day of every month, ensure that each solvent cleaning machine system contains only clean liquid solvent. This includes, but is not limited to, fresh unused solvent, recycled solvent, and used solvent that has been cleaned of soiled materials. A fill line must be indicated during the first month the measurements are made. The solvent level within the machine must be returned to the same fill-line each month, immediately prior to calculating monthly emissions as specified in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section. The solvent cleaning machine does not have to be emptied and filled with fresh unused solvent prior to the calculations.

(2) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall, on the first operating day of the month, using the records of all solvent additions and deletions for the previous month, determine solvent emissions (E) from each solvent cleaning machine using equation 10:

(3) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall, on the first operating day of the month, determine SSRusing the method specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i) or (c)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) From tests conducted using EPA reference method 25d.

(ii) By engineering calculations included in the compliance report.

(4) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall on the first operating day of the month, after 12 months of emissions data are available, determine the 12-month rolling total emissions, ET, for the 12-month period ending with the most recent month using equation 11:

(5) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall on the first operating day of the month, after 12 months of emissions data are available, determine the 12-month rolling total emissions, ET, for the 12-month period ending with the most recent month using equation 12:

(d) If the applicable facility-wide emission limit presented in Table 1 of paragraph (b)(2) is not met, an exceedance has occurred. All exceedances shall be reported as required in ยง 63.468(h).

(e) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall maintain records specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section either in electronic or written form for a period of 5 years. For purposes of this paragraph, "each solvent cleaning machine" means each solvent cleaning machine that is part of an affected facility regulated by this section.

(1) The dates and amounts of solvent that are added to each solvent cleaning machine.

(2) The solvent composition of wastes removed from each solvent cleaning machines as determined using the procedure described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(3) Calculation sheets showing how monthly emissions and the 12-month rolling total emissions from each solvent cleaning machine were determined, and the results of all calculations.

(f) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit an initial notification report to the Administrator no later than May 3, 2010. This report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator of the affected facility.

(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the solvent cleaning machine(s) that is part of an affected facility regulated by this section.

(3) A brief description of each solvent cleaning machine at the affected facility including machine type (batch vapor, batch cold, vapor in-line or cold in-line), solvent/air interface area, and existing controls.

(4) The date of installation for each solvent cleaning machine.

(5) An estimate of annual halogenated HAP solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine.

(g) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit to the Administrator an initial statement of compliance on or before May 3, 2010. The statement shall include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(3) of this section.

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator of the affected facility.

(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of each solvent cleaning machine that is part of an affected facility regulated by this section.

(3) The results of the first 12-month rolling total emissions calculation.

(h) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit a solvent emission report every year. This solvent emission report shall contain the requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(3) of this section.

(1) The average monthly solvent consumption for the affected facility in kilograms per month.

(2) The 12-month rolling total solvent emission estimates calculated each month using the method as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) This report can be combined with the annual report required in ยง 63.468(f) and (g) into a single report for each facility.
