
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.480 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Definition of affected source.

(a)The provisions of this subpart apply to each affected source. Affected sources are described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section.

(1) An affected source is either an existing affected source or a new affected source. Existing affected source is defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and new affected source is defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(2) An existing affected source is defined as each group of one or more elastomer product process units (EPPU) and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, that is not part of a new affected source, as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, that is manufacturing the same primary product and that is located at a plant site that is a major source.

(3) A new affected source is defined by the criteria in paragraph (a)(3)(i), (a)(3)(ii), or (a)(3)(iii) of this section. The situation described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section is distinct from those situations described in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) and (a)(3)(iii) of this section and from any situation described in paragraph (i) of this section.

(i) At a site without HAP emission points before June 12, 1995 (i.e., a "greenfield" site), each group of one or more EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, that is manufacturing the same primary product and that is part of a major source on which construction commenced after June 12, 1995;

(ii) A group of one or more EPPU meeting the criteria in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section; or

(iii) A reconstructed affected source meeting the criteria in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section.
