
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.480 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Storage vessel ownership determination.

(g)The owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(7) of this section to determine to which process unit a storage vessel shall be assigned. Paragraph (g)(8) of this section specifies when an owner or operator is required to redetermine to which process unit a storage vessel is assigned.

(1) If a storage vessel is already subject to another subpart of 40 CFR part 63 on September 5, 1996, that storage vessel shall be assigned to the process unit subject to the other subpart.

(2) If a storage vessel is dedicated to a single process unit, the storage vessel shall be assigned to that process unit.

(3) If a storage vessel is shared among process units, then the storage vessel shall be assigned to that process unit located on the same plant site as the storage vessel that has the greatest input into or output from the storage vessel (i.e., the process unit that has the predominant use of the storage vessel.)

(4) If predominant use cannot be determined for a storage vessel that is shared among process units and if only one of those process units is an EPPU subject to this subpart, the storage vessel shall be assigned to that EPPU.

(5) If predominant use cannot be determined for a storage vessel that is shared among process units and if more than one of the process units are EPPUs that have different primary products and that are subject to this subpart, then the owner or operator shall assign the storage vessel to any one of the EPPUs sharing the storage vessel.

(6) If the predominant use of a storage vessel varies from year to year, then predominant use shall be determined based on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding September 5, 1996 or based on the expected utilization for the 5 years following September 5, 1996, whichever is more representative of the expected operations for that storage vessel for existing affected sources, and based on the expected utilization for the first 5 years after initial start-up for new affected sources. The determination of predominant use shall be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status, as required by ยง 63.506(e)(5)(vii).

(7) Where a storage vessel is located at a major source that includes one or more process units which place material into, or receive materials from the storage vessel, but the storage vessel is located in a tank farm (including a marine tank farm), the applicability of this subpart shall be determined according to the provisions in paragraphs (g)(7)(i) through (g)(7)(iv) of this section.

(i) The storage vessel may only be assigned to a process unit that utilizes the storage vessel and does not have an intervening storage vessel for that product (or raw material, as appropriate). With respect to any process unit, an intervening storage vessel means a storage vessel connected by hard-piping both to the process unit and to the storage vessel in the tank farm so that product or raw material entering or leaving the process unit flows into (or from) the intervening storage vessel and does not flow directly into (or from) the storage vessel in the tank farm.

(ii) If there is no process unit at the major source that meets the criteria of paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section with respect to a storage vessel, this subpart does not apply to the storage vessel.

(iii) If there is only one process unit at the major source that meets the criteria of paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section with respect to a storage vessel, the storage vessel shall be assigned to that process unit. Applicability of this subpart to the storage vessel shall then be determined according to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.

(iv) If there are two or more process units at the major source that meet the criteria of paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section with respect to a storage vessel, the storage vessel shall be assigned to one of those process units according to the provisions of paragraphs (g)(3) through (g)(6) of this section. The predominant use shall be determined among only those process units that meet the criteria of paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section.

(8) If the storage vessel begins receiving material from (or sending material to) a process unit that was not included in the initial determination, or ceases to receive material from (or send material to) a process unit that was included in the initial determination, the owner or operator shall reevaluate the applicability of this subpart to that storage vessel.
