
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.480 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Compliance for flexible operation units.

(5)Owners or operators of EPPUs that are flexible operation units shall comply with the standards specified for the primary product, with the exceptions provided in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) and (f)(5)(ii) of this section.

(i) Whenever a flexible operation unit manufactures a product in which no organic HAP is used or manufactured, the owner or operator is only required to comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section to demonstrate compliance for activities associated with the manufacture of that product. This subpart does not require compliance with the provisions of subpart A of this part for activities associated with the manufacture of a product that meets the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) Whenever a flexible operation unit manufactures a product that makes it subject to subpart GGG of this part, the owner or operator is not required to comply with the provisions of this subpart during the production of that product.

(6) Owners or operators of EPPUs that are flexible operation units have the option of determining the group status of each emission point associated with the flexible operation unit, in accordance with either paragraph (f)(6)(i) or (f)(6)(ii) of this section, with the exception of batch front-end process vents. For batch front-end process vents, the owner or operator shall determine the group status in accordance with ยง 63.488.

(i) The owner or operator may determine the group status of each emission point based on emission point characteristics when the primary product is being manufactured.

(ii) The owner or operator may determine the group status of each emission point separately for each product produced by the flexible operation unit. For each product, the group status shall be determined using the emission point characteristics when that product is being manufactured and using the Group 1 criteria specified for the primary product. (Note: Under this scenario, it is possible that the group status, and therefore the requirement to achieve emission reductions, for an emission point may change depending on the product being manufactured.)

(7) Owners or operators determining the group status of emission points in flexible operation units based solely on the primary product in accordance with paragraph (f)(6)(i) of this section shall establish parameter monitoring levels, as required, in accordance with either paragraph (f)(7)(i) or (f)(7)(ii) of this section. Owners or operators determining the group status of emission points in flexible operation units based on each product in accordance with paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section shall establish parameter monitoring levels, as required, in accordance with paragraph (f)(7)(i) of this section.

(i) Establish separate parameter monitoring levels in accordance with ยง 63.505(a) for each individual product.

(ii) Establish a single parameter monitoring level (for each parameter required to be monitored at each device subject to monitoring requirements) in accordance with ยง 63.505(a) that would apply for all products.
