
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.480 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Initial determination.

(1)The owner or operator shall initially determine if a process unit is subject to the provisions of this subpart based on the primary product of the process unit in accordance with paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. If the process unit never uses or manufactures any organic HAP, regardless of the outcome of the primary product determination, the only requirements of this subpart that might apply to the process unit are contained in paragraph (b) of this section. If a flexible operation unit does not use or manufacture any organic HAP during the manufacture of one or more products, paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section applies to that flexible operation unit.

(i) If a process unit only manufactures one product, then that product shall represent the primary product of the process unit.

(ii) If a process unit produces more than one intended product at the same time, the primary product shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.

(A) The product for which the process unit has the greatest annual design capacity on a mass basis shall represent the primary product of the process unit, or

(B) If a process unit has the same maximum annual design capacity on a mass basis for two or more products, and if one of those products is an elastomer product, then the elastomer product shall represent the primary product of the process unit.

(iii) If a process unit is designed and operated as a flexible operation unit, the primary product shall be determined as specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section based on the anticipated operations for the 5 years following September 5, 1996 at existing process units, or for the first year after the process unit begins production of any product for new process units. If operations cannot be anticipated sufficiently to allow the determination of the primary product for the specified period, applicability shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(A) If the flexible operation unit will manufacture one product for the greatest operating time over the specified five year period for existing process units, or the specified one year period for new process units, then that product shall represent the primary product of the flexible operation unit.

(B) If the flexible operation unit will manufacture multiple products equally based on operating time, then the product with the greatest expected production on a mass basis over the specified five year period for existing process units, or the specified one year period for new process units shall represent the primary product of the flexible operation unit.

(iv) If, according to paragraph (f)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, the primary product of a process unit is an elastomer product, then that process unit shall be designated as an EPPU. That EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, is either an affected source, or part of an affected source comprised of other EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, subject to this subpart with the same primary product at the same plant site that is a major source. If the primary product of a process unit is determined to be a product that is not an elastomer product, then that process unit is not an EPPU.

(2) If the primary product cannot be determined for a flexible operation unit in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section, applicability shall be determined in accordance with this paragraph.

(i) If the owner or operator cannot determine the primary product in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section, but can determine that an elastomer product is not the primary product, then that flexible operation unit is not an EPPU.

(ii) If the owner or operator cannot determine the primary product in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section, and cannot determine that an elastomer product is not the primary product as specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, applicability shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) or (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(A) If the flexible operation unit is an existing process unit, the flexible operation unit shall be designated as an EPPU if an elastomer product was produced for 5 percent or greater of the total operating time of the flexible operation unit since March 9, 1999. That EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, is either an affected source, or part of an affected source comprised of other EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, subject to this subpart with the same primary product at the same plant site that is a major source. For a flexible operation unit that is designated as an EPPU in accordance with this paragraph, the elastomer product produced for the greatest amount of time since March 9, 1999 shall be designated as the primary product of the EPPU.

(B) If the flexible operation unit is a new process unit, the flexible operation unit shall be designated as an EPPU if the owner or operator anticipates that an elastomer product will be manufactured in the flexible operation unit at any time in the first year after the date the unit begins production of any product. That EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, is either an affected source, or part of an affected source comprised of other EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, subject to this subpart with the same primary product at the same plant site that is a major source. For a process unit that is designated as an EPPU in accordance with this paragraph, the elastomer product that will be produced shall be designated as the primary product of the EPPU. If more than one elastomer product will be produced, the owner or operator may select which elastomer product is designated as the primary product.
