
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.480 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Recovery operations equipment ownership determination.

(h)The owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(6) of this section to determine to which process unit recovery operations equipment shall be assigned. Paragraph (h)(7) of this section specifies when an owner or operator is required to redetermine to which process unit the recovery operations equipment is assigned.

(1) If recovery operations equipment is already subject to another subpart of 40 CFR part 63 on September 5, 1996, that recovery operations equipment shall be assigned to the process unit subject to the other subpart.

(2) If recovery operations equipment is dedicated to a single process unit, the recovery operations equipment shall be assigned to that process unit.

(3) If recovery operations equipment is shared among process units, then the recovery operations equipment shall be assigned to that process unit located on the same plant site as the recovery operations equipment that has the greatest input into or output from the recovery operations equipment (i.e., that process unit has the predominant use of the recovery operations equipment).

(4) If predominant use cannot be determined for recovery operations equipment that is shared among process units and if one of those process units is an EPPU subject to this subpart, the recovery operations equipment shall be assigned to the EPPU subject to this subpart.

(5) If predominant use cannot be determined for recovery operation equipment that is shared among process units and if more than one of the process units are EPPUs that have different primary products and that are subject to this subpart, then the owner or operator shall assign the recovery operation equipment to any one of those EPPUs.

(6) If the predominant use of recovery operations equipment varies from year to year, then the predominant use shall be determined based on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding September 5, 1996 for existing affected sources or based on the expected utilization for the 5 years following September 5, 1996 for existing affected sources, whichever is the more representative of the expected operations for the recovery operations equipment, and based on the expected utilization for the first 5 years after initial start-up for new affected sources. The determination of predominant use shall be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status, as required by ยง 63.506(e)(5)(viii).

(7) If a piece of recovery operations equipment begins receiving material from a process unit that was not included in the initial determination, or ceases to receive material from a process unit that was included in the initial determination, the owner or operator shall reevaluate the applicability of this subpart to that recovery operations equipment.
