
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.481 Compliance dates and relationship of this subpart to existing applicable rules.
####### Applicability of other requirements for heat exchange systems or waste management units.

(l)Paragraphs (l)(1) and (l)(2) of this section address instances in which certain requirements from other regulations also apply for the same heat exchange system(s) or waste management unit(s) that are subject to this subpart.

(1) After the applicable compliance date specified in this subpart, if a heat exchange system subject to this subpart is also subject to a standard identified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, compliance with the applicable provisions of the standard identified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section shall constitute compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart with respect to that heat exchange system.

(i) Subpart F of this part.

(ii) A subpart of this part which requires compliance with § 63.104 (e.g., subpart JJJ of this part).

(2) After the applicable compliance date specified in this subpart, if any waste management unit subject to this subpart is also subject to a standard identified in paragraph (l)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, compliance with the applicable provisions of the standard identified in paragraph (l)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section shall constitute compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart with respect to that waste management unit.

(i) Subpart G of this part.

(ii) A subpart of this part which requires compliance with §§ 63.132 through 63.147 (e.g., subpart JJJ of this part).

(m) All terms in this subpart that define a period of time for completion of required tasks (e.g., monthly, quarterly, annual), unless specified otherwise in the section or paragraph that imposes the requirement, refer to the standard calendar periods.

(1) Notwithstanding time periods specified in this subpart for completion of required tasks, such time periods may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator, as specified in subpart A of this part (e.g., a period could begin on the compliance date or another date, rather than on the first day of the standard calendar period). For each time period that is changed by agreement, the revised period shall remain in effect until it is changed. A new request is not necessary for each recurring period.

(2) Where the period specified for compliance is a standard calendar period, if the initial compliance date occurs after the beginning of the period, compliance shall be required according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) or (m)(2)(ii) of this section, as appropriate.

(i) Compliance shall be required before the end of the standard calendar period within which the compliance deadline occurs, if there remain at least 2 weeks for tasks that shall be performed monthly, at least 1 month for tasks that shall be performed each quarter, or at least 3 months for tasks that shall be performed annually; or

(ii) In all other cases, compliance shall be required before the end of the first full standard calendar period after the period within which the initial compliance deadline occurs.

(3) In all instances where a provision of this subpart requires completion of a task during each of multiple successive periods, an owner or operator may perform the required task at any time during the specified period, provided that the task is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the task during the previous period.
