
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Confidentiality of Business Information
###### ยง 2.310 Special rules governing certain information obtained under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended.
####### Substantive criteria for use in confidentiality determinations.

(e)Section 2.208 applies without change to information to which this section applies; however, no information to which this section applies is voluntarily submitted information.

(f) [Reserved]

(g)(1) Under section 104(e)(7)(A) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(e)(7)(A)) any information to which this section applies may be disclosed by EPA because of the relevance of the information in a proceeding under the Act, notwithstanding the fact that the information otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart. Disclosure of information to which this section applies because of its relevance in a proceeding shall be made only in accordance with this paragraph (g).

(2) The provisions of ยง 2.301(g)(2) are to be used as paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(3) In connection with any proceeding involving a decision by a presiding officer after an evidentiary or adjudicatory hearing, except with respect to litigation conducted by a Federal court, information to which this section applies which may be entitled to confidential treatment may be made available to the public, or to one or more parties of record to the proceeding, upon EPA's initiative, under this paragraph (g)(3). An EPA office proposing disclosure of information under this paragraph (g)(3) shall so notify the presiding officer in writing. Upon receipt of such a notification, the presiding officer shall notify each affected business that disclosure under this paragraph (g)(3) has been proposed, and shall afford each such business a period for comment found by the presiding officer to be reasonable under the circumstances. Information may be disclosed under this paragraph (g)(3) only if, after consideration of any timely comments submitted by the business, the EPA office determines in writing that, for reasons directly associated with the conduct of the proceeding, the contemplated disclosure would serve the public interest, and the presiding officer determines in writing that the information is relevant to a matter in controversy in the proceeding. The presiding officer may condition disclosure of the information to a party of record on the making of such protective arrangements and commitments as he finds to be warranted. Disclosure to one or more parties of record, under protective arrangements or commitments, shall not, of itself, affect the eligibility of information for confidential treatment under the other provisions of this subpart. Any affected business shall be given at least 5 days notice by the presiding officer prior to making the information available to the public or to one or more of the parties of record to the proceeding.

(4) In connection with any proceeding involving a decision by a presiding officer after an evidentiary or adjudicatory hearing, except with respect to litigation conducted by a Federal court, information to which this section applies which may be entitled to confidential treatment may be made available to one or more parties of record to the proceeding, upon request of a party, under this paragraph (g)(4). A party of record seeking disclosure of information shall direct his request to the presiding officer. Upon receipt of such a request, the presiding officer shall notify each affected business that disclosure under this paragraph (g)(4) has been requested, and shall afford each such business a period for comment found by the presiding officer to be reasonable under the circumstances. Information may be disclosed to a party of record under this paragraph (g)(4) only if, after consideration of any timely comments submitted by the business, the presiding officer determines in writing that:

(i) The party of record has satisfactorily shown that with respect to a significant matter which is in controversy in the proceeding, the party's ability to participate effectively in the proceeding will be significantly impaired unless the information is disclosed to him; and

(ii) Any harm to an affected business that would result from the disclosure is likely to be outweighed by the benefit to the proceeding and the public interest that would result from the disclosure.

(5) In connection with cost recovery pre-litigation settlement negotiations under sections 107 or 122 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9607, 9622), any information to which this section applies that may be entitled to confidential treatment may be made available to potentially responsible parties pursuant to a contractual agreement to protect the information.

(6) In connection with any cost recovery proceeding under section 107 of the Act involving a decision by a presiding officer after an evidentiary or adjudicatory hearing, any information to which this section applies that may be entitled to confidential treatment may be made available to one or more parties of record to the proceeding, upon EPA's initiative, under this paragraph (g)(6). Such disclosure must be made pursuant to a stipulation and protective order signed by all parties to whom disclosure is made and by the presiding officer.
