
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.485 Continuous front-end process vent provisions.
####### Internal combustion engines.

(s)In addition to the three options for the control of a Group 1 continuous front-end process vent listed in § 63.113(a)(1) through (3), an owner or operator will be permitted to route emissions of organic HAP to an internal combustion engine, provided the conditions listed in paragraphs (s)(1) through (s)(5) of this section are met.

(1) The vent stream routed to the internal combustion engine shall not be a halogenated continuous front-end process vent stream.

(2) The organic HAP is introduced with the primary fuel.

(3) The internal combustion engine is operating at all times that organic HAP emissions are being routed to it. The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the internal combustion engine is operating by continuously monitoring the on/off status of the internal combustion engine.

(4) The owner or operator shall maintain hourly records verifying that the internal combustion engine was operating at all times that emissions were routed to it.

(5) The owner or operator shall include in the Periodic Report a report of all times that the internal combustion engine was not operating while emissions were being routed to it.

(6) If an internal combustion engine meeting the requirements of paragraphs (s)(1) through (5) of this section is used to comply with the provisions of § 63.113(a), the internal combustion engine is exempt from the source testing requirements of § 63.116.

(t) When the provisions of § 63.116(c)(3) and (c)(4) specify that Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used, Method 18 or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A may be used for the purposes of this subpart. The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall conform with the requirements in paragraphs (t)(1) and (t)(2) of this section.

(1) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.

(2) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(u) In § 63.116(a), instead of the reference to § 63.11(b), the requirements in § 63.504(c) shall apply.

(v) When a combustion device is used to comply with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard specified in § 63.113(a)(2), the correction to 3 percent oxygen is only required when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, the correction to 3 percent oxygen specified in § 63.116(c)(3) and (c)(3)(iii) is only required when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart. Finally, when a combustion device is used to comply with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard specified in § 63.113(a)(2), an owner or operator shall record and report the outlet concentration required in § 63.117(a)(4)(ii) and (a)(4)(iv) corrected to 3 percent oxygen when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart. When supplemental combustion air is not used to combust the emissions, an owner or operator may record and report the outlet concentration required in § 63.117(a)(4)(ii) and (a)(4)(iv) on an uncorrected basis or corrected to 3 percent oxygen, for the purposes of this subpart.
