
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.485 Continuous front-end process vent provisions.
####### 4

() Estimation of HCl concentrations based on grab samples of the liquid or vapor.

(C) Each month, record the mass of elastomer product produced.

(D) Each month, calculate and record the sum of the HCl emissions and the mass of elastomer produced for the previous calendar 12-month period.

(E) Each month, divide the total mass of HCl emitted for the previous calendar 12-month period by the total mass of elastomer produced during this 12-month period. This value must be recorded in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(vi) of this section and reported in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(iv) of this section.

(vi) If the front-end process operation is subject to an HCl emission limitation in paragraph (q)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (q)(1)(vi)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) The applicable HCl emission limitation determined in accordance with paragraphs (q)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(B) The HCl emissions from all front-end process operations for each month, along with documentation of all calculations, and other information used in the engineering assessment to estimate these emissions.

(C) The mass of elastomer product produced each month.

(D) The total mass of HCl emitted for each 12-month period divided by the total mass of elastomer produced during the 12-month period, determined in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(v) of this section.

(2) Group 1 halogenated continuous front-end process vents at new and existing affected sources producing an elastomer using a gas-phased reaction process, provided that the requirements of § 63.113(a)(2); § 63.113(a)(3); § 63.113(b) and the associated testing requirements in § 63.116; or § 63.11(b) and § 63.504(c) are met.

(r) The compliance date for continuous front-end process vents subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.481.
