
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.484 Storage vessel provisions.

(a) This section applies to each storage vessel that is assigned to an affected source, as determined by § 63.480(g). Except for those storage vessels exempted by paragraph (b) of this section, the owner or operator of affected sources shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.119 through 63.123 and 63.148, with the differences noted in paragraphs (c) through (s) of this section, for the purposes of this subpart.

(b) Storage vessels described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section are exempt from the storage vessel requirements of this section.

(1) Storage vessels containing styrene-butadiene latex;

(2) Storage vessels containing latex products other than styrene-butadiene latex, located downstream of the stripping operations;

(3) Storage vessels containing high conversion latex products;

(4) Storage vessels located downstream of the stripping operations at affected sources subject to the back-end residual organic HAP limitation located in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), that are complying through the use of stripping technology, as specified in § 63.495;

(5) Storage vessels containing styrene;

(6) Storage vessels containing acrylamide; and

(7) Storage vessels containing epichlorohydrin.

(c) When the term "storage vessel" is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(d) When the term "Group 1 storage vessel" is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(e) When the term "Group 2 storage vessel" is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(f) When the emissions averaging provisions of § 63.150 are referred to in § 63.119 and § 63.123, the emissions averaging provisions contained in § 63.503 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(g) When December 31, 1992 is referred to in § 63.119, June 12, 1995 shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart.

(h) When April 22, 1994 is referred to in § 63.119, June 19, 2000 shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart.

(i) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with this paragraph instead of § 63.120(d)(1)(ii) for the purposes of this subpart. If the control device used to comply with § 63.119(e) is also used to comply with any of the requirements found in §§ 63.485 through 63.501, the performance test required in or accepted by the applicable requirements in §§ 63.485 through 63.501 is acceptable for demonstrating compliance with § 63.119(e), for the purposes of this subpart. The owner or operator will not be required to prepare a design evaluation for the control device as described in § 63.120(d)(1)(i), if the performance test meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section.

(1) The performance test demonstrates that the control device achieves greater than or equal to the required control efficiency specified in § 63.119(e)(1) or § 63.119(e)(2), as applicable; and

(2) The performance test is submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5).

(j) When the term "range" is used in §§ 63.120(d)(3)(i), 63.120(d)(5), and 63.122(g)(2), the term "level" shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart.

(k) For purposes of this subpart, the monitoring plan required by § 63.120(d)(2) shall specify for which control devices the owner or operator has selected to follow the procedures for continuous monitoring specified in § 63.505. For those control devices for which the owner or operator has selected to not follow the procedures for continuous monitoring specified in § 63.505, the monitoring plan shall include a description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control device is being properly operated and maintained, an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters), and the frequency with which monitoring will be performed (e.g., when the liquid level in the storage vessel is being raised), as specified in § 63.120(d)(2)(i).

(l) For purposes of this subpart, the monitoring plan required by § 63.122(b) shall be included in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5).

(m) When the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.152(b) are referred to in §§ 63.120, 63.122, and 63.123, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(5) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(n) When the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) are referred to in §§ 63.120 and 63.122, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(6) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(o) When other reports as required in § 63.152(d) are referred to in § 63.122, the reporting requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(7) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(p) When the Initial Notification requirements contained in § 63.151(b) are referred to in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, for the purposes of this subpart the owner or operator of an affected source need not comply.

(q) When the determination of equivalence criteria in § 63.102(b) are referred to in § 63.121(a), the provisions in § 63.6(g) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(r) When § 63.119(a) requires compliance according to the schedule provisions in § 63.100, owners and operators of affected sources shall instead comply with the requirements in §§ 63.119(a)(1) through 63.119(a)(4) by the compliance date for storage vessels, which is specified in § 63.481.

(s) In § 63.120(e)(1), instead of the reference to § 63.11(b), the requirements of § 63.504(c) shall apply.
