
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.487 Batch front-end process vents - reference control technology.
####### Group 2 batch front-end process vents with annual emissions greater than or equal to the level specified in § 63.488(d).

(f)The owner or operator of a Group 2 batch front-end process vent with annual emissions greater than or equal to the level specified in § 63.488(d) shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (f)(1), (f)(2), or (h) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iv) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall establish a batch mass input limitation that ensures that the Group 2 batch front-end process vent does not become a Group 1 batch front-end process vent.

(ii) Over the course of the affected source's "year," as reported in the Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.506(e)(5)(ix), the owner or operator shall not charge a mass of HAP or material to the batch unit operation that is greater than the level established as the batch mass input limitation.

(iii) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.491(d)(2), and the reporting requirements in § 63.492(a)(3), (b) and (c).

(iv) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with § 63.488(i) when process changes are made.

(2) Comply with the requirements of this subpart for Group 1 batch front-end process vents.
