
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.488 Methods and procedures for batch front-end process vent group determination.
####### Determination of annual emissions.

(b)The owner or operator shall calculate annual uncontrolled TOC or organic HAP emissions for each batch front-end process vent using the methods described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section. To estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode, owners or operators may use either the emissions estimation equations in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section, or direct measurement as specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. Engineering assessment may also be used to estimate emissions from a batch emission episode, but only under the conditions described in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. In using the emissions estimation equations in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section, individual component vapor pressure and molecular weight may be obtained from standard references. Methods to determine individual HAP partial pressures in multicomponent systems are described in paragraph (b)(9) of this section. Other variables in the emissions estimation equations may be obtained through direct measurement, as defined in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, through engineering assessment, as defined in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, by process knowledge, or by any other appropriate means. Assumptions used in determining these variables must be documented. Once emissions for the batch emission episode have been determined using either the emissions estimation equations, direct measurement, or engineering assessment, emissions from a batch cycle shall be calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section, and annual emissions from the batch front-end process vent shall be calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(8) of this section.

(1) TOC or organic HAP emissions from the purging of an empty vessel shall be calculated using Equation 1. This equation does not take into account evaporation of any residual liquid in the vessel.

(2) TOC or organic HAP emissions from the purging of a filled vessel shall be calculated using Equation 2.

(3) Emissions from vapor displacement due to transfer of material into or out of a vessel shall be calculated using Equation 3.

(4) Emissions caused by the heating of a vessel shall be calculated using the procedures in either paragraph (b)(4)(i), (b)(4)(ii), or (b)(4)(iii) of this section, as appropriate.

(i) If the final temperature to which the vessel contents is heated is lower than 50 K below the boiling point of the HAP in the vessel, then emissions shall be calculated using the equations in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) through (b)(4)(i)(D) of this section.

(A) Emissions caused by heating of a vessel shall be calculated using Equation 4. The assumptions made for this calculation are atmospheric pressure of 760 mm Hg and the displaced gas is always saturated with VOC vapor in equilibrium with the liquid mixture.

(B) The moles of gas displaced, Δ&#x3B7;, is calculated using equation 5.

(C) The initial and final pressure of the noncondensible gas in the vessel shall be calculated using equation 6.

(D) The weighted average molecular weight of TOC or organic HAP in the displaced gas, MW, shall be calculated using equation 7:

(ii) If the vessel contents are heated to a temperature greater than 50 K below the boiling point, then emissions from the heating of a vessel shall be calculated as the sum of the emissions calculated in accordance with paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) and (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.

(A) For the interval from the initial temperature to the temperature 50 K below the boiling point, emissions shall be calculated using Equation 4, where Tis the temperature 50 K below the boiling point.

(B) For the interval from the temperature 50 K below the boiling point to the final temperature, emissions shall be calculated as the summation of emissions for each 5 K increment, where the emissions for each increment shall be calculated using Equation 4.
