
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.487 Batch front-end process vents - reference control technology.
####### Combination of batch front-end process vents or aggregate batch vent streams with continuous front-end process vents.

(e)If a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous front-end process vent, the owner or operator shall determine whether the combined vent stream is subject to the provisions of §§ 63.486 through 63.492 according to paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.

(1) A batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream combined with a continuous front-end process vent stream is not subject to the provisions of §§ 63.486 through 63.492, if the requirements in paragraph (e)(1)(i) and in either paragraph (e)(1)(ii) or (e)(1)(iii) are met.

(i) The only emissions to the atmosphere from the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream prior to being combined with the continuous front-end process vent are from equipment subject to § 63.502.

(ii) The batch front-end vent stream or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 1 continuous front-end process vent stream prior to the combined vent stream being routed to a control device. In this paragraph (e)(1)(ii), the definition of control device as it relates to continuous front-end process vents shall be used. Furthermore, the combined vent stream discussed in this paragraph (e)(1)(ii) shall be subject to § 63.485(o)(1).

(iii) The batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous front-end process vent stream prior to being routed to a recovery device. In this paragraph (e)(1)(iii), the definition of recovery device as it relates to continuous front-end process vents shall be used. Furthermore, the combined vent stream discussed in this paragraph (e)(1)(iii) shall be subject to § 63.485(o)(2).

(2) If the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent, the group status of the batch front-end process vent shall be determined prior to its combination with the Group 2 continuous front-end process vent, in accordance with § 63.488, and the combined vent stream shall be subject to the requirements for aggregate batch vent streams in §§ 63.486 through 63.492.
