
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.487 Batch front-end process vents - reference control technology.
####### Group 2 batch front-end process vents with annual emissions less than the level specified in § 63.488(d).

(g)The owner or operator of a Group 2 batch front-end process vent with annual organic HAP emissions less than the level specified in § 63.488(d), shall comply with paragraph (g)(1), (g)(2), (g)(3), or (g)(4) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(iv) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall establish a batch mass input limitation that ensures emissions do not exceed the appropriate level specified in § 63.488(d).

(ii) Over the course of the affected source's "year," as reported in the Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.506(e)(5)(ix), the owner or operator shall not charge a mass of HAP or material to the batch unit operation that is greater than the level established as the batch mass input limitation.

(iii) The owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.491(d)(1), and the reporting requirements in § 63.492(a)(2), (b), and (c).

(iv) The owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with § 63.488(i) when process changes are made.

(2) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section;

(3) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section; or

(4) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section.

(h) Owners or operators of Group 2 batch front-end process vents are not required to establish a batch mass input limitation if the batch front-end process vent is Group 2 at the conditions specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section and if the owner or operator complies with the recordkeeping provisions in §§ 63.491(a)(1) through (3), 63.491(a)(9), and 63.491(a)(4) through (6) as applicable, and the reporting requirements in § 63.492(a)(5) and (6) and (b).

(1) Emissions for the single highest-HAP recipe (considering all products that are produced in the batch unit operation) are used in the group determination; and

(2) The group determination assumes that the batch unit operation is operating at the maximum design capacity of the EPPU for 12 months.
