
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.488 Methods and procedures for batch front-end process vent group determination.
####### Determination of average batch vent flow rate and annual average batch vent flow rate.

(e)The owner or operator shall determine the average batch vent flow rate for each batch emission episode in accordance with one of the procedures provided in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(2) of this section. The annual average batch vent flow rate for a batch front-end process vent shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(1) Determination of the average batch vent flow rate for a batch emission episode by direct measurement shall be made using the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) of this section.

(i) The vent stream volumetric flow rate (FR) for a batch emission episode, in scmm at 20 &#xB0;C, shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.

(ii) The volumetric flow rate of a representative batch emission episode shall be measured every 15 minutes.

(iii) The average batch vent flow rate for a batch emission episode shall be calculated using Equation 13.

(2) The average batch vent flow rate for a batch emission episode may be determined by engineering assessment, as defined in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section. All data, assumptions, and procedures used shall be documented.

(3) The annual average batch vent flow rate for a batch front-end process vent shall be calculated using Equation 14.
