
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.488 Methods and procedures for batch front-end process vent group determination.
####### 3

() If the vessel contents are heated to the boiling point and the vessel is not operating with a condenser, the final temperature for the final increment shall be the temperature 5 K below the boiling point, even if the last increment is less than 5 K.

(iii) If the vessel is operating with a condenser, and the vessel contents are heated to the boiling point, the primary condenser is considered part of the process, as described in ยง 63.488(a)(2). Emissions shall be calculated as the sum of Equation 4, which calculates emissions due to heating the vessel contents to the temperature of the gas exiting the condenser, and Equation 3, which calculates emissions due to the displacement of the remaining saturated noncondensible gas in the vessel. The final temperature in Equation 4 shall be set equal to the exit gas temperature of the condenser. Equation 3 shall be used as written below in Equation 3a, using free space volume, and Tis set equal to the condenser exit gas temperature.

(5) The owner or operator may estimate annual emissions for a batch emission episode by direct measurement. If direct measurement is used, the owner or operator shall either perform a test for the duration of a representative batch emission episode or perform a test during only those periods of the batch emission episode for which the emission rate for the entire episode can be determined or for which the emissions are greater than the average emission rate of the batch emission episode. The owner or operator choosing either of these options shall develop an emission profile for the entire batch emission episode, based on either process knowledge or test data collected, to demonstrate that test periods are representative. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances and process stoichiometry. Previous test results may be used provided the results are still relevant to the current batch front-end process vent conditions. Performance tests shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(iii) of this section. The procedures in either paragraph (b)(5)(iv) or (b)(5)(v) of this section shall be used to calculate the emissions per batch emission episode.

(i) Method 1 or 1A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites if the flow measuring device is a pitot tube. No traverse is necessary when Method 2A or 2D, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is used to determine gas stream volumetric flow rate.

(ii) Annual average batch vent flow rate shall be determined as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(iii) Method 18 or Method 25A, of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used to determine the concentration of TOC or organic HAP, as appropriate. The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall conform with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(5)(iii)(A) and (b)(5)(iii)(B) of this section.

(A) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.

(B) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(iv) If an integrated sample is taken over the entire batch emission episode to determine average batch vent concentration of TOC or total organic HAP, emissions shall be calculated using Equation 8.

(v) If grab samples are taken to determine the average batch vent concentration of TOC or total organic HAP, emissions shall be calculated according to paragraphs (b)(5)(v)(A) and (b)(5)(v)(B) of this section.

(A) For each measurement point, the emission rate shall be calculated using Equation 9.

(B) The emissions per batch emission episode shall be calculated using Equation 10.

(6) Engineering assessment may be used to estimate emissions from a batch emission episode, if the criteria in paragraph (b)(6)(i) are met. Data or other information used to demonstrate that the criteria in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section have been met shall be reported as specified in paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section. Paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section defines engineering assessment, for the purposes of estimating emissions from a batch emissions episode. All data, assumptions, and procedures used in an engineering assessment shall be documented.

(i) If the criteria specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i)(A), (B), or (C) are met for a specific batch emission episode, the owner or operator may use engineering assessment, as described in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, to estimate emissions from that batch emission episode, and the owner or operator is not required to use the emissions estimation equations described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section to estimate emissions from that batch emission episode.
