
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.488 Methods and procedures for batch front-end process vent group determination.
####### 4

() Estimation of TOC or organic HAP concentrations based on grab samples of the liquid or vapor.

(iii) Data or other information used to demonstrate that the criteria in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section have been met shall be reported as specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(iii)(A) and (b)(6)(iii)(B) of this section.

(A) Data or other information used to demonstrate that the criteria in paragraph (b)(6)(i)(A) or (b)(6)(i)(B) of this section have been met shall be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status, as required in ยง 63.492(a)(6).

(B) The request for approval to use engineering assessment to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode as allowed under paragraph (b)(6)(i)(C) of this section, and sufficient data or other information for demonstrating to the Administrator that engineering assessment is an accurate means of estimating emissions for that particular batch emissions episode shall be submitted with the Precompliance Report, as required in ยง 63.506(e)(3).

(7) For each batch front-end process vent, the TOC or organic HAP emissions associated with a single batch cycle shall be calculated using Equation 11.

(8) Annual TOC or organic HAP emissions from a batch front-end process vent shall be calculated using Equation 12.

(9) Individual HAP partial pressures in multicomponent systems shall be determined using the appropriate method specified in paragraphs (b)(9)(i) through (b)(9)(iii) of this section.

(i) If the components are miscible, use Raoult's law to calculate the partial pressures;

(ii) If the solution is a dilute aqueous mixture, use Henry's law constants to calculate partial pressures;

(iii) If Raoult's law or Henry's law are not appropriate or available, the owner or operator may use any of the options in paragraphs (b)(9)(iii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.

(A) Experimentally obtained activity coefficients, Henry's law constants, or solubility data;

(B) Models, such as group-contribution models, to predict activity coefficients; or

(C) Assume the components of the system behave independently and use the summation of all vapor pressures from the HAP as the total HAP partial pressure.

(c) [Reserved]
