
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.488 Methods and procedures for batch front-end process vent group determination.
####### Process changes affecting Group 2 batch front-end process vents.

(i)Whenever process changes, as described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, are made that affect one or more Group 2 batch front-end process vents and that could reasonably be expected to change one or more Group 2 batch front-end process vents to Group 1 batch front-end process vents or that could reasonably be expected to reduce the batch mass input limitation for one or more Group 2 batch front-end process vents, the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section.

(1) Examples of process changes include the changes listed in paragraphs (i)(1)(i), (i)(1)(ii), and (i)(1)(iii) of this section.

(i) For all batch front-end process vents, examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, changes in feedstock type or catalyst type; or whenever there is replacement, removal, or modification of recovery equipment considered part of the batch unit operation as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; or increases in production capacity or production rate. For purposes of this paragraph, process changes do not include: Process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; and changes that are within the margin of variation on which the original group determination was based.

(ii) For Group 2 batch front-end process vents where the group determination and batch mass input limitation are based on the expected mix of products, the situations described in paragraphs (i)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section shall be considered to be process changes.

(A) The production of combinations of products not considered in establishing the batch mass input limitation.

(B) The production of a recipe of a product with a total mass of HAP charged to the reactor during the production of a single batch of product that is higher than the total mass of HAP for the recipe used as the single highest-HAP recipe for that product in the batch mass input limitation determination.

(iii) For Group 2 batch front-end process vents where the group determination and batch mass input limitation are based on the single highest-HAP recipe (considering all products produced or processed in the batch unit operation), the production of a recipe having a total mass of HAP charged to the reactor (during the production of a single batch of product) that is higher than the total mass of HAP for the highest-HAP recipe used in the batch mass input limitation determination shall be considered to be a process change.

(2) For each batch front-end process vent affected by a process change, the owner or operator shall redetermine the group status by repeating the procedures specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, as applicable. Alternatively, engineering assessment, as described in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, may be used to determine the effects of the process change.

(3) Based on the results of paragraph (i)(2) of this section, owners or operators of affected sources shall comply with either paragraph (i)(3)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) If the group redetermination described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section indicates that a Group 2 batch front-end process vent has become a Group 1 batch front-end process vent as a result of the process change, the owner or operator of the affected source shall submit a report as specified in § 63.492(b) and shall comply with the Group 1 provisions in §§ 63.487 through 63.492 in accordance with § 63.480(i)(2)(ii) or (i)(2)(iii), as applicable.

(ii) If the redetermination described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section indicates that a Group 2 batch front-end process vent with annual emissions less than the applicable level specified in paragraph (d) of this section, and that is in compliance with § 63.487(g), now has annual emissions greater than or equal to the applicable level specified by paragraph (d) of this section but remains a Group 2 batch front-end process vent, the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the provisions in paragraphs (i)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Redetermine the batch mass input limitation;

(B) Submit a report as specified in § 63.492(c); and

(C) Comply with § 63.487(f), beginning with the year following the submittal of the report submitted according to paragraph (i)(3)(ii)(B) of this section.

(iii) If the group redetermination described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section indicates no change in group status or no change in the relation of annual emissions to the levels specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with paragraphs (i)(3)(iii)(A) and (i)(3)(iii)(B) of this section.

(A) The owner or operator shall redetermine the batch mass input limitation; and

(B) The owner or operator shall submit the new batch mass input limitation in accordance with § 63.492(c).
