
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.488 Methods and procedures for batch front-end process vent group determination.
####### Determination of halogenation status.

(h)To determine whether a batch front-end process vent or an aggregate batch vent stream is halogenated, the annual mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds shall be calculated using the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(3) of this section.

(1) The concentration of each organic compound containing halogen atoms (ppmv, by compound) for each batch emission episode shall be determined after the last recovery device (if any recovery devices are present), based on any one of the following procedures:

(i) Process knowledge that no halogens or hydrogen halides are present in the process may be used to demonstrate that a batch emission episode is nonhalogenated. Halogens or hydrogen halides that are unintentionally introduced into the process shall not be considered in making a finding that a batch emission episode is nonhalogenated.

(ii) Engineering assessment as discussed in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section.

(iii) Average concentration of organic compounds containing halogens and hydrogen halides as measured by Method 26 or 26A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(iv) Any other method or data that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301, 40 CFR part 63, appendix A.

(2) The annual mass emissions of halogen atoms for a batch front-end process vent shall be calculated using Equation 16.

(3) The annual mass emissions of halogen atoms for an aggregate batch vent stream shall be the sum of the annual mass emissions of halogen atoms for all batch front-end process vents included in the aggregate batch vent stream.
