
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.489 Batch front-end process vents - monitoring equipment.
####### Monitoring of bypass lines.

(d)The owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream using a vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from a control device used to comply with § 63.487(a) or § 63.487(b) shall comply with either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section. Equipment such as low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and pressure relief valves needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph (d).

(1) Properly install, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes. Records shall be generated as specified in § 63.491(e)(3). The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert emissions away from the control device and to the atmosphere; or

(2) Secure the bypass line damper or valve in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the damper or valve is maintained in the non-diverting position and emissions are not diverted through the bypass line. Records shall be generated as specified in § 63.491(e)(4).
