
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.489 Batch front-end process vents - monitoring equipment.
####### Batch front-end process vent and aggregate batch vent stream monitoring equipment.

(b)The monitoring equipment specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section shall be installed as specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The parameters to be monitored are specified in Table 6 of this subpart.

(1) Where an incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.

(i) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, the temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.

(ii) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.

(2) Where a flare is used, a device (including, but not limited to, a thermocouple, ultra-violet beam sensor, or infrared sensor) capable of continuously detecting the presence of a pilot flame is required.

(3) Where a boiler or process heater of less than 44 megawatts design heat input capacity is used, a temperature monitoring device in the firebox equipped with a continuous recorder is required. Any boiler or process heater in which all batch front-end process vents or aggregate batch vent streams are introduced with the primary fuel or are used as the primary fuel is exempt from this requirement.

(4) Where a scrubber is used with an incinerator, boiler, or process heater in concert with the combustion of halogenated batch front-end process vents or halogenated aggregate batch vent streams, the following monitoring equipment is required for the scrubber:

(i) A pH monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder to monitor the pH of the scrubber effluent; and

(ii) A flow measurement device equipped with a continuous recorder shall be located at the scrubber influent for liquid flow. Gas stream flow shall be determined using one of the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (b)(4)(ii)(C) of this section.

(A) The owner or operator may determine gas stream flow using the design blower capacity, with appropriate adjustments for pressure drop.

(B) If the scrubber is subject to regulations in 40 CFR parts 264 through 266 that have required a determination of the liquid to gas (L/G) ratio prior to the applicable compliance date for this subpart, the owner or operator may determine gas stream flow by the method that had been utilized to comply with those regulations. A determination that was conducted prior to the compliance date for this subpart may be utilized to comply with this subpart if it is still representative.

(C) The owner or operator may prepare and implement a gas stream flow determination plan that documents an appropriate method which will be used to determine the gas stream flow. The plan shall require determination of gas stream flow by a method which will at least provide a value for either a representative or the highest gas stream flow anticipated in the scrubber during representative operating conditions. The plan shall include a description of the methodology to be followed and an explanation of how the selected methodology will reliably determine the gas stream flow, and a description of the records that will be maintained to document the determination of gas stream flow. The owner or operator shall maintain the plan as specified in ยง 63.506(a).

(5) Where an absorber is used, a scrubbing liquid temperature monitoring device and a specific gravity monitoring device are required, each equipped with a continuous recorder.

(6) Where a condenser is used, a condenser exit temperature (product side) monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.

(7) Where a carbon adsorber is used, an integrating regeneration steam flow, nitrogen flow, or pressure monitoring device having an accuracy of +/-10 percent of the flow rate, level, or pressure, or better, capable of recording the total regeneration steam flow or nitrogen flow, or pressure (gauge or absolute) for each regeneration cycle; and a carbon bed temperature monitoring device, capable of recording the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle are required.

(8) As an alternate to paragraphs (b)(5) through (b)(7) of this section, the owner or operator may install an organic monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder.
