
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.490 Batch front-end process vents - performance test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
####### Batch front-end process vent testing and procedures for compliance with ยง 63.487(a)(2).

(c)Except as provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, an owner or operator using a control device to comply with ยง 63.487(a)(2) shall conduct a performance test using the procedures specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in order to determine the control efficiency of the control device. An owner or operator shall determine the percent reduction for the batch cycle using the control efficiency of the control device as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section and the procedures specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Compliance may be based on either total organic HAP or TOC. For purposes of this paragraph (c), the term "batch emission episode" shall have the meaning "period of the batch emission episode selected for control," which may be the entire batch emission episode or may only be a portion of the batch emission episode.

(1) Performance tests shall be conducted as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(v) of this section.

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section, a test shall be performed for the entire period of each batch emission episode in the batch cycle that the owner or operator selects to control as part of achieving the required 90 percent emission reduction for the batch cycle specified in ยง 63.487(a)(2). Only one test is required for each batch emission episode selected by the owner or operator for control. The owner or operator shall follow the procedures listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(B) through (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section.

(A) Alternatively, an owner or operator may choose to test only those periods of the batch emission episode during which the emission rate for the entire episode can be determined or during which the emissions are greater than the average emission rate of the batch emission episode. The owner or operator choosing either of these options shall develop an emission profile for the entire batch emission episode, based on either process knowledge or test data collected, to demonstrate that test periods are representative. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances and process stoichiometry. Previous test results may be used, provided the results are still relevant to the current batch front-end process vent conditions.
