
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.490 Batch front-end process vents - performance test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
####### Batch process vent and aggregate batch vent stream testing for compliance with § 63.487(c) [halogenated emission streams].

(d)An owner or operator controlling halogenated emissions in compliance with § 63.487(c) shall conduct a performance test to determine compliance with the control efficiency specified in § 63.487(c)(1) or the emission limit specified in § 63.487(c)(2) for hydrogen halides and halogens.

(1) Sampling sites shall be located at the inlet and outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device used to reduce halogen emissions in complying with § 63.487(c)(1) or at the outlet of the halogen reduction device used to reduce halogen emissions in complying with § 63.487(c)(2).

(2) The mass emissions of each hydrogen halide and halogen compound for the batch cycle or aggregate batch vent stream shall be calculated from the measured concentrations and the gas stream flow rate(s) determined by the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(i) Method 26 or Method 26A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used to determine the concentration, in Mg per dry scm, of total hydrogen halides and halogens present in the emissions stream.

(ii) Gas stream volumetric flow rate and/or average batch vent flow rate shall be determined as specified in § 63.488(e).

(3) To determine compliance with the percent reduction specified in § 63.487(c)(1), the mass emissions for any hydrogen halides and halogens present at the inlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device shall be summed together. The mass emissions of any hydrogen halides or halogens present at the outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device shall be summed together. Percent reduction shall be determined by subtracting the outlet mass emissions from the inlet mass emissions and then dividing the result by the inlet mass emissions and multiplying by 100.

(4) To determine compliance with the emission limit specified in § 63.487(c)(2), the annual mass emissions for any hydrogen halides and halogens present at the outlet of the halogen reduction device and prior to any combustion device shall be summed together and compared to the emission limit specified in § 63.487(c)(2).

(5) The owner or operator may use any other method to demonstrate compliance if the method or data has been validated according to the applicable procedures of Method 301, 40 CFR part 63, appendix A.
