
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.491 Batch front-end process vents - recordkeeping requirements.
####### Group determination records for batch front-end process vents.

(a)Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(7) and (a)(8) of this section, each owner or operator of an affected source shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section for each batch front-end process vent subject to the group determination procedures of § 63.488. Except for paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the records required to be maintained by this paragraph are limited to the information developed and used to make the group determination under §§ 63.488(b) through 63.488(g), as appropriate. If an owner or operator did not need to develop certain information (e.g., annual average batch vent flow rate) to determine the group status, this paragraph does not require that additional information be developed. Paragraph (a)(9) of this section specifies the recordkeeping requirements for Group 2 batch front-end process vents that are exempt from the batch mass input limitation provisions, as allowed under § 63.487(h).

(1) An identification of each unique product that has emissions from one or more batch emission episodes venting from the batch front-end process vent, along with an identification of the single highest-HAP recipe for each product and the mass of HAP fed to the reactor for that recipe.

(2) A description of, and an emission estimate for, each batch emission episode, and the total emissions associated with one batch cycle, as described in either paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section, as appropriate.

(i) If the group determination is based on the expected mix of products, records shall include the emission estimates for the single highest-HAP recipe of each unique product identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section that was considered in making the group determination under § 63.488.

(ii) If the group determination is based on the single highest-HAP recipe (considering all products produced or processed in the batch unit operation), records shall include the emission estimates for the single highest-HAP recipe.

(3) Total annual uncontrolled TOC or organic HAP emissions, determined at the exit from the batch unit operation before any emission control, as determined in accordance with § 63.488(b).

(i) For Group 2 batch front-end process vents, emissions shall be determined at the batch mass input limitation.

(ii) For Group 1 batch front-end process vents, emissions shall be those used to determine the group status of the batch front-end process vent.

(4) The annual average batch vent flow rate for the batch front-end process vent as determined in accordance with § 63.488(e).

(5) The cutoff flow rate, determined in accordance with § 63.488(f).

(6) The results of the batch front-end process vent group determination, conducted in accordance with § 63.488(g).

(7) If a batch front-end process vent is subject to § 63.487(a) or § 63.487(b), none of the records in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section are required.

(8) If the total annual emissions from the batch front-end process vent during the group determination are less than the appropriate level specified in § 63.488(d), only the records in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section are required.

(9) For each Group 2 batch front-end process vent that is exempt from the batch mass input limitation provisions because it meets the criteria of § 63.487(h), the records specified in paragraphs (a)(9)(i) and (ii) shall be maintained.

(i) Documentation of the maximum design capacity of the EPPU; and

(ii) The mass of HAP or material that can be charged annually to the batch unit operation at the maximum design capacity.
