
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.490 Batch front-end process vents - performance test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
####### Batch mass input limitation.

(f)The batch mass input limitation required by § 63.487(g)(1) shall be determined by the owner or operator such that annual emissions for the batch front-end process vent remain less than the level specified in § 63.488(d). The batch mass input limitation required by § 63.487(f)(1) shall be determined by the owner or operator such that annual emissions remain at a level that ensures that the batch front-end process vent remains a Group 2 batch front-end process vent, given the actual annual flow rate for that batch front-end process vent determined according to § 63.488(e)(3). The batch mass input limitation shall be determined using the same basis, as described in § 63.488(a)(1), used to make the group determination (i.e., expected mix of products or highest-HAP recipe). The establishment of the batch mass input limitation is not dependent upon any past production or activity level.

(1) If the expected mix of products serves as the basis for the batch mass input limitation, the batch mass input limitation shall be determined based on any foreseeable combination of products that the owner or operator expects to manufacture.

(2) If the single highest-HAP recipe serves as the basis for the batch mass input limitation, the batch mass input limitation shall be determined based solely on the production of the single highest-HAP recipe, considering all products produced or processed in the batch unit operation.
