
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.491 Batch front-end process vents - recordkeeping requirements.
####### Controlled batch front-end process vent continuous compliance records.

(e)Each owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent that has chosen to use a control device to comply with § 63.487(a) shall keep the following records readily accessible:

(1) Continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.489(b) as applicable, and listed in Table 6 of this subpart, or specified by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.492(e) as allowed under § 63.489(c). These records shall be kept as specified under § 63.506(d), except as specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) For flares, the records specified in Table 6 of this subpart shall be maintained in place of continuous records.

(ii) For carbon adsorbers, the records specified in Table 6 of this subpart shall be maintained in place of batch cycle daily averages.

(2) Records of the batch cycle daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter, except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii) of this section, as calculated using the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) The batch cycle daily average shall be calculated as the average of all parameter values measured for an operating day during those batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle that the owner or operator has selected to control.

(ii) Monitoring data recorded during periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments shall not be included in computing the batch cycle daily averages. In addition, monitoring data recorded during periods of non-operation of the EPPU (or specific portion thereof) resulting in cessation of organic HAP emissions shall not be included in computing the batch cycle daily averages.

(iii) If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day are above the minimum or below the maximum level established in accordance with § 63.489(e), the owner or operator may record that all values were above the minimum or below the maximum level established, rather than calculating and recording a batch cycle daily average for that operating day.

(3) Hourly records of whether the flow indicator for bypass lines specified under § 63.489(d)(1) was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour. Also, records of the times of all periods when the vent is diverted from the control device, or the flow indicator specified in § 63.489(d)(1) is not operating.

(4) Where a seal or closure mechanism is used to comply with § 63.489(d)(2), hourly records of whether a diversion was detected at any time are not required.

(i) For compliance with § 63.489(d)(2), the owner or operator shall record whether the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanism has been done, and shall record the occurrence of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line damper or valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type configuration has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has been broken.

(ii) [Reserved]

(5) Records specifying the times and duration of periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high level adjustments. In addition, records specifying any other periods of process or control device operation when monitors are not operating.
