
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.499 Back-end process provisions - reporting.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected source with back-end process operations shall submit the information required in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, for each back-end process operation at the affected source, as part of the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.506(e)(5).

(1) The type of elastomer product processed in the back-end operation.

(2) The type of process (solution process, emulsion process, etc.)

(3) If the back-end process operation is subject to a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), whether compliance will be achieved by stripping technology, or by control or recovery devices.

(b) Each owner or operator of a back-end process operation using stripping to comply with a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), and demonstrating compliance by stripper parameter monitoring, shall submit reports as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) As part of the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.506(e)(5), the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.498(c)(1).

(2) For organic HAP content/stripper monitoring parameter re-determinations, and the addition of new grades, the information specified in § 63.498(c)(1) shall be submitted in the next periodic report specified in § 63.506(e)(6).

(c) Each owner or operator of an affected source with a back-end process operation control or recovery device that shall comply with a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section as part of the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.506(e)(5).

(1) The residual organic HAP content, adjusted for the control or recovery device emission reduction, determined in accordance with § 63.496(c)(1), for each test run in the compliance determination.

(2) The operating parameter level established in accordance with § 63.497(c), along with supporting documentation.

(3) The information specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) when using a flare, and the information specified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section when using a boiler or process heater.

(i) The flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted); all visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination; and all periods during the compliance determination when the pilot flame is absent.

(ii) A description of the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the boiler or process heater.

(d) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.496(d), is made that causes the redetermination of the compliance status for the back-end process operations subject to a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change, as specified in § 63.506(e)(7)(iii). The report shall include:

(1) A description of the process change;

(2) The results of the redetermination of the compliance status, determined in accordance with § 63.496(b), and recorded in accordance with § 63.498(d)(1), and

(3) Documentation of the re-establishment of a parameter level for the control or recovery device, defined as either a maximum or minimum operating parameter, that indicates proper operation of the control or recovery device, in accordance with § 63.497(c) and recorded in accordance with § 63.498(d)(2).

(e) If an owner or operator uses a control or recovery device other than those listed in § 63.497(a) or requests approval to monitor a parameter other than those specified in § 63.497(a), the owner or operator shall submit a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures as required under § 63.506(e)(3) or (e)(8). The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the Precompliance Report or Operating Permit application.

(f) If the back-end process operation is subject to an organic HAP emission limitation in § 63.494(a)(4), the owner and operator must submit the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The applicable organic HAP emission limitation determined in accordance with § 63.494(a)(4)(i) through (iv), shall be submitted no later than 180 days from the date of publication of the final rule amendments in the

(2) Beginning with the first periodic report required to be submitted by § 63.506(e)(6) that is at least 13 months after the compliance date, the total mass of organic HAP emitted for each of the rolling 12-month periods in the reporting period divided by the total mass of elastomer produced during the corresponding 12-month period, determined in accordance with § 63.495(g)(5).
