
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.501 Wastewater provisions.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.132 through 63.147 for each process wastewater stream originating at an affected source, with the requirements of § 63.148 for leak inspection provisions, and with the requirements of § 63.149 for equipment that is subject to § 63.149, with the differences noted in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(23) of this section. Further, the owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements of § 63.105(a) for maintenance wastewater, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) When the determination of equivalence criteria in § 63.102(b) is referred to in §§ 63.132, 63.133, and 63.137, the provisions in § 63.6(g) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(2) When the storage vessel requirements contained in §§ 63.119 through 63.123 are referred to in §§ 63.132 through 63.149, §§ 63.119 through 63.123 are applicable, with the exception of the differences referred to in § 63.484, for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) Owners and operators of affected sources are not required to comply with the requirements in § 63.132(b)(1) and § 63.132(d). Owners and operators of new affected sources, as defined in this subpart, shall comply with the requirements for existing sources in §§ 63.132 through 63.149, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (a)(4), (a)(10), and (a)(23) of this section.

(4) When § 63.146(a) requires the submission of a request for approval to monitor alternative parameters according to the procedures specified in § 63.151(f) or (g), owners or operators requesting to monitor alternative parameters shall follow the procedures specified in § 63.506(f), for the purposes of this subpart.

(5) When § 63.147(d) requires owners or operators to keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day as specified in § 63.152(f), owners and operators shall instead keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter as specified in § 63.506(d), for the purposes of this subpart.

(6) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to an "existing source," the term "existing affected source," as defined in § 63.480(a)(3) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(7) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to a "new source," the term "new affected source," as defined in § 63.480(a)(4) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(8) Whenever §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to a "chemical manufacturing process unit," the term "elastomer product process unit," (or EPPU) as defined in § 63.482, shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, when § 63.149 refers to "a chemical manufacturing process unit that meets the criteria of § 63.100(b) of subpart F of this part," the term "an EPPU as defined in § 63.482(b)" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(9) When § 63.132(a) and (b) refer to the "applicable dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part," the compliance dates specified in § 63.481 shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(10) The provisions of paragraphs (a)(10)(i), (a)(10)(ii), and (a)(10)(iii) of this section clarify the organic HAP that an owner or operator shall consider when complying with the requirements of §§ 63.132 through 63.149.

(i) Owners and operators are exempt from all requirements in §§ 63.132 through 63.149 that pertain solely and exclusively to organic HAP listed on table 8 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G.

(ii) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to table 9 compounds, the owner or operator is only required to consider compounds that meet the definition of organic HAP in § 63.482 and that are listed in table 9 of 40 CFR part 63,subpart G, for the purposes of this subpart.

(iii) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to compounds in table 36 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, or compounds in List 1 and/or List 2, as listed in table 36 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, the owner or operator is only required to consider compounds that meet the definition of organic HAP in § 63.482 and that are listed in table 36 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, for the purposes of this subpart.

(11) Whenever §§ 63.132 through 63.147 refer to a Group 1 wastewater stream or a Group 2 wastewater stream, the definitions of these terms contained in § 63.482 shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(12) When § 63.149(d) refers to "§ 63.100(f) of subpart F" the phrase "§ 63.480(c)" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, where § 63.149(d) states "and the item of equipment is not otherwise exempt from controls by the provisions of subparts A, F, G, or H of this part", the phrase "and the item of equipment is not otherwise exempt from controls by the provisions of subparts A, F, G, H, or U of this part," shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(13) When § 63.149(e)(1) and (e)(2) refer to "a chemical manufacturing process unit subject to the new source requirements of 40 CFR 63.100(l)(1) or 40 CFR 63.100 (l)(2)," the phrase "an EPPU that is part of a new affected source or that is a new affected source," shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(14) When the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.152(b) are referred to in §§ 63.138 and 63.146, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(5) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, when §§ 63.138 and 63.146 require that information be reported according to § 63.152(b) in the Notification of Compliance Status, owners or operators of affected sources shall report the specified information in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5), for the purposes of this subpart.

(15) When the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) are referred to in § 63.146, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(6) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, when § 63.146 requires that information be reported in the Periodic Reports required in § 63.152(c), owners or operators of affected sources shall report the specified information in the Periodic Reports required in § 63.506(e)(6), for the purposes of this subpart.

(16) When the term "range" is used in §§ 63.132 through 63.149, the term "level" shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart. This level shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.505.

(17) When § 63.143(f) specifies that owners or operators shall establish the range that indicates proper operation of the treatment process or control device, the owner or operator shall instead comply with the requirements of § 63.505(c) or (d) for establishing parameter level maximums/minimums, for the purposes of this subpart.

(18) When § 63.146(b)(7) and § 63.146(b)(8) require that "the information on parameter ranges specified in § 63.152(b)(2)" be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status, owners and operators of affected sources are instead required to report the information on parameter levels in the Notification of Compliance Status as specified in § 63.506(e)(5)(ii), for the purposes of this subpart.

(19) For the purposes of this subpart, the owner or operator of an affected source is not required to include process wastewater streams that contain styrene when conducting performance tests for the purposes of calculating the required mass removal (RMR) or the actual mass removal (AMR) under the provisions described in § 63.145(f) or § 63.145(g). For purposes of this paragraph, a process wastewater stream is considered to contain styrene if the wastewater stream meets the requirements in paragraph (a)(19)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section:

(i) The wastewater stream originates at equipment that produces styrene butadiene rubber by solution;

(ii) The wastewater stream originates at equipment that produces styrene butadiene rubber by emulsion; or

(iii) The wastewater stream originates at equipment that produces styrene butadiene latex.

(20) When the provisions of § 63.139(c)(1)(ii), § 63.145(d)(4), or § 63.145(i)(2) specify that Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used, Method 18 or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A may be used for the purposes of this subpart. The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall conform with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(20)(i) and (a)(20)(ii) of this section.

(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.

(ii) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(21) In § 63.145(j), instead of the reference to § 63.11(b), and instead of § 63.145(j)(1) and § 63.145(j)(2), the requirements in § 63.504(c) shall apply.

(22) The owner or operator of a facility which receives a Group 1 wastewater stream, or a residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g) is subject to the requirements of § 63.132(g) with the differences identified in this section, and is not subject to subpart DD of this part, with respect to the received material.

(23) When § 63.132(g) refers to "§§ 63.133 through 63.137" or "§§ 63.133 through 63.147", the provisions in this § 63.501 shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(b) Except for those streams exempted by paragraph (c) of this section, the owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements for maintenance wastewater in § 63.105, except that when § 63.105(a) refers to "organic HAPs listed in table 9 of subpart G of this part," the owner or operator is only required to consider compounds that meet the definition of organic HAP in § 63.482 and that are listed in table 9 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, for the purposes of this subpart.

(c) The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to the following:

(1) Back-end streams originating from equipment whose only elastomer products are latex products.

(2) Back-end streams at affected sources that are subject to a residual organic HAP limitation in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3) and that are complying with these limitations through the use of stripping technology.
