
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.502 Equipment leak and heat exchange system provisions.
####### Heat exchange system provisions.

(n)The owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements of § 63.104 for heat exchange systems, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (n)(1) through (n)(5) of this section.

(1) When the term "chemical manufacturing process unit" is used in § 63.104, the term "elastomer product process unit" (or EPPU) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart, with the exception noted in paragraph (n)(2) of this section.

(2) When the phrase "a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3) of this subpart, except for chemical manufacturing process units meeting the condition specified in § 63.100(c) of this subpart" is used in § 63.104(a), the term "an EPPU, except for EPPUs meeting the condition specified in § 63.480(b)" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) When § 63.104 refers to Table 4 of subpart F of this part or Table 9 of subpart G of this part, the owner or operator is only required to consider organic HAP listed on Table 5 of this subpart.

(4) When § 63.104(c)(3) specifies the monitoring plan retention requirements, and when § 63.104(f)(1) refers to the record retention requirements in § 63.103(c)(1), the requirements in § 63.506(a) and § 63.506(h) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(5) When § 63.104(f)(2) requires information to be reported in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.152(c), the owner or operator shall instead report the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.506(e)(6), for the purposes of this subpart.

(6) The compliance date for heat exchange systems subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.481(d)(6).
