
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.503 Emissions averaging provisions.
####### 2

() The percent reduction of pollution prevention measures shall be calculated according to the procedures specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(h) Credits are generated by the difference between emissions that are allowed for each Group 1 and Group 2 emission point and the actual emissions from that Group 1 or Group 2 emission point that has been controlled after November 15, 1990 to a level more stringent than what is required by this subpart or any other State or Federal rule or statute. Credits shall be calculated as follows:

(1) Source-wide credits shall be calculated using Equation 41. Credits and all terms of the equation are in units of Mg/month, and the baseline date is November 15, 1990:

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (h)(1)(iv) of this section, for an emission point controlled using a reference control technology, the percent reduction for calculating credits shall be no greater than the nominal efficiency associated with the reference control technology, unless a higher nominal efficiency is assigned as specified in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) For an emission point controlled to a level more stringent than the reference control technology, the nominal efficiency for calculating credits shall be assigned as described in paragraph (i) of this section. A reference control technology may be approved for use in a different manner and assigned a higher nominal efficiency according to the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section. A reference control technology may be approved for use in a different manner and assigned a higher nominal efficiency according to the procedure in paragraph (i) of this section.

(iii) For an emission point controlled using a pollution prevention measure, except for back-end process operation emissions, the nominal efficiency for calculating credits shall be as determined as described in paragraph (j) of this section. Emissions for back-end process operations shall be determined as described in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.

(iv) For Group 1 and Group 2 batch front-end process vents and Group 1 and Group 2 aggregate batch vent streams, the percent reduction for calculating credits shall be the percent reduction determined according to the procedures in paragraphs (h)(6)(ii) and (h)(6)(iii) of this section for batch front-end process vents and paragraphs (h)(7)(ii) and (h)(7)(iii) of this section for aggregate batch vent streams.

(2) Emissions from continuous front-end process vents shall be determined as follows:

(i) Uncontrolled emissions from Group 1 continuous front-end process vents, ECFEPV1, shall be calculated according to the procedures and equation for ECFEPVin paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Actual emissions from Group 1 continuous front-end process vents controlled using a technology with an approved nominal efficiency greater than 98 percent or a pollution prevention measure achieving greater than 98 percent emission reduction, ECFEPV1, shall be calculated using Equation 42.

(iii) The following procedures shall be used to calculate actual emissions from Group 2 continuous front-end process vents, ECFEPV2:

(A) For a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent controlled by a control device, a recovery device applied as a pollution prevention project, or a pollution prevention measure, where the control achieves a percent reduction less than or equal to 98 percent reduction, Equation 43 shall be used.
