
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.503 Emissions averaging provisions.
####### 2

(5) Record and report quarterly and annual credits and debits in the Periodic Reports as specified in ยง 63.506(e)(6). Every fourth Periodic Report shall include a certification of compliance with the emissions averaging provisions as required by ยง 63.506(e)(6)(x)(C)().

(f) Debits and credits shall be calculated in accordance with the methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, respectively, and shall not include emissions during the following periods:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Emissions during periods of monitoring excursions, as defined in ยง 63.505 (g) or (h). For these periods, the calculation of monthly credits and debits shall be adjusted as specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (f)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) No credits would be assigned to the credit-generating emission point.

(ii) Maximum debits would be assigned to the debit-generating emission point.

(iii) The owner or operator may demonstrate to the Administrator that full or partial credits or debits should be assigned using the procedures in paragraph (l) of this section.

(g) Debits are generated by the difference between the actual emissions from a Group 1 emission point that is uncontrolled or is controlled to a level less stringent than the applicable reference control technology or standard and the emissions allowed for the Group 1 emission point. Debits shall be calculated as follows:

(1) Source-wide debits shall be calculated using Equation 33. Debits and all terms of the equation are in units of megagrams per month (Mg/month):

(2) Emissions from continuous front-end process vents shall be calculated as follows:

(i) For purposes of determining continuous front-end process vent stream flow rate, organic HAP concentrations, and temperature, the sampling site shall be after the final product recovery device, if any recovery devices are present; before any control device (for continuous front-end process vents, recovery devices shall not be considered control devices); and before discharge to the atmosphere. Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used for selection of the sampling site.

(ii) ECFEPVfor each continuous front-end process vent i shall be calculated using Equation 34.

(A) The values of Q and Cshall be determined during a performance test conducted under representative operating conditions. The values of Q and Cshall be established in the Notification of Compliance Status and shall be updated as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(B) If there is a change in capacity utilization other than a change in monthly operating hours, or if any other change is made to the process or product recovery equipment or operation such that the previously measured values of Q and Care no longer representative, a new performance test shall be conducted to determine new representative values of Q and C. These new values shall be used to calculate debits and credits from the time of the change forward, and the new values shall be reported in the next Periodic Report.

(iii) The following procedures and equations shall be used to calculate ECFEPV:

(A) If the continuous front-end process vent is not controlled by a control device or pollution prevention measure, ECFEPV= ECFEPV, where ECFEPVis calculated according to the procedures contained in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section.

(B) If the continuous front-end process vent is controlled using a control device or a pollution prevention measure achieving less than 98-percent reduction, ECFEPVis calculated using Equation 35.
