
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.505 Parameter monitoring levels and excursions.
####### Demonstration of compliance with back-end process provisions using stripper parameter monitoring.

(e)If the owner or operator is demonstrating compliance with § 63.495 using stripper parameter monitoring, stripper parameter levels shall be established for each grade in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section. A single set of stripper parameter levels may be representative of multiple grades.

(1) For each grade, the owner or operator shall calculate the residual organic HAP content using the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) The location of the sampling shall be in accordance with § 63.495(d).

(ii) The residual organic HAP content in each sample is to be determined using Methods specified in § 63.495(e).

(2) For each grade, the owner or operator shall establish stripper operating parameter levels that represent stripper operation during the residual organic HAP content determination in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. The stripper operating parameters shall include, at a minimum, temperature, pressure, steaming rates (for steam strippers), and some parameter that is indicative of residence time.

(3) After the initial determinations, an owner or operator may add a grade, with corresponding stripper parameter levels, using the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section. The results of this determination shall be submitted in the next periodic report.

(4) An owner or operator complying with the residual organic HAP limitations in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of § 63.494 using stripping, and demonstrating compliance by stripper parameter monitoring, shall redetermine the residual organic HAP content for all affected grades whenever process changes are made. For the purposes of this section, a process change is any action that would reasonably be expected to impair the performance of the stripping operation. For the purposes of this section, examples of process changes may include changes in production capacity or production rate, or removal or addition of equipment. For purposes of this paragraph, process changes do not include: Process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; or changes that reduce the residual organic HAP content of the elastomer.

(f) [Reserved]
