
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.505 Parameter monitoring levels and excursions.
####### Batch front-end process vents.

(3)The monitoring level(s) shall be established using the procedures specified in either paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(ii) of this section. The procedures specified in this paragraph (b)(3) may only be used if the batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, selected to be controlled were tested, and monitoring data were collected, during the entire period in which emissions were vented to the control device, as specified in ยง 63.490(c)(1)(i). If the owner or operator chose to test only a portion of the batch emission episode, or portion thereof, selected to be controlled, the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section shall be used.

(i) If more than one batch emission episode or more than one portion of a batch emission episode has been selected to be controlled, a single level for the batch cycle shall be calculated as follows:

(A) The average monitored parameter value shall be calculated for each batch emission episode, or portion thereof, in the batch cycle selected to be controlled. The average shall be based on all values measured during the required performance test.

(B) If the level to be established is a maximum operating parameter, the level shall be defined as the minimum of the average parameter values of the batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle selected to be controlled (i.e., identify the emission episode, or portion thereof, which requires the lowest parameter value in order to assure compliance. The average parameter value that is necessary to assure compliance for that emission episode, or portion thereof, shall be the level for all emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle, that are selected to be controlled).

(C) If the level to be established is a minimum operating parameter, the level shall be defined as the maximum of the average parameter values of the batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle selected to be controlled (i.e., identify the emission episode, or portion thereof, which requires the highest parameter value in order to assure compliance. The average parameter value that is necessary to assure compliance for that emission episode, or portion thereof, shall be the level for all emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle, that are selected to be controlled).

(D) Alternatively, an average monitored parameter value shall be calculated for the entire batch cycle based on all values measured during each batch emission episode, or portion thereof, selected to be controlled.

(ii) Instead of establishing a single level for the batch cycle, as described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, an owner or operator may establish separate levels for each batch emission episode, or portion thereof, selected to be controlled. Each level shall be determined as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.

(iii) The batch cycle shall be defined in the Notification of Compliance Status, as specified in ยง 63.506(e)(5). The definition shall include an identification of each batch emission episode and the information required to determine parameter monitoring compliance for partial batch cycles (i.e., when part of a batch cycle is accomplished during two different operating days).
