
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.505 Parameter monitoring levels and excursions.
####### 4

() Malfunctions.

(C) Determine the total number of 15-minute periods in the operating time used to determine if monitoring data are insufficient, as was determined in accordance with paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(D) If measured values are not available for at least 75 percent of the total number of 15-minute periods determined in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, the monitoring data are insufficient for the operating day.

(3) For storage vessels where the applicable monitoring plan does not specify continuous monitoring, an excursion is defined in paragraph (g)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable. For a control or recovery device where multiple parameters are monitored, if one or more of the parameters meets the excursion criteria, this is considered a single excursion for the control or recovery device. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.

(i) If the monitoring plan specifies monitoring a parameter and recording its value at specific intervals (such as every 15 minutes or every hour), either of the cases listed in paragraph (g)(3)(i)(A) or (g)(3)(i)(B) of this section is considered a single excursion for the control device.

(A) When the average value of one or more parameters, averaged over the duration of the filling period for the storage vessel, is above the maximum level or below the minimum level established for the given parameters.

(B) When monitoring data are insufficient. Monitoring data shall be considered insufficient when measured values are not available for at least 75 percent of the specific intervals at which parameters are to be monitored and recorded, according to the storage vessel's monitoring plan, during the filling period for the storage vessel.

(ii) If the monitoring plan does not specify monitoring a parameter and recording its value at specific intervals (for example, if the relevant operating requirement is to exchange a disposable carbon canister before expiration of its rated service life), the monitoring plan shall define an excursion in terms of the relevant operating requirement.
