
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.505 Parameter monitoring levels and excursions.
####### Excursion definitions for back-end operations complying through stripping.

(h)(1) With respect to back-end process operations complying through the use of stripping technology, and demonstrating compliance by sampling, an excursion means one of the two cases listed in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and (h)(1)(ii) of this section. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.

(i) When the monthly weighted average residual organic HAP content is above the applicable residual organic HAP limitation in ยง 63.494; or

(ii) When less than 75 percent of the samples required in 1 month are taken and analyzed in accordance with the provisions of ยง 63.495(b).

(2) With respect to back-end process operations complying through the use of stripping technology, and demonstrating compliance by stripper parameter monitoring, an excursion means one of the three cases listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(i), (h)(2)(ii), and (h)(2)(iii) of this section. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.

(i) When the monthly weighted average residual organic HAP content is above the applicable residual organic HAP limitation in ยง 63.494;

(ii) When an owner or operator fails to sample and analyze the organic HAP content of a sample for a grade with an hourly average stripper operating parameter value not in accordance with the established monitoring parameter levels for that parameter; or

(iii) When an owner or operator does not collect sufficient monitoring data for at least 75 percent of the grades or batches processed during a month. Stripper monitoring data are considered insufficient if monitoring parameters are obtained for less than 75 percent of the 15-minute periods during the processing of a grade, and a sample of that grade or batch is not taken and analyzed to determine the residual organic HAP content.
