
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.506 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Records of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction.

(i)The owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section.

(A) Records of the occurrence and duration of each start-up, shutdown, and malfunction of operation of process equipment or control devices or recovery devices or continuous monitoring systems used to comply with this subpart during which excess emissions (as defined in ยง 63.480(j)(4)) occur.

(B) For each start-up, shutdown, or malfunction during which excess emissions (as defined in ยง 63.480(j)(4)) occur, records reflecting whether the procedures specified in the affected source's start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan were followed, and documentation of actions taken that are not consistent with the plan. For example, if a start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan includes procedures for routing a control device to a backup control device, records shall be kept of whether the plan was followed. These records may take the form of a "checklist," or other form of recordkeeping that confirms conformance with the start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan for the event.

(C) Records specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section are not required if they pertain solely to Group 2 emission points that are not included in an emissions average.
