
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.506 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Information required.

(ii)The Emissions Averaging Plan shall contain the information listed in paragraphs (e)(4)(ii)(A) through (e)(4)(ii)(N) of this section for all emission points included in an emissions average.

(A) The required information shall include the identification of all emission points and process back-end operations in the planned emissions average and, where applicable, notation of whether each storage vessel, continuous front-end process vent, batch front-end process vent, aggregate batch vents stream, and process wastewater stream is a Group 1 or Group 2 emission point, as defined in § 63.482 or as designated under § 63.503(c)(2).

(B) The required information shall include the projected emission debits and credits for each emission point and the sum for the emission points involved in the average calculated according to § 63.503. The projected credits shall be greater than or equal to the projected debits, as required under § 63.503(e)(3).

(C) The required information shall include the specific control technology or pollution prevention measure that will be used for each emission point included in the average and date of application or expected date of application.

(D) The required information shall include the specific identification of each emission point affected by a pollution prevention measure. To be considered a pollution prevention measure, the criteria in § 63.503(j)(1) shall be met. If the same pollution prevention measure reduces or eliminates emissions from multiple emission points in the average, the owner or operator shall identify each of these emission points.

(E) The required information shall include a statement that the compliance demonstration, monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions in § 63.503(m), (n), and (o) that are applicable to each emission point in the emissions average will be implemented beginning on or before the date of compliance.
