
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.506 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Notification of Compliance Status.

(5)For existing and new affected sources, a Notification of Compliance Status shall be submitted. For equipment leaks subject to § 63.502, the owner or operator shall submit the information required in § 63.182(c) in the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for equipment leaks in the affected source, and an update shall be provided in the first Periodic Report that is due at least 150 days after each subsequent applicable compliance date for equipment leaks in the affected source. For all other emission points, including heat exchange systems, the Notification of Compliance Status shall contain the information listed in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (e)(5)(xii) of this section, as applicable, and shall be submitted no later than 150 days after the compliance dates specified in this subpart.

(i) The results of any emission point group determinations, process section applicability determinations, performance tests, inspections, any other information used to demonstrate compliance, values of monitored parameters established during performance tests, and any other information required to be included in the Notification of Compliance Status under §§ 63.122 and 63.484 for storage vessels, § 63.117 for continuous front-end process vents, § 63.492 for batch front-end process vents, § 63.499 for back-end process operations, § 63.146 for process wastewater, and § 63.503 for emission points included in an emissions average. In addition, the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with paragraphs (e)(5)(i)(A) and (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section.

(A) For performance tests, group determinations, and process section applicability determinations that are based on measurements, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include one complete test report, as described in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section, for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other information, from the test report, that is requested on a case-by-case basis by the Administrator shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(B) A complete test report shall include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method.

(ii) For each monitored parameter for which a maximum or minimum level is required to be established under § 63.114(e) and § 63.485(k) for continuous front-end process vents, § 63.489 for batch front-end process vents and aggregate batch vent streams, § 63.497 for back-end process operations, § 63.143(f) for process wastewater, § 63.503(m) for emission points in emissions averages, paragraph (e)(8) of this section, or paragraph (f) of this section, the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii)(A) through (e)(5)(ii)(E) of this section shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status, unless this information has been established and provided in the operating permit application. Further, as described in § 63.484(k), for those storage vessels for which the monitoring plan required by § 63.484(k) specifies compliance with the provisions of § 63.505, the owner or operator shall provide the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii)(A) through (e)(5)(ii)(D) of this section for each monitoring parameter, unless this information has been established and provided in the operating permit application. For those storage vessels for which the monitoring plan required by § 63.484(k) does not require compliance with the provisions of § 63.505, the owner or operator shall provide the information specified in § 63.120(d)(3) as part of the Notification of Compliance Status, unless this information has been established and provided in the operating permit application.

(A) The required information shall include the specific maximum or minimum level of the monitored parameter(s) for each emission point.

(B) The required information shall include the rationale for the specific maximum or minimum level for each parameter for each emission point, including any data and calculations used to develop the level and a description of why the level indicates proper operation of the control device.

(C) The required information shall include a definition of the affected source's operating day, as specified in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, for purposes of determining daily average values of monitored parameters.

(D) For batch front-end process vents, the required information shall include a definition of each batch cycle that requires the control of one or more batch emission episodes during the cycle, as specified in § 63.490(c)(2) and 63.505(b)(3)(iii).

(E) The required information shall include a definition of the affected source's operating month for the purposes of determining monthly average values of residual organic HAP.

(iii) For emission points included in an emissions average, the Notification of Compliance Status shall contain the values of all parameters needed for input to the emission credit and debit equations in § 63.503(g) and (h), calculated or measured according to the procedures in § 63.503(g) and (h), and the resulting calculation of credits and debits for the first quarter of the year. The first quarter begins on the compliance date specified.

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) The determination of applicability for flexible operation units as specified in § 63.480(f).

(vi) The parameter monitoring levels for flexible operation units, and the basis on which these levels were selected, or a demonstration that these levels are appropriate at all times, as specified in § 63.480(f)(7).

(vii) The results for each predominant use determination made under § 63.480(g), for storage vessels assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart.

(viii) The results for each predominant use determination made under § 63.480(h) for recovery operations equipment assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart.

(ix) For owners and operators of Group 2 batch front-end process vents establishing a batch mass input limitation, as specified in § 63.490(f), the affected source's operating year for purposes of determining compliance with the batch mass input limitation.

(x) If any emission point is subject to this subpart and to other standards as specified in § 63.481(k), and if the provisions of § 63.481(k) allow the owner or operator to choose which testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions will be followed, then the Notification of Compliance Status shall indicate which rule's requirements will be followed for testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping.

(xi) An owner or operator who transfers a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g) shall include in the Notification of Compliance Status the name and location of the transferee and a description of the Group 1 wastewater stream or residual sent to the treatment facility.

(xii) An owner or operator complying with paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall notify the Administrator of the election to comply with paragraph (h)(1) of this section as part of the Notification of Compliance Status, or as part of the appropriate Periodic Report, as specified in paragraph (e)(6)(ix) of this section.
