
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart U - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.506 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Other reports.

(7)Other reports shall be submitted as specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(i) through (e)(7)(v) of this section.

(i) For storage vessels, the notifications of inspections required by § 63.484 shall be submitted, as specified in § 63.122(h)(1) and (h)(2).

(ii) For owners or operators of affected sources required to request approval for a nominal control efficiency for use in calculating credits for an emissions average, the information specified in § 63.503(i) shall be submitted, as specified in paragraph (e)(7)(ii)(A) or (e)(7)(ii)(B) of this section, as appropriate.

(A) If use of a nominal control efficiency is part of the initial Emissions Averaging Plan described in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, the information shall be submitted with the Emissions Averaging Plan.

(B) If an owner or operator elects to use a nominal control efficiency after submittal of the initial Emissions Averaging Plan as described in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, the information shall be submitted at the discretion of the owner or operator.

(iii) For back-end process operations using a control or recovery device to comply with §§ 63.493 through 63.500, the compliance redetermination report required by § 63.499(d) shall be submitted within 180 days after the process change.

(iv) When the conditions of §§ 63.480(f)(3)(iii), (f)(9), or 63.480(f)(10)(iii) are met, reports of changes to the primary product for an EPPU or process unit, as required by §§ 63.480(f)(3)(iii), 63.480(f)(9), or 63.480(f)(10)(iii)(C), respectively, shall be submitted.

(v) Owners or operators of EPPU or emission points (other than equipment leak components subject to § 63.502) that are subject to § 63.480(i)(1) or (i)(2) shall submit a report as specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(v)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) Reports shall include:
