
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart W - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Epoxy Resins Production and Non-Nylon Polyamides Production
###### § 63.528 Reporting requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well as the owner or operator of any affected WSR source that elects to comply with the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems, shall comply with the reporting requirements of applicable paragraphs of § 63.10 of subpart A of this part, as specified in the General Provisions applicability table in this subpart. The owner or operator shall also submit to the Administrator, as part of the quarterly excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required by § 63.10(e)(3) of subpart A of this part, the following recorded information.

(1) Reports of monitoring data, including 15-minute monitoring values as well as daily average values or per-unit operation average values, as applicable, of monitored parameters for all operating days or unit operations when the average values were outside the ranges established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit.

(2) Reports of the duration of periods when monitoring data is not collected for each excursion caused by insufficient monitoring data. An excursion means any of the three cases listed in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section. For a control device where multiple parameters are monitored, if one or more of the parameters meets the excursion criteria in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section, this is considered a single excursion for the control device.

(i) When the period of control device operation is 4 hours or greater in an operating day and monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data, as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, for at least 75 percent of the operating hours.

(ii) When the period of control device operation is less than 4 hours in an operating day and more than one of the hours during the period of operation does not constitute a valid hour of data due to insufficient monitoring data.

(iii) Monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data, as used in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section, if measured values are unavailable for any of the 15-minute periods within the hour.

(3) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e) of subpart G of this part, is made that causes the emission rate from a de minimis emission point to become a process vent with an emission rate of one pound per year or greater, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 calendar days after the process change. The report may be submitted as part of the next summary report required under § 63.10(e)(3) of subpart A of this part. The report shall include:

(i) A description of the process change; and

(ii) The results of the recalculation of the emission rate.

(b) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well as the owner or operator of any affected WSR source who elects to implement the leak detection and repair program specified in subpart H of this part, shall implement the reporting requirements outlined therein. Copies of all reports shall be retained as records for a period of 5 years, in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 63.10(b)(1).

(c) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well as the owner or operator of any affected WSR source that elects to comply with the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems shall include records of wastewater system monitoring parameters in the Notification of Compliance Status and summary reports required by subpart A of this part.
