
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart W - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Epoxy Resins Production and Non-Nylon Polyamides Production
###### ยง 63.526 Monitoring requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of any existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source shall provide evidence of continued compliance with the standard. During the initial compliance demonstration, maximum or minimum operating parameters, as appropriate, shall be established for processes and control devices that will indicate the source is in compliance. If the operating parameter to be established is a maximum, the value of the parameter shall be the average of the maximum values from each of the three test runs. If the operating parameter to be established is a minimum, the value of the parameter shall be the average of the minimum values from each of the three test runs. Parameter values for process vents with intermittent emission streams shall be determined as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The owner or operator shall operate processes and control devices within these parameters to ensure continued compliance with the standard. A de minimis level is specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Monitoring parameters are specified for various process vent control scenarios in paragraphs (a) (2) through (6) of this section.

(1) For affected BLR sources, uncontrolled emission points emitting less than one pound per year of HAP are not subject to the monitoring requirements of paragraphs (a) (2) through (6) of this section. The owner or operator shall use the methods specified in ยง 63.525(a), as applicable, or as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, to demonstrate which emission points satisfy the de minimis criteria, to the satisfaction of the Administrator.

(i) For the purpose of determining de minimis status for emission points, engineering assessment may be used to determine process vent stream flow rate and/or concentration for the representative operating conditions expected to yield the highest flow rate and concentration. Engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(A) Previous test results provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit.

(B) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.

(C) Maximum flow rate, HAP emission rate, concentration, or other relevant parameter specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.

(D) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:
