
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart W - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Epoxy Resins Production and Non-Nylon Polyamides Production
###### ยง 63.526 Monitoring requirements.
####### 3

() Estimation of HAP concentrations based on saturation conditions.

(ii) All data, assumptions, and procedures used in the engineering assessment shall be documented in accordance with ยง 63.527(c).

(2) For affected sources using water scrubbers, the owner or operator shall establish a minimum scrubber water flow rate as a site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the scrubber water flow rate, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is below the minimum value established during the initial compliance demonstration.

(3) For affected sources using condensers, the owner or operator shall establish the maximum condenser outlet gas temperature as a site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the condenser outlet gas temperature, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is greater than the maximum value established during the initial compliance demonstration.

(4) For affected sources using carbon adsorbers or having uncontrolled process vents, the owner or operator shall establish a maximum outlet HAP concentration as the site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the outlet HAP concentration, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is greater than the maximum value established during the initial compliance demonstration.

(5) For affected sources using flares, the presence of the pilot flame shall be monitored every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance upon loss of pilot flame.

(6) Wastewater system parameters to be monitored are the parameters specified under 40 CFR part 414, subpart E. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance with this subpart W if it is found to be out of compliance with 40 CFR part 414, subpart E.

(b) The owner or operator of any existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source that chooses to comply with the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems shall provide evidence of continued compliance with the standard. As part of the initial compliance demonstrations for batch process vents, test data or compliance calculations shall be used to establish a maximum or minimum level of a relevant operating parameter for each unit operation. The parameter value for each unit operation shall represent the worst case value of the operating parameter from all episodes in the unit operation. The owner or operator shall operate processes and control devices within these parameters to ensure continued compliance with the standard.

(1) For batch process vents, the level shall be established in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section if compliance testing is performed.

(i) If testing is used to demonstrate initial compliance, the appropriate parameter shall be monitored during all batch emission episodes in the unit operation.

(ii) An average monitored parameter value shall be determined for each of the batch emission episodes in the unit operation.

(iii) If the level to be established for the unit operation is a maximum operating parameter, the level shall be defined as the minimum of the average parameter values determined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(iv) If the level to be established for the unit operation is a minimum operating parameter, the level shall be defined as the maximum of the average parameter values determined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(2) Affected sources with condensers on process vents shall establish the maximum condenser outlet gas temperature as a site-specific operating parameter, which must be measured every 15 minutes, or at least once for batch emission episodes less than 15 minutes in duration. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the maximum condenser outlet gas temperature, averaged over the duration of the batch emission episode or unit operation, is greater than the value established during the initial compliance demonstration.

(3) For affected sources using water scrubbers, the owner or operator shall establish a minimum scrubber water flow rate as a site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes, or at least once for batch emission episodes less than 15 minutes in duration. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the scrubber water flow rate, averaged over the duration of the batch emission episode or unit operation, is below the minimum flow rate established during the initial compliance demonstration.

(4) For affected sources using carbon adsorbers or having uncontrolled process vents, the owner or operator shall establish a maximum outlet HAP concentration as the site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes, or at least once for batch emission episodes of duration shorter than 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the outlet HAP concentration, averaged over the duration of the batch emission episode or unit operation, is greater than the value established during the initial compliance demonstration.

(5) For affected sources using flares, the presence of the pilot flame shall be monitored every 15 minutes, or at least once for batch emission episodes less than 15 minutes in duration. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance upon loss of pilot flame.

(6) Wastewater system parameters to be monitored are the parameters specified by 40 CFR part 414, subpart E. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance with this subpart W if it is found to be out of compliance with 40 CFR part 414, subpart E.

(c) Periods of time when monitoring measurements exceed the parameter values do not constitute a violation if they occur during a startup, shutdown, or malfunction, and the facility is operated in accordance with ยง 63.6(e)(1).

(d) The owner or operator of any affected WSR source that chooses to comply with the requirements of subpart H of this part shall meet the monitoring requirements of subpart H of this part.
