
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart X - National Emission Standards For Hazardous Air Pollutants From Secondary Lead Smelting
###### ยง 63.544 What are my total enclosure standards?

(a) You must operate the process fugitive emissions sources and fugitive dust sources listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section in a total enclosure that is maintained at negative pressure at all times and vented to a control device designed to capture lead particulate. The total enclosure must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) Smelting furnaces.

(2) Smelting furnace charging areas.

(3) Lead taps, slag taps, and molds during tapping.

(4) Battery breakers.

(5) Refining kettles, casting areas.

(6) Dryers.

(7) Agglomerating furnaces and agglomerating furnace product taps.

(8) Material handling areas for any lead bearing materials except those listed in paragraph (b) of this section.

(9) Areas where dust from fabric filters, sweepings or used fabric filters are processed.

(b) Total enclosures are not required in the following areas: lead ingot product handling areas, stormwater and wastewater treatment areas, intact battery storage areas, areas where lead bearing material is stored in closed containers or enclosed mechanical conveyors, and areas where clean battery casing material is handled.

(c) You must construct and operate total enclosures for the sources listed in paragraph (a) of this section as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. The total enclosure must be free of significant cracks, gaps, corrosion or other deterioration that could cause lead bearing material to be released from the primary barrier. Measures must be in place to prevent the tracking of lead bearing material out of the unit by personnel or by equipment used in handling the material. An area must be designated to decontaminate equipment and any rinsate must be collected and properly managed.

(1) You must ventilate the total enclosure continuously to ensure negative pressure values of at least 0.013 mm of mercury (0.007 inches of water).

(2) You must maintain an inward flow of air through all natural draft openings.

(3) If areas that contain one or more sources listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section are enclosed within a larger building that also meets the definition of a total enclosure under ยง 63.542, the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) shall be monitored pursuant to ยง 63.548(k) at only one leeward, one windward and one additional wall of the outermost portion of the larger totally enclosed building rather than each individual area within the building.

(d) You must inspect enclosures and facility structures that contain any lead-bearing materials at least once per month. You must repair any gaps, breaks, separations, leak points or other possible routes for emissions of lead to the atmosphere within one week of identification unless you obtain approval for an extension from the Administrator before the repair period is exceeded.
