
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart X - National Emission Standards For Hazardous Air Pollutants From Secondary Lead Smelting
###### ยง 63.545 What are my standards for fugitive dust sources?
####### Equipment maintenance.

(6)You must perform all maintenance activities that could generate lead dust in a manner that minimizes emissions of fugitive dust. This must include one or more of the following:

(i) Performing maintenance inside a total permanent enclosure maintained at negative pressure.

(ii) Performing maintenance inside a temporary enclosure and use a vacuum system either equipped with a filter rated by the manufacturer to achieve a capture efficiency of 99.97 percent for 0.3 micron particles or routed to an existing control device permitted for this activity.

(iii) Performing maintenance inside a partial enclosure and use of wet suppression sufficient to prevent dust formation.

(iv) Decontamination of equipment prior to removal from an enclosure.

(v) Immediate repair of ductwork or structure leaks without an enclosure if the time to construct a temporary enclosure would exceed the time to make a temporary or permanent repair, or if construction of an enclosure would cause a higher level of emissions than if an enclosure were not constructed.

(vi) Activities required for inspection of fabric filters and maintenance of filters that are in need of removal and replacement are not required to be conducted inside of total enclosures. Used fabric filters must be placed in sealed plastic bags or containers prior to removal from a baghouse.
