
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart X - National Emission Standards For Hazardous Air Pollutants From Secondary Lead Smelting
###### § 63.550 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(a) You must comply with all of the recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in § 63.10 that are referenced in Table 1 to this subpart.

(1) Records must be maintained in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1). However, electronic recordkeeping and reporting if suitable for the specific case (e.g., by electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy), and when required by this subpart.

(2) Records must be kept on site for at least 2 years after the date of occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1).

(b) The standard operating procedures manuals required in §§ 63.545(a) and 63.548(a) must be submitted to the Administrator in electronic format for review and approval of the initial submittal and whenever an update is made to the procedure.

(c) You must maintain for a period of 5 years, records of the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (13) of this section.

(1) Electronic records of the bag leak detection system output.

(2) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and the date and time the cause of the alarm was corrected.

(3) All records of inspections and maintenance activities required under § 63.548(c) as part of the practices described in the standard operating procedures manual for baghouses required under § 63.548(a).

(4) Electronic records of the pressure drop and water flow rate values for wet scrubbers used to control metal hazardous air pollutant emissions from process fugitive sources as required in § 63.548(i).

(5) Electronic records of the output from the continuous temperature monitor required in § 63.548(j)(1), and an identification of periods when the 3-hour average temperature fell below the minimum established under § 63.548(j)(4), and an explanation of the corrective actions taken.

(6) Electronic records of the continuous pressure monitors for total enclosures required in § 63.548(k), and an identification of periods when the pressure was not maintained as required in § 63.544(c)(1).

(7) Records of any time periods power was lost to the continuous pressure monitors for total enclosures required in § 63.548(k) and records of loss of power to the air handling system maintaining negative pressure on total enclosures.

(8) Records of the inspections of facility enclosures required in § 63.544(d).

(9) Records of all cleaning and inspections required as part of the practices described in the standard operating procedures manual required under § 63.545(a) for the control of fugitive dust emissions.

(10) Electronic records of the output of any CEMS installed to monitor lead emissions meeting the requirements of § 63.548(m).
