
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations
###### § 63.560 Applicability and designation of affected source.
####### Exemptions from MACT and RACT standards.

(d)(1) This subpart does not apply to emissions resulting from marine tank vessel loading operations, as that term is defined in § 63.561, of commodities with vapor pressures less than 10.3 kilopascals (kPa) (1.5 pounds per square inch, absolute) (psia) at standard conditions, 20 &#xB0;C and 760 millimeters Hg (mm Hg).

(2) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in § 63.562(b)(2), (3) and (4) and to the RACT standards in § 63.562(c)(3) and (4) do not apply to marine tank vessel loading operations where emissions are reduced by using a vapor balancing system, as that term is defined in § 63.561. The provisions pertaining to the vapor collection system, ship-to-shore compatibility, and vapor tightness of marine tank vessels in § 63.562(b)(1) and (c)(2) do apply.

(3) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4) do not apply to marine tank vessel loading operations that are contiguous with refinery operations at sources subject to and complying with subpart CC of this part, National Emissions Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants from Petroleum Refineries, except to the extent that any such provisions of this subpart are made applicable by subpart CC of this part.

(4) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in § 63.562(b) and (d) do not apply to benzene emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations that are subject to and complying with 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB, National Emissions Standards for Benzene Emissions from Benzene Transfer Operations, except that benzene emissions or other HAP emissions (i.e., nonbenzene HAP emissions) from marine tank vessel loading operations that are not subject to subpart BB are subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(5) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in § 63.562(b) and (d) do not apply to marine tank vessel loading operations at loading berths that only transfer liquids containing organic HAP as impurities, as that term is defined in § 63.561.

(6) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to marine tank vessel loading operations at existing offshore loading terminals, as that term is defined in § 63.561, however existing offshore loading terminals must meet the submerged fill standards of 46 CFR 153.282.

(7) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to ballasting operations, as that term is defined in § 63.561.
