
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Headquarters
###### ยง 1.37 Office of External Affairs.
####### Office of Legislative Analysis.

(c)The Office of Legislative Analysis, under the supervision of a Director who serves in the capacity of Legislative Counsel, is responsible for legislative drafting and liaison activities relating to the Agency's programs. It exercises responsibility for legislative drafting; reports to the Office of Management and Budget and congressional committees on proposed legislation and pending and enrolled bills, as required by OMB Circular No. A-19 and Bulletin No. 72-6; provides testimony on legislation and other matters before congressional committees; and reviews transcripts of legislative hearings. It maintains liaison with the Office of Congressional Liaison on all Agency activities of interest to the Congress. The Office works closely with the staffs of various Assistant Administrators, Associate Administrators, Regional Administrators, and Staff Office Directors in accordance with established Agency procedures, in the development of the Agency's legislative program. The Office assists the Assistant Administrator for External Affairs and the Agency's senior policy officials in guiding legislative initiatives through the legislative process. It advises the Assistant Administrator for Administration and Resources Management in matters pertaining to appropriations legislation. It works closely with the Office of Federal Activities to assure compliance with Agency procedures for the preparation of environmental impact statements, in relation to proposed legislation and reports on legislation. The Office coordinates with the Office of Management and Budget, other agencies, and congressional staff members on matters within its area of responsibility; and develops suggested State and local environmental legislative proposals, using inputs provided by other Agency components. The Legislative Reference Library provides legislative research services for the Agency. The Library secures and furnishes congressional materials to all EPA employees and, if available, to other Government agencies and private organizations; and it also provides the service of securing, upon request, EPA reports and materials for the Congress.
