
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations
###### ยง 63.563 Compliance and performance testing.
####### Leak test performed during loading using Method 21 for determining vapor tightness of the marine vessel.

(iii)If no documentation of vapor tightness as described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section is available, the owner or operator of a marine tank vessel, who loads commodities containing HAP not determined to be exempt under ยง 63.560(d) at an affected source, shall perform a leak test of the marine tank vessel during marine tank vessel loading operation using the procedures described in ยง 63.565(c)(2).

(A) If no leak is detected, the owner or operator of a marine tank vessel shall complete the documentation described in ยง 63.567(i) prior to departure of the vessel.

(B) If a leak is detected, the owner or operator of the marine tank vessel shall document the vapor-tightness failure for the marine tank vessel prior to departure of the vessel. The leaking component shall be repaired prior to the next marine tank vessel loading operation at a controlled terminal unless the repair is technically infeasible without cleaning and gas freeing or dry-docking the vessel. If the owner or operator of the vessel provides documentation that repair of such equipment is technically infeasible without cleaning and gas freeing or dry-docking the vessel, the equipment responsible for the leak will be excluded from future Method 21 tests until repairs are effected. A copy of this documentation shall be maintained by the owner or operator of the affected source. Repair of the equipment responsible for the leak shall occur the next time the vessel is cleaned and gas freed or dry-docked. For repairs that are technically feasible without dry-docking the vessel, the owner or operator of the affected source shall not load the vessel again unless the marine tank vessel owner or operator can document that the equipment responsible for the leak has been repaired.
