
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations
###### § 63.563 Compliance and performance testing.
####### Operation and maintenance inspections.

(3)If the 3-hour or 3-cycle block average operating parameters in paragraphs (b)(4) through (9) of this section, outside the acceptable operating ranges, are measured and recorded, i.e., variances of the pollution control device or monitoring equipment, the owner or operator of the affected source shall perform an unscheduled inspection of the control device and monitoring equipment and review of the parameter monitoring data. The owner or operator of the affected source shall perform an inspection and review when total parameter variance time for the control device is greater than 10 percent of the operating time for marine tank vessel loading operations on a 30-day, rolling-average basis. The inspection and review shall be conducted within 24 hours after passing the allowable variance time of 10 percent. The inspection checklist from the requirements of § 63.562(e)(2)(iii) and the monitoring data from requirements in §§ 63.562(e)(2)(ii) and 63.564 should be used to identify any maintenance problems that may be associated with the variance. The unscheduled inspection should encompass all components of the control device and monitoring equipment that can be inspected while in operation. If any maintenance problem is identified during the inspection, the owner or operator of the affected source must take corrective action (e.g., adjustments to operating controls, etc.) as soon as practicable. If no immediate maintenance problems are identified from the inspection performed while the equipment is operating, a complete inspection in accordance with § 63.562(e)(2) must be conducted prior to the next marine tank vessel loading operation and corrective action (e.g., replacement of defective parts) must be taken as soon as practicable for any maintenance problem identified during the complete inspection.
