
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations
###### ยง 63.564 Monitoring requirements.
####### Vapor collection system of terminal.

(b)Owners or operators of a source complying with ยง 63.563(a)(1) that uses a vapor collection system that contains valves that could divert a vent stream from a control device used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall comply with paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.

(1) Measure and record the vent stream flowrate of each by-pass line once every 15 minutes. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow indicator and data recorder. The flow indicator shall be installed immediately downstream of any valve (i.e., entrance to by-pass line) that could divert the vent stream from the control device to the atmosphere.

(2) Measure the vent stream flowrate of each by-pass line once every 15 minutes. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow indicator with either an audio or visual alarm. The flow indicator and alarm shall be installed immediately downstream of any valve (i.e., entrance to by-pass line) that could divert the vent stream from the control device to the atmosphere. The alarm shall be checked every 6 months to demonstrate that it is functioning properly.

(3) Visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism once during each marine tank vessel loading operation and at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and that the vent stream is not diverted through the by-pass line; record all times when the car seals have been broken and the valve position has been changed. Each by-pass line valve shall be secured in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.
