
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations
###### ยง 63.563 Compliance and performance testing.
####### Alternative control devices.

(9)For sources complying with ยง 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2) with the use of a control technology other than the devices discussed in paragraphs (b)(4) through (8) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source shall provide to the Administrator information describing the design and operation of the air pollution control system, including recommendations for the operating parameter(s) to be monitored to indicate proper operation and maintenance of the air pollution control system. Based on this information, the Administrator shall determine the operating parameter(s) to be established during the performance test. During the initial performance test required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine the efficiency of the air pollution control system using the test methods in ยง 63.565(d). The device shall achieve at least the percent destruction efficiency or recovery efficiency required under ยง 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2). The owner or operator shall establish the operating parameter(s) approved by the Administrator. Following the date on which the initial performance test is complete, the facility shall operate either above or below a maximum or minimum operating parameter, as appropriate.
