
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations
###### § 63.564 Monitoring requirements.

(a)(1) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the monitoring requirements in § 63.8 of subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions for applicability of subpart A to this subpart in Table 1 of § 63.560 and the monitoring requirements in this section.

(2) Each owner or operator of an affected source shall monitor the parameters specified in this section. All monitoring equipment shall be installed such that representative measurements of emissions or process parameters from the source are obtained. For monitoring equipment purchased from a vendor, verification of the operational status of the monitoring equipment shall include completion of the manufacturer's written specifications or recommendations for installation, operation, and calibration of the system.

(3) Except for system breakdowns, out-of-control periods, repairs, maintenance periods, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level calibration drift adjustments, all continuous parametric monitoring systems (CPMS) and CEMS shall be in continuous operation while marine tank vessel loading operations are occuring and shall meet minimum frequency of operation requirements. Sources monitoring by use of CEMS and CPMS shall complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and/or data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.

(4) The owner or operator of a CMS installed in accordance with these emissions standards shall comply with the performance specifications either in performance specification (PS) 8 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B for CEMS or in § 63.7(c)(6) of subpart A of this part for CPMS.

(5) A CEMS is out of control when the measured values (i.e., daily calibrations, multipoint calibrations, and performance audits) exceed the limits specified in either PS 8 or in § 63.8(c)(7) of subpart A of this part. The owner or operator of a CEMS that is out of control shall submit all information concerning out of control periods, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken, in the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report required in § 63.567(e).
