
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations
###### ยง 63.564 Monitoring requirements.
####### Carbon adsorbers with steam regeneration.

(3)Monitor and record the total stream mass flow and monitor and record the carbon bed temperature after regeneration (but within 15 minutes of completion of the cooling cycle). The owner or operator will install, calibrate, maintain, and operate an integrating stream flow monitoring device that is accurate within +/-10 percent and that is capable of recording the total stream mass flow for each regeneration cycle. The owner or operator will install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a temperature monitor accurate to within +/-5.6 &#xB0;C (10 &#xB0;F) or within 1 percent of the baseline carbon bed temperature, whichever is less stringent, to measure the carbon bed temperature. The monitor shall be installed at the exhaust point of the carbon bed. The data acquisition system shall record the carbon bed temperature after each cooling cycle (measured within 15 minutes of completion of the cooling cycle). The owner or operator shall verify the accuracy of the temperature monitor once each calendar year with a reference temperature monitor (traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards or an independent temperature measurement device dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy checking, the probe of the reference device shall be at the same location as that of the temperature monitor being tested.
