
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations
###### ยง 63.564 Monitoring requirements.
####### Baseline temperature.

(1)Monitor and record the temperature at the outlet of the unit. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a temperature monitor accurate to within +/-5.6 &#xB0;C (+/-10 &#xB0;F) or within 1 percent of the baseline temperature, whichever is less stringent, to measure the temperature. The monitor shall be installed at the exhaust point of the condenser/refrigeration unit. For sources monitoring the temperature established during the performance test, the data acquisition system shall record the temperature every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average temperature each cycle (same time period or cycle of the performance test) and a 3-hour block average every third cycle. For sources monitoring the manufacturer recommended temperature, the data acquisition system shall record the temperature every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average temperature each hour and a 3-hour block average every third hour. The owner or operator shall verify the accuracy of the temperature monitor once each calendar year with a reference temperature monitor (traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards or an independent temperature measurement device dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy checking, the probe of the reference device shall be at the same location as that of the temperature monitor being tested.
