
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations
###### ยง 63.567 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
####### Request to reduce frequency of excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance reports.

(2)An owner or operator who is required to submit excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance and summary reports on a semi-annual basis may reduce the frequency of reporting to annual if the following conditions are met:

(i) For 1 full year the sources's excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance reports continually demonstrate that the source is in compliance; and

(ii) The owner or operator continues to comply with all recordkeeping and monitoring requirements specified in this subpart and subpart A of this part.

(3) The frequency of reporting of excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance and summary reports required may be reduced only after the owner or operator notifies the Administrator in writing of his or her intention to make such a change and the Administrator does not object to the intended change. In deciding whether to approve a reduced frequency of reporting, the Administrator may review information concerning the source's entire previous performance history during the 5-year recordkeeping prior to the intended change, including performance test results, monitoring data, and evaluations of an owner or operator's conformance with operation maintenance requirements. Such information may be used by the Administrator to make a judgement about the source's potential for noncompliance in the future. If the Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing within 45 days after receiving notice of the owner or operator's intention. The notification from the Administrator to the owner or operator will specify the grounds on which the disapproval is based. In the absence of a notice of disapproval within 45 days, approval is automatically granted.
