
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations
###### § 63.567 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
####### Content and submittal dates for excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports.

(4)All excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports and all summary reports, if required per paragraph (e)(5) and (6) of this section, shall be delivered or postmarked within 30 days following the end of each calendar year, or within 30 days following the end of each six month period, if appropriate. Written reports of excess emissions or exceedances of process or control system parameters shall include all information required in § 63.10(c)(5) through (13) of subpart A of this part as applicable in Table 1 of § 63.560 and information from any calibration tests in which the monitoring equipment is not in compliance with PS 8 or other methods used for accuracy testing of temperature, pressure, or flow monitoring devices. The written report shall also include the name, title, and signature of the responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report. When no excess emissions or exceedances have occurred or monitoring equipment has not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted, such information shall be stated in the report. This information will be kept for a minimum of 5 years and made readily available to the Administrator or delegated State authority upon request.

(5) If the total duration of excess emissions or control system parameter exceedances for the reporting period is less than 5 percent of the total operating time for the reporting period, and CMS downtime for the reporting period is less than 10 percent of the total operating time for the reporting period, only the summary report of § 63.10(e)(3)(vi) of subpart A of this part shall be submitted, and the full excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report of paragraph (e)(4) of this section need not be submitted unless required by the Administrator.

(6) If the total duration of excess emissions or process or control system parameter exceedances for the reporting period is 5 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, or the total CMS downtime for the reporting period is 10 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, both the summary report of § 63.10(e)(3)(vi) of subpart A of this part and the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report of paragraph (e)(4) of this section shall be submitted.
