
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart Y - National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations
###### ยง 63.567 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
####### Leak detection and repair of vapor collection systems and control devices.

(k)When each leak of the vapor collection system, or vapor collection system, and control device is detected and repaired as specified in ยง 63.563(c) the following information required shall be maintained for 5 years:

(1) Date of inspection;

(2) Findings (location, nature, and severity of each leak);

(3) Leak determination method;

(4) Corrective action (date each leak repaired, reasons for repair interval); and

(5) Inspector name and signature.

(l) The owner or operator of the VMT source required by ยง 63.562(d)(2)(iv) to develop a program, shall submit annual reports on or before January 31 of each year to the Administrator certifying the annual average daily loading rate for the previous calendar year. Beginning on January 31, 1996, for the reported year 1995, the annual report shall specify the annual average daily loading rate over all loading berths. Beginning on January 31, 1999, for the reported year 1998, the annual report shall specify the annual average daily loading rate over all loading berths, over each loading berth equipped with a vapor collection system and control device, and over each loading berth not equipped with a vapor collection system and control device. The annual average daily loading rate under this section is calculated as the total amount of crude oil loaded during the calendar year divided by 365 days or 366 days, as appropriate.

(m) The number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded shall be stated in a semiannual report. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with ยง 63.562(e), including actions taken to correct a malfunction. The report, to be certified by the owner or operator or other responsible official, shall be submitted semiannually and delivered or postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each calendar half.
