
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart AA - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Phosphoric Acid Manufacturing Plants
###### ยง 63.602 Standards and compliance dates.

(a) On and after the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, for each wet-process phosphoric acid process line, superphosphoric acid process line, phosphate rock dryer, and phosphate rock calciner, you must comply with the emission limits as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section. If a process line contains more than one emission point, you must sum the emissions from all emission points in a process line to determine compliance with the specified emission limits.

(1) For each existing wet-process phosphoric acid process line, superphosphoric acid process line, and phosphate rock dryer that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 27, 1996, you must comply with the emission limits specified in Table 1 to this subpart beginning on June 10, 2002.

(2) For each existing phosphate rock calciner that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 27, 1996, you must comply with the emission limits as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must comply with the total particulate emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart beginning on June 10, 2002.

(ii) You must comply with the mercury emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart beginning on November 3, 2020.

(iii) You must comply with the total fluorides emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart beginning on August 19, 2015.

(3) For each new wet-process phosphoric acid process line, superphosphoric acid process line, and phosphate rock dryer that commences construction or reconstruction after December 27, 1996 and on or before August 19, 2015, you must comply with the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart beginning on June 10, 1999 or at startup, whichever is later.

(4) For each new wet-process phosphoric acid process line, superphosphoric acid process line, and phosphate rock dryer that commences construction or reconstruction after August 19, 2015, you must comply with the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart immediately upon startup.

(5) For each new phosphate rock calciner that commences construction or reconstruction after December 27, 1996 and on or before August 19, 2015, you must comply with the emission limits as specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must comply with the total particulate emission limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart beginning on June 10, 1999 or at startup, whichever is later.

(ii) You must comply with the mercury emission limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart beginning on August 19, 2015, or upon startup, whichever is later.

(iii) You must comply with the total fluorides emission limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart beginning on August 19, 2015, or upon startup, whichever is later.

(6) For each new phosphate rock calciner that commences construction or reconstruction after August 19, 2015, you must comply with the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart immediately upon startup.

(b) For each existing purified phosphoric acid process line that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 27, 1996, you must comply with the provisions of subpart H of this part and paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section beginning on June 10, 2002. For each new purified phosphoric acid process line that commences construction or reconstruction after December 27, 1996, you must comply with the provisions of subpart H of this part and paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section beginning on June 10, 1999 or at startup, whichever is later.

(1) Maintain a 30-day rolling average of daily concentration measurements of methyl isobutyl ketone equal to or below 20 parts per million by weight (ppmw) for each product acid stream.

(2) Maintain a 30-day rolling average of daily concentration measurements of methyl isobutyl ketone equal to or below 30 ppmw for each raffinate stream.

(3) Maintain the daily average temperature of the exit gas stream from the chiller stack below 50 degrees Fahrenheit.

(c) Beginning on June 10, 2002, you must not introduce into an existing evaporative cooling tower that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 27, 1996, any liquid effluent from any absorber installed to control emissions from process equipment. Beginning on June 10, 1999 or at startup, whichever is later, you must not introduce into a new evaporative cooling tower that commences construction or reconstruction after December 27, 1996, any liquid effluent from any absorber installed to control emissions from process equipment.

(d) For each gypsum dewatering stack system, you must prepare, and operate in accordance with, a gypsum dewatering stack and cooling pond management plan that contains the information specified in paragraph (e) of this section beginning on August 19, 2016.

(e) The gypsum dewatering stack and cooling pond management plan must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section. You must submit the gypsum dewatering stack and cooling pond management plan for approval to the Administrator as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

(1) Location (including latitude and longitude of centroid in decimal degrees to four decimal places) of each gypsum dewatering stack and each cooling pond in the gypsum dewatering stack system.

(2) Permitted maximum footprint acreage of each gypsum dewatering stack and each cooling pond in the gypsum dewatering stack system.

(3) Control measures that you use to minimize fugitive hydrogen fluoride emissions from the gypsum dewatering stack system. If you operate one or more active gypsum dewatering stacks or cooling ponds that are considered new sources as defined in ยง 63.601, then you must use, and include in the management plan, at least two of the control measures listed in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section for your gypsum dewatering stack system. If you only operate active gypsum dewatering stacks and cooling ponds that are considered existing sources as defined in ยง 63.601, then you must use, and include in the management plan, at least one of the control measures listed in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section for your gypsum dewatering stack system.

(i) For at least one cooling pond that is considered part of your gypsum dewatering stack system, you may choose to submerge the discharge pipe to a level below the surface of the cooling pond.
