
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart AA - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Phosphoric Acid Manufacturing Plants
###### ยง 63.602 Standards and compliance dates.
####### e.g.,

(v) For at least one gypsum dewatering stack that is considered part of your gypsum dewatering stack system, you may choose to apply slaked lime to the active gypsum dewatering stack surfaces. If you choose this control measure, then you must include in the plan the method used to determine the specific locations slaked lime is applied. The plan must also include the methods used to determine the quantity of, and when to apply, slaked lime (slaked lime may be applied to achieve a state ambient air standard for fluorides, measured as hydrogen fluoride).

(vi) For at least one gypsum dewatering stack that is considered part of your gypsum dewatering stack system, you may choose to apply soil caps and vegetation, or a synthetic cover, to a portion of side slopes of the active gypsum dewatering stack. If you choose this control measure, then you must include in the plan the method used to determine the specific locations of soil caps and vegetation, or synthetic cover; and specify the acreage and locations where soil caps and vegetation, or synthetic cover, is applied. The plan must also include a schedule describing when soil caps and vegetation, or synthetic cover, is to be applied.

(vii) For all gypsum dewatering stacks that are considered part of your gypsum dewatering stack system, you may choose to establish closure requirements that at a minimum, contain requirements for the specified items in paragraphs (e)(3)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) A specific trigger mechanism for when you must begin the closure process on the gypsum dewatering stack; and

(B) A requirement to install a final cover. For purposes of this paragraph, final cover means the materials used to cover the top and sides of a gypsum dewatering stack upon closure.

(4) You must submit your plan for approval to the Administrator at least 6 months prior to the compliance date specified in ยง 63.602(d), or with the permit application for modification, construction, or reconstruction. The plan must include details on how you will implement and show compliance with the control technique(s) that you have selected to use. The Administrator will approve or disapprove your plan within 90 days after receipt of the plan. To change any of the information submitted in the plan, you must submit a revised plan 60 days before the planned change is to be implemented in order to allow time for review and approval by the Administrator before the change is implemented.

(f) Beginning on August 19, 2015, during periods of startup and shutdown (as defined in ยง 63.601), you must comply with the work practice specified in this paragraph in lieu of the emission limits specified in paragraph (a) of this section. During periods of startup and shutdown, you must operate any control device(s) being used at the affected source, monitor the operating parameters specified in Table 3 of this subpart, and comply with the operating limits specified in Table 4 of this subpart.
