
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart AA - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Phosphoric Acid Manufacturing Plants
###### § 63.606 Performance tests and compliance provisions.

(a) You must conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart, within 180 days of the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.602.

(b) After you conduct the initial performance test specified in paragraph (a) of this section, you must conduct a performance test once per calendar year.

(c) For affected sources (as defined in § 63.600) that have not operated since the previous annual performance test was conducted and more than 1 year has passed since the previous performance test, you must conduct a performance test no later than 180 days after the re-start of the affected source according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2).

(d)(1) You must conduct the performance tests specified in this section at representative (normal) conditions for the process. Representative (normal) conditions means those conditions that:

(i) Represent the range of combined process and control measure conditions under which the facility expects to operate (regardless of the frequency of the conditions); and

(ii) Are likely to most challenge the emissions control measures of the facility with regard to meeting the applicable emission standards, but without creating an unsafe condition. Operations during startup, shutdown, and malfunction do not constitute representative (normal) operating conditions for purposes of conducting a performance test.

(2) You must record the process information that is necessary to document the operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent representative (normal) conditions. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(e) In conducting all performance tests, you must use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 63.7(f).

(f) You must determine compliance with the applicable total fluorides standards specified in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Compute the emission rate (E) of total fluorides for each run using Equation AA-1:

(2) You must use Method 13A or 13B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the total fluorides concentration (C) and the volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas at each emission point. The sampling time for each run at each emission point must be at least 60 minutes. The sampling volume for each run at each emission point must be at least 0.85 dscm (30 dscf). If Method 13B is used, the fusion of the filtered material described in Section 7.3.1.2 and the distillation of suitable aliquots of containers 1 and 2, described in section 7.3.3 and 7.3.4 in Method 13 A, may be omitted.

(3) Compute the equivalent POfeed rate (P) using Equation AA-2:

(i) Determine the mass flow rate (M) of the phosphorus-bearing feed using the measurement system described in § 63.605(a).

(ii) Determine the POcontent (R) of the feed using, as appropriate, the following methods specified in Methods Used and Adopted By The Association of Florida Phosphate Chemists (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) where applicable:

(A) Section IX, Methods of Analysis for Phosphate Rock, No. 1 Preparation of Sample.

(B) Section IX, Methods of Analysis for Phosphate Rock, No. 3 Phosphorus-POor Ca(PO), Method A-Volumetric Method.

(C) Section IX, Methods of Analysis for Phosphate Rock, No. 3 Phosphorus-POor Ca(PO), Method B-Gravimetric Quimociac Method.

(D) Section IX, Methods of Analysis for Phosphate Rock, No. 3 Phosphorus-POor Ca(PO), Method C-Spectrophotometric Method.

(E) Section XI, Methods of Analysis for Phosphoric Acid, Superphosphate, Triple Superphosphate, and Ammonium Phosphates, No. 3 Total Phosphorus-PO, Method A-Volumetric Method.

(F) Section XI, Methods of Analysis for Phosphoric Acid, Superphosphate, Triple Superphosphate, and Ammonium Phosphates, No. 3 Total Phosphorus-PO, Method B-Gravimetric Quimociac Method.

(G) Section XI, Methods of Analysis for Phosphoric Acid, Superphosphate, Triple Superphosphate, and Ammonium Phosphates, No. 3 Total Phosphorus-PO, Method C-Spectrophotometric Method.

(g) You must demonstrate compliance with the applicable particulate matter standards specified in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart as specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Compute the emission rate (E) of particulate matter for each run using Equation AA-3:

(2) Use Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 to determine the particulate matter concentration (C) and volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas. Except as specified in paragraph (h) of this section, the sampling time and sample volume for each run must be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dry standard cubic meter (30 dry standard cubic feet).

(3) Use the CMS described in § 63.605(b) to determine the phosphate rock feed rate (P) for each run.

(h) To demonstrate compliance with the particulate matter standards for phosphate rock calciners specified in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart, you must use Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 to determine the particulate matter concentration. The sampling volume for each test run must be at least 1.70 dry standard cubic meter.

(i) To demonstrate compliance with the mercury emission standards for phosphate rock calciners specified in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart, you must use Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8 to determine the mercury concentration, unless you use a CEMS to demonstrate compliance. If you use a non-regenerative adsorber to control mercury emissions, you must use this test method to determine the expected bed life as specified in § 63.605(e)(1).

(j) If you choose to monitor the mass flow of product from the phosphate rock dryer or calciner as specified in § 63.605(b)(1)(ii), you must either:

(1) Simultaneously monitor the feed rate and output rate of the phosphate rock dryer or calciner during the performance test, or

(2) Monitor the output rate and the input and output moisture contents of the phosphate rock dryer or calciner during the performance test and calculate the corresponding phosphate rock dryer or calciner input rate.

(k) For sorbent injection systems, you must conduct the performance test at the outlet of the fabric filter used for sorbent collection. You must monitor and record operating parameter values for the fabric filter during the performance test. If the sorbent is replaced with a different brand or type of sorbent than was used during the performance test, you must conduct a new performance test.

(l) If you use a mercury CEMS as specified in § 63.605(g), or paragraph (i) of this section, you must demonstrate initial compliance based on the first 30 operating days during which you operate the affected source using a CEMS. You must obtain hourly mercury concentration and stack gas volumetric flow rate data.

(m) If you use a CMS, you must conduct a performance evaluation, as specified in § 63.8(e), in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan in § 63.608(c). For fabric filters, you must conduct a performance evaluation of the bag leak detection system consistent with the guidance provided in Office Of Air Quality Planning And Standards (OAQPS), Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14). You must record the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to detecting changes in particulate matter emissions, range, averaging period, and alarm set points during the performance test.
