
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Phosphate Fertilizers Production Plants
###### § 63.626 Performance tests and compliance provisions.

(a) You must conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart, within 180 days of the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.622.

(b) After you conduct the initial performance test specified in paragraph (a) of this section, you must conduct a performance test once per calendar year.

(c) For affected sources (as defined in § 63.620) that have not operated since the previous annual performance test was conducted and more than 1 year has passed since the previous performance test, you must conduct a performance test no later than 180 days after the re-start of the affected source according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2).

(d)(1) You must conduct the performance tests specified in this section at representative (normal) conditions for the process. Representative (normal) conditions means those conditions that:

(i) Represent the range of combined process and control measure conditions under which the facility expects to operate (regardless of the frequency of the conditions); and

(ii) Are likely to most challenge the emissions control measures of the facility with regard to meeting the applicable emission standards, but without creating an unsafe condition.

(2) Operations during startup, shutdown, and malfunction do not constitute representative (normal) operating conditions for purposes of conducting a performance test. You must record the process information that is necessary to document the operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent representative (normal) conditions. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(e) In conducting all performance tests, you must use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 63.7(f).
