
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Phosphate Fertilizers Production Plants
###### § 63.626 Performance tests and compliance provisions.
####### e.g.,

(f) For each phosphate fertilizer process line (diammonium and/or monoammonium phosphate process line), and granular triple superphosphate process line, you must determine compliance with the applicable total fluorides standards specified in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Compute the emission rate (E) of total fluorides for each run using Equation BB-1:

(2) You must use Method 13A or 13B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the total fluorides concentration (C) and the volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas at each emission point. The sampling time for each run at each emission point must be at least 60 minutes. The sampling volume for each run at each emission point must be at least 0.85 dscm (30 dscf). If Method 13B is used, the fusion of the filtered material described in Section 7.3.1.2 and the distillation of suitable aliquots of containers 1 and 2, described in section 7.3.3 and 7.3.4 in Method 13 A, may be omitted.

(3) Compute the equivalent POfeed rate (P) using Equation BB-2:

(i) Determine the mass flow rate (M) of the phosphorus-bearing feed using the measurement system described in § 63.625(a).

(ii) Determine the POcontent (R) of the feed using, as appropriate, the following methods specified in the Book of Methods Used and Adopted By The Association of Florida Phosphate Chemists (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) where applicable:

(A) Section IX, Methods of Analysis for Phosphate Rock, No. 1 Preparation of Sample.

(B) Section IX, Methods of Analysis for Phosphate Rock, No. 3 Phosphorus-POor Ca(PO), Method A-Volumetric Method.

(C) Section IX, Methods of Analysis for Phosphate Rock, No. 3 Phosphorus-POor Ca(PO), Method B-Gravimetric Quimociac Method.

(D) Section IX, Methods of Analysis for Phosphate Rock, No. 3 Phosphorus-POor Ca3(PO), Method C-Spectrophotometric Method.

(E) Section XI, Methods of Analysis for Phosphoric Acid, Superphosphate, Triple superphosphate, and Ammonium Phosphates, No. 3 Total Phosphorus-PO, Method A-Volumetric Method.

(F) Section XI, Methods of Analysis for Phosphoric Acid, Superphosphate, Triple Superphosphate, and Ammonium Phosphates, No. 3 Total Phosphorus-PO, Method B-Gravimetric Quimociac Method.

(G) Section XI, Methods of Analysis for Phosphoric Acid, Superphosphate, Triple Superphosphate, and Ammonium Phosphates, No. 3 Total Phosphorus-PO, Method C-Spectrophotometric Method.

(g) For each granular triple superphosphate storage building, you must determine compliance with the applicable total fluorides standards specified in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart as specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) You must conduct performance tests only when the following quantities of product are being cured or stored in the facility:

(i) Total granular triple superphosphate is at least 10 percent of the building capacity, and

(ii) Fresh granular triple superphosphate is at least six percent of the total amount of granular triple superphosphate, or

(iii) If the provision in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section exceeds production capabilities for fresh granular triple superphosphate, the fresh granular triple superphosphate is equal to at least 5 days maximum production.

(2) Compute the emission rate (E) of total fluorides for each run using Equation BB-3:

(3) You must use Method 13A or 13B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the total fluorides concentration (C) and the volumetric flow rate (Q) of the effluent gas at each emission point. The sampling time for each run at each emission point must be at least 60 minutes. The sampling volume for each run at each emission point must be at least 0.85 dscm (30 dscf). If Method 13B is used, the fusion of the filtered material described in Section 7.3.1.2 and the distillation of suitable aliquots of containers 1 and 2, described in section 7.3.3 and 7.3.4 in Method 13A, may be omitted.

(4) Compute the equivalent POstored (P) using Equation BB-4:

(5) Determine the amount of product (M) in storage using the measurement system described in § 63.625(b) and (c).

(6) Determine the POcontent (R) of the product stored using, as appropriate, the following methods specified in the Book of Methods Used and Adopted By The Association of Florida Phosphate Chemists (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) where applicable:

(i) Section XI, Methods of Analysis For Phosphoric Acid, Superphosphate, Triple superphosphate, and Ammonium Phosphates, No. 3 Total Phosphorus-PO, Method A-Volumetric Method.

(ii) Section XI, Methods of Analysis For Phosphoric Acid, Superphosphate, Triple superphosphate, and Ammonium Phosphates, No. 3 Total Phosphorus-PO, Method B-Gravimetric Quimociac Method.

(iii) Section XI, Methods of Analysis For Phosphoric Acid, Superphosphate, Triple superphosphate, and Ammonium Phosphates, No. 3 Total Phosphorus-PO, Method C-Spectrophotometric Method, or,

(7) Determine the POcontent (R) of the product stored using, as appropriate, the following methods specified in the Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC International (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) where applicable:

(i) AOAC Official Method 957.02 Phosphorus (Total) In Fertilizers, Preparation of Sample Solution.

(ii) AOAC Official Method 929.01 Sampling of Solid Fertilizers.

(iii) AOAC Official Method 929.02 Preparation of Fertilizer Sample.

(iv) AOAC Official Method 978.01 Phosphorus (Total) in Fertilizers, Automated Method.

(v) AOAC Official Method 969.02 Phosphorus (Total) in Fertilizers, Alkalimetric Quinolinium Molybdophosphate Method.

(vi) AOAC Official Method 962.02 Phosphorus (Total) in Fertilizers, Gravimetric Quinolinium Molybdophosphate Method.

(vii) AOAC Official Method 958.01 Phosphorus (Total) in Fertilizers, Spectrophotometric Molybdovanadophosphate Method.

(h) If you use a CMS, you must conduct a performance evaluation, as specified in § 63.8(e), in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan in § 63.628(c). For fabric filters, you must conduct a performance evaluation of the bag leak detection system consistent with the guidance provided in Office Of Air Quality Planning And Standards (OAQPS), Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14). You must record the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to detecting changes in particulate matter emissions, range, averaging period, and alarm set points during the performance test.
