
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.640 Applicability and designation of affected source.
####### e.g.,

(vii) To be in compliance with § 60.112b(a)(1)(iv) or (a)(2)(ii) of this chapter, guidepoles in floating roof storage vessels must be equipped with covers and/or controls (pole float system, pole sleeve system, internal sleeve system or flexible enclosure system) as appropriate to comply with the "no visible gap" requirement.

(viii) If a flare is used as a control device for a storage vessel, on and after January 30, 2019, the owner or operator must meet the requirements of § 63.670 instead of the requirements referenced from part 60, subpart Kb of this chapter for that flare.

(9) Storage vessels described by paragraph (n)(6) of this section that are to comply with 40 CFR part 60, subpart Ka, are to comply with only subpart Ka except as provided for in paragraphs (n)(9)(i) through (n)(9)(iv) of this section.

(i) If the owner or operator determines that it is unsafe to perform the seal gap measurements required in § 60.113a(a)(1) of this chapter because the floating roof appears to be structurally unsound and poses an imminent danger to inspecting personnel, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in either § 63.120(b)(7)(i) or (ii) of subpart G (only up to the compliance date specified in paragraph (h) of this section for compliance with § 63.660, as applicable) or either § 63.1063(c)(2)(iv)(A) or (B) of subpart WW.

(ii) If a failure is detected during the seal gap measurements required by § 60.113a(a)(1) of subpart Ka, and the vessel cannot be repaired within 45 days and the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, the owner or operator may utilize up to 2 extensions of up to 30 additional calendar days each.

(iii) If an extension is utilized in accordance with paragraph (n)(9)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall, in the next periodic report, identify the vessel, describe the nature and date of the repair made or provide the date the storage vessel was emptied. The owner or operator shall also provide documentation of the decision to utilize an extension including a description of the failure, documentation that alternate storage capacity is unavailable, and a schedule of actions that will ensure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel emptied as soon as possible.

(iv) Owners and operators of storage vessels complying with subpart Ka of part 60 may submit the inspection reports required by § 60.113a(a)(1)(i)(E) of subpart Ka as part of the periodic reports required by this subpart, rather than within the 60-day period specified in § 60.113a(a)(1)(i)(E) of subpart Ka.

(10) Storage vessels described by paragraph (n)(1) of this section are to comply with 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y, except as provided in paragraphs (n)(10)(i) through (vi) of this section. Storage vessels described by paragraph (n)(2) electing to comply with 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y, shall comply with subpart Y except as provided for in paragraphs (n)(10)(i) through (viii) of this section.

(i) Storage vessels that are to comply with § 61.271(b) of this chapter are exempt from the secondary seal requirements of § 61.271(b)(2)(ii) of this chapter during the gap measurements for the primary seal required by § 61.272(b) of this chapter.

(ii) If the owner or operator determines that it is unsafe to perform the seal gap measurements required in § 61.272(b) of this chapter or to inspect the vessel to determine compliance with § 61.272(a) of this chapter because the roof appears to be structurally unsound and poses an imminent danger to inspecting personnel, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in either § 63.120(b)(7)(i) or (ii) of subpart G (only up to the compliance date specified in paragraph (h) of this section for compliance with § 63.660, as applicable) or either § 63.1063(c)(2)(iv)(A) or (B) of subpart WW.

(iii) If a failure is detected during the inspections required by § 61.272(a)(2) of this chapter or during the seal gap measurements required by § 61.272(b)(1) of this chapter, and the vessel cannot be repaired within 45 days and the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, the owner or operator may utilize up to two extensions of up to 30 additional calendar days each. The owner or operator is not required to provide a request for the extension to the Administrator.

(iv) If an extension is utilized in accordance with paragraph (n)(10)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall, in the next periodic report, identify the vessel, provide the information listed in § 61.272(a)(2) or (b)(4)(iii) of this chapter, and describe the nature and date of the repair made or provide the date the storage vessel was emptied.

(v) Owners and operators of storage vessels complying with 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y, may submit the inspection reports required by § 61.275(a), (b)(1), and (d) of this chapter as part of the periodic reports required by this subpart, rather than within the 60-day period specified in § 61.275(a), (b)(1), and (d) of this chapter.

(vi) The reports of rim seal inspections specified in § 61.275(d) of this chapter are not required if none of the measured gaps or calculated gap areas exceed the limitations specified in § 61.272(b)(4) of this chapter. Documentation of the inspections shall be recorded as specified in § 61.276(a) of this chapter.
