
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.640 Applicability and designation of affected source.
####### e.g.,

(vii) To be in compliance with § 61.271(a)(6) or (b)(3) of this chapter, guidepoles in floating roof storage vessels must be equipped with covers and/or controls (pole float system, pole sleeve system, internal sleeve system or flexible enclosure system) as appropriate to comply with the "no visible gap" requirement.

(viii) If a flare is used as a control device for a storage vessel, on and after January 30, 2019, the owner or operator must meet the requirements of § 63.670 instead of the requirements referenced from part 61, subpart Y of this chapter for that flare.

(o) Overlap of this subpart CC with other regulations for wastewater.

(1) After the compliance dates specified in paragraph (h) of this section a Group 1 wastewater stream managed in a piece of equipment that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart QQQ is required to comply only with this subpart.

(2) After the compliance dates specified in paragraph (h) of this section a Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream that is conveyed, stored, or treated in a wastewater stream management unit that also receives streams subject to the provisions of §§ 63.133 through 63.147 of subpart G wastewater provisions of this part shall comply as specified in paragraph (o)(2)(i) or (o)(2)(ii) of this section. Compliance with the provisions of paragraph (o)(2) of this section shall constitute compliance with the requirements of this subpart for that wastewater stream.

(i) Comply with paragraphs (o)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) The provisions in §§ 63.133 through 63.140 of subpart G for all equipment used in the storage and conveyance of the Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream.

(B) The provisions in both 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF and in §§ 63.138 and 63.139 of subpart G for the treatment and control of the Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream.

(C) The provisions in §§ 63.143 through 63.148 of subpart G for monitoring and inspections of equipment and for recordkeeping and reporting requirements. The owner or operator is not required to comply with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements associated with the treatment and control requirements in 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF, §§ 61.355 through 61.357.

(D) If a flare is used as a control device, on and after January 30, 2019, the flare shall meet the requirements of § 63.670. Prior to January 30, 2019, the flare shall meet the applicable requirements of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF, and subpart G of this part, or the requirements of § 63.670.

(ii) Comply with paragraphs (o)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Comply with the provisions of §§ 63.133 through 63.148 and §§ 63.151 and 63.152 of subpart G.

(B) For any Group 2 wastewater stream or organic stream whose benzene emissions are subject to control through the use of one or more treatment processes or waste management units under the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF on or after December 31, 1992, comply with the requirements of § 63.133 through § 63.147 of subpart G for Group 1 wastewater streams.

(C) If a flare is used as a control device, on and after January 30, 2019, the flare shall meet the requirements of § 63.670. Prior to January 30, 2019, the flare shall meet the applicable requirements of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF, and subpart G of this part, or the requirements of § 63.670.

(p) Overlap of subpart CC with other regulations for equipment leaks.

(1) After the compliance dates specified in paragraph (h) of this section, equipment leaks that are also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR parts 60 and 61 standards promulgated before September 4, 2007, are required to comply only with the provisions specified in this subpart.

(2) Equipment leaks that are also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart GGGa, are required to comply only with the provisions specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart GGGa, except that pressure relief devices in organic HAP service must only comply with the requirements in § 63.648(j).

(q) For overlap of subpart CC with local or State regulations, the permitting authority for the affected source may allow consolidation of the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements under this subpart with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements under other applicable requirements in 40 CFR parts 60, 61, or 63, and in any 40 CFR part 52 approved State implementation plan provided the implementation plan allows for approval of alternative monitoring, reporting, or recordkeeping requirements and provided that the permit contains an equivalent degree of compliance and control.

(r) Overlap of subpart CC with other regulations for gasoline loading racks. After the compliance dates specified in paragraph (h) of this section, a Group 1 gasoline loading rack that is part of a source subject to subpart CC and also is subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart XX is required to comply only with this subpart.

(s) Overlap of this subpart with other regulation for flares. On January 30, 2019, flares that are subject to the provisions of 40 CFR 60.18 or 63.11 and subject to this subpart are required to comply only with the provisions specified in this subpart. Prior to January 30, 2019, flares that are subject to the provisions of 40 CFR 60.18 or 63.11 and elect to comply with the requirements in §§ 63.670 and 63.671 are required to comply only with the provisions specified in this subpart.
