
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.642 General standards.

(a) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart is required to apply for a part 70 or part 71 operating permit from the appropriate permitting authority. If the EPA has approved a State operating permit program under part 70, the permit shall be obtained from the State authority. If the State operating permit program has not been approved, the source shall apply to the EPA Regional Office pursuant to part 71.

(b) The emission standards set forth in this subpart shall apply at all times.

(c) Table 6 of this subpart specifies the provisions of subpart A of this part that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of sources subject to this subpart.

(d) Initial performance tests and initial compliance determinations shall be required only as specified in this subpart.

(1) Performance tests and compliance determinations shall be conducted according to the schedule and procedures specified in this subpart.

(2) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the intention to conduct a performance test at least 30 days before the performance test is scheduled.

(3) Performance tests shall be conducted according to the provisions of § 63.7(e) except that performance tests shall be conducted at maximum representative operating capacity for the process. During the performance test, an owner or operator shall operate the control device at either maximum or minimum representative operating conditions for monitored control device parameters, whichever results in lower emission reduction. An owner or operator shall not conduct a performance test during startup, shutdown, periods when the control device is bypassed or periods when the process, monitoring equipment or control device is not operating properly. The owner/operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that the test was conducted at maximum representative operating capacity. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(4) Data shall be reduced in accordance with the EPA-approved methods specified in the applicable section or, if other test methods are used, the data and methods shall be validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of this part.

(e) All applicable records shall be maintained as specified in § 63.655(i).

(f) All reports required under this subpart shall be sent to the Administrator at the addresses listed in § 63.13 of subpart A of this part. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, reports may be submitted on electronic media.

(g) The owner or operator of an existing source subject to the requirements of this subpart shall control emissions of organic HAP's to the level represented by the following equation:

(h) The owner or operator of a new source subject to the requirements of this subpart shall control emissions of organic HAP's to the level represented by the equation in paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator of an existing source shall demonstrate compliance with the emission standard in paragraph (g) of this section by following the procedures specified in paragraph (k) of this section for all emission points, or by following the emissions averaging compliance approach specified in paragraph (l) of this section for specified emission points and the procedures specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section.

(j) The owner or operator of a new source shall demonstrate compliance with the emission standard in paragraph (h) of this section only by following the procedures in paragraph (k) of this section. The owner or operator of a new source may not use the emissions averaging compliance approach.

(k) The owner or operator of an existing source may comply, and the owner or operator of a new source shall comply, with the applicable provisions in §§ 63.643 through 63.645, 63.646 or 63.660, 63.647, 63.650, and 63.651, as specified in § 63.640(h).

(1) The owner or operator using this compliance approach shall also comply with the requirements of §§ 63.648 and/or 63.649, 63.654, 63.655, 63.657, 63.658, 63.670 and 63.671, as applicable.

(2) The owner or operator using this compliance approach is not required to calculate the annual emission rate specified in paragraph (g) of this section.

(l) The owner or operator of an existing source may elect to control some of the emission points within the source to different levels than specified under §§ 63.643 through 63.645, 63.646 or 63.660, 63.647, 63.650, and 63.651, as applicable according to § 63.640(h), by using an emissions averaging compliance approach as long as the overall emissions for the source do not exceed the emission level specified in paragraph (g) of this section. The owner or operator using emissions averaging shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (l)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Calculate emission debits and credits for those emission points involved in the emissions average according to the procedures specified in § 63.652; and

(2) Comply with the requirements of §§ 63.648 and/or 63.649, 63.654, 63.652, 63.653, 63.655, 63.657, 63.658, 63.670 and 63.671, as applicable.

(m) A State may restrict the owner or operator of an existing source to using only the procedures in paragraph (k) of this section to comply with the emission standard in paragraph (g) of this section. Such a restriction would preclude the source from using an emissions averaging compliance approach.

(n) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
