
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.644 Monitoring provisions for miscellaneous process vents.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each owner or operator of a Group 1 miscellaneous process vent that uses a combustion device to comply with the requirements in § 63.643(a) shall install the monitoring equipment specified in paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, depending on the type of combustion device used. All monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to manufacturer's specifications or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment will monitor accurately and, except for CPMS installed for pilot flame monitoring, must meet the applicable minimum accuracy, calibration and quality control requirements specified in table 13 of this subpart.

(1) Where an incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.

(i) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.

(ii) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.

(2) Where a flare is used prior to January 30, 2019, a device (including but not limited to a thermocouple, an ultraviolet beam sensor, or an infrared sensor) capable of continuously detecting the presence of a pilot flame is required, or the requirements of § 63.670 shall be met. Where a flare is used on and after January 30, 2019, the requirements of § 63.670 shall be met.

(3) Any boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity greater than or equal to 44 megawatt or any boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced into the flame zone is exempt from monitoring.

(4) Any boiler or process heater less than 44 megawatts design heat capacity where the vent stream is not introduced into the flame zone is required to use a temperature monitoring device in the firebox equipped with a continuous recorder.

(b) An owner or operator of a Group 1 miscellaneous process vent may request approval to monitor parameters other than those listed in paragraph (a) of this section. The request shall be submitted according to the procedures specified in § 63.655(h). Approval shall be requested if the owner or operator:

(1) Uses a control device other than an incinerator, boiler, process heater, or flare; or

(2) Uses one of the control devices listed in paragraph (a) of this section, but seeks to monitor a parameter other than those specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The owner or operator of a Group 1 miscellaneous process vent using a vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream away from the control device used to comply with paragraph (a) of this section either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device that does not comply with the requirements in § 63.643(a) shall comply with either paragraph (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. Use of the bypass at any time to divert a Group 1 miscellaneous process vent stream to the atmosphere or to a control device that does not comply with the requirements in § 63.643(a) is an emissions standards violation. Equipment such as low leg drains and equipment subject to § 63.648 are not subject to this paragraph (c).

(1) Install, calibrate and maintain a flow indicator that determines whether a vent stream flow is present at least once every hour. A manual block valve equipped with a valve position indicator may be used in lieu of a flow indicator, as long as the valve position indicator is monitored continuously. Records shall be generated as specified in § 63.655(h) and (i). The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the vent stream away from the control device to the atmosphere; or

(2) Secure the bypass line valve in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the non-diverting position and that the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass line; or

(3) Use a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve for an open-ended valve or line following the requirements specified in § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b) and (c).

(d) The owner or operator shall establish a range that ensures compliance with the emissions standard for each parameter monitored under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. In order to establish the range, the information required in § 63.655(f)(3) shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status report.

(e) Each owner or operator of a control device subject to the monitoring provisions of this section shall operate the control device in a manner consistent with the minimum and/or maximum operating parameter value or procedure required to be monitored under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Operation of the control device in a manner that constitutes a period of excess emissions, as defined in § 63.655(g)(6), or failure to perform procedures required by this section shall constitute a violation of the applicable emission standard of this subpart.
