
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.646 Storage vessel provisions.
####### http://www.astm.org,http://www.ansi.org,http://www.aga.org,http://www.asme.org,http://www.api.org,http://www.naesb.org

(2) When an owner or operator and the Administrator do not agree on whether the annual average weight percent organic HAP in the stored liquid is above or below 4 percent for a storage vessel at an existing source or above or below 2 percent for a storage vessel at a new source, an appropriate method (based on the type of liquid stored) as published by EPA or a consensus-based standards organization shall be used. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, the following: ASTM International (100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box CB700, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 19428-B2959, (800) 262-1373,), the American National Standards Institute (ANSI, 1819 L Street NW., 6th floor, Washington, DC 20036, (202) 293-8020,), the American Gas Association (AGA, 400 North Capitol Street NW., 4th Floor, Washington, DC 20001, (202) 824-7000,), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME, Three Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, (800) 843-2763,), the American Petroleum Institute (API, 1220 L Street NW., Washington, DC 20005-4070, (202) 682-8000,), and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB, 801 Travis Street, Suite 1675, Houston, TX 77002, (713) 356-0060,).

(c) The following paragraphs do not apply to storage vessels at existing sources subject to this subpart: § 63.119 (b)(5), (b)(6), (c)(2), and (d)(2).

(d) References shall apply as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(10) of this section.

(1) All references to § 63.100(k) of subpart F of this part (or the schedule provisions and the compliance date) shall be replaced with § 63.640(h),

(2) All references to April 22, 1994 shall be replaced with August 18, 1995.

(3) All references to December 31, 1992 shall be replaced with July 15, 1994.

(4) All references to the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F shall be replaced with § 63.640 (h) through (m).

(5) All references to § 63.150 in § 63.119 of subpart G of this part shall be replaced with § 63.652.

(6) All references to § 63.113(a)(2) of subpart G shall be replaced with § 63.643(a)(2) of this subpart.

(7) All references to § 63.126(b)(1) of subpart G shall be replaced with § 63.422(b) of subpart R of this part.

(8) All references to § 63.128(a) of subpart G shall be replaced with § 63.425, paragraphs (a) through (c) and (e) through (h) of subpart R of this part.

(9) All references to § 63.139(d)(1) in § 63.120(d)(1)(ii) of subpart G are not applicable. For sources subject to this subpart, such references shall mean that 40 CFR 61.355 is applicable.

(10) All references to § 63.139(c) in § 63.120(d)(1)(ii) of subpart G are not applicable. For sources subject to this subpart, such references shall mean that § 63.647 of this subpart is applicable.

(e) When complying with the inspection requirements of § 63.120 of subpart G of this part, owners and operators of storage vessels at existing sources subject to this subpart are not required to comply with the provisions for gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals.

(f) The following paragraphs (f)(1), (f)(2), and (f)(3) of this section apply to Group 1 storage vessels at existing sources:

(1) If a cover or lid is installed on an opening on a floating roof, the cover or lid shall remain closed except when the cover or lid must be open for access.

(2) Rim space vents are to be set to open only when the floating roof is not floating or when the pressure beneath the rim seal exceeds the manufacturer's recommended setting.

(3) Automatic bleeder vents are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports.

(g) Failure to perform inspections and monitoring required by this section shall constitute a violation of the applicable standard of this subpart.

(h) References in §§ 63.119 through 63.121 to § 63.122(g)(1), § 63.151, and references to initial notification requirements do not apply.

(i) References to the Implementation Plan in § 63.120, paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3)(i) shall be replaced with the Notification of Compliance Status report.

(j) References to the Notification of Compliance Status report in § 63.152(b) mean the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.655(f).

(k) References to the Periodic Reports in § 63.152(c) mean the Periodic Report required by § 63.655(g).

(l) The State or local permitting authority can waive the notification requirements of §§ 63.120(a)(5), 63.120(a)(6), 63.120(b)(10)(ii), and 63.120(b)(10)(iii) for all or some storage vessels at petroleum refineries subject to this subpart. The State or local permitting authority may also grant permission to refill storage vessels sooner than 30 days after submitting the notifications in § 63.120(a)(6) or § 63.120(b)(10)(iii) for all storage vessels at a refinery or for individual storage vessels on a case-by-case basis.
