
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.648 Equipment leak standards.

(a) Each owner or operator of an existing source subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV, and paragraph (b) of this section except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3), and (c) through (j) of this section. Each owner or operator of a new source subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with subpart H of this part except as provided in paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section.

(1) For purposes of compliance with this section, the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV apply only to equipment in organic HAP service, as defined in § 63.641 of this subpart.

(2) Calculation of percentage leaking equipment components for subpart VV of 40 CFR part 60 may be done on a process unit basis or a sourcewide basis. Once the owner or operator has decided, all subsequent calculations shall be on the same basis unless a permit change is made.

(3) If a flare is used as a control device, on and after January 30, 2019, the flare shall meet the requirements of § 63.670. Prior to January 30, 2019, the flare shall meet the applicable requirements of part 60, subpart VV of this chapter, or the requirements of § 63.670.

(b) The use of monitoring data generated before August 18, 1995 to qualify for less frequent monitoring of valves and pumps as provided under 40 CFR part 60 subpart VV or subpart H of this part and paragraph (c) of this section (i.e., quarterly or semiannually) is governed by the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.

(1) Monitoring data must meet the test methods and procedures specified in § 60.485(b) of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV or § 63.180(b)(1) through (b)(5) of subpart H of this part except for minor departures.

(2) Departures from the criteria specified in § 60.485(b) of 40 CFR part 60 subpart VV or § 63.180(b)(1) through (b)(5) of subpart H of this part or from the monitoring frequency specified in subpart VV or in paragraph (c) of this section (such as every 6 weeks instead of monthly or quarterly) are minor and do not significantly affect the quality of the data. An example of a minor departure is monitoring at a slightly different frequency (such as every 6 weeks instead of monthly or quarterly). Failure to use a calibrated instrument is not considered a minor departure.

(c) In lieu of complying with the existing source provisions of paragraph (a) in this section, an owner or operator may elect to comply with the requirements of §§ 63.161 through 63.169, 63.171, 63.172, 63.175, 63.176, 63.177, 63.179, and 63.180 except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) through (12) and (e) through (j) of this section.

(1) The instrument readings that define a leak for light liquid pumps subject to § 63.163 of subpart H of this part and gas/vapor and light liquid valves subject to § 63.168 of subpart H of this part are specified in table 2 of this subpart.

(2) In phase III of the valve standard, the owner or operator may monitor valves for leaks as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) or (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) If the owner or operator does not elect to monitor connectors, then the owner or operator shall monitor valves according to the frequency specified in table 8 of this subpart.

(ii) If an owner or operator elects to monitor connectors according to the provisions of § 63.649, paragraphs (b), (c), or (d), then the owner or operator shall monitor valves at the frequencies specified in table 9 of this subpart.

(3) The owner or operator shall decide no later than the first required monitoring period after the phase I compliance date specified in § 63.640(h) whether to calculate the percentage leaking valves on a process unit basis or on a sourcewide basis. Once the owner or operator has decided, all subsequent calculations shall be on the same basis unless a permit change is made.

(4) The owner or operator shall decide no later than the first monitoring period after the phase III compliance date specified in § 63.640(h) whether to monitor connectors according to the provisions in § 63.649, paragraphs (b), (c), or (d).

(5) Connectors in gas/vapor service or light liquid service are subject to the requirements for connectors in heavy liquid service in § 63.169 of subpart H of this part (except for the agitator provisions). The leak definition for valves, connectors, and instrumentation systems subject to § 63.169 is 1,000 parts per million.

(6) In phase III of the pump standard, except as provided in paragraph (c)(7) of this section, owners or operators that achieve less than 10 percent of light liquid pumps leaking or three light liquid pumps leaking, whichever is greater, shall monitor light liquid pumps monthly.

(7) Owners or operators that achieve less than 3 percent of light liquid pumps leaking or one light liquid pump leaking, whichever is greater, shall monitor light liquid pumps quarterly.

(8) An owner or operator may make the election described in paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section at any time except that any election to change after the initial election shall be treated as a permit modification according to the terms of part 70 of this chapter.

(9) When complying with the requirements of § 63.168(e)(3)(i), non-repairable valves shall be included in the calculation of percent leaking valves the first time the valve is identified as leaking and non-repairable. Otherwise, a number of non-repairable valves up to a maximum of 1 percent per year of the total number of valves in organic HAP service up to a maximum of 3 percent may be excluded from calculation of percent leaking valves for subsequent monitoring periods. When the number of non-repairable valves exceeds 3 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service, the number of non-repairable valves exceeding 3 percent of the total number shall be included in the calculation of percent leaking valves.

(10) If in phase III of the valve standard any valve is designated as being leakless, the owner or operator has the option of following the provisions of 40 CFR 60.482-7(f). If an owner or operator chooses to comply with the provisions of 40 CFR 60.482-7(f), the valve is exempt from the valve monitoring provisions of § 63.168 of subpart H of this part.

(11) [Reserved]

(12) If a flare is used as a control device, on and after January 30, 2019, the flare shall meet the requirements of § 63.670. Prior to January 30, 2019, the flare shall meet the applicable requirements of §§ 63.172 and 63.180, or the requirements of § 63.670.

(d) Upon startup of new sources, the owner or operator shall comply with § 63.163(a)(1)(ii) of subpart H of this part for light liquid pumps and § 63.168(a)(1)(ii) of subpart H of this part for gas/vapor and light liquid valves.

(e) For reciprocating pumps in heavy liquid service and agitators in heavy liquid service, owners and operators are not required to comply with the requirements in § 63.169 of subpart H of this part.

(f) Reciprocating pumps in light liquid service are exempt from §§ 63.163 and 60.482 if recasting the distance piece or reciprocating pump replacement is required.

(g) Compressors in hydrogen service are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section if an owner or operator demonstrates that a compressor is in hydrogen service.

(1) Each compressor is presumed not to be in hydrogen service unless an owner or operator demonstrates that the piece of equipment is in hydrogen service.

(2) For a piece of equipment to be considered in hydrogen service, it must be determined that the percentage hydrogen content can be reasonably expected always to exceed 50 percent by volume.

(i) For purposes of determining the percentage hydrogen content in the process fluid that is contained in or contacts a compressor, the owner or operator shall use either:

(A) Procedures that conform to those specified in § 60.593(b)(2) of 40 part 60, subpart GGG.

(B) Engineering judgment to demonstrate that the percentage content exceeds 50 percent by volume, provided the engineering judgment demonstrates that the content clearly exceeds 50 percent by volume.
