
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.647 Wastewater provisions.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, each owner or operator of a Group 1 wastewater stream shall comply with the requirements of §§ 61.340 through 61.355 of this chapter for each process wastewater stream that meets the definition in § 63.641.

(b) As used in this section, all terms not defined in § 63.641 shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act or in 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF, § 61.341.

(c) If a flare is used as a control device, on and after January 30, 2019, the flare shall meet the requirements of § 63.670. Prior to January 30, 2019, the flare shall meet the applicable requirements of part 61, subpart FF of this chapter, or the requirements of § 63.670.

(d) Each owner or operator required under subpart FF of 40 CFR part 61 to perform periodic measurement of benzene concentration in wastewater, or to monitor process or control device operating parameters shall operate in a manner consistent with the minimum or maximum (as appropriate) permitted concentration or operating parameter values. Operation of the process, treatment unit, or control device resulting in a measured concentration or operating parameter value outside the permitted limits shall constitute a violation of the emission standards. Failure to perform required leak monitoring for closed vent systems and control devices or failure to repair leaks within the time period specified in subpart FF of 40 CFR part 61 shall constitute a violation of the standard.
