
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.645 Test methods and procedures for miscellaneous process vents.

(a) To demonstrate compliance with § 63.643, an owner or operator shall follow § 63.116 except for § 63.116 (a)(1), (d) and (e) of subpart G of this part except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) and paragraph (i) of this section.

(b) All references to § 63.113(a)(1) or (a)(2) in § 63.116 of subpart G of this part shall be replaced with § 63.643(a)(1) or (a)(2), respectively.

(c) In § 63.116(c)(4)(ii)(C) of subpart G of this part, organic HAP's in the list of HAP's in table 1 of this subpart shall be considered instead of the organic HAP's in table 2 of subpart F of this part.

(d) All references to § 63.116(b)(1) or (b)(2) shall be replaced with paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, respectively.

(1) Any boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts or greater.

(2) Any boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced into the flame zone.

(e) For purposes of determining the TOC emission rate, as specified under paragraph (f) of this section, the sampling site shall be after the last product recovery device (as defined in § 63.641 of this subpart) (if any recovery devices are present) but prior to the inlet of any control device (as defined in § 63.641 of this subpart) that is present, prior to any dilution of the process vent stream, and prior to release to the atmosphere.

(1) Methods 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling site. For vents smaller than 0.10 meter in diameter, sample at the center of the vent.

(2) No traverse site selection method is needed for vents smaller than 0.10 meter in diameter.

(f) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, an owner or operator seeking to demonstrate that a process vent TOC mass flow rate is less than 33 kilograms per day for an existing source or less than 6.8 kilograms per day for a new source in accordance with the Group 2 process vent definition of this subpart shall determine the TOC mass flow rate by the following procedures:

(1) The sampling site shall be selected as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) The gas volumetric flow rate shall be determined using Methods 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, or 2F of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 or Method 2G of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, as appropriate.

(3) Method 18 or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used to measure concentration; alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of this part may be used. If Method 25A is used, and the TOC mass flow rate calculated from the Method 25A measurement is greater than or equal to 33 kilograms per day for an existing source or 6.8 kilograms per day for a new source, Method 18 may be used to determine any non-VOC hydrocarbons that may be deducted to calculate the TOC (minus non-VOC hydrocarbons) concentration and mass flow rate. The following procedures shall be used to calculate parts per million by volume concentration:

(i) The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15-minute intervals during the run.

(ii) The TOC concentration (C) is the sum of the concentrations of the individual components and shall be computed for each run using the following equation if Method 18 is used:

(4) The emission rate of TOC (minus methane and ethane) (E) shall be calculated using the following equation if Method 18 is used:

(5) If Method 25A is used, the emission rate of TOC (E) shall be calculated using the following equation:

(g) Engineering assessment may be used to determine the TOC emission rate for the representative operating condition expected to yield the highest daily emission rate.

(1) Engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(i) Previous test results provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit.

(ii) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.

(iii) TOC emission rate specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.

(iv) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:

(A) Use of material balances based on process stoichiometry to estimate maximum TOC concentrations;

(B) Estimation of maximum flow rate based on physical equipment design such as pump or blower capacities; and

(C) Estimation of TOC concentrations based on saturation conditions.

(v) All data, assumptions, and procedures used in the engineering assessment shall be documented.

(h) The owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent shall recalculate the TOC emission rate for each process vent, as necessary, whenever process changes are made to determine whether the vent is in Group 1 or Group 2. Examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, changes in production capacity, production rate, or catalyst type, or whenever there is replacement, removal, or addition of recovery equipment. For purposes of this paragraph, process changes do not include: process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; and changes that are within the range on which the original calculation was based.

(1) The TOC emission rate shall be recalculated based on measurements of vent stream flow rate and TOC as specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, as applicable, or on best engineering assessment of the effects of the change. Engineering assessments shall meet the specifications in paragraph (g) of this section.

(2) Where the recalculated TOC emission rate is greater than 33 kilograms per day for an existing source or greater than 6.8 kilograms per day for a new source, the owner or operator shall submit a report as specified in § 63.655(f), (g), or (h) and shall comply with the appropriate provisions in § 63.643 by the dates specified in § 63.640.

(i) A compliance determination for visible emissions shall be conducted within 150 days of the compliance date using Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, to determine visible emissions.
