
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.649 Alternative means of emission limitation: Connectors in gas/vapor service and light liquid service.
####### Subpart H program.

(d)The owner or operator shall implement a program to comply with the provisions in ยง 63.174 of this part.

(e) Delay of repair of connectors for which leaks have been detected is allowed if repair is not technically feasible by normal repair techniques without a process unit shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur by the end of the next process unit shutdown.

(1) Delay of repair is allowed for equipment that is isolated from the process and that does not remain in organic HAP service.

(2) Delay of repair for connectors is also allowed if:

(i) The owner or operator determines that emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and

(ii) When repair procedures are accomplished, the purged material would be collected and destroyed or recovered in a control device.

(f) Any connector that is designated as an unsafe-to-repair connector is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4), (c)(3) and (c)(4), or (d) of this section if:

(1) The owner or operator determines that repair personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4), (c)(3) and (c)(4), of this section; or

(2) The connector will be repaired before the end of the next scheduled process unit shutdown.

(g) The owner or operator shall maintain records to document that the connector monitoring or inspections have been conducted as required and to document repair of leaking connectors as applicable.
