
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.652 Emissions averaging provisions.

(a) This section applies to owners or operators of existing sources who seek to comply with the emission standard in § 63.642(g) by using emissions averaging according to § 63.642(l) rather than following the provisions of §§ 63.643 through 63.645, 63.646 or 63.660, 63.647, 63.650, and 63.651. Existing marine tank vessel loading operations located at the Valdez Marine Terminal source may not comply with the standard by using emissions averaging.

(b) The owner or operator shall develop and submit for approval an Implementation Plan containing all of the information required in § 63.653(d) for all points to be included in an emissions average. The Implementation Plan shall identify all emission points to be included in the emissions average. This must include any Group 1 emission points to which the reference control technology (defined in § 63.641) is not applied and all other emission points being controlled as part of the average.

(c) The following emission points can be used to generate emissions averaging credits if control was applied after November 15, 1990 and if sufficient information is available to determine the appropriate value of credits for the emission point:

(1) Group 2 emission points;

(2) Group 1 storage vessels, Group 1 wastewater streams, Group 1 gasoline loading racks, Group 1 marine tank vessels, and Group 1 miscellaneous process vents that are controlled by a technology that the Administrator or permitting authority agrees has a higher nominal efficiency than the reference control technology. Information on the nominal efficiencies for such technologies must be submitted and approved as provided in paragraph (i) of this section; and

(3) Emission points from which emissions are reduced by pollution prevention measures. Percentages of reduction for pollution prevention measures shall be determined as specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(i) For a Group 1 emission point, the pollution prevention measure must reduce emissions more than the reference control technology would have had the reference control technology been applied to the emission point instead of the pollution prevention measure except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.

(ii) If a pollution prevention measure is used in conjunction with other controls for a Group 1 emission point, the pollution prevention measure alone does not have to reduce emissions more than the reference control technology, but the combination of the pollution prevention measure and other controls must reduce emissions more than the reference control technology would have had it been applied instead.

(d) The following emission points cannot be used to generate emissions averaging credits:

(1) Emission points already controlled on or before November 15, 1990 unless the level of control is increased after November 15, 1990, in which case credit will be allowed only for the increase in control after November 15, 1990;

(2) Group 1 emission points that are controlled by a reference control technology unless the reference control technology has been approved for use in a different manner and a higher nominal efficiency has been assigned according to the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section. For example, it is not allowable to claim that an internal floating roof meeting only the specifications stated in the reference control technology definition in § 63.641 (i.e., that meets the specifications of § 63.119(b) of subpart G but does not have controlled fittings per § 63.119 (b)(5) and (b)(6) of subpart G) applied to a storage vessel is achieving greater than 95 percent control;

(3) Emission points on shutdown process units. Process units that are shut down cannot be used to generate credits or debits;

(4) Wastewater that is not process wastewater or wastewater streams treated in biological treatment units. These two types of wastewater cannot be used to generate credits or debits. Group 1 wastewater streams cannot be left undercontrolled or uncontrolled to generate debits. For the purposes of this section, the terms "wastewater" and "wastewater stream" are used to mean process wastewater; and

(5) Emission points controlled to comply with a State or Federal rule other than this subpart, unless the level of control has been increased after November 15, 1990 above what is required by the other State or Federal rule. Only the control above what is required by the other State or Federal rule will be credited. However, if an emission point has been used to generate emissions averaging credit in an approved emissions average, and the point is subsequently made subject to a State or Federal rule other than this subpart, the point can continue to generate emissions averaging credit for the purpose of complying with the previously approved average.

(e) For all points included in an emissions average, the owner or operator shall:

(1) Calculate and record monthly debits for all Group 1 emission points that are controlled to a level less stringent than the reference control technology for those emission points. Equations in paragraph (g) of this section shall be used to calculate debits.

(2) Calculate and record monthly credits for all Group 1 or Group 2 emission points that are overcontrolled to compensate for the debits. Equations in paragraph (h) of this section shall be used to calculate credits. Emission points and controls that meet the criteria of paragraph (c) of this section may be included in the credit calculation, whereas those described in paragraph (d) of this section shall not be included.

(3) Demonstrate that annual credits calculated according to paragraph (h) of this section are greater than or equal to debits calculated for the same annual compliance period according to paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) The initial demonstration in the Implementation Plan that credit-generating emission points will be capable of generating sufficient credits to offset the debits from the debit-generating emission points must be made under representative operating conditions.

(ii) After the compliance date, actual operating data will be used for all debit and credit calculations.

(4) Demonstrate that debits calculated for a quarterly (3-month) period according to paragraph (g) of this section are not more than 1.30 times the credits for the same period calculated according to paragraph (h) of this section. Compliance for the quarter shall be determined based on the ratio of credits and debits from that quarter, with 30 percent more debits than credits allowed on a quarterly basis.

(5) Record and report quarterly and annual credits and debits in the Periodic Reports as specified in § 63.655(g)(8). Every fourth Periodic Report shall include a certification of compliance with the emissions averaging provisions as required by § 63.655(g)(8)(iii).

(f) Debits and credits shall be calculated in accordance with the methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, respectively, and shall not include emissions from the following:

(1) More than 20 individual emission points. Where pollution prevention measures (as specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section) are used to control emission points to be included in an emissions average, no more than 25 emission points may be included in the average. For example, if two emission points to be included in an emissions average are controlled by pollution prevention measures, the average may include up to 22 emission points.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) For emission points for which continuous monitors are used, periods of excess emissions as defined in § 63.655(g)(6)(i). For these periods, the calculation of monthly credits and debits shall be adjusted as specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (f)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) No credits would be assigned to the credit-generating emission point.

(ii) Maximum debits would be assigned to the debit-generating emission point.

(iii) The owner or operator may use the procedures in paragraph (l) of this section to demonstrate to the Administrator that full or partial credits or debits should be assigned.

(g) Debits are generated by the difference between the actual emissions from a Group 1 emission point that is uncontrolled or is controlled to a level less stringent than the reference control technology, and the emissions allowed for Group 1 emission point. Debits shall be calculated as follows:

(1) The overall equation for calculating sourcewide debits is:

(2) Emissions from miscellaneous process vents shall be calculated as follows:

(i) For purposes of determining miscellaneous process vent stream flow rate, organic HAP concentrations, and temperature, the sampling site shall be after the final product recovery device, if any recovery devices are present; before any control device (for miscellaneous process vents, recovery devices shall not be considered control devices); and before discharge to the atmosphere. Method 1 or 1A of part 60, appendix A shall be used for selection of the sampling site.

(ii) The following equation shall be used for each miscellaneous process vent i to calculate EPV:

(A) The values of Q, C, and Mshall be determined during a performance test conducted under representative operating conditions. The values of Q, C, and Mshall be established in the Notification of Compliance Status report and must be updated as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(B) If there is a change in capacity utilization other than a change in monthly operating hours, or if any other change is made to the process or product recovery equipment or operation such that the previously measured values of Q, C, and Mare no longer representative, a new performance test shall be conducted to determine new representative values of Q, C, and M. These new values shall be used to calculate debits and credits from the time of the change forward, and the new values shall be reported in the next Periodic Report.

(iii) The following procedures and equations shall be used to calculate EPV:

(A) If the vent is not controlled by a control device or pollution prevention measure, EPV= EPV, where EPVis calculated according to the procedures in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section.

(B) If the vent is controlled using a control device or a pollution prevention measure achieving less than 98-percent reduction,
