
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.649 Alternative means of emission limitation: Connectors in gas/vapor service and light liquid service.
####### Random 200 connector alternative.

(b)The owner or operator shall implement a random sampling program for accessible connectors of 2.0 inches nominal diameter or greater. The program does not apply to inaccessible or unsafe-to-monitor connectors, as defined in ยง 63.174 of subpart H. The sampling program shall be implemented source-wide.

(1) Within the first 12 months after the phase III compliance date specified in ยง 63.640(h), a sample of 200 connectors shall be randomly selected and monitored using Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(2) The instrument reading that defines a leak is 1,000 parts per million.

(3) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.

(4) If a leak is detected, the connector shall be monitored for leaks within the first 3 months after its repair.

(5) After conducting the initial survey required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall conduct subsequent monitoring of connectors at the frequencies specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(iv) of this section.

(i) If the percentage leaking connectors is 2.0 percent or greater, the owner or operator shall survey a random sample of 200 connectors once every 6 months.

(ii) If the percentage leaking connectors is 1.0 percent or greater but less than 2.0 percent, the owner or operator shall survey a random sample of 200 connectors once per year.

(iii) If the percentage leaking connectors is 0.5 percent or greater but less than 1.0 percent, the owner or operator shall survey a random sample of 200 connectors once every 2 years.

(iv) If the percentage leaking connectors is less than 0.5 percent, the owner or operator shall survey a random sample of 200 connectors once every 4 years.

(6) Physical tagging of the connectors to indicate that they are subject to the monitoring provisions is not required. Connectors may be identified by the area or length of pipe and need not be individually identified.
