
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.652 Emissions averaging provisions.
####### 2

() If an alternative control device is used, the percentage of reduction must be determined using the equation and methods specified in paragraph (h)(6)(iii)(A) of this section for determining PR. If the value of PRis greater than or equal to the value of Frgiven in table 7 of this subpart, then Aequals Frunless a higher nominal efficiency has been approved. If a higher nominal efficiency has been approved for the treatment process, the owner or operator shall determine EWW1according to paragraph (h)(6)(iii)(B) of this section rather than paragraph (h)(6)(iii)(A) of this section. If PRis less than the value of FRgiven in table 7 of this subpart, emissions averaging shall not be used for this emission point.

(C) If the Group 1 wastewater stream i is controlled using a treatment process or series of treatment processes with an approved nominal reduction efficiency for an individually speciated hazardous air pollutant that is greater than that specified in table 7 of this subpart, and the vapor control device has an approved nominal efficiency greater than 95 percent, the following equation shall be used:

(iv) The following equation shall be used to calculate EWW2for each Group 2 wastewater stream i that on November 15, 1990 was not correctly suppressed or was correctly suppressed but not treated:

(v) The following equation shall be used to calculate EWW2for each Group 2 wastewater stream i on November 15, 1990 was correctly suppressed. EWW2shall be calculated as if the control methods being used on November 15, 1990 are in place and any control methods applied after November 15, 1990 are ignored. However, values for the parameters in the equation shall be representative of present production levels and stream properties.

(vi) For Group 2 wastewater streams that are correctly suppressed, EWW2shall be calculated according to the equation for EWW2in paragraph (h)(6)(v) of this section. EWW2shall be calculated with all control methods in place accounted for.

(vii) The reduction efficiency, R, of the vapor control device shall be demonstrated according to the following procedures:

(A) Sampling sites shall be selected using Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.

(B) The mass flow rate of organic compounds entering and exiting the control device shall be determined as follows:
