
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.653 Monitoring, recordkeeping, and implementation plan for emissions averaging.

(a) For each emission point included in an emissions average, the owner or operator shall perform testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting equivalent to that required for Group 1 emission points complying with §§ 63.643 through 63.645, 63.646 or 63.660, 63.647, 63.650, and 63.651, as applicable. The specific requirements for miscellaneous process vents, storage vessels, wastewater, gasoline loading racks, and marine tank vessels are identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) The source shall implement the following testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting procedures for each miscellaneous process vent equipped with a flare, incinerator, boiler, or process heater:

(i) Conduct initial performance tests to determine the percentage of reduction as specified in § 63.645 of this subpart and § 63.116 of subpart G; and

(ii) Monitor the operating parameters specified in § 63.644, as appropriate for the specific control device.

(2) The source shall implement the following procedures for each miscellaneous process vent, equipped with a carbon adsorber, absorber, or condenser but not equipped with a control device:

(i) Determine the flow rate and organic HAP concentration using the methods specified in § 63.115 (a)(1) and (a)(2), § 63.115 (b)(1) and (b)(2), and § 63.115(c)(3) of subpart G; and

(ii) Monitor the operating parameters specified in § 63.114 of subpart G, as appropriate for the specific recovery device.

(3) The source shall implement the following procedures for each storage vessel controlled with an internal floating roof, external roof, or a closed vent system with a control device, as appropriate to the control technique:

(i) Perform the monitoring or inspection procedures in § 63.646 and either § 63.120 of subpart G or § 63.1063 of subpart WW, as applicable; and

(ii) For closed vent systems with control devices, conduct an initial design evaluation as specified in § 63.646 and either § 63.120(d) of subpart G or § 63.985(b) of subpart SS, as applicable.

(4) For each gasoline loading rack that is controlled, perform the testing and monitoring procedures specified in §§ 63.425 and 63.427 of subpart R of this part except § 63.425(d) or § 63.427(c).

(5) For each marine tank vessel that is controlled, perform the compliance, monitoring, and performance testing, procedures specified in §§ 63.563, 63.564, and 63.565 of subpart Y of this part.

(6) The source shall implement the following procedures for wastewater emission points, as appropriate to the control techniques:

(i) For wastewater treatment processes, conduct tests as specified in § 61.355 of subpart FF of part 60;

(ii) Conduct inspections and monitoring as specified in §§ 61.343 through 61.349 and § 61.354 of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF.

(7) If an emission point in an emissions average is controlled using a pollution prevention measure or a device or technique for which no monitoring parameters or inspection procedures are specified in §§ 63.643 through 63.645, 63.646 or 63.660, 63.647, 63.650, and 63.651, as applicable, the owner or operator shall establish a site-specific monitoring parameter and shall submit the information specified in § 63.655(h)(4) in the Implementation Plan.

(b) Records of all information required to calculate emission debits and credits and records required by § 63.655 shall be retained for 5 years.

(c) Notifications of Compliance Status report, Periodic Reports, and other reports shall be submitted as required by § 63.655.

(d) Each owner or operator of an existing source who elects to comply with § 63.655(g) and (h) by using emissions averaging for any emission points shall submit an Implementation Plan.

(1) The Implementation Plan shall be submitted to the Administrator and approved prior to implementing emissions averaging. This information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, in a separate submittal, in a Notification of Compliance Status Report, in a Periodic Report or in any combination of these documents. If an owner or operator submits the information specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section at different times, and/or in different submittals, later submittals may refer to earlier submittals instead of duplicating the previously submitted information.

(2) The Implementation Plan shall include the information specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(ix) of this section for all points included in the average.

(i) The identification of all emission points in the planned emissions average and notation of whether each emission point is a Group 1 or Group 2 emission point as defined in § 63.641.

(ii) The projected annual emission debits and credits for each emission point and the sum for the emission points involved in the average calculated according to § 63.652. The annual projected credits must be greater than the projected debits, as required under § 63.652(e)(3).

(iii) The specific control technology or pollution prevention measure that will be used for each emission point included in the average and date of application or expected date of application.

(iv) The specific identification of each emission point affected by a pollution prevention measure. To be considered a pollution prevention measure, the criteria in § 63.652(j)(1) must be met. If the same pollution prevention measure reduces or eliminates emissions from multiple emission points in the average, the owner or operator must identify each of these emission points.

(v) A statement that the compliance demonstration, monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section that are applicable to each emission point in the emissions average will be implemented beginning on the date of compliance.

(vi) Documentation of the information listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(vi)(A) through (d)(2)(vi)(D) of this section for each emission point included in the average.

(A) The values of the parameters used to determine whether each emission point in the emissions average is Group 1 or Group 2.

(B) The estimated values of all parameters needed for input to the emission debit and credit calculations in § 63.652 (g) and (h). These parameter values or, as appropriate, limited ranges for the parameter values, shall be specified in the source's Implementation Plan as enforceable operating conditions. Changes to these parameters must be reported in the next Periodic Report.

(C) The estimated percentage of reduction if a control technology achieving a lower percentage of reduction than the efficiency of the reference control technology, as defined in § 63.641, is or will be applied to the emission point.

(D) The anticipated nominal efficiency if a control technology achieving a greater percentage emission reduction than the efficiency of the reference control technology is or will be applied to the emission point. The procedures in § 63.652(i) shall be followed to apply for a nominal efficiency.

(vii) The information specified in § 63.655(h)(4) for:

(A) Each miscellaneous process vent controlled by a pollution prevention measure or control technique for which monitoring parameters or inspection procedures are not specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section; and

(B) Each storage vessel controlled by a pollution prevention measure or a control technique other than an internal or external floating roof or a closed vent system with a control device.

(viii) Documentation of the information listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(viii)(A) through (d)(2)(viii)(G) of this section for each process wastewater stream included in the average.

(A) The information used to determine whether the wastewater stream is a Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream.

(B) The estimated values of all parameters needed for input to the wastewater emission credit and debit calculations in § 63.652(h)(6).

(C) The estimated percentage of reduction if the wastewater stream is or will be controlled using a treatment process or series of treatment processes that achieves an emission reduction less than or equal to the emission reduction specified in table 7 of this subpart.

(D) The estimated percentage of reduction if a control technology achieving less than or equal to 95 percent emission reduction is or will be applied to the vapor stream(s) vented and collected from the treatment processes.

(E) The estimated percentage of reduction if a pollution prevention measure is or will be applied.

(F) The anticipated nominal efficiency if the owner or operator plans to apply for a nominal efficiency under § 63.652(i). A nominal efficiency shall be applied for if:
