
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.652 Emissions averaging provisions.
####### 3

() The mass flow rate of organic compounds entering and exiting the control device during each run shall be calculated as follows:

(C) The organic reduction efficiency for the control device shall be calculated as follows:

(i) The following procedures shall be followed to establish nominal efficiencies. The procedures in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(6) of this section shall be followed for control technologies that are different in use or design from the reference control technologies and achieve greater percentages of reduction than the percentages of efficiency assigned to the reference control technologies in § 63.641.

(1) In those cases where the owner or operator is seeking permission to take credit for use of a control technology that is different in use or design from the reference control technology, and the different control technology will be used in more than three applications at a single plant site, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (i)(1)(iv) of this section to the Administrator in writing:

(i) Emission stream characteristics of each emission point to which the control technology is or will be applied including the kind of emission point, flow, organic HAP concentration, and all other stream characteristics necessary to design the control technology or determine its performance;

(ii) Description of the control technology including design specifications;

(iii) Documentation demonstrating to the Administrator's satisfaction the control efficiency of the control technology. This may include performance test data collected using an appropriate EPA method or any other method validated according to Method 301 of appendix A of this part. If it is infeasible to obtain test data, documentation may include a design evaluation and calculations. The engineering basis of the calculation procedures and all inputs and assumptions made in the calculations shall be documented; and

(iv) A description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control technology will be operated in conformance with its design and an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters).

(2) The Administrator shall determine within 120 calendar days whether an application presents sufficient information to determine nominal efficiency. The Administrator reserves the right to request specific data in addition to the items listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.

(3) The Administrator shall determine within 120 calendar days of the submittal of sufficient data whether a control technology shall have a nominal efficiency and the level of that nominal efficiency. If, in the Administrator's judgment, the control technology achieves a level of emission reduction greater than the reference control technology for a particular kind of emission point, the Administrator will publish anotice establishing a nominal efficiency for the control technology.

(4) The Administrator may grant conditional permission to take emission credits for use of the control technology on requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the specified nominal efficiency.

(5) In those cases where the owner or operator is seeking permission to take credit for use of a control technology that is different in use or design from the reference control technology and the different control technology will be used in no more than three applications at a single plant site, the information listed in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (i)(1)(iv) of this section can be submitted to the permitting authority for the source for approval instead of the Administrator.

(i) In these instances, use and conditions for use of the control technology can be approved by the permitting authority. The permitting authority shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(2) through (i)(4) of this section except that, in these instances, anotice is not required to establish the nominal efficiency for the different technology.

(ii) If, in reviewing the submittal, the permitting authority believes the control technology has broad applicability for use by other sources, the permitting authority shall submit the information provided in the application to the Director of the EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards. The Administrator shall review the technology for broad applicability and may publish anotice; however, this review shall not affect the permitting authority's approval of the nominal efficiency of the control technology for the specific application.

(6) If, in reviewing an application for a control technology for an emission point, the Administrator or permitting authority determines the control technology is not different in use or design from the reference control technology, the Administrator or permitting authority shall deny the application.

(j) The following procedures shall be used for calculating the efficiency (percentage of reduction) of pollution prevention measures:

(1) A pollution prevention measure is any practice that meets the criteria of paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (j)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) A pollution prevention measure is any practice that results in a lesser quantity of organic HAP emissions per unit of product released to the atmosphere prior to out-of-process recycling, treatment, or control of emissions while the same product is produced.

(ii) Pollution prevention measures may include: Substitution of feedstocks that reduce HAP emissions, alterations to the production process to reduce the volume of materials released to the environment, equipment modifications; housekeeping measures, and in-process recycling that returns waste materials directly to production as raw materials. Production cutbacks do not qualify as pollution prevention.

(2) The emission reduction efficiency of pollution prevention measures implemented after November 15, 1990 can be used in calculating the actual emissions from an emission point in the debit and credit equations in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.

(i) For pollution prevention measures, the percentage of reduction used in the equations in paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section and paragraphs (h)(2) through (h)(4) of this section is the difference in percentage between the monthly organic HAP emissions for each emission point after the pollution prevention measure for the most recent month versus monthly emissions from the same emission point before the pollution prevention measure, adjusted by the volume of product produced during the two monthly periods.

(ii) The following equation shall be used to calculate the percentage of reduction of a pollution prevention measure for each emission point.

(A) The monthly emissions before the pollution prevention measure, E, shall be determined in a manner consistent with the equations and procedures in paragraphs (g)(2), (g)(3), (g)(4), and (g)(5) of this section for miscellaneous process vents, storage vessels, gasoline loading racks, and marine tank vessels.

(B) For wastewater, Eshall be calculated as follows:

(C) If the pollution prevention measure was implemented prior to July 14, 1994, records may be used to determine E.

(D) The monthly emissions after the pollution prevention measure, E, may be determined during a performance test or by a design evaluation and documented engineering calculations. Once an emissions-to-production ratio has been established, the ratio can be used to estimate monthly emissions from monthly production records.

(E) For wastewater, Eshall be calculated using the following equation:

(iii) All equations, calculations, test procedures, test results, and other information used to determine the percentage of reduction achieved by a pollution prevention measure for each emission point shall be fully documented.

(iv) The same pollution prevention measure may reduce emissions from multiple emission points. In such cases, the percentage of reduction in emissions for each emission point must be calculated.

(v) For the purposes of the equations in paragraphs (h)(2) through (h)(6) of this section used to calculate credits for emission points controlled more stringently than the reference control technology, the nominal efficiency of a pollution prevention measure is equivalent to the percentage of reduction of the pollution prevention measure. When a pollution prevention measure is used, the owner or operator of a source is not required to apply to the Administrator for a nominal efficiency and is not subject to paragraph (i) of this section.

(k) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the emissions from the emission points proposed to be included in the average will not result in greater hazard or, at the option of the State or local permitting authority, greater risk to human health or the environment than if the emission points were controlled according to the provisions in §§ 63.643 through 63.645, 63.646 or 63.660, 63.647, 63.650, and 63.651, as applicable.

(1) This demonstration of hazard or risk equivalency shall be made to the satisfaction of the State or local permitting authority.

(i) The State or local permitting authority may require owners and operators to use specific methodologies and procedures for making a hazard or risk determination.

(ii) The demonstration and approval of hazard or risk equivalency may be made according to any guidance that the EPA makes available for use.

(2) Owners and operators shall provide documentation demonstrating the hazard or risk equivalency of their proposed emissions average in their Implementation Plan.

(3) An emissions averaging plan that does not demonstrate an equivalent or lower hazard or risk to the satisfaction of the State or local permitting authority shall not be approved. The State or local permitting authority may require such adjustments to the emissions averaging plan as are necessary in order to ensure that the average will not result in greater hazard or risk to human health or the environment than would result if the emission points were controlled according to §§ 63.643 through 63.645, 63.646 or 63.660, 63.647, 63.650, and 63.651, as applicable.

(4) A hazard or risk equivalency demonstration shall:

(i) Be a quantitative, bona fide chemical hazard or risk assessment;

(ii) Account for differences in chemical hazard or risk to human health or the environment; and

(iii) Meet any requirements set by the State or local permitting authority for such demonstrations.

(l) For periods of excess emissions, an owner or operator may request that the provisions of paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(4) of this section be followed instead of the procedures in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (f)(3)(ii) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of excess emissions in the Periodic Reports as required in § 63.655(g)(6).

(2) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that other types of monitoring data or engineering calculations are appropriate to establish that the control device for the emission point was operating in such a fashion to warrant assigning full or partial credits and debits. This demonstration shall be made to the Administrator's satisfaction, and the Administrator may establish procedures for demonstrating compliance that are acceptable.

(3) The owner or operator shall provide documentation of the period of excess emissions and the other type of monitoring data or engineering calculations to be used to demonstrate that the control device for the emission point was operating in such a fashion to warrant assigning full or partial credits and debits.

(4) The Administrator may assign full or partial credit and debits upon review of the information provided.
