
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.654 Heat exchange systems.
####### Monitoring frequency and leak action level for existing sources.

(4)For a heat exchange system at an existing source, the owner or operator must comply with the monitoring frequency and leak action level as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section or comply with the monitoring frequency and leak action level as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section. The owner or operator of an affected heat exchange system may choose to comply with paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section for some heat exchange systems at the petroleum refinery and comply with paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section for other heat exchange systems. However, for each affected heat exchange system, the owner or operator of an affected heat exchange system must elect one monitoring alternative that will apply at all times. If the owner or operator intends to change the monitoring alternative that applies to a heat exchange system, the owner or operator must notify the Administrator 30 days in advance of such a change. All "leaks" identified prior to changing monitoring alternatives must be repaired. The monitoring frequencies specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section also apply to the inlet water feed line for a once-through heat exchange system, if monitoring of the inlet water feed is elected as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) Monitor monthly using a leak action level defined as a total strippable hydrocarbon concentration (as methane) in the stripping gas of 6.2 ppmv.

(ii) Monitor quarterly using a leak action level defined as a total strippable hydrocarbon concentration (as methane) in the stripping gas of 3.1 ppmv unless repair is delayed as provided in paragraph (f) of this section. If a repair is delayed as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, monitor monthly.
