
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.655 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the wastewater provisions in § 63.647 shall comply with the recordkeeping and reporting provisions in §§ 61.356 and 61.357 of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF unless they are complying with the wastewater provisions specified in paragraph (o)(2)(ii) of § 63.640. There are no additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements for wastewater under this subpart unless a wastewater stream is included in an emissions average. Recordkeeping and reporting for emissions averages are specified in § 63.653 and in paragraphs (f)(5) and (g)(8) of this section.

(b) Each owner or operator subject to the gasoline loading rack provisions in § 63.650 shall comply with the recordkeeping and reporting provisions in § 63.428 (b) and (c), (g)(1), (h)(1) through (h)(3), and (k) of subpart R. These requirements are summarized in table 4 of this subpart. There are no additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements for gasoline loading racks under this subpart unless a loading rack is included in an emissions average. Recordkeeping and reporting for emissions averages are specified in § 63.653 and in paragraphs (f)(5) and (g)(8) of this section.

(c) Each owner or operator subject to the marine tank vessel loading operation standards in § 63.651 shall comply with the recordkeeping and reporting provisions in §§ 63.567(a) and 63.567(c) through (k) of subpart Y. These requirements are summarized in table 5 of this subpart. There are no additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements for marine tank vessel loading operations under this subpart unless marine tank vessel loading operations are included in an emissions average. Recordkeeping and reporting for emissions averages are specified in § 63.653 and in paragraphs (f)(5) and (g)(8) of this section.

(d) Each owner or operator subject to the equipment leaks standards in § 63.648 shall comply with the recordkeeping and reporting provisions in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(6) of this section.

(1) Sections 60.486 and 60.487 of subpart VV of part 60 except as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section; or §§ 63.181 and 63.182 of subpart H of this part except for §§ 63.182(b), (c)(2), and (c)(4).

(i) The signature of the owner or operator (or designate) whose decision it was that a repair could not be effected without a process shutdown is not required to be recorded. Instead, the name of the person whose decision it was that a repair could not be effected without a process shutdown shall be recorded and retained for 2 years.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) The Notification of Compliance Status report required by § 63.182(c) of subpart H and the initial semiannual report required by § 60.487(b) of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV shall be submitted within 150 days of the compliance date specified in § 63.640(h); the requirements of subpart H of this part are summarized in table 3 of this subpart.

(3) An owner or operator who determines that a compressor qualifies for the hydrogen service exemption in § 63.648 shall also keep a record of the demonstration required by § 63.648.

(4) An owner or operator must keep a list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as leakless per § 63.648(c)(10).

(5) An owner or operator must identify, either by list or location (area or refining process unit), equipment in organic HAP service less than 300 hours per year within refining process units subject to this subpart.

(6) An owner or operator must keep a list of reciprocating pumps and compressors determined to be exempt from seal requirements as per §§ 63.648 (f) and (i).

(e) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section except as provided in paragraph (h)(5) of this section, and shall keep records as described in paragraph (i) of this section.

(1) A Notification of Compliance Status report as described in paragraph (f) of this section;

(2) Periodic Reports as described in paragraph (g) of this section; and

(3) Other reports as described in paragraph (h) of this section.

(f) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit a Notification of Compliance Status report within 150 days after the compliance dates specified in § 63.640(h) with the exception of Notification of Compliance Status reports submitted to comply with § 63.640(l)(3) and for storage vessels subject to the compliance schedule specified in § 63.640(h)(2). Notification of Compliance Status reports required by § 63.640(l)(3) and for storage vessels subject to the compliance dates specified in § 63.640(h)(2) shall be submitted according to paragraph (f)(6) of this section. This information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, in a separate submittal, or in any combination of the three. If the required information has been submitted before the date 150 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.640(h), a separate Notification of Compliance Status report is not required within 150 days after the compliance dates specified in § 63.640(h). If an owner or operator submits the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section at different times, and/or in different submittals, later submittals may refer to earlier submittals instead of duplicating and resubmitting the previously submitted information. Each owner or operator of a gasoline loading rack classified under Standard Industrial Classification Code 2911 located within a contiguous area and under common control with a petroleum refinery subject to the standards of this subpart shall submit the Notification of Compliance Status report required by subpart R of this part within 150 days after the compliance dates specified in § 63.640(h).

(1) The Notification of Compliance Status report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.

(i) For storage vessels, this report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i)(A) through (f)(1)(i)(D) of this section.
