
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.655 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert

(2) If initial performance tests are required by §§ 63.643 through 63.653, the Notification of Compliance Status report shall include one complete test report for each test method used for a particular source. On and after February 1, 2016, for data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website () at the time of the test, you must submit the results in accordance with § 63.655(h)(9) by the date that you submit the Notification of Compliance Status, and you must include the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted in the Notification of Compliance Status. All other performance test results must be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status.

(i) For additional tests performed using the same method, the results specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(ii) A complete test report shall include a sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method.

(iii) Performance tests are required only if specified by §§ 63.643 through 63.653 of this subpart. Initial performance tests are required for some kinds of emission points and controls. Periodic testing of the same emission point is not required.

(3) For each monitored parameter for which a range is required to be established under § 63.120(d) of subpart G or § 63.985(b) of subpart SS for storage vessels or § 63.644 for miscellaneous process vents, the Notification of Compliance Status report shall include the information in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The specific range of the monitored parameter(s) for each emission point;

(ii) The rationale for the specific range for each parameter for each emission point, including any data and calculations used to develop the range and a description of why the range ensures compliance with the emission standard.

(A) If a performance test is required by this subpart for a control device, the range shall be based on the parameter values measured during the performance test supplemented by engineering assessments and manufacturer's recommendations. Performance testing is not required to be conducted over the entire range of permitted parameter values.

(B) If a performance test is not required by this subpart for a control device, the range may be based solely on engineering assessments and manufacturers' recommendations.

(iii) A definition of the source's operating day for purposes of determining daily average values of monitored parameters. The definition shall specify the times at which an operating day begins and ends.

(4) Results of any continuous monitoring system performance evaluations shall be included in the Notification of Compliance Status report, unless the results are required to be submitted electronically by § 63.655(h)(9). For performance evaluation results required to be submitted through CEDRI, submit the results in accordance with § 63.655(h)(9) by the date that you submit the Notification of Compliance Status and include the process unit where the CMS is installed, the parameter measured by the CMS, and the date that the performance evaluation was conducted in the Notification of Compliance Status.

(5) For emission points included in an emissions average, the Notification of Compliance Status report shall include the values of the parameters needed for input to the emission credit and debit equations in § 63.652(g) and (h), calculated or measured according to the procedures in § 63.652(g) and (h), and the resulting credits and debits for the first quarter of the year. The first quarter begins on the compliance date specified in § 63.640.

(6) Notification of Compliance Status reports required by § 63.640(l)(3) and for storage vessels subject to the compliance dates specified in § 63.640(h)(2) shall be submitted no later than 60 days after the end of the 6-month period during which the change or addition was made that resulted in the Group 1 emission point or the existing Group 1 storage vessel was brought into compliance, and may be combined with the periodic report. Six-month periods shall be the same 6-month periods specified in paragraph (g) of this section. The Notification of Compliance Status report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(5) of this section. This information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, in a separate submittal, as part of the periodic report, or in any combination of these four. If the required information has been submitted before the date 60 days after the end of the 6-month period in which the addition of the Group 1 emission point took place, a separate Notification of Compliance Status report is not required within 60 days after the end of the 6-month period. If an owner or operator submits the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(5) of this section at different times, and/or in different submittals, later submittals may refer to earlier submittals instead of duplicating and resubmitting the previously submitted information.

(g) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit Periodic Reports no later than 60 days after the end of each 6-month period when any of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section or paragraphs (g)(9) through (14) of this section is collected. The first 6-month period shall begin on the date the Notification of Compliance Status report is required to be submitted. A Periodic Report is not required if none of the events identified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section or paragraphs (g)(9) through (14) of this section occurred during the 6-month period unless emissions averaging is utilized. Quarterly reports must be submitted for emission points included in emission averages, as provided in paragraph (g)(8) of this section. An owner or operator may submit reports required by other regulations in place of or as part of the Periodic Report required by this paragraph (g) if the reports contain the information required by paragraphs (g)(1) through (14) of this section.

(1) For storage vessels, Periodic Reports shall include the information specified for Periodic Reports in paragraphs (g)(2) through (5) of this section. Information related to gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals is not required for storage vessels that are part of an existing source complying with § 63.646.
