
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.655 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### 3

() All periods during the compliance determination when the pilot flame is absent.

(ii) For miscellaneous process vents, identification of each miscellaneous process vent subject to this subpart, whether the process vent is Group 1 or Group 2, and the method of compliance for each Group 1 miscellaneous process vent that is not included in an emissions average (e.g., use of a flare or other control device meeting the requirements of § 63.643(a)).

(iii) For miscellaneous process vents controlled by control devices required to be tested under §§ 63.645 and 63.116(c), performance test results including the information in paragraphs (f)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section. Results of a performance test conducted prior to the compliance date of this subpart can be used provided that the test was conducted using the methods specified in § 63.645 and that the test conditions are representative of current operating conditions. If the performance test is submitted electronically through the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) in accordance with § 63.655(h)(9), the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the Notification of Compliance Status is submitted.

(A) The percentage of reduction of organic HAP's or TOC, or the outlet concentration of organic HAP's or TOC (parts per million by volume on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen), determined as specified in § 63.116(c) of subpart G of this part; and

(B) The value of the monitored parameters specified in table 10 of this subpart, or a site-specific parameter approved by the permitting authority, averaged over the full period of the performance test.

(iv) For miscellaneous process vents controlled by flares, initial compliance test results including the information in paragraphs (f)(1)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by §§ 63.645 and 63.116(a) of subpart G or § 63.670(h), as applicable; and

(B) A statement of whether a flame was present at the pilot light over the full period of the compliance determination.

(v) For equipment leaks complying with § 63.648(c) (i.e., complying with the requirements of subpart H of this part), the Notification of Compliance Report Status report information required by § 63.182(c) of subpart H and whether the percentage of leaking valves will be reported on a process unit basis or a sourcewide basis.

(vi) For each heat exchange system, identification of the heat exchange systems that are subject to the requirements of this subpart. For heat exchange systems at existing sources, the owner or operator shall indicate whether monitoring will be conducted as specified in § 63.654(c)(4)(i) or § 63.654(c)(4)(ii).

(vii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to the requirements in § 63.648(j)(3)(i) and (ii), this report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) A description of the monitoring system to be implemented, including the relief devices and process parameters to be monitored, and a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release.

(B) A description of the prevention measures to be implemented for each affected pressure relief device.

(viii) For each delayed coking unit, identification of whether the unit is an existing affected source or a new affected source and whether monitoring will be conducted as specified in § 63.657(b) or (c).
