
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.655 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### 2

() Each Periodic Report shall include the date of the inspection, identification of each storage vessel in which a failure was detected, and a description of the failure. The Periodic Report shall also describe the nature of and date the repair was made.

(ii) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.660 by using an external floating roof shall meet the periodic reporting requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) For vessels for which inspections are required under § 63.1063(c)(2), (d)(1), and (d)(3) of subpart WW, the owner or operator shall submit, as part of the Periodic Report, a copy of the inspection record required by § 63.1065(b) of subpart WW when a failure occurs. A failure is defined in § 63.1063(d)(1).

(B) An owner or operator who elects to use an extension in accordance with § 63.1063(e)(2) or (c)(2)(iv)(B) of subpart WW shall, in the next Periodic Report, submit the documentation required by those paragraphs.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.646 or § 63.660 by installing a closed vent system and control device shall submit, as part of the next Periodic Report, the information specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable.

(i) The Periodic Report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section for those planned routine maintenance operations that would require the control device not to meet the requirements of either § 63.119(e)(1) or (2) of subpart G, § 63.985(a) and (b) of subpart SS, or § 63.670, as applicable.

(A) A description of the planned routine maintenance that is anticipated to be performed for the control device during the next 6 months. This description shall include the type of maintenance necessary, planned frequency of maintenance, and lengths of maintenance periods.

(B) A description of the planned routine maintenance that was performed for the control device during the previous 6 months. This description shall include the type of maintenance performed and the total number of hours during those 6 months that the control device did not meet the requirements of either § 63.119(e)(1) or (2) of subpart G, § 63.985(a) and (b) of subpart SS, or § 63.670, as applicable, due to planned routine maintenance.

(ii) If a control device other than a flare is used, the Periodic Report shall describe each occurrence when the monitored parameters were outside of the parameter ranges documented in the Notification of Compliance Status report. The description shall include: Identification of the control device for which the measured parameters were outside of the established ranges, and causes for the measured parameters to be outside of the established ranges.

(iii) If a flare is used prior to January 30, 2019 and prior to electing to comply with the requirements in § 63.670, the Periodic Report shall describe each occurrence when the flare does not meet the general control device requirements specified in § 63.11(b) of subpart A and shall include: Identification of the flare that does not meet the general requirements specified in § 63.11(b) of subpart A, and reasons the flare did not meet the general requirements specified in § 63.11(b) of subpart A.

(iv) If a flare is used on or after the date for which compliance with the requirements in § 63.670 is elected, which can be no later than January 30, 2019, the Periodic Report shall include the items specified in paragraph (g)(11) of this section.

(v) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.660 by installing an alternate control device as described in § 63.1064 of subpart WW shall submit, as part of the next Periodic Report, a written application as described in § 63.1066(b)(3) of subpart WW.

(6) For miscellaneous process vents for which continuous parameter monitors are required by this subpart, periods of excess emissions shall be identified in the Periodic Reports and shall be used to determine compliance with the emission standards.

(i) Period of excess emission means any of the following conditions:

(A) An operating day when the daily average value of a monitored parameter, except presence of a flare pilot flame, is outside the range specified in the Notification of Compliance Status report. Monitoring data recorded during periods of monitoring system breakdown, repairs, calibration checks and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments shall not be used in computing daily average values of monitored parameters.

(B) An operating day when all pilot flames of a flare are absent.

(C) An operating day when monitoring data required to be recorded in paragraphs (i)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section are available for less than 75 percent of the operating hours.

(D) For data compression systems under paragraph (h)(5)(iii) of this section, an operating day when the monitor operated for less than 75 percent of the operating hours or a day when less than 18 monitoring values were recorded.

(ii) For miscellaneous process vents, excess emissions shall be reported for the operating parameters specified in table 10 of this subpart unless other site-specific parameter(s) have been approved by the operating permit authority.

(iii) For periods in closed vent systems when a Group 1 miscellaneous process vent stream was detected in the bypass line or diverted from the control device and either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device that does not comply with the requirements in § 63.643(a), report the date, time, duration, estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP that bypassed the control device. For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the date, time, and duration.

(7) If a performance test for determination of compliance for a new emission point subject to this subpart or for an emission point that has changed from Group 2 to Group 1 is conducted during the period covered by a Periodic Report, the results of the performance test shall be included in the Periodic Report.

(i) Results of the performance test shall include the identification of the source tested, the date of the test, the percentage of emissions reduction or outlet pollutant concentration reduction (whichever is needed to determine compliance) for each run and for the average of all runs, and the values of the monitored operating parameters.

(ii) The complete test report shall be maintained onsite.

(8) The owner or operator of a source shall submit quarterly reports for all emission points included in an emissions average.

(i) The quarterly reports shall be submitted no later than 60 calendar days after the end of each quarter. The first report shall be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status report no later than 150 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.640.

(ii) The quarterly reports shall include:

(A) The information specified in this paragraph and in paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(7) of this section for all storage vessels and miscellaneous process vents included in an emissions average;

(B) The information required to be reported by § 63.428 (h)(1), (h)(2), and (h)(3) for each gasoline loading rack included in an emissions average, unless this information has already been submitted in a separate report;

(C) The information required to be reported by § 63.567(e)(4) and (j)(3) of subpart Y for each marine tank vessel loading operation included in an emissions average, unless the information has already been submitted in a separate report;

(D) Any information pertaining to each wastewater stream included in an emissions average that the source is required to report under the Implementation Plan for the source;

(E) The credits and debits calculated each month during the quarter;

(F) A demonstration that debits calculated for the quarter are not more than 1.30 times the credits calculated for the quarter, as required under §§ 63.652(e)(4);

(G) The values of any inputs to the credit and debit equations in § 63.652 (g) and (h) that change from month to month during the quarter or that have changed since the previous quarter; and

(H) Any other information the source is required to report under the Implementation Plan for the source.

(iii) Every fourth quarterly report shall include the following:

(A) A demonstration that annual credits are greater than or equal to annual debits as required by § 63.652(e)(3); and

(B) A certification of compliance with all the emissions averaging provisions in § 63.652 of this subpart.

(9) For heat exchange systems, Periodic Reports must include the following information:

(i) The number of heat exchange systems at the plant site subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.654.

(ii) The number of heat exchange systems at the plant site found to be leaking.

(iii) For each monitoring location where the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration was determined to be equal to or greater than the applicable leak definitions specified in § 63.654(c)(6), identification of the monitoring location (e.g., unique monitoring location or heat exchange system ID number), the measured total strippable hydrocarbon concentration, the date the leak was first identified, and, if applicable, the date the source of the leak was identified;
