
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.655 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### i.e.

(iv) For leaks that were repaired during the reporting period (including delayed repairs), identification of the monitoring location associated with the repaired leak, the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration measured during re-monitoring to verify repair, and the re-monitoring date (, the effective date of repair); and

(v) For each delayed repair, identification of the monitoring location associated with the leak for which repair is delayed, the date when the delay of repair began, the date the repair is expected to be completed (if the leak is not repaired during the reporting period), the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration and date of each monitoring event conducted on the delayed repair during the reporting period, and an estimate of the potential strippable hydrocarbon emissions over the reporting period associated with the delayed repair.

(10) For pressure relief devices subject to the requirements § 63.648(j), Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(10)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service, pursuant to § 63.648(j)(1), report any instrument reading of 500 ppm or greater.

(ii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service subject to § 63.648(j)(2), report confirmation that any monitoring required to be done during the reporting period to show compliance was conducted.

(iii) For pilot-operated pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, report each pressure release to the atmosphere through the pilot vent that equals or exceeds 72 pounds of VOC per day, including duration of the pressure release through the pilot vent and estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released.

(iv) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to § 63.648(j)(3), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including duration of the pressure release and estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released, and the results of any root cause analysis and corrective action analysis completed during the reporting period, including the corrective actions implemented during the reporting period and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective actions to be implemented subsequent to the reporting period.

(11) For flares subject to § 63.670, Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(11)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Records as specified in paragraph (i)(9)(i) of this section for each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute when regulated material is routed to a flare and no pilot flame is present.

(ii) Visible emission records as specified in paragraph (i)(9)(ii)(C) of this section for each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes.

(iii) The 15-minute block periods for which the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) are not met. Indicate the date and time for the period, the net heating value operating parameter(s) determined following the methods in § 63.670(k) through (n) as applicable.

(iv) For flaring events meeting the criteria in § 63.670(o)(3):

(A) The start and stop time and date of the flaring event.

(B) The length of time for which emissions were visible from the flare during the event.

(C) The periods of time that the flare tip velocity exceeds the maximum flare tip velocity determined using the methods in § 63.670(d)(2) and the maximum 15-minute block average flare tip velocity recorded during the event.

(D) Results of the root cause and corrective actions analysis completed during the reporting period, including the corrective actions implemented during the reporting period and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective actions to be implemented subsequent to the reporting period.

(12) For delayed coking units, the Periodic Report must include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(12)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) For existing source delayed coking units, any 60-cycle average exceeding the applicable limit in § 63.657(a)(1).

(ii) For new source delayed coking units, any direct venting event exceeding the applicable limit in § 63.657(a)(2).

(iii) The total number of double quenching events performed during the reporting period.

(iv) For each double quenching draining event when the drain water temperature exceeded 210 &#xB0;F, report the drum, date, time, the coke drum vessel pressure or temperature, as applicable, when pre-vent draining was initiated, and the maximum drain water temperature during the pre-vent draining period.

(13) For maintenance vents subject to the requirements in § 63.643(c), Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(13)(i) through (iv) of this section for any release exceeding the applicable limits in § 63.643(c)(1). For the purposes of this reporting requirement, owners or operators complying with § 63.643(c)(1)(iv) must report each venting event for which the lower explosive limit is 20 percent or greater; owners or operators complying with § 63.643(c)(1)(v) must report each venting event conducted under those provisions and include an explanation for each event as to why utilization of this alternative was required.

(i) Identification of the maintenance vent and the equipment served by the maintenance vent.

(ii) The date and time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.

(iii) The lower explosive limit, vessel pressure, or mass of VOC in the equipment, as applicable, at the start of atmospheric venting. If the 5 psig vessel pressure option in § 63.643(c)(1)(ii) was used and active purging was initiated while the lower explosive limit was 10 percent or greater, also include the lower explosive limit of the vapors at the time active purging was initiated.

(iv) An estimate of the mass of organic HAP released during the entire atmospheric venting event.

(14) Any changes in the information provided in a previous Notification of Compliance Status report.

(h) Other reports shall be submitted as specified in subpart A of this part and as follows:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) For storage vessels, notifications of inspections as specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) In order to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the refilling of each Group 1 storage vessel that has been emptied and degassed.

(A) Except as provided in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) (B) and (C) of this section, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in writing at least 30 calendar days prior to filling or refilling of each storage vessel with organic HAP's to afford the Administrator the opportunity to inspect the storage vessel prior to refilling.

(B) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(i)(C) of this section, if the internal inspection required by § 63.120(a)(2), (a)(3), or (b)(10) of subpart G or § 63.1063(d)(1) of subpart WW is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 calendar days in advance of refilling the vessel with organic HAP, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 7 calendar days prior to refilling of the storage vessel. Notification may be made by telephone and immediately followed by written documentation demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned. This notification, including the written documentation, may also be made in writing and sent so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 calendar days prior to the refilling.

(C) The State or local permitting authority can waive the notification requirements of paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(A) and/or (h)(2)(i)(B) of this section for all or some storage vessels at petroleum refineries subject to this subpart. The State or local permitting authority may also grant permission to refill storage vessels sooner than 30 days after submitting the notification required by paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section, or sooner than 7 days after submitting the notification required by paragraph (h)(2)(i)(B) of this section for all storage vessels, or for individual storage vessels on a case-by-case basis.

(ii) In order to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present, the owner or operator of a storage vessel equipped with an external floating roof shall notify the Administrator of any seal gap measurements. The notification shall be made in writing at least 30 calendar days in advance of any gap measurements required by § 63.120(b)(1) or (2) or § 63.1063(d)(3). The State or local permitting authority can waive this notification requirement for all or some storage vessels subject to the rule or can allow less than 30 calendar days' notice.

(3) For owners or operators of sources required to request approval for a nominal control efficiency for use in calculating credits for an emissions average, the information specified in § 63.652(h).

(4) The owner or operator who requests approval to monitor a different parameter than those listed in § 63.644 for miscellaneous process vents or who is required by § 63.653(a)(8) to establish a site-specific monitoring parameter for a point in an emissions average shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (h)(4)(i) through (h)(4)(iii) of this section. For new or reconstructed sources, the information shall be submitted with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required by § 63.5(d) of subpart A and for existing sources, and the information shall be submitted no later than 18 months prior to the compliance date. The information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, or in a separate submittal.

(i) A description of the parameter(s) to be monitored to determine whether excess emissions occur and an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s).

(ii) A description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter can be used to determine excess emissions and the schedule for this demonstration. The owner or operator must certify that they will establish a range for the monitored parameter as part of the Notification of Compliance Status report required in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.

(iii) The frequency and content of monitoring, recording, and reporting if: monitoring and recording are not continuous; or if periods of excess emissions, as defined in paragraph (g)(6) of this section, will not be identified in Periodic Reports required under paragraphs (e) and (g) of this section. The rationale for the proposed monitoring, recording, and reporting system shall be included.

(5) An owner or operator may request approval to use alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions listed in paragraph (i) of this section.

(i) Requests shall be submitted with the Application for Approval of Construction or Reconstruction for new sources and no later than 18 months prior to the compliance date for existing sources. The information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, or in a separate submittal. Requests shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (h)(5)(iii) through (h)(5)(iv) of this section, as applicable.

(ii) The provisions in § 63.8(f)(5)(i) of subpart A of this part shall govern the review and approval of requests.

(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) An owner or operator may request approval to use other alternative monitoring systems according to the procedures specified in § 63.8(f) of subpart A of this part.

(6) The owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (h)(6)(i) through (h)(6)(iii) of this section, as applicable. For existing sources, this information shall be submitted in the initial Notification of Compliance Status report. For a new source, the information shall be submitted with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required by § 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part. The information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, or in a separate submittal.

(i) The determination of applicability of this subpart to petroleum refining process units that are designed and operated as flexible operation units.

(ii) The determination of applicability of this subpart to any storage vessel for which use varies from year to year.

(iii) The determination of applicability of this subpart to any distillation unit for which use varies from year to year.

(7) The owner or operator of a heat exchange system at an existing source must notify the Administrator at least 30 calendar days prior to changing from one of the monitoring options specified in § 63.654(c)(4) to the other.
