
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.655 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Recordkeeping.

(i)Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall keep copies of all applicable reports and records required by this subpart for at least 5 years except as otherwise specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (12) of this section. All applicable records shall be maintained in such a manner that they can be readily accessed within 24 hours. Records may be maintained in hard copy or computer-readable form including, but not limited to, on paper, microfilm, computer, flash drive, floppy disk, magnetic tape, or microfiche.

(1) Each owner or operator subject to the storage vessel provisions in § 63.646 shall keep the records specified in § 63.123 of subpart G except as specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. Each owner or operator subject to the storage vessel provisions in § 63.660 shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(v) and (vi) of this section.

(i) Records related to gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals are not required for storage vessels within existing sources.

(ii) All references to § 63.122 in § 63.123 of subpart G shall be replaced with § 63.655(e).

(iii) All references to § 63.150 in § 63.123 of subpart G of this part shall be replaced with § 63.652.

(iv) If a storage vessel is determined to be Group 2 because the weight percent total organic HAP of the stored liquid is less than or equal to 4 percent for existing sources or 2 percent for new sources, a record of any data, assumptions, and procedures used to make this determination shall be retained.

(v) Each owner or operator of a Group 1 storage vessel subject to the provisions in § 63.660 shall keep records as specified in § 63.1065 or § 63.998, as applicable.

(vi) Each owner or operator of a Group 2 storage vessel shall keep the records specified in § 63.1065(a) of subpart WW. If a storage vessel is determined to be Group 2 because the weight percent total organic HAP of the stored liquid is less than or equal to 4 percent for existing sources or 2 percent for new sources, a record of any data, assumptions, and procedures used to make this determination shall be retained.

(2) Each owner or operator required to report the results of performance tests under paragraphs (f) and (g)(7) of this section shall retain a record of all reported results as well as a complete test report, as described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section for each emission point tested.

(3) Each owner or operator required to continuously monitor operating parameters under § 63.644 for miscellaneous process vents or under §§ 63.652 and 63.653 for emission points in an emissions average shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (i)(3)(v) of this section unless an alternative recordkeeping system has been requested and approved under paragraph (h) of this section.

(i) The monitoring system shall measure data values at least once every hour.

(ii) The owner or operator shall record either:

(A) Each measured data value; or

(B) Block average values for 1 hour or shorter periods calculated from all measured data values during each period. If values are measured more frequently than once per minute, a single value for each minute may be used to calculate the hourly (or shorter period) block average instead of all measured values; or

(C) All values that meet the set criteria for variation from previously recorded values using an automated data compression recording system.
