
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.655 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### i.e.,

(iii) For the first reporting period and for any reporting period in which a passive monitor is added or moved, for each passive monitor: The latitude and longitude location coordinates; the sampler name; and identification of the type of sampler (regular monitor, extra monitor, duplicate, field blank, inactive). The owner or operator shall determine the coordinates using an instrument with an accuracy of at least 3 meters. Coordinates shall be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.

(iv) The beginning and ending dates for each sampling period.

(v) Individual sample results for benzene reported in units of µg/mfor each monitor for each sampling period that ends during the reporting period. Results below the method detection limit shall be flagged as below the detection limit and reported at the method detection limit.

(vi) Data flags that indicate each monitor that was skipped for the sampling period, if the owner or operator uses an alternative sampling frequency under § 63.658(e)(3).

(vii) Data flags for each outlier determined in accordance with Section 9.2 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part. For each outlier, the owner or operator must submit the individual sample result of the outlier, as well as the evidence used to conclude that the result is an outlier.

(viii) The biweekly concentration difference (Δc) for benzene for each sampling period and the annual average Δc for benzene for each sampling period.

(9) On and after February 1, 2016, if required to submit the results of a performance test or CEMS performance evaluation, the owner or operator shall submit the results according to the procedures in paragraphs (h)(9)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Unless otherwise specified by this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test as required by this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit the results of the performance tests following the procedure specified in either paragraph (h)(9)(i)(A) or (B) of this section.
