
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.655 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### 2,1

() You must maintain a record of the description of the monitoring system and data compression recording system including the criteria used to determine which monitored values are recorded and retained, the method for calculating daily averages, and a demonstration that the system meets all criteria of paragraph (i)(3)(ii)(C)() of this section.

(iii) Daily average values of each continuously monitored parameter shall be calculated for each operating day and retained for 5 years except as specified in paragraph (i)(3)(iv) of this section.

(A) The daily average shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter recorded during the operating day. The average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous, or the number of hours of operation per day if operation is not continuous.

(B) The operating day shall be the period defined in the Notification of Compliance Status report. It may be from midnight to midnight or another daily period.

(iv) If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day are within the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status report, the owner or operator may record that all values were within the range and retain this record for 5 years rather than calculating and recording a daily average for that day. For these days, the records required in paragraph (i)(3)(ii) of this section shall also be retained for 5 years.

(v) Monitoring data recorded during periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments shall not be included in any average computed under this subpart. Records shall be kept of the times and durations of all such periods and any other periods during process or control device operation when monitors are not operating.

(4) For each closed vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream away from the control device and either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device that does not comply with the requirements in § 63.643(a), the owner or operator shall keep a record of the information specified in either paragraph (i)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) The owner or operator shall maintain records of periods when flow was detected in the bypass line, including the date and time and the duration of the flow in the bypass line. For each flow event, the owner or operator shall maintain records sufficient to determine whether or not the detected flow included flow of a Group 1 miscellaneous process vent stream requiring control. For periods when the Group 1 miscellaneous process vent stream requiring control is diverted from the control device and released either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device that does not comply with the requirements in § 63.643(a), the owner or operator shall include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting emissions of organic HAP that bypassed the control device using process knowledge and engineering estimates.

(ii) Where a seal mechanism is used to comply with § 63.644(c)(2), hourly records of flow are not required. In such cases, the owner or operator shall record the date that the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanisms is completed. The owner or operator shall also record the occurrence of all periods when the seal or closure mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out. The owner or operator shall include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP from the Group 1 miscellaneous process vent stream requiring control that bypassed the control device or records sufficient to demonstrate that there was no flow of a Group 1 miscellaneous process vent stream requiring control during the period.

(5) The owner or operator of a heat exchange system subject to this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements in paragraphs (i)(5)(i) through (v) of this section and retain these records for 5 years.

(i) Identification of all petroleum refinery process unit heat exchangers at the facility and the average annual HAP concentration of process fluid or intervening cooling fluid estimated when developing the Notification of Compliance Status report.

(ii) Identification of all heat exchange systems subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.654 and identification of all heat exchange systems that are exempt from the monitoring requirements according to the provisions in § 63.654(b). For each heat exchange system that is subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.654, this must include identification of all heat exchangers within each heat exchange system, and, for closed-loop recirculation systems, the cooling tower included in each heat exchange system.

(iii) Results of the following monitoring data for each required monitoring event:

(A) Date/time of event.

(B) Barometric pressure.

(C) El Paso air stripping apparatus water flow milliliter/minute (ml/min) and air flow, ml/min, and air temperature, &#xB0;Celsius.

(D) FID reading (ppmv).

(E) Length of sampling period.

(F) Sample volume.

(G) Calibration information identified in Section 5.4.2 of the "Air Stripping Method (Modified El Paso Method) for Determination of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Water Sources" Revision Number One, dated January 2003, Sampling Procedures Manual, Appendix P: Cooling Tower Monitoring, prepared by Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, January 31, 2003 (incorporated by reference-see § 63.14).

(iv) The date when a leak was identified, the date the source of the leak was identified, and the date when the heat exchanger was repaired or taken out of service.

(v) If a repair is delayed, the reason for the delay, the schedule for completing the repair, the heat exchange exit line flow or cooling tower return line average flow rate at the monitoring location (in gallons/minute), and the estimate of potential strippable hydrocarbon emissions for each required monitoring interval during the delay of repair.

(6) All other information required to be reported under paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section shall be retained for 5 years.

(7) Each owner or operator subject to the delayed coking unit decoking operations provisions in § 63.657 must maintain records specified in paragraphs (i)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The average pressure or temperature, as applicable, for the 5-minute period prior to venting to the atmosphere, draining, or deheading the coke drum for each cooling cycle for each coke drum.

(ii) If complying with the 60-cycle rolling average, each 60-cycle rolling average pressure or temperature, as applicable, considering all coke drum venting events in the existing affected source.

(iii) For double-quench cooling cycles:

(A) The date, time and duration of each pre-vent draining event.

(B) The pressure or temperature of the coke drum vessel, as applicable, for the 5-minute period prior to the pre-vent draining.

(C) The drain water temperature at 1-minute intervals from the start of pre-vent draining to the complete closure of the drain valve.

(8) For fenceline monitoring systems subject to § 63.658, each owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(8)(i) through (x) of this section on an ongoing basis.

(i) Coordinates of all passive monitors, including replicate samplers and field blanks, and if applicable, the meteorological station. The owner or operator shall determine the coordinates using an instrument with an accuracy of at least 3 meters. The coordinates shall be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.

(ii) The start and stop times and dates for each sample, as well as the tube identifying information.

(iii) Sampling period average temperature and barometric pressure measurements.

(iv) For each outlier determined in accordance with Section 9.2 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part, the sampler location of and the concentration of the outlier and the evidence used to conclude that the result is an outlier.

(v) For samples that will be adjusted for a background, the location of and the concentration measured simultaneously by the background sampler, and the perimeter samplers to which it applies.

(vi) Individual sample results, the calculated Δc for benzene for each sampling period and the two samples used to determine it, whether background correction was used, and the annual average Δc calculated after each sampling period.

(vii) Method detection limit for each sample, including co-located samples and blanks.

(viii) Documentation of corrective action taken each time the action level was exceeded.

(ix) Other records as required by Methods 325A and 325B of appendix A of this part.

(x) If a near-field source correction is used as provided in § 63.658(i), records of hourly meteorological data, including temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and wind direction, calculated daily unit vector wind direction and daily sigma theta, and other records specified in the site-specific monitoring plan.

(9) For each flare subject to § 63.670, each owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(9)(i) through (xii) of this section up-to-date and readily accessible, as applicable.

(i) Retain records of the output of the monitoring device used to detect the presence of a pilot flame as required in § 63.670(b) for a minimum of 2 years. Retain records of each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute that no pilot flame is present when regulated material is routed to a flare for a minimum of 5 years.

(ii) Retain records of daily visible emissions observations or video surveillance images required in § 63.670(h) as specified in the paragraphs (i)(9)(ii)(A) through (C), as applicable, for a minimum of 3 years.

(A) If visible emissions observations are performed using Method 22 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, the record must identify whether the visible emissions observation was performed, the results of each observation, total duration of observed visible emissions, and whether it was a 5-minute or 2-hour observation. If the owner or operator performs visible emissions observations more than one time during a day, the record must also identify the date and time of day each visible emissions observation was performed.

(B) If video surveillance camera is used, the record must include all video surveillance images recorded, with time and date stamps.

(C) For each 2 hour period for which visible emissions are observed for more than 5 minutes in 2 consecutive hours, the record must include the date and time of the 2 hour period and an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2 hour period for which emissions were visible.

(iii) The 15-minute block average cumulative flows for flare vent gas and, if applicable, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air specified to be monitored under § 63.670(i), along with the date and time interval for the 15-minute block. If multiple monitoring locations are used to determine cumulative vent gas flow, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air, retain records of the 15-minute block average flows for each monitoring location for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If pressure and temperature monitoring is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average temperature, pressure and molecular weight of the flare vent gas or assist gas stream for each measurement location used to determine the 15-minute block average cumulative flows for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years.

(iv) The flare vent gas compositions specified to be monitored under § 63.670(j). Retain records of individual component concentrations from each compositional analyses for a minimum of 2 years. If NHVvg analyzer is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average values for a minimum of 5 years.

(v) Each 15-minute block average operating parameter calculated following the methods specified in § 63.670(k) through (n), as applicable.

(vi) [Reserved]

(vii) All periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) when regulated material is being routed to the flare.

(viii) All periods during which the owner or operator does not perform flare monitoring according to the procedures in § 63.670(g) through (j).

(ix) Records of periods when there is flow of vent gas to the flare, but when there is no flow of regulated material to the flare, including the start and stop time and dates of periods of no regulated material flow.

(x) Records when the flow of vent gas exceeds the smokeless capacity of the flare, including start and stop time and dates of the flaring event.

(xi) Records of the root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in § 63.670(o)(3), including an identification of the affected facility, the date and duration of the event, a statement noting whether the event resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 63.670(o)(5)(i).

(xii) For any corrective action analysis for which implementation of corrective actions are required in § 63.670(o)(5), a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.

(10) [Reserved]

(11) For each pressure relief device subject to the pressure release management work practice standards in § 63.648(j)(3), the owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(11)(i) through (iii) of this section. For each pilot-operated pressure relief device subject to the requirements at § 63.648(j)(4)(ii), the owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraph (i)(11)(iv) of this section.

(i) Records of the prevention measures implemented as required in § 63.648(j)(3)(ii), if applicable.

(ii) Records of the number of releases during each calendar year and the number of those releases for which the root cause was determined to be a force majeure event. Keep these records for the current calendar year and the past five calendar years.

(iii) For each release to the atmosphere, the owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(11)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) The start and end time and date of each pressure release to the atmosphere.

(B) Records of any data, assumptions, and calculations used to estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released during the event.

(C) Records of the root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in § 63.648(j)(3)(iii), including an identification of the affected facility, the date and duration of the event, a statement noting whether the event resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 63.648(j)(7)(i).

(D) For any corrective action analysis for which implementation of corrective actions are required in § 63.648(j)(7), a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.

(iv) For pilot-operated pressure relief devices, general or release-specific records for estimating the quantity of VOC released from the pilot vent during a release event, and records of calculations used to determine the quantity of specific HAP released for any event or series of events in which 72 or more pounds of VOC are released in a day.

(12) For each maintenance vent opening subject to the requirements in § 63.643(c), the owner or operator shall keep the applicable records specified in paragraphs (i)(12)(i) through (vi) of this section.
