
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart O - Cooperative Agreements and Superfund State Contracts for Superfund Response Actions
###### Personal Property Requirements Under a Cooperative Agreement
####### ยง 35.6340 Disposal of CERCLA-funded property.
######## See

(2) Document the analysis of the two alternatives in the inventory report.ยง 35.6660 regarding requirements for the inventory report.

(i) If it is most cost-effective to remove the equipment and dispose of it in another manner:

(A) If the equipment has a residual fair market value of $5,000 or more, the recipient must request disposition instructions from EPA in the inventory report. See ยง 35.6345 for equipment disposal options.

(B) If the equipment has a residual fair market value of less than $5,000, the recipient may retain the equipment for the recipient's use on another CERCLA site. If, however, there is any remaining residual value at the time of final disposition, the recipient must reimburse the Hazardous Substance Superfund for EPA's vested interest in the current fair market value of the equipment at the time of disposition.

(ii) If it is most cost-effective to leave the equipment in place, recommend in the inventory report that the equipment be left in place.

(3) Submit the inventory report to EPA, even if EPA has stopped supporting the project.
