
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.657 Delayed coking unit decoking operation standards.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, each owner or operator of a delayed coking unit shall depressure each coke drum to a closed blowdown system until the coke drum vessel pressure or temperature measured at the top of the coke drum or in the overhead line of the coke drum as near as practical to the coke drum meets the applicable limits specified in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section prior to venting to the atmosphere, draining or deheading the coke drum at the end of the cooling cycle.

(1) For delayed coking units at an existing affected source, meet either:

(i) An average vessel pressure of 2 psig or less determined on a rolling 60-event average; or

(ii) An average vessel temperature of 220 degrees Fahrenheit or less determined on a rolling 60-event average.

(2) For delayed coking units at a new affected source, meet either:

(i) A vessel pressure of 2.0 psig or less for each decoking event; or

(ii) A vessel temperature of 218 degrees Fahrenheit or less for each decoking event.

(b) Each owner or operator of a delayed coking unit complying with the pressure limits in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(2)(i) of this section shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring system, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section, to determine the coke drum vessel pressure.

(1) The pressure monitoring system must be in a representative location (at the top of the coke drum or in the overhead line as near as practical to the coke drum) that minimizes or eliminates pulsating pressure, vibration, and, to the extent practical, internal and external corrosion.

(2) The pressure monitoring system must be capable of measuring a pressure of 2.0 psig within +/-0.5 psig.

(3) The pressure monitoring system must be verified annually or at the frequency recommended by the instrument manufacturer. The pressure monitoring system must be verified following any period of more than 24 hours throughout which the pressure exceeded the maximum rated pressure of the sensor, or the data recorder was off scale.

(4) All components of the pressure monitoring system must be visually inspected for integrity, oxidation and galvanic corrosion every 3 months, unless the system has a redundant pressure sensor.

(5) The output of the pressure monitoring system must be reviewed each day the unit is operated to ensure that the pressure readings fluctuate as expected between operating and cooling/decoking cycles to verify the pressure taps are not plugged. Plugged pressure taps must be unplugged or otherwise repaired prior to the next operating cycle.

(c) Each owner or operator of a delayed coking unit complying with the temperature limits in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a continuous parameter monitoring system to measure the coke drum vessel temperature (at the top of the coke drum or in the overhead line as near as practical to the coke drum) according to the requirements specified in table 13 of this subpart.

(d) The owner or operator of a delayed coking unit shall determine the coke drum vessel pressure or temperature, as applicable, on a 5-minute rolling average basis while the coke drum is vented to the closed blowdown system and shall use the last complete 5-minute rolling average pressure or temperature just prior to initiating steps to isolate the coke drum prior to venting, draining or deheading to demonstrate compliance with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section. Pressure or temperature readings after initiating steps to isolate the coke drum from the closed blowdown system just prior to atmospheric venting, draining, or deheading the coke drum shall not be used in determining the average coke drum vessel pressure or temperature for the purpose of compliance with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) The owner or operator of a delayed coking unit using the "water overflow" method of coke cooling prior to complying with the applicable requirements in paragraph (a) of this section must meet the requirements in either paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section or, if applicable, the requirements in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The owner or operator of a delayed coking unit using the "water overflow" method of coke cooling subject to this paragraph shall determine the coke drum vessel temperature as specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and shall not otherwise drain or vent the coke drum until the coke drum vessel temperature is at or below the applicable limits in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

(1) The overflow water must be directed to a separator or similar disengaging device that is operated in a manner to prevent entrainment of gases from the coke drum vessel to the overflow water storage tank. Gases from the separator or disengaging device must be routed to a closed blowdown system or otherwise controlled following the requirements for a Group 1 miscellaneous process vent. The liquid from the separator or disengaging device must be hardpiped to the overflow water storage tank or similarly transported to prevent exposure of the overflow water to the atmosphere. The overflow water storage tank may be an open or uncontrolled fixed-roof tank provided that a submerged fill pipe (pipe outlet below existing liquid level in the tank) is used to transfer overflow water to the tank.

(2) The overflow water must be directed to a storage vessel meeting the requirements for storage vessels in subpart SS of this part.

(3) Prior to November 26, 2020, if the equipment needed to comply with paragraphs (e)(1) or (2) of this section are not installed and operational, you must comply with all of the requirements in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The temperature of the coke drum, measured according to paragraph (c) of this section, must be 250 degrees Fahrenheit or less prior to initiation of water overflow and at all times during the water overflow.

(ii) The overflow water must be hardpiped to the overflow water storage tank or similarly transported to prevent exposure of the overflow water to the atmosphere.

(iii) The overflow water storage tank may be an open or uncontrolled fixed-roof tank provided that all of the following requirements are met.

(A) A submerged fill pipe (pipe outlet below existing liquid level in the tank) is used to transfer overflow water to the tank.

(B) The liquid level in the storage tank is at least 6 feet above the submerged fill pipe outlet at all times during water overflow.

(C) The temperature of the contents in the storage tank remain below 150 degrees Fahrenheit at all times during water overflow.

(f) The owner or operator of a delayed coking unit may partially drain a coke drum prior to achieving the applicable limits in paragraph (a) of this section in order to double-quench a coke drum that did not cool adequately using the normal cooling process steps provided that the owner or operator meets the conditions in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a continuous parameter monitoring system to measure the drain water temperature at the bottom of the coke drum or in the drain line as near as practical to the coke drum according to the requirements specified in table 13 of this subpart.

(2) The owner or operator must maintain the drain water temperature below 210 degrees Fahrenheit during the partial drain associated with the double-quench event.
