
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.658 Fenceline monitoring provisions.
####### i.e.,

(3) The method detection limit must nominally be at least an order of magnitude below the action level,0.9 µg/mbenzene. The alternate test method must describe the procedures used to provide field verification of the detection limit.

(4) The spatial coverage must be equal to or better than the spatial coverage provided in Method 325A of appendix A of this part.

(i) For path average concentration open-path instruments, the physical path length of the measurement shall be no more than a passive sample footprint (the spacing that would be provided by the sorbent traps when following Method 325A). For example, if Method 325A requires spacing monitors A and B 610 meters (2000 feet) apart, then the physical path length limit for the measurement at that portion of the fenceline shall be no more than 610 meters (2000 feet).

(ii) For range resolved open-path instrument or approach, the instrument or approach must be able to resolve an average concentration over each passive sampler footprint within the path length of the instrument.

(iii) The extra samplers required in Sections 8.2.1.3 of Method 325A may be omitted when they fall within the path length of an open-path instrument.

(5) At a minimum, non-integrating alternative test methods must provide a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.

(6) For alternative test methods capable of real time measurements (less than a 5 minute sampling and analysis cycle), the alternative test method may allow for elimination of data points corresponding to outside emission sources for purpose of calculation of the high point for the two week average. The alternative test method approach must have wind speed, direction and stability class of the same time resolution and within the footprint of the instrument.

(7) For purposes of averaging data points to determine the Δc for the 14-day average high sample result, all results measured under the method detection limit must use the method detection limit. For purposes of averaging data points for the 14-day average low sample result, all results measured under the method detection limit must use zero.
