
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.658 Fenceline monitoring provisions.
####### i.e.,

(v) If at any time a sample for a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section returns a result that is above 0.9 µg/m, the sampling site must return to the original sampling requirements of contiguous 14-day sampling periods with no skip periods for one quarter (six 14-day sampling periods). If every sample collected during this quarter is at or below 0.9 µg/m, the owner or operator may revert back to the reduced monitoring schedule applicable for that monitoring site prior to the sample reading exceeding 0.9 µg/mIf any sample collected during this quarter is above 0.9 µg/m, that monitoring site must return to the original sampling requirements of contiguous 14-day sampling periods with no skip periods for a minimum of two years. The burden reduction requirements can be used again for that monitoring site once the requirements of paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section are met again,after 52 contiguous 14-day samples with no results above 0.9 µg/m.

(f) Within 45 days of completion of each sampling period, the owner or operator shall determine whether the results are above or below the action level as follows:

(1) The owner or operator shall determine the facility impact on the benzene concentration (Δc) for each 14-day sampling period according to either paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) Except when near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine the highest and lowest sample results for benzene concentrations from the sample pool and calculate Δc as the difference in these concentrations. Co-located samples must be averaged together for the purposes of determining the benzene concentration for that sampling location, and, if applicable, for determining Δc. The owner or operator shall adhere to the following procedures when one or more samples for the sampling period are below the method detection limit for benzene:

(A) If the lowest detected value of benzene is below detection, the owner or operator shall use zero as the lowest sample result when calculating Δc.

(B) If all sample results are below the method detection limit, the owner or operator shall use the method detection limit as the highest sample result and zero as the lowest sample result when calculating Δc.

(ii) When near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine Δc using the calculation protocols outlined in the approved site-specific monitoring plan and in paragraph (i) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator shall calculate the annual average Δc based on the average of the 26 most recent 14-day sampling periods. The owner or operator shall update this annual average value after receiving the results of each subsequent 14-day sampling period.

(3) The action level for benzene is 9 micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m3) on an annual average basis. If the annual average Δc value for benzene is less than or equal to 9 µg/m, the concentration is below the action level. If the annual average Δc value for benzene is greater than 9 µg/m, the concentration is above the action level, and the owner or operator shall conduct a root cause analysis and corrective action in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.

(g) Within 5 days of determining that the action level has been exceeded for any annual average Δc and no longer than 50 days after completion of the sampling period, the owner or operator shall initiate a root cause analysis to determine the cause of such exceedance and to determine appropriate corrective action, such as those described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section. The root cause analysis and initial corrective action analysis shall be completed and initial corrective actions taken no later than 45 days after determining there is an exceedance. Root cause analysis and corrective action may include, but is not limited to:

(1) Leak inspection using Method 21 of part 60, appendix A-7 of this chapter and repairing any leaks found.

(2) Leak inspection using optical gas imaging and repairing any leaks found.

(3) Visual inspection to determine the cause of the high benzene emissions and implementing repairs to reduce the level of emissions.
