
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.660 Storage vessel provisions.
####### i.e.,

(e) For storage vessels previously subject to requirements in § 63.646, initial inspection requirements in § 63.1063(c)(1) and (c)(2)(i) (those related to the initial filling of the storage vessel) or in § 63.983(b)(1)(i)(A), as applicable, are not required. Failure to perform other inspections and monitoring required by this section shall constitute a violation of the applicable standard of this subpart.

(f) References in § 63.1066(a) to initial startup notification requirements do not apply.

(g) References to the Notification of Compliance Status in § 63.999(b) mean the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.655(f).

(h) References to the Periodic Reports in §§ 63.1066(b) and 63.999(c) mean the Periodic Report required by § 63.655(g).

(i) Owners or operators electing to comply with the requirements in subpart SS of this part for a Group 1 storage vessel must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) If a flare is used as a control device, the flare shall meet the requirements of § 63.670 instead of the flare requirements in § 63.987.

(2) If a closed vent system contains a bypass line, the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of either § 63.983(a)(3)(i) or (ii) or paragraph (iii) of this section for each closed vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device that does not comply with the requirements in subpart SS of this part. Except as provided in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, use of the bypass at any time to divert a Group 1 storage vessel either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device that does not comply with the requirements in subpart SS of this part is an emissions standards violation. Equipment such as low leg drains and equipment subject to § 63.648 are not subject to this paragraph (i)(2).

(i) If planned routine maintenance of the control device cannot be performed during periods that storage vessel emissions are vented to the control device or when the storage vessel is taken out of service for inspections or other planned maintenance reasons, the owner or operator may bypass the control device.

(ii) Periods for which storage vessel control device may be bypassed for planned routine maintenance of the control device shall not exceed 240 hours per calendar year.

(iii) Use a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve for an open-ended valve or line following the requirements specified in § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c).

(3) If storage vessel emissions are routed to a fuel gas system or process, the fuel gas system or process shall be operating at all times when regulated emissions are routed to it. The exception in § 63.984(a)(1) does not apply.
