
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### § 63.658 Fenceline monitoring provisions.
####### e.g.,

(4) Employing progressively more frequent sampling, analysis and meteorology (using shorter sampling periods for Methods 325A and 325B of appendix A of this part, or using active sampling techniques).

(h) If, upon completion of the corrective action analysis and corrective actions such as those described in paragraph (g) of this section, the Δc value for the next 14-day sampling period for which the sampling start time begins after the completion of the corrective actions is greater than 9 µg/mor if all corrective action measures identified require more than 45 days to implement, the owner or operator shall develop a corrective action plan that describes the corrective action(s) completed to date, additional measures that the owner or operator proposes to employ to reduce fenceline concentrations below the action level, and a schedule for completion of these measures. The owner or operator shall submit the corrective action plan to the Administrator within 60 days after receiving the analytical results indicating that the Δc value for the 14-day sampling period following the completion of the initial corrective action is greater than 9 µg/mor, if no initial corrective actions were identified, no later than 60 days following the completion of the corrective action analysis required in paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) An owner or operator may request approval from the Administrator for a site-specific monitoring plan to account for offsite upwind sources or onsite sources excluded under § 63.640(g) according to the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall prepare and submit a site-specific monitoring plan and receive approval of the site-specific monitoring plan prior to using the near-field source alternative calculation for determining Δc provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section. The site-specific monitoring plan shall include, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. The procedures in Section 12 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part are not required, but may be used, if applicable, when determining near-field source contributions.

(i) Identification of the near-field source or sources. For onsite sources, documentation that the onsite source is excluded under § 63.640(g) and identification of the specific provision in § 63.640(g) that applies to the source.

(ii) Location of the additional monitoring stations that shall be used to determine the uniform background concentration and the near-field source concentration contribution.

(iii) Identification of the fenceline monitoring locations impacted by the near-field source. If more than one near-field source is present, identify the near-field source or sources that are expected to contribute to the concentration at that monitoring location.

(iv) A description of (including sample calculations illustrating) the planned data reduction and calculations to determine the near-field source concentration contribution for each monitoring location.

(v) If more frequent monitoring or a monitoring station other than a passive diffusive tube monitoring station is proposed, provide a detailed description of the measurement methods, measurement frequency, and recording frequency for determining the uniform background or near-field source concentration contribution.

(2) When an approved site-specific monitoring plan is used, the owner or operator shall determine Δc for comparison with the 9 µg/maction level using the requirements specified in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For each monitoring location, calculate Δcusing the following equation.

(ii) When one or more samples for the sampling period are below the method detection limit for benzene, adhere to the following procedures:

(A) If the benzene concentration at the monitoring location used for the uniform background concentration is below the method detection limit, the owner or operator shall use zero for UB for that monitoring period.

(B) If the benzene concentration at the monitoring location(s) used to determine the near-field source contributing concentration is below the method detection limit, the owner or operator shall use zero for the monitoring location concentration when calculating NFSfor that monitoring period.

(C) If a fenceline monitoring location sample result is below the method detection limit, the owner or operator shall use the method detection limit as the sample result.

(iii) Determine Δc for the monitoring period as the maximum value of Δcfrom all of the fenceline monitoring locations for that monitoring period.

(3) The site-specific monitoring plan shall be submitted and approved as described in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The site-specific monitoring plan must be submitted to the Administrator for approval.
