
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.670 Requirements for flare control devices.
####### i.e.,

(1) The flow rate monitoring systems must be able to correct for the temperature and pressure of the system and output parameters in standard conditions (a temperature of 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F) and a pressure of 1 atmosphere).

(2) Mass flow monitors may be used for determining volumetric flow rate of flare vent gas provided the molecular weight of the flare vent gas is determined using compositional analysis as specified in paragraph (j) of this section so that the mass flow rate can be converted to volumetric flow at standard conditions using the following equation.

(3) Mass flow monitors may be used for determining volumetric flow rate of assist air or assist steam. Use equation in paragraph (i)(2) of this section to convert mass flow rates to volumetric flow rates. Use a molecular weight of 18 pounds per pound-mole for assist steam and use a molecular weight of 29 pounds per pound-mole for assist air.

(4) Continuous pressure/temperature monitoring system(s) and appropriate engineering calculations may be used in lieu of a continuous volumetric flow monitoring systems provided the molecular weight of the gas is known. For assist steam, use a molecular weight of 18 pounds per pound-mole. For assist air, use a molecular weight of 29 pounds per pound-mole. For flare vent gas, molecular weight must be determined using compositional analysis as specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(5) Continuously monitoring fan speed or power and using fan curves is an acceptable method for continuously monitoring assist air flow rates.

(6) For perimeter assist air intentionally entrained in lower and/or upper steam, the monitored steam flow rate and the maximum design air-to-steam volumetric flow ratio of the entrainment system may be used to determine the assist air flow rate.
