
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.670 Requirements for flare control devices.
####### Calculation methods for determining flare vent gas net heating value.

(l)The owner or operator shall determine the net heating value of the flare vent gas (NHV) based on the composition monitoring data on a 15-minute block average basis according to the following requirements.

(1) If compositional analysis data are collected as provided in paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine NHVof a specific sample by using the following equation.

(2) If direct net heating value monitoring data are collected as provided in paragraph (j)(3) of this section but a hydrogen concentration monitor is not used, the owner or operator shall use the direct output of the monitoring system(s) (in Btu/scf) to determine the NHVfor the sample.

(3) If direct net heating value monitoring data are collected as provided in paragraph (j)(3) of this section and hydrogen concentration monitoring data are collected as provided in paragraph (j)(4) of this section, the owner or operator shall use the following equation to determine NHVfor each sample measured via the net heating value monitoring system.

(4) Use set 15-minute time periods starting at 12 midnight to 12:15 a.m., 12:15 a.m. to 12:30 a.m. and so on concluding at 11:45 p.m. to midnight when calculating 15-minute block averages.

(5) When a continuous monitoring system is used as provided in paragraph (j)(1) or (3) of this section and, if applicable, paragraph (j)(4) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to determine the 15-minute block average NHVusing either the calculation methods in paragraph (l)(5)(i) of this section or the calculation methods in paragraph (l)(5)(ii) of this section. The owner or operator may choose to comply using the calculation methods in paragraph (l)(5)(i) of this section for some flares at the petroleum refinery and comply using the calculation methods (l)(5)(ii) of this section for other flares. However, for each flare, the owner or operator must elect one calculation method that will apply at all times, and use that method for all continuously monitored flare vent streams associated with that flare. If the owner or operator intends to change the calculation method that applies to a flare, the owner or operator must notify the Administrator 30 days in advance of such a change.
